After ourarticle in this week's section on guestbook spamming, the Guardian's Tech letters section has been targeted for guestbook spam.Operational note first: this may mean that it will be more difficult for us to spot your letters in the flood of rubbish. Next: we're going to try to work with the blogs which have been spammed in this way to get the IP details of the spammer; after ourearlier entry about Spam King Alan Ralsky being jailed, it's probably not clever for this spammer to do this at this time. There's an offence known as "passing-off", I believe, off the top of my head..What a delightful way for the person who's using EV1.net as aspam hostto show that he's upset to have been uncovered by us. Of course we're disappointed that EV1 didn't manage to reply to us, or to Michael Pollitt, or to the Houston Chronicle (EV1's local paper) on the subject. They must have been too busy trying to track down the spammer, though given the length of time they've been doing it, we're starting to wonder how good they are at it.Anyway, we'll collect lots of details and pass them on to our lawyers, who will surely want to help EV1 out and give the spammer what he deserves.(Update: a little examination of the failed attempts, and the sites being linked to, shows that this is spam generated by user ID 900 for a bunch called search-and-seek.com - no, we won't link to it, thanks. The WHOIS data for search-and-seek is plainly false; so we've contacted its "upstream" host, which provides its Net connectivity, to see what they have to say.)
"Wall Street hammered Microsoft Corp. on Friday for its decision to pour money into its battles with Google and other rivals -- sending the Redmond company's shares on their biggest decline in more than five years," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer."The stock tumbled 11% on the most volume ever for Microsoft, erasing $32 billion in market value from the company. So severe was the decline that OAO Gazprom, a state-owned Russian company, surpassed Microsoft as the world's third-largest company by market value."Bill Gates saw the value of his Microsoft stock shrink to $23.6 billion, a decrease of more than $3 billion on paper."Comment: I doubt that bothers a guy who used to be worth $85 billion....What's more interesting is that Wall Street wasn't bothered when Microsoft decided to give $32.6 billion away to shareholders, and it still has $35 billion in cash, but the idea of investing $2 billion in its long-term business had analysts in a tizzy.On Thursday,Microsoft announced third-quarter revenueof $10.90 billion, up 13% increase on the same quarter last year, and operating income of $3.89 billion, up 17%. For the fourth quarter, it is predicting revenues of around $11.5 billion to $11.7 billion, and operating income in the $4.0 billion to $4.2 billion range. Annual revenue should come in at $50 billion or so.Since a company's share value should add up to the sum of its future foreseeable profits, discounted for risk, it is entirely reasonable for the shares to be marked down in response to higher spending, including an increase in R&amp;D costs. This is how the financial markets encourage short-termism. Whether the extra investments in things like the Xbox 360 and Windows Live will actually deliver profits in the long term is another issue, but it's surely a better bet than what would make Wall Street happiest -- hunkering down and milching Windows and Office.
TheValleywagblog seems to have a scoop about so-called Spam King Alan Ralsky, who was featured inThe Observer. Here's how the story starts:Valleywag:Tell me the scoop in three sentences.Memehacker:Alan Ralsky is currently being held by the feds and his file is sealed for the next 72hrs by the DOJ. We are concerned that he is going to narq out the entire network since they have enough on him to send him to jail. This means hackers, spammers, anyone who has worked in spam legally or illegally for the last 5 years at least.
To get the whole week's posts on one page, clickhere.The round-up includes YellowSheepRiver's $150 Municator, th 17in MacBook Pro, the cost of building your own PC (Dell beats it), and the naming of the Nintendo Wii....
After the lunar grey of London on an overcast spring day, the clean red-brick interior of the British Library seems improbably bright and welcoming. The reading rooms are full, but just as many people choose to linger in the foyer or chatter in the cafes, as if the knowledge held in the vaults downstairs radiates upwards, where they can absorb it without turning a page. I love this place. Only on planes and trains do I accomplish less and feel less guilty about it. Today, though, there's strange work to be done.A fortnight ago, another grey day such as this was brightened by the revelation that back in 1973, the teetering year of Watergate and The Exorcist, of power cuts and platform boots, the British Railways Board was granted a patent for a flying saucer. A student had stumbled across the long-forgotten plans while trawling the patent archives, and the media's reports had raised not just a smile but a pang of nostalgia for the good old days of the state rail monopoly. You won't find Connex dreaming of spaceships.Viewed in isolation and from this distance, BR's plan looks hilarious. The board asked an inventor named Charles Osmond Frederick to come up with a "lifting platform", only for him to return with a design for a clean, super-fast, space-ready saucer. According to the original patent document (GB1310990), the vehicle was to be powered by laser-controlled thermonuclear fusion, a technique Frederick might reasonably have assumed to be imminent but which, like so many expectations from that era, failed to materialise. So eventually the patent lapsed and the saucer was consigned to its archive graveyard, waiting to tickle future generations with the idea that a body incapable of reaching Eastbourne reliably might contemplate reaching for the stars. Look a little closer, though, and the BR saucer emerges as something far more intriguing and substantial: the ghost of a future that didn't happen.Writing in this paper a few weeks ago, Ian McEwan noted the way science "prefers to forget much of its past - it is constitutionally bound to a form of selective amnesia". Redundant theories and failed designs, being simply wrong, have no further utility and are quickly buried, he suggests. And one of the places they're buried is here.Patent applications are assessed in Newport, but the records and database fall under the aegis of the British Library's business and intellectual property centre. Their enthusiastic keeper, Stephen van Dulken, has written several books on the subject and points out that anyone with access to the internet can tour this weird outpost of the imagination at any time (patent.gov.uk), and that European and US records are available, too. The difficulty is knowing how to negotiate such a vast terrain: van Dulken warns that there are 50m patents to lose yourself in, with another 1m added annually. To say I'm glad of his help is an understatement.Most of the writing on patents and inventions focuses on the relative handful of world-changing ones and, to be sure, stumbling across the big names is a thrill. Here's Barnes Wallis's Dam Buster Bomb (GB937959); Leo Fender's electric guitar (US2455575) in 1948; Buckminster Fuller's geodesic dome (US2682235); the Wright brothers' 1906 aeroplane (US821393); Thomas Edison's phonograph from 1877 (GB2909/1877), all with the original diagrams, descriptions and addresses. In contrast, there is almost nothing on those bright ideas that failed, and in the weeks following my tutorial with van Dulken, I sink deeper and deeper into both the literature and the labyrinthine database, watching rapt as pictures begin to emerge from the morass.The first shock comes almost immediately: there are loads of patents for flying saucers. Some are essentially futuristic aircraft, with recognisable cockpits, such as Homer F Streib's design from 1959 (US2876965). Others are classic saucers (US3394906, 1968, and US3442469, 1969) or UFO-styled confections such as the Brazilian Olympio F Pinto's swollen disc (US3774865) from 1972. The crazily prolific British inventor Arthur Paul Pedrick, who, after service at the Patent Office, spent his retirement filling his former colleagues' files with ideas for everything from tea strainers to supersonic transport planes and orbiting nuclear bombs, also had a go, in 1973. His lovingly rendered ship, GB1331655, is shaped like a flying teardrop.Charles Osmond Frederick is nonplussed by the fuss surrounding his speculative design for British Rail. He is now 69 and retired, but in the late 1960s he was a nuclear-trained engineer working for BR's railway research department in Derby. He explains that although the patent for his "space vehicle" was granted in 1973, it was filed in 1970, in the wake of the first manned moon landings and the maiden flight of Concorde. He was part of a generation for whom anything seemed possible: when the youthful Arthur C Clarke floated the notion of communications satellites in 1945, he didn't bother taking out any patents because he couldn't believe such a thing would be possible in his lifetime. Yet within 25 years there were not only "comsats", but people on the moon. As Clarke watched Apollo 11 begin its journey to the lunar surface in 1969, he declared, "Today the new world begins" and meant it. By 1970, space elevators and fusion-powered saucers were the stuff of mature adult conversation.Frederick's long silences and cautious speech attest to how much times have changed. The story of his saucer resurfaces every few years, and he knows the context to his beautiful folly will be lost. The rest of us won't see the Blade Runner-style flying cars, self-cleaning houses, hovering platforms, wingless supersonic aircraft and orgone energy accumulators that surround his saucer in the patents archive - all the things people saw in sci-fi films and TV programmes such as Space 1999, which they expected to encounter in real life one day, but never did. His saucer had a hinterland of hopes and dreams of better lives, better worlds, that is no longer visible to us. Yet it's what I'm looking at now.These lost patents, taken together, comprise a kind of secret social history. Even the many absurdities tell coherent tales if you spend enough time with them. An "airplane hijacking injector" (US3841328), for instance, involves stationing hypodermic needles under every aircraft seat, ready to "sedate or kill the passenger" at the flick of a pilot's switch. In the ecstasy of creation, it never occurred to inventor Jack Jensen, of Fort Worth, Texas, that the rest of us might be reluctant to sit on seats equipped with death needles. All the same, hijacking was a big issue when the patent was filed in 1972 and proposed solutions are scattered through the records, clustering in the early 1970s and after 9/11, just as private fallout shelters and esoteric aids to domestic life litter the 1950s (try "sanitary appliance for birds", GB2882858), and increasingly desperate barriers to HIV mark the late 1980s.The most revealing area of all is sex. The Victorian era groans with methods for preventing "nocturnal emissions" and "self-abuse", and for encouraging chastity in the manner of Mrs Ellen E Perkins's "sexual armor" (US875845), patented in 1908. Against that, the 1930s see the emergence of such enlightened ideas as "a device for promoting marital accord" (US2024983), while the 1970s, that time of militant feminism and free-love backlash, provide many variations on the theme of "penis locking and lacerating vaginal insert" (US4016875), or the "family sex education board game", formulated by two New York couples in 1979 (US4273337). Among the most melancholy of the late-1980s anti-HIV patents are myriad versions of the "no-hands contraceptive device" and the "unisex condom incorporated into underpants" (US4972850 and 4966165), both of which free users from the necessity of touching each other during intercourse, as the "protective mask" (patented by one Cynthia Hussey) does in relation to oral sex. And there are forests of novel condoms, ranging from the Femidom to a "force-sensitive, sound-playing" job capable of heightening the crucial moment with God Save The Queen or something by James Blunt.I'm not sure what to make of the brothers who patented the Bobby Charlton "comb-over" hairstyle in 1977 (as US4022227). But even in the realm of completely bonkers patents, of which there are many, appearances can be deceptive. The most notorious among experts such as van Dulken is an "apparatus for facilitating the birth of a child by centrifugal force", which was devised by Mr and Mrs Blonsky in 1965 (US3216423). Their plans detail what is in essence a fast-spinning bed, leading you to wonder who in their right mind...? But they point out in their application that, with the newly sedentary lifestyle of the space age, many women would no longer have reason to exercise the muscles evolved for childbirth, making the enterprise more difficult and leading to an inexorable rise in caesarean deliveries. Centrifugal force was their answer to a future in which we would have less and less direct physical connection to the world around us.Who are these unwitting chroniclers? Our most high-profile inventor, James Dyson, chuckles darkly as he explains that the mad inventor is an officially recognised construct."You don't get a patent unless you happened across it unintentionally," he says. "It's an invention: you come across it, you don't deduce it from discernible facts. If it could have been done by one 'skilled in the arts', you don't get a patent. That's why there are so many apocryphal stories about how inventors happened across their inventions while looking for something else - because you have to make them up." So the idea of epiphany, of the shamanic techno-seer being touched by some unseen force, is written into the process.Dyson points out that established patents in the same field as a new application are referred to as "prior art", and discusses US patent commissioner Charles H Duell's controversial declaration in 1899 that "everything which can be invented has been invented". Dyson adds that he thinks this was true by then - all we do now is improve and embellish. This sounds preposterous at first, but a search of the records and a call to Paul Collins, author of a superb book on forgotten Victorian innovators called Banvard's Folly, suggests the Victorian era does indeed account for almost everything, from the fax machine (1843, GB9745) to the computer (1884, US395781-783), to Frank Shuman's visionary plan, back in 1908, to replace coal with solar energy for the whole of Europe (GB190728130). All the same, Dyson notes that some good ideas never do catch on, among them Joyce Marie Slaton's improbably chic and futuristic-looking umbrella hat (GB1176737, 1970). A brilliant idea, he insists, but people thought they might look silly in it.Until recently, Mark Sheahan, creator of a promising new form of plastic container called the Squeezeopen, introduced himself as a designer rather than an inventor, "because people automatically pegged you as a madman in a garden shed if you told the truth". He provides an insight into the wilder reaches of invention when he admits that "being an inventor can make you quite insular and paranoid if you're not careful, and also stir crazy. Generally we're square pegs in a round hole. Different. But to do what we do, you've got to be an optimist, too."At the age of 91, Frances Gabe, n&eacute;e Bateson, of Newberg, Oregon, qualifies as both different and optimistic. She took 18 years to design and build the self-cleaning house in which she still lives. The design incorporates spray jets that hang from the ceiling, with floors gently sloped to drain away the water. Valuables are kept under glass and furniture treated to survive the wash, after which warm air rises from the floor. Even handbasins, sinks and storage areas are self-cleaning, with clothes washed while hanging in the cupboard. The place is now a mecca for inventors, but asked whether neighbours thought she was crazy when she set out, Gabe guffaws: "Oh yeah, sure. Any time you try to do something different, people think you're nutty. Now everybody listens to what I say, but they didn't before."From an early age, Gabe preferred visiting building sites with her architect/contractor father to staying at home. Her mother and sister were "pretty ornery" about this, but the builders loved her and taught her the skills she has spent the rest of her life applying. Later, other male builders would turn up at her house insisting, "You can't do that - it won't work!" but she always made it work. And it wasn't just men who gave her a hard time, as becomes clear when I ask what drew her to such a huge project."I just felt so terrible watching people cleaning dirt out of their houses all the time," she says. "So primitive, making 'em dirty, then cleaning 'em out, when there are so many better things to do. And you know, one time I had a group of furious housewives on my doorstep, telling me I was doing them out of a job and that if they didn't have to clean their houses, their husbands wouldn't need them any more. And I said, 'Well, if you had more time to spend with your husbands, don't you think they would like that better? Or with your children? Or how about on your own education?' "No one, she admits sadly, has tried to replicate her house. "You know, they never did. I'm generous with the patent, too - I want to pass the knowledge on."It's easy to forget that for the inventor, the unrealised futures we're talking about also define their own. The future exists only in the imagination, but our expectations of it bear on the present, making it both virtual and real at the same time. When President Nixon approved plans for the space shuttle, some believe he did so because Stanley Kubrick had already shown him one in the film 2001: A Space Odyssey, which made it seem familiar, logical, safe. Maybe the most significant difference between then and now is that, for better or worse, liking the idea of something was once seen as a good enough reason for doing it.Commercial imperatives came into play, too. Richard Boyd of the National Film Theatre alternatively laughs and sighs as he describes the series of groundbreaking cinematic developments that lit up the 1950s and 196os in response to the threat of TV. There was Circarama, Wonderama, Quadravision, Thrillerama, Smellarama, various flawed 3D systems and the brilliant Cinerama, which used 70mm film and projectors with three lenses and a 96-foot long curved screen, and still wows audiences at one of its last remaining homes in Bradford. The panoramic opening shots of Oklahoma! showed what Cinerama could do in 1955, but it was replaced by 20th Century Fox's inferior Cinemascope - though even that was mothballed in 1967. For the most part, we still watch movies using upgraded versions of technology we've had for the better part of a century; and the same is true of TV, subject of many radical space age patents, but still nothing like the sci-fi imaginings of Bradbury or Asimov. All the same, when I lament to James Dyson the lack of wall-sized TV, he exclaims: "Oh, but we have got full-wall TV - with projectors. And they're not expensive. I have one, and you can fill a wall for about 400 quid, but I think people have got used to having a telly around, and a rather old-fashioned idea like a projector doesn't appeal. Also, sometimes companies put stuff out there without really explaining what it can do."Perhaps we're often happier imagining the future than embracing it. And perhaps, on occasion, it arrives so gradually that we're blind to it. When I call the R&amp;D people at Philips to complain about their failure to provide 3D TV by now, they calmly reply that they have: their system is expensive at present, but that will change. Then, later in our conversation, they complain about the fact that house keys don't function remotely, the way car keys do. And they're right: Captain Kirk didn't have to fumble around with locks in the dark.Robin Mannings, a member of British Telecom's "futurology" department, describes recently watching a film the company made in 1965, which attempted to illustrate what life would look like by the end of the century. "And you know, it was pretty good," he says. "We got personal computers and broadband in the home, and something like the world wide web. What made me laugh, though, was that it was based around the experience of a young couple trying to buy a house, and at the end, the woman says, 'Oh no - at this rate we'll never be able to get married!' The technical stuff was right, but they couldn't imagine how much the circumstances around marriage and cohabitation would have changed. We tend to extrapolate the particular things we're looking at and forget that everything else changes, too."In other words, we can imagine the future only in terms of our own present. If the flights of the space age teach us anything - and the best sci-fi writers have always known this - it's that the future is actually about us, here, now.There are surprises, though. When I mention the robots found in films and on TV programmes such as Lost In Space, and still notably absent from our own lives, Mannings offers: "Well, yes, but there are a lot more robots around than you think. My wife bought a breadmaker a couple of years ago, and that's a robot when you think about it. We have them; they just look different from how we'd imagined. In any case, Honda recently demonstrated a robot that can walk and run. It's remarkable how good they're getting."Why did the space age evaporate? One answer is money. Economists know the period from the end of the second world war to 1973 as the greatest period of expansion the world has ever seen. The historian Eric Hobsbawm calls it the "golden age", which was followed by the "age of crisis", during which more pressing concerns than space ships would hold sway. For Mannings, the big disappointments are in public transport, where potentially fast, efficient, safe technology has been overlooked since the 1960s, and artificial intelligence, in which we've made "almost no progress". We head off into speculation about the next three decades, and suddenly we're discussing a world in which computer power will be like electricity, unseen and omnipresent ("It will go that way sooner than you think"), and tiny, brain-like processors will be grown in laboratories ("Looked at one way, bacteria is a kind of processor"), in which life and information will converge. And when I put the phone down, I laugh: now I'm at it. All the same, my mind returns to a surprising discovery made back at the beginning, when I noticed that, after a 30-year gap, flying saucer patents are appearing in numbers again. The difference being that, this time, most of them are coming out of China.
Elder Scrolls IV: OblivionPC, XBOX 360When just choosing your character takes the best part of an hour, selecting from lists of races, skill sets and special abilities, before customising everything from skin tone to nose shape, you realise this is going to be an epic. Nothing, however, prepares you for the limitless beauty and vastness of Tamriel, where you can easily ignore your quest to find the rightful heir to the throne and spend months wandering, meeting characters, performing missions and earning your fortune.With an unobtrusive system for gaining experience and the ability to circumvent long and tedious journeys Oblivion also provides more action and less filler than most adventure games. Just don't make any plans for the summer.&#183;2K Games, &pound;40 (reviewed on Xbox 360)Tomb Raider: LegendPS2, XBOX, XBOX 360Like the unutterably abysmal Driver 3, Tomb Raider's last outing, the Angel Of Darkness, was useless enough to make even longtime fans feel they had been duped into buying something that was essentially broken. Legend is a return from the brink, offering back-to-basics running, block pushing and ledge shimmying that remind strongly of the good old days of Tomb Raiding, while adding a few new touches and weapons like Lara's extensible grappling hook and torch.Although not quite up to the Prince Of Persia's fluency of movement, responsiveness is good, so swinging from poles and jumping between ledges feels sure-footed, although gunfights can still be pretty prosaic affairs. Feeling a bit short at 10 hours' gameplay in normal mode, and suffering from two awful motorbike sections, this is still easily the best Lara in years.&#183;Eidos, &pound;40 (reviewed on Xbox 360)Trauma Centre: Under The KnifeNINTENDO DSWhile the classic board game Operation had you performing surgery with tweezers on a plastic patient with distinctly suspect internal organs (wishbone, spare ribs and butterflies in the stomach are all perplexingly absent from Grey's Anatomy), Trauma Centre refuses to back away from any medical detail, no matter how slight. Make incisions and injections, disinfect wounds, drain fluids, excise tumours, suture and place your bloodied extractions neatly into a dish as you treat injuries and try curing diseases - it's all in a day's simulated doctoring.Using the DS touch screen and wielding your stylus as scalpel, syringe and even instrument of open heart massage, Trauma Centre's offbeat humour and unflinching use of complex medical terminology make it a curiosity that pulls you past the reams of text and occasionally brutally lumpy learning curve.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
MondayTrip Hawkins "hooks up" with MySpace generationThe blame gameGirl obesity figures don't reflect fat fears of videogamesEA goes greyGoing apeTuesdayVirtua Tennis goes photo-realisticIs game development the thinking man's McJob?Have an idea but no talent? Bid for a design team!WednesdaySega's monkeys join revolutionAmbient NoiseFree MMOGsThursdayAtari does an urban Wario WareLess is moreIs Lara the Final Girl?Game unveils political attitudesNintendo Revolution: It's all about WiiFridayWhat role will online services play in the next generation?The best songs about videogamesWii oh wii?Long gaming weekend
Another long weekend means, amongst other far less interesting things, the chance to get a good gaming session in. I'm planning to spend some time with Football Manager Handheld (I'm reviewing it for next week and so far, so pretty good), Oblivion (it just keeps on giving) and also the preview code for the rather splendid Sensible Soccer remake. What are your gaming plans?
Wii then? Well, it's clearly an awful awful name for the UK and you have to feel pity for the British marketing team. However, to discount the console purely because of the branding is foolhardy. Buzz, Singstar, Nintendo DS - "casual" games are booming. If Wii properly taps into this growing market then it has a big chance of success, even if Nintendo do finally lose some of their 30-something fans. What we can do without are any more ridiculously pretentious press releases."Wii has a distinctive "ii" spelling that symbolizes both the unique controllers and the image of people gathering to play"Er, right.
Videogames may not have had the same impact on pop music as other areas of the arts - you are probably statistically more likely to hear a reference to Salman Rushdie in a song than Samus Aran. Pop songs, as throwaway as they often are, tend to concentrate on the big themes of life - love, loss, sex, recreational drugs - rather than the tiny guilty thrills attributed to opening up new characters in beat-'em-ups or smashing your best lap times in Gran Turismo. But once in a while, if you listen carefully, you catch the odd reference to gaming culture.So what have been your favourite songs about videogames?To get you started, here are ten that I like/remember. There's more out there, right?Eiffel 65 - My ConsoleThe Italian bubblegum techno posse responsible for global mega-hit Blue (Da Be Dee), shoved this paean to PlayStation on their Europop album. "We're gonna play the game the PlayStation all day, with Metal Gear Solid to Tekken 3," they sang incomprehensibly.Smut Peddlers - PlayStation GenerationThis might be a forgettable slice of formulaic skate punk but it does feature the immortal line "It wouldn't be the end-o If you smashed up your Nintendo"Notorious BIG - JuicyIn this autobiographical rap the late Biggie Smalls disses all the teachers who said he'd never amount to nuthin', while celebrating the trappings of his luxurious lifestyle. "Super Nintendo, Sega Genesis; When I was dead broke, man I couldn't picture this," he proclaims. Clearly he had modest ambitions compared to today's rappers who wouldn't aspire to owning a games console unless it was made out of solid gold and covered in polar bear fur.Placebo - Big Mouth Strikes AgainWhen Placebo covered this Smiths classic for the B-side of Nancy Boy, squealing Brian Molko changed the lyrics of the second chorus, removing the phrase 'hearing aid' and going with, "as the flames rose to her roman knows and herMega Drivestarted to melt". You tiny impish Sega nut!Audio Karate - Nintendo 89The inventive pop punk outfit produced one off the unsung greatest hits of videogame-inspired music with this blistering break-up song, in which the end of a relationship is described in videogame terms. "Controlling 2 player situation will surely result in hesitation." All right, it doesn't make much sense taken out of context...Barclay James Harvest - Spud-u-like"Don't want no Gameboy just a rock and roll" complained the grumpy old rockers on their anti-videogame tirade, Spud U Like, as featured on ponderous 1993 album, Caught in the Light. The opening shot is the best:"Taking over all the kids you've ever seen Locked into the screen Jabbing at the buttons like they're in a dream Don't want a Mega drive Just give me spud-u-like"It's true, the kids were much better off in the seventies when there was nothing to turn them into swaying docile zombies. Oh, apart from glue sniffing. And the music of Barclay James Harvest.HORSE the Band - BirdoThis experimental post-industrial five-piece virtually invented the musical sub-genre, Nintendocore, using a synthesizer to mimic the audio output of 8- and 16bit Nintendo games. Their (mostly puerile and unlistenable) songs are filled with references to characters from Mega Man, Super Mario Brothers and Zelda. Birdo, for example, is an androgynous dinosaur who first appeared in Super Mario 2.Freezepop - I am not your Game BoyFizzy electro-pop nonsense from 2004's Fancy Ultra Fresh album. The aggrieved singer might not be her lover's Gameboy ("don't play with me, I am not your toy"), but she's not short of classic videogame references:"I don't have Spyhunter Galaga or burger time don't look here for Frogger Dig-Dug aint no friend of mine don't ask me, you'll cross the line"Dr Dre - Forgot about TimmyDre's ill-advised South Park novelty song contains the almost redeeming line, "ya'll are the reason Dre ain't been getting no Sega Dreamcast/So f**k ya'll all of ya'll" Is he referring to the public's indifference to the ill-fated 128bit console? I really think he is.Del the Funky Homosapien - Proto CultureDel's a veteran gamer and peppers his tracks with references - Proto Culture being the defining example. This collaboration with Khaos Unique is essentially an enlightening videogame discussion covering cult titles like Macross, Rival Schools and Ninja Gaiden, as well as the odd allusion to industry politics:"To anyone who knew me better Know I chose Saturn first Cause it's 2-D heaven Bernie Stolar dropped the ball with the RAM cartridge X-men Vs. Street Fighter could've expanded the market"Bernie Stolar, ex-president of Sega of America: the only videogame exec to be name-checked in a rap song...
Last month, Google bought@Last Software, which makes SketchUp modelling software, which is the only program that works with Google Earth. Now Google has released a Google-branded version ofSketchUp, though the fullSketchUp Pro 5continues at the same price as before, $495. The officialGoogle blogsays:The new Google SketchUp is for the do-it-yourselfer, the hobbyist -- really anyone who wants to build 3D models for use in Google Earth. Go ahead and model that new kitchen, or deck, landscape your virtual garden, or impress your teacher with a roller coaster or medieval castle. When you're finished, place your model in Google Earth. There! The beginning of a virtual world. Warning: don't start messing with this stuff after dinner because your first experience could be an all-nighter... making an idea come to life in 3D can be very addicting.If you do create something, you can share it via Google's3D Warehouse.Comment: There's lots offree CAD softwarethat hardly anyone uses, as well as commerical programs such asAutoCADandTurboCAD. But none of these seem likely to be used for seriousvideo-game level design... and that's one of the applications for SketchUp, which comes with a recommendation fro Argonaut Games.Hm, could Google Earth eventually be the 3D browser interface for the world's biggest massively-multiplayer role-playing game?
A British man labelled one of the world's most dangerous hackers yesterday railed against the UK's computer crime laws.Gary McKinnon, who faces extradition to the US after being accused of breaking into the Pentagon's computer system, said that Britain's laws on cybercrime were "ridiculous" and in desperate need of change."They need completely revamping," he told the Infosecurity Europe conference in London. "Maybe we should scrap them all and start over again."Computer crime and internet fraud no longer come under the remit of centralised police investigators, with responsibility for cases falling to individual forces and local police stations. Britain's specialist cybercrime task force, the NHTCU, was folded into the new Serious Organised Crime Agency earlier this month.Mr McKinnon said that few police officers could be expected to understand the nature of computer crime, let alone successfully investigate it."It takes half and hour to report a stolen mobile phone. I hate to think what it's like to report computer crime," he said.Bob Ayers, an internet security expert with Chatham House, said that legislators might consider better training for investigators before they update the legal system."We need more effective people in the Crown Prosecution Service," he said. "Before we start adding more statutes, we need better investigators."Mr McKinnon has been fighting extradition to the US by arguing that he could be punished under severe military procedure. Judges at Bow Street magistrates court have asked US prosecutors to guarantee that Mr McKinnon will not be subject to military trial, which could deny him the right to legal representation and see him detained at Guant&aacute;namo Bay.Mr McKinnon is accused of hacking into computers belonging to the Pentagon, Nasa and the US army and navy, operating under the name Solo. In an interview with the Guardian last year, Mr McKinnon said he believed the US government was hiding evidence of UFOs.The charges include one incident - shortly after the attacks on September 11 2001 - which brought down a network of 300 computers at the Earle naval weapons station. Another raid apparently left 2,000 government machines in Washington inoperable.A ruling on the extradition is due on May 10.
Almost the long weekend....
The benefits of mobile technology have never been in any real doubt. You can be contacted at any time, you can receive texts or emails on a train, there are coaches on which you can receive a good Wi-Fi signal so that time isn't dead either, and most hotels have a business centre or broadband in the rooms so your colleagues can get hold of you in an emergency on holiday.The drawbacks are plenty, though. You can be contacted at any time, you can receive texts or emails on a train, there are coaches on which you can receive a good Wi-Fi signal so that time isn't dead either, and most hotels have a business centre or broadband in the rooms so your colleagues can get hold of you in an emergency on holiday. Frankly, once you start to regard yourself and your colleagues as individuals rather than simple economic units for the production of money, you begin to realise just how invasive technology can be. For Londoners, this month's announcement that London Underground is looking into how to make mobile phones work on the tube starts to look like a mixed blessing.The sheer amount of communication is now damaging the quality of the work being done. In a survey carried out by PalmOne in late 2004, more than 50% of respondents said that business decisions were being delayed by unanswered emails and that sloppy, mistake-ridden messages were damaging business relationships.Orange, meanwhile, launched its Organisational Lives report this month. This freely acknowledges the drawbacks of mobile technology; the executive summary points to a blurring between work and home (after all, once you've logged on to the intranet you might as well be in the office) and says: "Mobile data will liberate those who find ways to use it selectively, while burdening those who fail to adapt their routine." The report devotes an entire section to the art of knowing when to switch a device off.Human costOccupational psychologists are as concerned about the human cost over and above what's good or bad for business. Professor Cary Cooper is an occupational psychologist at Lancaster University Management School and has strong feelings about constant availability (he spoke to Business Sense during his holiday in the Algarve). "We all feel now that we have to be connected. We could switch off our mobile phones and email, but we don't do it."There are a number of reasons for this, he suggests. Job insecurity is one. "We are more job insecure than ever before. There are no jobs for life any more, so people feel they need to show commitment, show that they're available all the time and prepared to do work."This has coincided with the availability of virtual work and flexible arrangements, he says. "Psychologically we're more virtual [in the workplace] than ever before. We feel we want to know what's going on, we don't want to be left out in the cold." So we check our emails more frequently than is strictly necessary and make sure everyone knows that we're doing it and we're available.The consequences aren't universally positive. Diane Aitchison is an occupational psychologist with the Criterion Partnership. She points to people with a strong sense of control who like to be seen to be available, but who end up setting a precedent by appearing to be around the whole time. They end up as the dependable one who is always called upon for extra work, and the appearance of coping can mask a highly stressed individual."People can be making a rod for their own back," she says. "It can reinforce some people who have work addictions and makes them feel indispensable, which on one hand is good because you feel valued so you cope in the short term, but in the longer term it can be too much."The end result can be a breakdown or "burnout", however you wish to define that term. "Some people like being in touch and in control of what's going on, others are happy to wait and deal with things," she says. "Some people find that a bit overwhelming and that it's difficult to switch off if they have their pager or mobile phone."Sheer amounts of irrelevant information have been an established problem for years. "There are some people who find it overwhelming," says Aitchison. "We work with one organisation that definitely has issues with over-use of emails, people have an off-site meeting and come back to 200 emails, and they don't want to have to go through that in the evening after a long course." But they do.There are less obvious negatives as well, suggests Cooper. As a psychologist he is primarily interested in the mental effects of constant availability, but the physical effects are a factor as well. We know there are no short-term effects of holding a mobile phone or Bluetooth headset next to our brains for a long time at a stretch, but mid-term and long-term we just don't know yet because the technology is too young, he points out.Then there's eye strain from sitting in front of a computer screen all day, and the effect that not moving to talk to someone but sending an email instead has on your waistline - and blood pressure, and cholesterol levels. This is before you have considered the well-established problems of personal isolation, which can of course be overcome through careful management.Pointless emailsThe information overload stresses can also be managed to an extent. Aitchison points to the difference between receiving genuinely useful information and an inbox crammed full of emails with no obvious outcome or action to follow. Physical exercise can also be very effective in combating stress and putting communications in perspective.Once upon a time, when business owners were travelling you couldn't get hold of them. You'd phone their PA and be told, "I'm sorry, he's on a train", and you'd accept it, or you'd be told, "She's driving", and that would be that. Now, thanks to mobile phones, Wi-Fi hotspots, Bluetooth headsets and laptop or hand-held computers, you can send someone an email or text or phone their mobile and expect an answer almost immediately regardless of the circumstances. If they're on Wi-Fi you might even be able to tell whether they're at their desk if they have Instant Messaging, and you can message them to tell them you're emailing. And people do.But this is a genie that can't be put back into the bottle. What is more achievable is the management of the genie and when it's on duty or otherwise. This could lead to yet another change in corporate culture; at the moment, if you call someone and the PA says he or she is unavailable it has an air of being uncooperative. When this becomes more acceptable we'll have regained control.Or we could just fib and say we're in a meeting, like we do now.
An inn with a restaurant, five guest bedrooms and 20 staff may not sound like an intensive energy user with great potential for savings, but a half-day visit from an adviser convinced Anthony Mears, owner of the Ivy House pub in Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire, otherwise. "It was frightening," he says of the waste the adviser found, adding that the visit was "one of the most profitable half days I have ever spent".The advice and a &pound;20,000 loan from the Carbon Trust, which Mears put towards improvements including new boilers and a ventilation system, cut the Ivy House's energy use by 35-40%.This was significant when the loan started in 2003, but has become more so: the inn's gas supplier is raising unit charges by 72%. "The hike in gas prices will probably increase annual savings by &pound;1,000 to &pound;1,500," says Mears.Some of the advice was simple - such as door sensors for the cellar lights so they go on when someone enters, and off when they leave - and light-sensitive external lights that stay off until dark. Mears is now going further, and changing the external halogen bulbs to energy-efficient ones: "It's better-quality light, which makes the place look better and will be cheaper to run."The loan was used mainly for a new ventilation system, which recycles heat, and two efficient condensing boilers, replacing one over-worked, 10-year-old boiler. The building was also zoned, cutting unnecessary heating.
There are a number of routes through which you can receive voice over internet protocol (VoIP), and a number of people offering accessories. One option is to install something corporate and bring a full internet telephony offering into play. This is fine for larger companies, but savings can be had for smaller organisations and self-employed people. Skype is probably the best-known brand of VoIP that can be bought easily, while BT and Vonage both offer a competing product.The principle of them all is the same. Your phone call piggybacks your computer's internet connection so you can pay less for the call and - as is normal - nothing for inbound calls.Many of the systems that are around also offer an instant messaging service - that's another to clutter up the screen alongside MSN, iChat, AOL Instant Messenger and whichever other system you might be using at the moment.The core services are excellent, but it's worth stressing that you need to manage which of them you actually want, unless you don't mind getting utterly swamped with information. Also beware of glitches in some of them: on one call my Skype system introduced a four-second delay while talking to another Skype user. And calls to some mobile services can, at times, be echoey.Put it another way: it's new technology, expect hiccups. Here are some of the gadgets that can help you get to grips with it.The gadgetPlantronics Pulsar 590APlantronics offers a slew of headsets, of which the most entertaining has to be the Pulsar 590A. This is a Bluetooth stereo headset; the company believes stereo listeners have been poorly served by the Bluetooth market because the Bluetooth stack in computers doesn't actually allow for decent audio broadcast.Plantronics' way around this is to supply a separate adapter to attach to your computer that handles the Bluetooth element of what you're doing; this transmits to the headset in glorious stereo and it's VoIP compatible as well, so if a call comes in you can flick the music off and take the call on the same headset.It's foldable and will also work with iPods and other music players and it should even work with your TV, so you can use it in a number of situations. Home workers will therefore love it; the price makes it an expensive indulgence, but it's certainly a very pleasant one.Price:&pound;129Maker's URL:www.plantronics.co.ukPros:Stereo wireless headphones and automatic interruption of iTunes when a call comes inCons:The cost, which is reasonable given the functions, but do you really want to spend that much?Star rating:****The showoffCreative Labs Live! Ultra Webcam for notebooksVoIP has moved into video conferencing and it's pretty good as far as it goes; the problem is it doesn't go very far. The Creative webcam clipped on to the laptop with ease and there was no need for any involved set-up program: Windows recognised what it was and lifted the software straight from the CD. Seconds later myself and a friend were exchanging all the silliness that has been the lot of video conferencing testers since time began.It worked perfectly, in other words. It may be a generational thing, then, when I say the eyelines weren't quite right - by looking at each other we were looking below the camera so we appeared to be talking to each other's noses. The video was clear but juddered somewhat, and the inclusion of a wired earpiece felt like a step backwards. One day, presumably, there will be an inexpensive means of putting something wireless in place.Price:&pound;69.99Maker's URL:www.uk.europe.creative.comPros:Simple plug and play, for the PC at any rateCons:Juddery video and a wired earpieceStar rating:****The headsetLogitech Premium USB Headset 350The difficulty in writing a round-up like this is that sometimes you get a product that works immediately: you plug it in, it's comfortable, offers faultless sound quality and cuts between music and internet calling automatically. You then have to fill a few paragraphs with constructive comments about how you tested it on a PC and on a Mac and it didn't really mind which system you used, how it's as good on music as it is faultless on calls, how the noise cancelling microphone played your test call back perfectly...You get the idea. It's not a swish wireless effort like the Plantronics, but it costs less than half the price (and let's not forget that most people will be using VoIP to save money rather than to amass gadgets). I also looked at a Logitech microphone, which was fine and did the job for &pound;14.99.Price:&pound;49.99Maker's URL:www.logitech.co.ukPros:It just worksCons:Wireless connection would have been ideal but, for the price, that simply isn't going to happenStar rating:*****The phoneIpevo Free-1 USB PhoneThe second item to earn five stars is the catchily-named Ipevo Free-1 USB Phone. Plug it into your computer, download or install the software (the Mac beta from Ipevo's website seems to work perfectly), and not only does it work as a phone but you can control your Skype desktop software from it as well. Unlike most of the hardware we looked at, this one is genuinely Skype-specific.Which device you prefer is going to depend on how you want to use your hardware. Anyone needing to record calls will be able to slip a microphone adapter into the equation when they use the Ipevo; home workers who want to use a headset for relaxation as well as work will like the Plantronics adapter that plugs into any headphone socket and lets them listen to stereos and TVs as well as their computer. There are no bad buys this month - just take a look at your needs and budget and match the device to them.Price:&pound;21.98Maker's URL:www.expansys.comPros:Familiarity: it looks and feels like a phoneCons:Could do with a cradle; difficult to tidy on the deskStar rating:*****
The traditional entrepreneurial drive to make a pot of money as fast as you can and retire to the south of France has given way to other factors that are motivating today's business startups. Family and quality of life are now taking centre stage, according to the More Than Business Foresight Index, published last week.The index assesses the trends in small business ambitions on an annual basis and has revealed that ambition has been replaced with "fambition" as the central motivating factor of today's owner-managers.Psychologist and life coach Dr Sally Ann Law suggests that events such as the war in Iraq, bird flu and global warming are significant factors that have affected business priorities. She believes they are driving a fundamental shift in the way we view the world and our ability to influence our long-term future."There is no doubt that recent significant world events have affected the way people think about themselves and their future. In response to the perceived inability to influence a lot of big issues, such as bird flu, terrorism and global warming, in the immediate future people often tend to cherish things like family and quality of life all the more. That is certainly reflected among many of the people that I see in my capacity as a life coach."In its research, More Than discovered that 84% of small business owner-managers started their businesses to gain a better quality of life. Fambition also came into play when the optimal size of a business was queried. It seems there is little ambition for growth. Sole traders report that just one employee would be ideal for them, with most small business never intending to grow beyond 10 employees at the most.An aging population could also explain why fambition has replaced ambition in the UK's small business sector. The foresight index clearly shows that owner-managers tend to be older and have a more lifestyle-focused view of how they want to run their businesses. The grey entrepreneur also seems to be happier than his more youthful counterpart. Only 5% of the 16 to 34-year-olds stated that they were satisfied with their lifestyles. This figure shot up to 17% for the 55 to 64 age group.So who is this new breed and what does fambition mean to them? Colin Atkins joined the Royal Air Force straight from school. After leaving the Air Force eight years later, he fell into recruitment for engineering companies. After a decade on the corporate treadmill, and the birth of his son, Colin, he decided that a change was a must. "My life was a cliche," he explains. "I was in a pressurised and unenjoyable nine-to-five job that was in reality more like eight-to-seven. I had a poor quality of life. I wasn't spending enough time with my wife and son."I was paying the bills but that was about all. I simply couldn't see staying in the recruitment profession in the long-term, so I started thinking about what else I might be able to do to generate the income we needed to live, while improving our quality of life."Passion for foodColin wanted to do something that interested him. His thoughts soon turned to his passion for food and cooking. Initially looking at traditional restaurants and coffee shops, he realised that these businesses wouldn't leave him with any improvement in his quality of life.But then, as chance would have it, Atkins happened on a franchise opportunity that seemed perfect. River Nene Organic Vegetables was offering opportunities to set up regional franchises of its organic vegetable home delivery service. "I'd already decided that I wanted to combine my interest in food with my working life, but working with organic produce was of particular interest," he says. "My wife and I had become increasingly concerned about the largely unknown effects of the various chemicals and pesticides used in the production of non-organic food, particularly after the arrival of our son."We had already been buying more and more organic fruit and vegetables and we also knew that many friends were doing the same thing. So I was fairly confident that there would be a healthy market for the new business."Atkins's day starts just as early as his previous job in recruitment, but does this mean he regrets his move into self-employment? Atkins is adamant: "Not at all. For a start, I'm working for myself, which helps my motivation. Plus, I'm working with something in which I have a real interest. I'm meeting and engaging with customers all day, every day - and they're generally delighted to see me. In fact, my biggest problem is tearing myself away from customers who want to discuss recipes and ideas for using the incredible range of produce we deliver."Another new business owner with fambition is Charlie Duggan, from Bristol, who has been running Charlie Duggan Associates for two years. The company specialises in helping other firms plan and implement the outsourcing of selected parts of their recruitment processes."Before setting up my own company in March 2004, I worked for a consultancy with a head office in London," says Duggan. "As my responsibilities increased I found myself spending more and more time travelling up to London, which meant seeing less of my family in Bristol. In today's volatile climate you tend to take stock of what is important and, to me, my family will always come out on top."Running my own business has enabled me to enjoy more time with my family, use my strengths to their best ability and take control over my working life."WeblinkCharlie Duggan Associates:www.charliedugganassociates.co.uk
Sometimes doing business and damaging the environment seem to be inexorably linked, particularly when it comes to climate change and the carbon emissions that are accelerating this process.But some companies are finding ways to strengthen their businesses by reducing their carbon emissions. London cab firm Radio Taxis Group has added &pound;1.2m to its annual revenues as a result of going carbon neutral in January last year. This involves paying for projects, in areas including forestry and renewable electricity generation, that effectively remove from the atmosphere at least as much carbon dioxide as is generated by the company's offices and its 3,000 drivers.Managing director Andrew Herbert says these carbon offset schemes cost around &pound;120,000 a year. With the extra &pound;1.2m from accounts opened primarily because of Radio Taxis' carbon-neutral status, and others won or renewed partly for this reason - including &pound;1m a year from a large media organisation - he says the spending is justified as a business investment. "We are ahead," Herbert says, adding: "We know for a fact that one of our competitors has been looking at this."Many of the banks, insurers and media firms that use Radio Taxis ask detailed questions about suppliers' environmental performance in tenders for business. "Two years ago, we took the view that rather than having an environmental policy and recycling our paper, we wanted to be significantly more bold," says Herbert."Rather than see the requests for environmental policy as a burden, why not turn it around, make a big statement, rather than tweak at the edges?"Through the CarbonNeutral Company, a consultancy and seller of carbon offset credits, Radio Taxis found it was responsible for 24,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide annually, largely through emissions from its taxis. Eventually, a move to alternative fuels such as biodiesel may cut this figure, but Herbert says this will not be possible until a network of suitable refuelling stations has opened.Radio Taxis uses 3,000 self-employed taxi drivers, around half of whom also own shares in the firm, and they had to be convinced of carbon neutrality's worth. Keith Sullivan, one such driver-shareholder, says he was sceptical, partly because of the difficulty of imagining 24,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide and partly because the offset schemes are spread around the globe. "World-wide there's a gain, but no gain in London," he says. "My cab had the same engine as every other cab out there."But he is happy with the new business generated by carbon-neutral status, which is booked contract work rather than picking up fares. "It's all blue-chip clients, which is perfect," he says - they don't eat fastfood in the back of his cab. Radio Taxis provides around 40% of the drivers' work, with fares providing the rest, although the carbon offset covers 100% of their mileage.Sullivan and other drivers have to explain the scheme to passengers, as it is publicised on the underside of cabs' flip-seats. "Over the last 12 months, people seem to be more interested, without a doubt," he says - although he excludes Americans.Reducing costsFor many businesses, the easiest way to cut emissions of greenhouse gases is to cut their use of energy, which conveniently also cuts costs. Dr Garry Felgate, a director of the government-funded Carbon Trust, says that many companies can cut energy use by 30%, with 10 to 15% through little or no spending. Rising energy prices make such cuts increasingly worth making, and oil prices reached new highs this month, a move which in the past has caused increases in gas and electricity costs as well.Felgate says it makes sense to start with practices - such as using a broom to clean the floor rather than compressed air intended for industrial use - followed by equipment maintenance, such as plugging leaks in compressed air equipment, followed by buying more efficient equipment: the most modern compressed air equipment can be as much as 40% more efficient than older models.The Carbon Trust gives advice by telephone and, for larger energy users, through site visits. It also can also provide small and medium-sized businesses in England and Wales, along with all established businesses in Northern Ireland, with 0% unsecured loans repayable over four years for fixed equipment that can save its own cost in energy efficiency over five years. The Scottish Executive funds Loan Action Scotland, a similar scheme.One Carbon Trust loan recipient is Optimum Coatings, a lens-coating company in Morecambe with 20 staff. Last year, the trust lent it &pound;10,000 towards replacing an electrical water heater with a gas-fired one, as well as better air-conditioning and insulation, for the clean room where lenses are coated."We didn't do it for environmental purposes," says managing director David Birt, but to lower costs and improve productivity. The electrical heater was much less efficient than its replacement, particularly for the constant heating required by the coating process, and had blown fuses with its erratic demand for electricity - a problem when the company relies on electrical equipment.Birt says that buying the most efficient equipment was not possible initially: "We were a small company, and when we set up we had to do things in the cheapest way possible," he says. The Carbon Trust provided advice on the new equipment, which should repay their total &pound;16,000 cost in less than four years. Birt adds that the changes have also led to higher quality products and improved productivity.However, simple changes in behaviour costing nothing or a few pounds can make a significant difference, says Felgate. "I saw one warehouse that had doors that opened automatically when a lorry appeared, but they had been over-ridden to stay open all the time, wasting heat." In another case, a sports centre's staff turned off the lights when leaving at 10pm, but the cleaners put them back on at 11pm and didn't turn them off when leaving 90 minutes later.Felgate says that in buildings without air-conditioning, lighting represents around a fifth of energy usage, the largest single category: cutting use can be automated with automatic timers and movement sensors cutting off power when it is not needed. The next biggest category is heating, where turning down the thermostat by 1C can cut use by nine or 10%.Do it yourselfA further step can be for businesses to generate their own energy: Middlesbrough football club, which has already completed a series of energy-saving measures, is considering a wind turbine. Felgate says the club's Riverside stadium is well-placed in a windy location: "With wind, the biggest issues are planning permission and windiness," he says, with planning the harder.He adds that biofuel heating can work for some businesses - and that the Carbon Trust's loan scheme can cover power generation - but that solar electricity generation currently takes too long to pay back its costs.When it is impossible to cut emissions further, offsetting with firms like the CarbonNeutral Company provides an alternative. Chief executive Jonathan Shopley says the company provides larger clients with bespoke advice on reducing energy use, then sells them carbon offset credits for the rest if they wish to claim carbon neutral status. Smaller firms can use an online self-assessment service, including the ability to purchase carbon offset credits.Shopley says that employees are often keen to cut their emissions - sometimes for reasons beyond environmentalism. He cites business travel, a status symbol within many firms: "It's perceived as something you must do," he says, although many people dislike being away from their families and the often inconvenient departure times. "Staff generally find that having the environment as a reason not to travel is a positive reason," he says, as it trumps the status link.Geraint Day, head of environmental policy at the Institute of Directors, warns that businesses should not rely on a good environmental performance as a way of winning business from consumers: "You have surveys saying, 'will you buy green goods?', and people say they would, but they are lying. [The market for specifically green goods] is actually minute in terms of sales at the moment, but was zero a few years ago."But he agrees that big firms, particularly retailers, are asking suppliers about environmental performance, and government regulation in this area is also increasing.Day says that the business payback periods for carbon emission-saving processes or equipment vary greatly, and small businesses do not generally have the expertise to make the calculations. "That's why they need pointing to advice," he says.WeblinksThe Carbon Trust:www.thecarbontrust.co.ukEnergy efficiency advice and loans in Scotland:www.energy-efficiency.org/businessThe CarbonNeutral Company, including online emission calculators:www.carbonneutral.com
The usual cocktail of nitrous oxides, sulphur dioxide and hydrocarbons swirling around Britain's airports has just been augmented by a strong whiff of indignation.Willie Walsh, the chief executive of British Airways, used a conference in Ireland earlier this month to fire off a bullish defence of his industry. "While it is crucial that aviation takes action on emissions, the notion that flying is a selfish, antisocial activity that single-handedly threatens planetary catastrophe bears no relation to the evidence," he said.He is not the only airline boss to have challenged the claims of the environmental lobby in recent weeks. Flybe's chief commercial officer tore into "misinformed environmentalists" who peddle the "myth" that aviation is a major polluter, and easyJet's chief executive, Andy Harrison, shared his outrage: "Aviation is not the environment's biggest enemy - not today and not tomorrow," he said.What triggered these outbursts was a report by the European Low Fares Airline Association (ELFAA) examining how a European Commission proposal for an emissions trading scheme would affect EU economies. It concluded that aviation is being unfairly blamed for CO2 emissions and that penalising airlines for them would harm both EU integration and the European economy.BA is not a member of ELFAA, and Walsh said he did want to see a "working international system of emissions trading for aviation" to be introduced as soon as possible. "This is not a painless option for airlines," he said. "If we increase our emissions, we will have to pick up the bill." Nonetheless, he added, UK planes only contributed around 0.1% of global emissions, and it was wrong to imagine that banning flying tomorrow would halt the damage.Figures like these are a comfort to anyone who flies on business, particularly if they are beginning to wonder whether they ought to make an effort to avoid taking the plane. But are they reliable?I put Walsh's figures to Peter Lockley of the Aviation Environment Foundation. Had environmentalists really overestimated the damage aviation was doing? On the contrary, he said, Walsh was grossly underestimating it. The percentage he gave "wilfully ignores the non-CO2 effects of aviation" and the fact that carbon dioxide causes more damage when it is released at high altitudes.Lockley estimates that the "uplift" factor makes emissions 2.7 times more damaging and says his own calculations suggest that aviation accounts for around 13% of all the UK's greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, for all the improvements in fuel efficiency, the boom in cheap flying means that aviation is the fastest growing source of greenhouse gases.Scientific consensusBA's boss wants any emissions trading scheme to discount this "uplift" effect because, he argues, "there is little scientific consensus" about it. (Another expert I spoke to put the figure at 2.4.) He believes that a simpler scheme would be easier to administer. But Flybe and easyJet are furious at the idea that their newer and cleaner fleets should pay the same penalty as the older jets flown by their rivals."We fly brand-new aircraft with some of the highest load factors in the business," says easyJet's Harrison. "We have always argued for bankrupt inefficient airlines to leave the sector and eliminate the unprofitable flying that is usually done on older, dirtier aircraft."He has a point. SAS, some of whose business customers now add up "their" emissions to calculate how much to donate to carbon offset programmes, recently introduced an emissions calculator on its website. Even a tool as simplistic as this one reveals just how difficult it is to quantify the effect of a particular journey. The proportion of seats occupied, the temperature, the wind direction and the presence of cargo all play a part. But the ageing McDonnell Douglas planes in the SAS fleet do emit significantly more pollution than the more modern Airbuses.It gets more complicated. Do you take into account the carbon load involved in travelling to and from airports? Do you consider the altitude at which the plane flies? Internal flights, for example, are more likely to use turbo-props, which fly lower than jets and are less likely to produce contrails that are thought to exacerbate the effects of their emissions. The calculations are fraught with pitfalls. Is it really possible to make a meaningful comparison between journeys by plane, train and car?Paul Upham, a research fellow at the Tyndall Centre, which researches sustainable ways of tackling climate change, believes it is. He has used the European Environment Agency's preferred measure of fuel consumption, Corinair, to compare the journey from Manchester to Guernsey. A fully-loaded Saab 200 turbo-prop on this route produces 103kg of CO2 per passenger, while a Nissan Micra carrying one emits 226kg. Obviously, that figure is cut dramatically if two or more people are sharing the car. But Upham admits he was "very surprised" at the finding."Planes aren't the evil things relative to cars that people imagine," he says. Trains are still the least polluting form of transport for longer journeys. But even trains have their own carbon load, and not all trains are equal: diesels are more polluting than electric trains, for example. "This is what people need to accept. We need to travel less by plane. But we need to travel less per se."Practical alternativesLockley agrees. Later this year the AEF will launch a website called Flyless.org, which will suggest practical alternatives to business travel, such as videoconferencing. He thinks it unlikely that the proposed emissions trading scheme will make a significant difference. "The aviation industry knows the only meaningful way it can moderate its emissions is to reduce its growth rates, something it isn't prepared to do. Instead, it touts emissions trading as a solution that will allow the market to decide where reductions can be made at least cost." Quite probably, he says, the industry will swap emissions for renewable energy projects in the developing world - "the cheapest way for carbon permits to leak into an emissions trading scheme to ensure that those covered by it don't have to make any real reductions".But Upham believes carbon offset schemes of the kind offered by Climate Care can be useful as long as the projects are of a good quality and do not simply involve planting trees. Renewable energy projects can be worthwhile, he says, and the Tyndall Centre is hoping to receive funding to research what makes a good one. He is keen on the prospect of biofuels derived from plant waste - which Virgin Atlantic is investigating - although these are still some way off. And he points out that airlines have a constant incentive to improve fuel efficiency because of rising oil prices. "They've made amazing strides and they will make amazing strides in the future," he says.We will find out this summer whether the European Commission - which kicked off the low-fares revolution in the first place by opening up the EU's airspace to new carriers - will force the airlines to pay a little more to pollute. Many hope that the Single European Skies programme will make the EU's fragmented air traffic control networks more efficient and cut down on emissions. In the meantime, the message for business travellers with an environmental conscience is this: if you must travel and the trains are unworkable, then at least don't take the car.
All work and no playMicrosoft is running a very effective advertising campaign in the UK at the moment, extolling the benefits of its Windows Mobile operating system. "Email, contacts, even family pictures. Does your desktop know about this?" asks one. "When, where and how you work is entirely up to you with Windows Mobile," it states.One poster, on the tube, even asks (rather boldly, in my view) if we'd rather be unproductively just waiting for a train, or tweaking an Excel spreadsheet instead.Let's not discuss the merits of tweaking Excel spreadsheets, except to say that being marooned on platform 3 at Swindon has its appeals.The Windows campaign is effective, to me at least, because the merits of "always on" connectivity are ripe for discussion. The vision they sell is that of a hyper productivity, where you can stun clients and colleagues with your anytime, anywhere ability to edit PowerPoint slides, batter together Word documents and - of course - bat email enquiries by the dozen.The plan is that we use "downtime" - stuck on that railway platform, perhaps, or in an airport departure lounge - more productively. But the grim reality, at least anecdotally, is rather less glamorous; Blackberried emails fired off late at night, from in front of the TV, or (worse) no meal left uninterrupted by the mobile's trill.Guy Clapperton's piece inside this month's edition of Business Sense takes a closer look at the impact this might be having on what is, after all, the first hyper-connected generation of businesspeople. Is it taking a toll on our lives? The answer, it seems, is yes, unless you take measures to make sure you can cope.There is another option, of course - one that is, surprisingly, put forward by Microsoft themselves in their thought-provoking campaign. You can do your emails, slides and charts - or you can just turn the thing off and have some peace and quiet.The problems start, however, when people get used to the hyper-efficient, always on you... and start expecting it as the norm. And there isn't a gadget around that can fire off responses to that over-demanding client on your behalf. Not yet, at least.Neil McIntosh, editor
&middot; The simplest way to cut emissions is to use less energy, which also saves money. This can mean turning off lights and computers when not needed, or cutting travel through teleconferencing or home-working. Good equipment maintenance is another easy way to save energy.&middot; Replacing equipment with a more efficient model - starting with low-energy light-bulbs - will often pay for itself within a few years. The Carbon Trust can provide loans for more expensive equipment.&middot; Moving to a supplier of renewable electricity, such as hydro-electric or wind-power, reduces carbon emissions at little or no extra cost.&middot; Installing wind turbines or biofuel heating may be an option for some organisations.&middot; Carbon offset, supplied by firms such as the CarbonNeutral Company, allows a company to pay to balance carbon emissions that are an inevitable result of business operations.&middot; Recording and if possible measuring improvements made should help convince customers of environmental credentials - which may help win or retain business.
SoftwareFree management kit is the real dealIf you hear that a company is giving away software that's useful to business and it's not going to cost anything, the response is usually a shrug and the thought that, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.Nevertheless, Mamut Business Software is cheerily making its Mamut Startup program available for no charge from its website atwww.mamut.co.uk/startup.And yes, of course the company hopes you'll come back for more and spend your money with them. But the software on the web is impressive. There's business planning software to help with your marketing plan and budgeting; the contact management includes a document register (so you can tie documents to individual contacts) and activity management; there's ordering and invoicing, there are reports on customers and products, and the right tools to set up your own website and web shop.In addition, there's a portal with links to Business Link, Companies House, the Small Business Advice Service, the European Patent Office and many other useful organisations. You could find these in seconds if you did a quick web search of course, but this startup software eliminates a lot of steps in finding information and setting up some of the laborious but essential information structures on your PC.Mamut specialises in accounting systems so no, there are no accounts or book-keeping as such on the system and yes, it will fit just nicely with the company's own software in that area. But, for a freebie to kickstart an entrepreneur at the beginning of an enterprise, it's packed with a lot of useful stuff.TravelUp to 10,000 songs in your glove compartmentSpeaking of useful stuff, business travellers who use their cars a lot might be interested to know about a couple of products from Kensington Micro that will be out just as soon as they're legalised. No, nothing as illicit as whatever has just crossed your mind; Kensington is issuing two iPod accessories, the Pico and the FM Transmitter. Both perform the same function: they turn your iPod into an FM transmitter so you can listen to it on your car stereo as well as on foot.I tested both and they worked extremely well. The FM Transmitter is my preference as it runs off the car battery and charges your iPod at the same time; the Pico runs off your iPod's battery and is therefore usable with any FM radio. The Pico is shaped to look best with an iPod Nano, but it'll work with any iPod bar the Shuffle. You pick a frequency that's not being used, tune the device and your radio in and you're away.Although they usually work well, on a run from Shropshire to Croydon I went through a number of local radio station areas and picked up interference from stations occupying frequencies that weren't in use at one end or the other. Obviously I didn't want to retune while doing 70mph (although you can have alternative frequencies as a precaution).If I had one objection to the devices then it would be that they're so iPod-centric. Yes, Apple has the majority share of the MP3 music player market by a long way, and certainly if you're going to allow charging of a player through your hardware then you need to be specific about voltages and how it plugs in. But the Pico is just a transmitter; why it couldn't be made adaptable to just about any other MP3 player (or portable CD player, or digital radio) with a headphone jack has to be more due to market forces than to any technological limitations.BooksThe final word on defeating hackersNew on the bookshelf this month is Defeating the Hacker by sometime Guardian contributor Robert Schifreen (Wiley, &pound;18.99). Its description of itself on the cover as "a non-technical guide to IT security" is generous; there are certainly areas in which the author writes out whole sections of computer code, but there's a lot in here for people of differing levels of IT literacy. Few people will want to read every page; those who are interested in the technical minutiae won't care much for being told not to reply to junk mail, while the less au fait will be happy to be told exactly how a phishing scam works and how to avoid one. It's going to be up to date for a while as it takes the reader as far as Microsoft Windows Vista, which is the next version of Windows (business versions due later this year).It's accessible and easy to read and the best thing is that every chapter has five practical points at the end for you to act on to improve your company's security. These will help you to assess whether a particular chapter applies to your company. A lot of it will help a lot of people, whether they knew they needed helping or not.RecruitmentJust the job for mums returning to workMothers wanting to return to work will welcome the launch of a new website atwww.workingmums.co.uk- a job site that actively promotes flexible work, part-time opportunities, freelancing and other family-friendly practices. Employers on the lookout for such people might like to note that as a startup site it is offering free adverts until the end of May, so you might be able to recruit someone for nothing.Prior to its launch, the owners did a survey and found that 80% of mothers wanting to return to work were looking at part-time jobs and 86% wanted to share jobs or look into freelancing. The site aims to have articles on it before long to explore these and other relevant themes.It attracted 350 job candidates in the first week after its launch.
Aftab Ahmed's story will sound familiar: a senior position in a city-based organisation, long pressurised days in the office and a time-consuming commute. Too little time for his young family but well rewarded financially, but increasingly unrewarded personally. "It's a cliche to say that money isn't everything and that there are more important things in life, but certainly in my case, greater earnings simply meant greater responsibility," says Ahmed.Since graduating in 1982, Ahmed spent the following 20 years pursuing his law career - eventually holding a senior position at law firm Allen & Overy. The City's legal industry is a high-pressured environment, with demanding clients and demanding employers, but significant rewards for those with the talent and energy required. But Ahmed's priorities changed when he got married and children came along."I remember working on one particularly large and complex transaction. The team and I were working such long hours that we were staying up in London. The work went on for days and when it was finally completed we stepped out of the office into the daylight and I literally didn't have a clue what day of the week it was."It was then that I felt things were getting really ridiculous. I was still enjoying my work, sure, but it was affecting my overall work-life balance too significantly. My children were growing up - almost reaching their teens - and I wasn't seeing them enough. My health was also suffering; being hunched over a desk and computer all day was giving me chronic back ache. It's another cliche of course, but it's true that nobody regrets not having spent more time in the office when they look back on their life. Something had to change."Ahmed was looking for a business that he could run in rural Berkshire where his family had relocated to. He spotted a gap in the market for nursery services. Many of his neighbours had also moved out of London and now lacked day nursery care for their children. Ahmed saw the opportunity and set about making the Alphabet Day Nursery a reality. The first nursery opened in 2004 and now employs five people.Does he now feel that his quality of life has improved? "Yes, but then my planning meant that I knew exactly what to expect," Ahmed explains. "The first year of any new business demands your total attention. It's more invasive than working for someone else's business, you work just as hard, there's plenty of pressure and the buck for everything in the business stops with you; there's nowhere to hide."However, once you're established, you do begin to reap the benefits in your quality of life. I have much more flexibility over my working life and, within reason, I can work when and where I like. I feel in control, that I'm the master of my own destiny."
Constant availability doesn't have to mean incessant communications noise. There are many strategies to help staff at all levels cope with the new environment:&middot; Foster a culture in which it is OK to have the phone, Blackberry or pager turned off for a while. Nobody can be, or should be, on call all of the time&middot; Watch whether your staff take all of their holiday entitlement. Carrying one or two days over to the following year is manageable, but if someone is not only making themselves available for the business out of hours but not taking leave either, they could be heading for difficulties&middot; Monitor stress levels and work out a policy on what to do when there's a problem&middot; Try to ensure - which is difficult in a small business - that nobody is perceived as indispensable, otherwise they will feel pressured to be available when they should be recuperating from work&middot; One manager we spoke to ensures that his holiday takes place somewhere where there's no mobile phone network coverage. Messages can be left at the hotel reception and faxes sent, but he has to be available voluntarily to receive them&middot; Watch out for employees sending emails when a call or face to face conversation would be more appropriate. People are starting to send emails to people sitting two spaces away from them, which adds to the sheer amount of mail in their inbox&middot; Encourage people to think about whether an email or call is necessary at all - if they can't define a desired outcome that benefits the business then not hitting the "send" button can be a good idea&middot; Above all, never lose sight of the fact that the technology is supposed to help and benefit your organisation. If it starts to dominate and take over out of hours, you're allowed to admit implementing it was a mistake!
Anybody British with a reasonable education always has a financial fallback when they travel abroad. When the money runs out, they can teach English. The demand for native speakers seems to remain insatiable. It was certainly a possibility that my wife, Barbara, had considered before we headed off for a life in Ibiza.She was far better qualified than most ex-pats, having been a primary school teacher in Scotland before ill health forced her to quit. It was a job she loved and she'd long felt her skills and experience were being wasted.Before we arrived on the island two years ago we had an idyllic notion of using those talents to help our Spanish-speaking neighbours with their English. We thought there would either be schoolchildren requiring additional tutoring or adults who wanted to add to their qualifications. In fact, she has found a call for her skills, but not from the sort of people we expected.The demand has come from friends who are native English speakers and want some extra help for their primary school-age children. Barbara offers a partial solution to a dilemma that faces many adults who move abroad. It's alright for them to decide to change countries as often as they want, but is it fair for them to impose their nomadic lifestyle on their kids?One way round their problem is to send their children to an international school where they will be taught in English. However, not only is this expensive, but it carries a built-in assumption that the family will return to the UK. That's fine for parents who have been posted overseas by an organisation, which will probably also pay the fees. It's not much use if you want to become part of the local community in a foreign country.There are, after all, few better places to get to know your neighbours than at the school gates. Sending your kids elsewhere suggests you don't really want to be a full part of the community.Houses and businesses can be sold. And, if the worst comes to the worst, family and friends in Britain are just a budget flight away. It may be difficult financially for adults to return to their roots, but it's surely much harder for their children to slot into an education system that uses what to them is basically a foreign language.Their difficulty probably won't be speech. I've heard young children at play switching effortlessly between Spanish, German and English. But that doesn't mean they can write it down. Even when they study English at school the emphasis is conversational.An added challenge in Ibiza is that a few years ago the local government decided Catalan would be the main teaching language across the curriculum. Catalan was banned under the Franco regime, so it's fairly easy for me to understand and even support this piece of cultural protectionism. But, I don't have kids.If I did, I'd probably want them to at least have the option of British further education. It may not be superior to the Spanish system, but at least I have some understanding of how it works.For those who do want their kids to keep up with the twists and turns of the curriculum in England or Scotland, every government document is posted on the web. Ploughing through them and making sense of the jargon is, however, another matter.More useful are the lesson plans and teaching materials that are also available online, often for free. In fact, as so often with web-based information, the problem that Barbara has found is that there's just too much available. She's spent far more time online than actually with our friends' kids.So for ex-pat parents with a web-literate former primary schoolteacher on tap, there is a way of avoiding the complete imposition of their lifestyle choices on their children. The rest, I suppose, will have to wait until Esperanto is universally adopted.Nick Clayton is a writer and web content consultant deskinthesun@nickclayton.com
The Japanese are famous for their creative use of English, and Nintendo has produced a landmark example with the new name for its Revolution console: it's Wii, pronounced "wee", rather than "why-aye" or anything suggestive of the Women's Institute. Nintendo's statment said:"'What does the name mean?' Wii sounds like 'we,' which emphasizes this console is for everyone. Wii can easily be remembered by people around the world, no matter what language they speak. No confusion. No need to abbreviate. Just Wii."Even Nintendo fans have been taking the pii out of the name, and Wii jokes are currently appearing all over the games sites -- including ourGamesblog comments.MTV News reports:What does Nintendo have to say to the naysayers? "We believe people will move past that issue," said Perrin Kaplan, president of marketing and corporate affairs at Nintendo. "Many top companies have successfully used names or phrases that might seem odd at first blush: Virgin for an airline, Caterpillar for construction equipment, Yahoo! for Internet services, Naked for juice, Prius for a car, Napster for a Web site."Yeah, right. But Virgin was originally well known as a name for record stores (cf "virgin vinyl") before it was applied to an airline, and caterpillar tracks were invented more than a century before the company adopted the name, and Yahoo was a deliberately silly name, and so on.Is Nintendo being deliberately silly to attract attention, or is it just desperately short of clue?
There's a great in-depth article over atNext Generationwhich presents a cynical view on the importance of the role of online services in the future of the console race. The central argument is that there has been undue emphasis on networked services, as the current crop of consumers who use them/care is "a subset of a subset". From the article:Does it matter if the Xbox Live has a more robust, fully featured service? Not necessarily. Most console consumers are not even in a position to evaluate online services as they currently appeal to a subset of a subset.Imagine Average Joe consumer standing in a Best Buy or GameStop this holiday season and asking a sales clerk about the differences between the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation. Consumer: "wow, the Xbox 360 sure has a lot more games." Clerk: "well the 360 has more games now, but the PS3 is newer and more powerful." Consumer: "do these systems go online?" Clerk: "yes, they both go online, but the PS3 is free, you have to pay extra with the Xbox 360."The issue of which online service is actually better is not even likely to come up in this scenario. In the consumer's mind it is included for free with PS3 versus you must pay extra with the Xbox 360. That could even explain why a PlayStation 3 would cost more, Sony was nice enough to throw in the online service for free.The war will be fought on many battlegrounds, including innovation, brand awareness and software. Exploiting online capabilities, while technically a current reality, is still a business-minded innovator's pipe dream. Until those products become relevant to Joe or Jane Average User, their applied usefulness will be undervalued, under-rated and under-realised.
Nintendo has changed it's next generation console name from the rawk-sounding "Revolution" to the less-pronounceable "Wii", which - we're assured by the press team - is pronounced "We". Check out their new lookhere.From the release:While the code-name "Revolution" expressed our direction, Wii represents the answer.Wii will break down that wall that separates video game players from everybody else.And still more clarification:Wii has a distinctive "ii" spelling that symbolizes both the unique controllers and the image of people gathering to play. ... And together Wii will change everything.Well? What do you think of Wii?
There's a great post atFosfor Gadgetsthat simply juxtaposes screen shots from old (mainly Nintendo) games from the 1980s with the Xbox 360 equivalents. "If someone would have presented a XBOX 360 for me and my friends 20 years ago, I'm pretty sure we probably would have fainted."But those Nintendo graphics were also pretty amazing in their day, especially if you'd played Star Trek using points plotted on a pair of axes on a green screen, entering co-ordinates on a command line ... and before that, exciting computer graphics meant printing Snoopy in text characters on green-ruled fanfold paper.Graphics aren't everything, of course. People still spend millions of hours playing Tetris and Snake, and I'm tempted to come over all nostalgic for Columns on the GameGear....
Get chatting.
People have been decorating their games consoles and computers since the dawn of micro-time, though obviously it helps to have a light-coloured machine -- white, cream or beige, rather than Sinclair Black. Twenty years ago, for example, aceLlamasoftgames programmerJeff Minterdid some nice paint jobs on his Atari STs. But the Xbox marketing team in Germany has really thrown down the gauntlet with an Xbox 360 that shows Lara Croft, created by sticking on43,000 small crystals(or possibly 36,000 -- the Microsoft Games Global Marketing team's blog has both numbers). Apparently it's worth 9.000/$11,000, and will be a competition prize.TheGamerscorebloghas other amusing things, such as water balloon fight videos and Xbox 360 logo wallpaper (below) made out of people....
Clive Thompson has atypically intriguing piecein Wired this month, this time considering the appeal of Lara Croft - specifically, the way in which male gamers identify with her. He claims that Lara is a kind of interactive 'Final Girl' - the name given by Carol Clover in her bookMen, Women and Chain Saws: Gender in Modern Horror Filmto the usually female survivors in slasher movies. Clover's rather generous interpretation of male responses to gore flicks - that although they start out cheering on the killer, they gradually begin to side with the imperiled female lead - does sort of segue in with the Lara Croft phenomenon. She is a beautiful young woman continuously attacked by dark forces, and - like the Final Girl archetype - she's the one that moves the plot on, that takes control of the action. An interesting comparison.When I wrote about the appeal of Lara Croft in the infamous girl issue of Edge, I went for a traditional Freudian interpretation, suggesting that she was, in fact, a fetishistic response to, and signifier of, male castration anxiety. Now I don't know what to think. Frankly, I'm done with the whole issue of feminist/neo-Freudian pop culture analysis and I'm not prepared to lose anymore sleep over it!
"Apache has overtaken Microsoft as the leading developer of secure web servers. Apache now runs on 44.0% of secure web sites, compared to 43.8% for Microsoft," reportsNetcraft."Apache is also gaining from geographical changes. The US, where Microsoft retains a strong lead, used to have over 70% of the Internet's secure websites. Other countries have been catching up, however: countries including Japan and Germany, where Apache is preferred, have faster growth in SSL sites. As ecommerce has caught on in other countries, the US share has been diluted, and is now only 50%."
The software firm Microsoft is preparing to buy an advertising agency that places ads inside video games, according to press reports.The computer giant refused to comment on speculation yesterday that it was set to announce the purchase of the New York-based games advertising company Massive Inc. The deal, which could be worth up to $400m (&pound;225m), would be a coup for the two-year-old agency, which employs just 80 people but has become one of the market leaders in the nascent "dynamic games advertising" market.Advertisers have regularly signed marketing deals with games publishers and developers but until recently these were based around static advertising or brand sponsorship of entire titles. Marketers traditionally pay for a headline association with their brand or to have their products placed inside games.But Massive is one of a number of companies concentrating on developing the internet capabilities of next-generation video games consoles to help place dynamic advertising directly inside virtual environments. It is similar to the kind of online advertising that websites traditionally display but placed within a context more reflective of real-world locations. Spokesmen for Massive Inc were unavailable for comment on the deal.Last month Massive signed a multimillion-dollar deal with the US Major League Baseball to deliver live advertising directly on to virtual billboards inside the popular MLB 2K6 sports game, replacing static advertising with changeable signs tailored for particular users.In-game advertising is still a small market but it is growing quickly. Analysts expect to see $100m of spending this year, as advertisers try to reach further into the lives of the coveted 18- to 34-year-old male market. The wider games market, which is now worth an estimated &pound;13bn a year worldwide, is seen as a crucial way to connect with younger audiences.If the deal goes through, it will build on a series of recent moves by Microsoft in the gaming arena. Earlier this month the American company bought the British games studio Lionhead, founded by the industry guru Peter Molyneux, and has previously acquired a number of other leading developers. Such buyouts are intended to further bolster Microsoft's position as it attempts to push its Xbox 360 console in a battle with Sony's dominant PlayStation.The Xbox 360 was launched late last year and has sold well, gaining ground on the new PlayStation 3, which has yet to be launched after being beset by delays.The Massive acquisition would also add to a round of recent buyouts by traditional media organisations and advertisers. Viacom recently paid more than $100m for Xfire, an instant messaging service for gamers, and News Corp's much-heralded purchase of the company behind MySpace.com also included the popular games website IGN.
have been trying to buy a cheap (under 400) laptop in the Tottenham Court Road area without Windows pre-installed. But the response is that they cannot obtain one from their suppliers. Jon RamsterIt is hard to buy a notebook PC without an operating system or with Linux pre-loaded. You can get them by mail order, but even then, they are not necessarily cheaper than Windows machines. Manufacturers generally argue that it is expensive to obtain drivers and test Linux systems, relative to the number of sales, and it increases the number of stock-keeping units and other warehousing, distribution and advertising costs. There's also support, which can easily cost far more than the operating system, and home users are generally unwilling to pay the price.You can find cheap Linux laptops online. The eSys E320 (Quickfind code: 103124) costs 323.12 including VAT fromwww.ebuyer.comHowever, this only has a 1.2GHz Via processor. For comparison, Ebuyer also offers an Acer Aspire 3003LC (Quickfind code: 96518) with an AMD Sempron 3000+, a bigger screen and Windows XP for 364.24 or a Toshiba Satellite Pro M40 (Quickfind code: 102113) for 419.99. (Note: I have not bought from Ebuyer and have not seen these machines.) You could go for the Acer and install a Linux distros as a dual-boot system - but this assumes you know enough about Linux to look after yourself.
I have acquired an external hard drive set up with the FAT32 file system. Should I re-format to NTFS before using it to match the hard drive of my laptop, running XP? Tim GosslingWindows' NTFS (New technology File System) is more reliable and more efficient than the old DOS FAT (File Allocation Table) approach, but has a bigger overhead. Generally it is best to use NTFS for any drive larger than 32GB, if using it with XP. Also, NTFS is essential if you want to store files that are 4GB or larger. Manufacturers usually ship external hard drives using FAT because they will work with almost anything, including Windows 95/98SE/Me machines, and because most customers won't notice.Backchat: Brian Butterworth points out that the drive can be converted to NTFS without reformatting it by using the command convert X: /fs:ntfs where X is your external drive letter. See the Microsoft Knowledge Base article307881- search Google for the number.
I am considering purchasing a new iMac. I bought a Mac OS 9.1 system just before they uprated it so would welcome advice as to whether I should wait. Peter KingWhatever computer you buy, there is always a new model on the way. Apple usually updates products twice a year, but the next significant change will probably be the release of Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard) around the same time as Windows Vista. Whether it's worth waiting for is up to you. However, you face a very big jump to an Intel chip that is incompatible with the PowerPC processor in your current Mac, and to an operating system where support for Mac OS 9 (Classic) is a low priority. A secondhand PowerPC-based iMac would offer a transition strategy, and preserve more of what you have now. But in terms of future proofing, the best strategy would be to dump OS 9 and take the great leap forward.
The latest Windows security update (KB908531) has caused me big problems with saving and accessing my files in Word and other Microsoft programs. Alexandra AbrahamMicrosoft is working on fixes. See the Knowledge Base article: You may experience problems in Windows Explorer or in the Windows shell after you install security update MS06-015 (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/918165).
I have been asked to clean up a laptop that was having problems with "disk full" messages. I have not managed to remove Limewire successfully (the uninstall file was corrupt) and there is now a lot of space I cannot recover. Pete ChallisLimewire has a reputation for being tricky to remove (I'd never install it in the first place), but it does have an uninstallation utility. If this fails, your best bet is to reinstall it and try again. If you have to do it the hard way, there is a list of the registry entrieshere.Otherwise, it can help to restart an unclean machine using an Ultimate Boot CD for Windows, such asUBCD4Win. A web search for [Ultimate Boot CD] will find lots of information.
Sony's NW-E003 playerSony's hard disk-based audio players have been consistently outfoxed by their Apple rivals, but in the flash player market they have given the iPod shuffle and nano a run. The latest is a series of no-frills tiny players, of which the &pound;89 NW-E003, with 1GB storage and an FM tuner, is the mid-range model. It has many of the features of its predecessor - battery life of about 20 hours plus speedy battery recharge, which delivers two to three hours of playback after three minutes of being hooked up to a PC. Unlike the Shuffle it has a decent quality screen. Sony has incorporated the USB socket into the player and simplified the operating system. It is still tricky to use, but at least you can work it without recourse to the manual. Sony has kept the price competitive while sound quality is first class. The weak point is the clunky Connect software and earphones that don't do justice to the player. Samsung's YP-Z5 and the iPod nano are still the best flash players but if your budget is limited, this is a solid bet.Samsung's P300 mobileSamsung's P300, right, could become the slim mobile for the geek. It might be just 8.9mm thick but it has a very retro male design that says calculator more than mobile. Samsung has done a good job of kitting out the handset with the latest gizmos. So there's a bright 1.8 inch colour screen, a good quality 1.3 megapixel camera and the usual niceties such as Bluetooth, email and MP3 playback. Most impressive is the wallet that houses a second battery. The price is dependent on the network, but the biggest flaw is the paltry 80MB of storage space, which is not upgradeable. The keyboard/interface is also a bit fiddly as it has three rows of keys, not the standard four. It might not have quite the same impact as the Motorola Razr but the P300 is set to become an iconic phone.Linksys' wireless routerThere's little to differentiate the &pound;150 WRT54G3G from other wireless routers, except for one key socket. As well as functioning as a standard Ethernet connected wireless router, it has a PC Card slot designed for a Vodafone 3G card. This transforms the unit into a take-anywhere gadget that enables a group of people to get online wirelessly using 802.11b or g wherever they can access a 3G mobile connection. Vodafone and Linksys have ensured setup is simple, and within seconds the software loads and the router is active. The card delivers an instant hot spot. Once it has three laptops connected, though, things move at near dial-up pace. The wireless router has to be mains powered; if battery-powered, it could create an outdoor hot spot.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's getting beyond a joke now. Not a week goes by without some press release heralding a new mobile game's 3D graphics or console quality action. Rubbish. As Keefrightly points outin today'sTechnology supplement, mobile games should be quick, easy and able to load in less than 15 seconds. Simple is best - heavily cut-down versions of the latest PS2 title, complete with lengthy loading times, are not. Sure, there is a big big issue over portal access and positioning, but until devs and publishers realise that less is more, mobile gaming will remain in the background.The latest charts are below, with the continued success of Tetris proving the appeal of simplicity.1 SONIC THE HEDGEHOG - SEGA/IFONE2 TETRIS  - EA3 LMA MANAGER 2006 - EA4 BLOCK BREAKER DELUXE - GAMELOFT5 THE SIMS 2 - EA6 24 MOBILE GAME - I-PLAY7 DOOM RPG - EA8 WORMS - THQ9 ZOO TYCOONTM 2 MOBILE - INFUSIO10 BLOCK BUSTERS - PLAYER X
A research team at Stanford University in the US have adopted an experimental approach to gauge the cathartic effects of smacking images of a range of leading American political figures. In conjunction with US newspaperThe Washington Post, they challenged players to "Whack-a-Pol", "Whack-a-Dictator" and "Whack-a-Celeb"."Independents who played whack-a-dictator expressed less harsh evaluations of the Republican Party and President Bush when they were surveyed after, rather than before, the game (the effect amounted to a 9 percent reduction in negativity toward Republicans)," said [Shanto] Iyengar, who designed the experiment.There are plenty of psychological tests to assess "unconscious" attitudes. They can range from self-report to experimentation. In the latter camp, response-time assessment measures the speed with which a participant reacts to a stimulus, suggesting a faster response equals more salience in his or her cognitive repertoire. Indeed, this research may also show a result of peoples' associations between national and international leaders. In that case, they may not be so pleased with the apparent association between George W. Bush and Saddam Hussein.For years, pollsters have relied upon surveys to predict behaviour in political competitions. Perhaps a game like this could give insight into voter intentions.viaWatercooler Games
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Calling time on phone billsCalling time on phone bills Itemised bills for fixed lines and big mobile phone charges could soon be consigned to history, but our future communications will still come at a price, reports Peter Warren.Is NHS data there for any company - or just one?Competitors claim a commercial joint venture with the official custodian of health data puts level playing field at risk, writes Michael Cross.Wear your heart on the screenUsing grid computing, scientists have developed models of the body's most vital organ to devise better treatment methods.An unwelcome guest of spamMichael Pollitt: I've been battling a spammer who has been using my name and email address to spam guestbooks. The result? An inbox choked with guestbook acknowledgment emails and a fight with internet companies. And why won't hosting company EV1 respond to my complaints about spam?Is Digg being subverted by some sort of spamming?Social search has an achilles heel: any system that relies on people clicking buttons (on websites, for example) can be subverted by smart programmers writing 'scripts'. But is this a storm in techno-teacup?Is Skype going to compete with the iTunes Music Store?What is more likely is that eBay's newly acquired web-based phone service will find out whether there's any market for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) ringtones.Private cash should follow the BBC's leadVictor Keegan: The BBC's plan to become a major global media player could be one of the most decisive decisions it has taken for a long time: good for the BBC, good for Britain and good for business in general.TechnobileDo yourself and your fellow travellers a big favour - invest in a pair of earbuds that don't leak sound, writes Kate Bevan.Home network storage will be the talk of the town, I betCharles Arthur: You might think you're never going to buy NAS for your home. But did you ever think you'd want to put all your CDs on to a hard drive and listen to them?GadgetsAshley Norris takes a look at this weeks must-have technology - Sony's NW-E003 music player, Samsung's P300 mobile, and Linksys's WRT54G3G wireless 3G and 802.11g routerWe need help to get through those awkward momentsWhile mobile games should be perfect for these brief moments of boredom and self-consciousness, in practice they're useless because they take too long to access, says Keith Stuart.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsBytesNews in brief
I can't work out if this is a great idea, or a really bad one. Atari has just officially announced Hot Pxl, a collection of 200 mini-games for the PSP, "based on a quirky and original story premise and drawing inspiration from street culture and the digital lifestyle." Yes, it's FIFA Street meets Wario Ware!"The rapid fire gameplay requires players to draw on their reflexes and 2D gaming prowess to get through hundreds of inspired scenarios - whether it's blasting through an old-school style video game, busting tricks on a skateboard or a BMX, stage-diving at a pixellated concert, or just trying to cross a busy digital street."Well, the PSP could do with some original games - especially ones that cater to the specific needs of gamers on the go. But it's amusing that, in order for the mini-game concept to work on a Sony machine, someone somewhere felt that it would have to be 'cool'. Hot Pxl is being developed by Parisian studio,zSlide, which according to its press release biog, "creates new online experiences, collaborating with international publishers of interactive entertainment, media groups and international telcos." C'est leTrashbat, non?Next, perhaps, we will see a cool urban pet sim, or a cool version of Harvest Moon where you're running a health farm for rappers, or a gritty urban Animal Crossing, where you are rewarded, not for a nice tidy garden, but for how profitable your crack house is.
Perhaps I'm just unlucky. Over the past few weeks I've been battling a spammer who has been using my name and email address to spam guestbooks. His motivation is a percentage share in advertising revenues from a pay-per-click pharmacy search site. My reward? An inbox choked with guestbook acknowledgment emails, my name spammed across 35,000 websites, and a fight with internet companies.A guestbook is the electronic version of a visitors' book for leaving your name, email address and comments. It's a good way of writing a complimentary remark. But there's a dark side, too. If you use machines to spam thousands of guestbooks with website addresses, search engines such as Google are tricked into giving those websites much higher results.And spammers thus also get their own back on people they dislike. It relies on some guestbooks sending an acknowledgment every time a comment is left. Take my details, use them in a massive guestbook spamming run, and it's my inbox and reputation that suffer.The first warning I'd been selected for revenge spamming was when a "thank you for signing my guestbook" email arrived from a Florida estate agent. I was soon fighting off more than 350 emails.First battleThis first skirmish on February 24 involved a site called 1-800-pills.com, hosted by a Ukrainian company, Inhoster. It was promoted by guestbook entries, 350 of which were aimed at American estate agents whose individual sites are hosted by a specialist hosting company called Advanced Access. Following my complaints, 1-800-pills.com moved to a different host and now appears dormant.My spammer doesn't sit for hours at his PC. He'll be using a bot (a piece of software) and will hijack someone's system. Some spammers use botnets of thousands of hijacked home PCs. But the more he spams, the more links there are to the spammed sites - and that's what rigs the search results.Thanks to the swift intervention of a specialist hosting company, the worst of that first run was brought to a halt. But weeks later, my inbox was swamped again.I've come to know the guestbook spammer well. His activities have continued for weeks from New York, Belarus, Ukraine and Russia. The latest spammed pharmacy sites are hosted in Texas and claim to be the copyright ofKlikvip.comwhich, according to the domain registration, is Nelroy Ltd. Following this lead shows me that it's a pay-per-click deal for my spammer, who gets a percentage of revenues from Nelroy Ltd's advertisers.My spammer tries to drive people to these search sites, where, if you click through on an item (such as a site that sells Viagra), the advertiser is charged a small amount. A percentage of that fee ends up with the spammer. It's competitive, too - other affiliates are doing the same thing.Klikvip, a search site operator, claims to pass 99% of the advertising click revenues from its sites such assearch-pharmacy-online.comandonline-search-catalog.comto its affiliates. This high percentage makes that site very attractive to my spammer, and he's further encouraged by prizes of a Mercedes, laptops, mobiles and cameras. I found a table of Klikvip's top 30 affiliates. The unidentified person at No 1 appears to have received more than $46,000. Is he my spammer?I can't find out. Nelroy's phone number (in Kazakhstan) is unobtainable, the address is in the Seychelles, its website is also in Texas and nobody replies to my emails. My spammer carries on defacing guestbooks.I work off my increasing anxiety by blogging, piecing together the trails. I've hoped that my complaints might make him stop although it doesn't seem to have helped. Should have I kept quiet? I'm beginning to think so.Putting things right hasn't been easy, thanks to the lax attitude of some internet firms. Emails to Inhoster were ignored so I went up the internet chain and that did the trick - the spammer switched hosts. And would somebody convince New York internet company Pilosoft that my spammer is using a server there?Everyones Internet (EV1), the largest independent internet service provider in the US, is hosting two pharmacy websites that are being spammed in my name. Although I've repeatedly phoned, emailed and faxed its Houston headquarters, nobody has taken action. EV1's acceptable use policy forbids support for spammers, yet they seem loth to enforce it.EV1 didn't want to talk and passed me to their radio advertisement agency at first. Next, a terse email response said that "we do not have anyone who will make comments" and suggested I email the boss, while reiterating that there was no one to make any comments. The boss hasn't replied to any emails I've sent him. [A phone call and email sent directly from The Guardian also went unanswered - Technology Ed.]To make matters worse, I've had some anonymous, but well-researched, emails that indicate my pharmacy spammer (or possibly somebody known to him) works for a US web-hosting company. Other suggestions are that he's a Russian called Denis. The truth is, nobody knows (or they're not saying) in the web of deceit that always surrounds spam. So what do I do next? I just hope that my inbox and reputation withstands this relentless barrage.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's time to talk about Network Attached Storage. No, come back! I mean for the home, not some dull "enterprise" thing. Although NAS, as it's known in the trade, has for years been commonly used in bigger businesses, to store data centrally rather than across dozens or hundreds of PCs, only recently have prices come down - and more importantly, the home use of networks and our patterns of domestic computer use changed- sufficiently to make it worth considering.The first thing you need for NAS is a network. But a growing number of us have one, according to the research group IDC, which last December said 17% of UK households have some sort of network, and by 2009, 30% will.The growth is driven by the fact that many households that get one computer go on to get another - and can soon have more than two people vying to use them. (Any household with a child, basically.) Soon, people are hopping between machines, but find the file they want from Machine A can't be read from Machine B. The solution: either fancy ways to ensure the machines can see each others' files, which gets complicated, insecure and means both computers must always be on; or some NAS, which either machine can always see, because NAS appears like a hard drive that is always mounted.We have the machine-hopping problem in our house. So for the past week I've been trying a 200GB NAS disk from Maxtor. It's small - about the size of a hardback book - and can be hidden under a table. It's quiet - unlike some attachable systems I tried six years ago - and uses only a few watts; though with power savings in mind, the consumption can be lowered further by setting the drive to stop if unbothered for a set time, from 15 minutes to an hour. And it's pretty cheap, considering; a 250GB NAS drive costs about &pound;200, so it's about 80p per gigabyte. That's cheap, given you're not having to buy another computer (just something to enable the most use of your existing ones) and you're getting space for backups into the bargain.The configuration, through a web interface, was confusing at first (for example, figuring out the difference between the "Public" folder and a user's public folder). But with that conquered, we had a drive that popped up on the network for any machine running the Maxtor software. And then you can swap files back and forth across machines. That's ideal for centralising files like video and music, which don't need to be on any computer, but do need to be accessible.Now, over the years I have visited plenty of "homes of the future" - the ones where remote controls will let you, on awakening, press a button that will run a temperature-controlled bath while activating the combination coffee grinder and brewer and unfurling a flat screen in the bedroom tuned to your favourite morning news channel. "It's how we'll live in future!" the researchers would exclaim.The achilles heel of these homes was that on the tour around them we'd pass one little room that looked like something out of the Tardis: cables everywhere, banks of little lights, and huge amounts of electricity being consumed.That room was always the trouble with those homes: they needed some sort of complicated nerve centre to function. The reality is we run our own baths, brew our own coffee (so neither gets cold while we attend to the other) and turn on our own TVs. Our data, though, that can all sit in one place. But it doesn't have to be a room. A quiet, thrumming disk is fine.You might think you're never going to buy NAS for your home. But did you ever think you'd want to put all your CDs on to a hard drive and listen to them? Plenty of people didn't as recently as five years ago. Give it five years, and trust me, you'll be talking about NAS in the pub.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Few repositories of public sector information contain more political dynamite than those in NHS data sets. This week it was NHS staff numbers; next week it could be surgeons' death rates. Earlier this year, the official custodian of the NHS's data raised eyebrows by announcing a special relationship with a commercial firm. At least one competing business has questioned whether a level playing field is possible under the new arrangement.The case provides an example of the potential conflicts created by the government's policy of earning commercial returns on public sector information - a policy challenged by Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign.The NHS Health and Social Care Information Centre is a special health authority set up last year to act as a single source of official NHS data. Previously, essential statistics about the health service had been collected by many organisations; a bureaucratic nightmare for managers supplying the information and researchers and policymakers wanting to use it. All welcomed the new arrangement, as did private firms selling services based on NHS information. This is a fast-growing market, encouraged by the government's NHS reforms. In January, however, ministers announced that the Health and Social Care Information Centre had struck a deal with one firm in this market, Dr Foster Ltd. The two set up a private company, Dr Foster Intelligence, to sell information derived from NHS data. The information centre invested &pound;12m in the joint venture.Ministers said the joint venture would "improve use and accessibility of information across the health and care system, in support of the overall aim of giving people more choice and control over health and social care. It will compete with other providers of management information solutions to support better commissioning, choice, quality and efficiency."Competing companies, however, are worried the new venture will benefit unfairly from the close relationship with the information centre and the investment of the taxpayer. One competitor is CHKS (Comparative Health Knowledge Systems), which supplies hospitals with information to help them compare their performance against their peers. It has written to the Health and Social Care Information Centre seeking assurances that it will have the same access to data as Dr Foster Intelligence. Paul Robinson, marketing director, said the responses had been "positive". However, he added: "Our concern is that no one is monitoring to ensure that it is a level playing field."The information centre said it publishes a complaints procedure on its website and that any unresolved complaints would go on to the Health Ombudsman.It adds that, although it is a principal shareholder in Dr Foster Intelligence, "the joint venture will have no special rights to health or social care data, nor any monopoly of supply to health and social care organisations". It said the venture "will stimulate competition in provision of high-quality information to health and social care, and will attract new entrants to the market".Locus, a body set up to represent businesses relying on public sector information, said any exclusive supplier deal was a cause for concern. Richard Pawlyn, the chairman of the Locus Association, said: "This is symptomatic of the lack of clear guidance from government. The Office of Public Sector Information advocates fairness, transparency and common sense, yet other parts of government promote exclusive supplier deals and create new natural monopolies such as this." He said the association would be asking the Office of Fair Trading, which is investigating the market in public sector information, "to get a hold of these anomalies so the private sector can invest with confidence rather than be wrong-footed and excluded".A spokesperson for Dr Foster said any preferential treatment "would not be allowed". Tim Kelsey, the chairman of the firm's management board, said: "There is a rapidly emerging and vital market in information in health and social care. DFI, like CHKS, stands or falls on the quality of the service it offers. Open competition is in the best interests of the patient and the client and of the information providers. Nobody, including DFI, has any unfair advantage - nor would we seek it."See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No no, MiroGoogle was forced to remove one of its celebratory logos honouring artist Jean Miro (1893-1983) following complaints from the Artists Rights Society, which represents the Miro family.vPro is goIntel plans to change business computing forever with the launch of vPro, its 64-bit PC platform - just as it revolutionised home computing with its Viiv platform. We think we'll wait and see.Mighty zoomerKodak has announced the Easyshare V610 dual lens 6 megapixel digital camera with a 10x optical zoom and built-in Bluetooth - and it's less than an inch thick (it's 4.4 x 2.2 x 0.9 inches). It should be available in June for &pound;349.99.Hot DellDell has launched the XPS M1710 as its "ultimate performance notebook" - there's 512MB just for the graphics, a subwoofer, plus "configurable perimeter lighting". Just the thing to compete with Alienware ... now owned by Dell.Hear this!Accoona has launched a Talking Search Bar, with text-to-speech technology that will read out any English-language text you highlight on a web page. It's mainly for people learning English as a foreign language but could help partially sighted and other users.www.accoona.comNot bluffingBluffmail lets users send emails by phone. Well, it sends an attachment containing your recorded voice. Unfortunately the free phone number is only free in the US and the system declined to recognise my password so I can't say it works.www.bluffmail.comInternet radioTiscali has launched a beta of "one of the biggest and most comprehensive peer-to-peer jukeboxes ever to hit the net". You have to install the Tiscali.Jukebox player to listen to more than 3 million streaming tracks atwww.tiscali.co.uk/jukebox, or you could just go to the source:www.mercora.com.Child protectionThe Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre has been set up to combat child abuse online. The centre is affiliated to the Serious Organised Crime Agency, and is based in Pimlico, London.www.ceop.gov.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's a busy morning surgery at a South Devon family practice when Dr Jane Bradley sees a pale clammy 50-something man complaining of chest pain. An ambulance is called immediately. "I treat it as a heart attack until proven otherwise," she says. "It's protocol, and coronary heart disease (CHD) is the commonest cause of chest pain in middle-aged men. It's also the commonest reason I call a blue-light ambulance. It happens frequently."According to the British Heart Foundation, CHD kills one in five men and one in six women. It is the UK's most likely cause of death, with nearly 114,000 fatalities in 2003.It's not difficult to understand why the heart is so prone to fail. An average heart is the size of a clenched fist and weighs 300 grams. It beats around 100,000 times per day, pumping 5.5 litres of blood through 150,000km of blood vessels three times every minute. During an average life span, the heart will beat 2.5bn times.Life scientists on the Integrative Biology (IB) project at Oxford University and collaborating institutions around the world are slowly uncovering the secrets of this vital organ without opening up patients or running dangerous drug trials. They are creating a heart on a computer - a model - and subjecting it to all the stresses of modern life and watching how it responds.Sharon Lloyd, the project manager, explains how the model allows researchers to delve into the heart and witness events that are impossible to see without dangerous surgery. "You can see the outside of the heart, but ... it's very difficult to get data from the inside," she says.Referring to the silicon chips on which the model runs, researchers call it an "in-silico" heart, and the project's goal is to develop multiscale models, from the genes to the whole organ, for devising, safely and rapidly, new treatment regimes.Millions of parametersAnd like the real-world vascular system, the models are horrifyingly complex. "Researchers are looking at many sets of partial differential equations, coupled with parabolic functions, non-linear equations and just under a million unknown parameters," says Lloyd.Scientists have steadily discovered these complexities. The first heart models were created by Professor Denis Noble in 1960, and "mathematical models have evolved over many years, they go back to the way cells and tissues behave", says Lloyd.The IB project was founded by Professor David Gavaghan, director of Life Sciences Doctoral Training Centre, Oxford University. Until recently, scientists had to be experts in biology and computer science to build realistic models, and computers were horribly slow. The University of Auckland, a collaborator in the project, had taken 1,000 seconds to model just two-thousandths of a second of a small part of the heart wall.The advent of the IB project has seen immense improvements. "They used to run their models for months, then analyse the data, but now they are doing it in hours," says Lloyd.The leap in performance is attributed to grid computing and the opportunity, through IB, to use some of the fastest computers in the world. Running on a grid, the heart-model program is split into much smaller sub-programs and runs simultaneously on many computers.But the real beauty is that the complicated computing is hidden from the scientist. "The researchers submit code though a portal interface. It puts all the data in the right place and pulls it back when you need to do things with it. It's making the day-to-day life of the scientist a lot easier. Scientists want to focus on the life science without having to think about how these big machines work," says Lloyd.Grid computing's application to healthcare is slowly gaining attention. Ian Osborne, project manager for Grid Computing Now, a knowledge transfer program funded by the Department of Trade and Industry, argues that many of the technical challenges have been largely solved. "It's now about arguing if there is a cost benefit that will pay off for the health of the nation. The question is one of making industry and government organisations aware of the possibilities."Osborne puts the idea of grid computing like this: "Make all your computers act as one giant computer, and put them to work. It doesn't even have to cost a fortune since you are sharing your collaborator's resources."Cost-effectiveness is vital for IB project users, explains Lloyd, and a lot of researchers work in small labs. Deploying enough computer power to run these experiments can cost millions. "It's not the sort of thing that any one research lab could afford to manage."So how does all this help the embattled medic? Early analysis of irregular heart rhythms may result in new protocols for using defibrillators, improving how A&amp;E manages heart failure, but serious research cannot be rushed. "Transferring the results from basic science to clinical applications takes some time," says Dr Blanca Rodriguez, a scientist using the project to study electric-shock treatment of ventricular fibrillation, an irregularity often leading to sudden cardiac death.The potential benefits drive the researchers. "IB is trying to find the root cause and root cure of diseases. To go into open heart surgery and have scientists apply shocks to see if you live or die is not the way to do this. We can do clinical science without involving patients."Patients with coronary heart disease would benefit from more efficient therapies, improved quality of life and prolonged life expectancy," says Rodriguez.Like all GPs, Bradley is struggling to reduce the incidence of CHD in her patients. "Heart disease is largely a result of western lifestyles," she says, and right now, her best advice is to give up smoking, exercise and eat a Mediterranean diet.But if you lack the willpower to forgo fatty foods, a silicon chip may yet save your life.From a model father to virtual genesProfessor Denis Noble is credited with developing the first computer models of the heart, published in two papers in Nature in 1960. With international collaborators, his team created the first ever computer organ, the virtual heart.In other research, scientists aim to "grow" virtual tumours, to uncover their biochemical and physiological processes, and possibly identify points to administer cancer-killing drugs.Models of the genes and cells can be expanded to create other virtual organs, and simulate a range of diseases.The dream is to create the whole body "in-silico", including all the complicated connections between organs and biological systems.However, building more complete models substantially increases the computational burden, and currently only grid computing environments, or extremely expensive supercomputers, can provide enough memory and reduce execution times sufficiently to make the simulations possible.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Possibly, though what's more likely is that eBay's newly acquired web-based phone service will find out whether there's any market for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) ringtones. This week, EMI Music Publishing and Warner Music both signed agreements that allow Skype to sell ringtones and full music downloads from its online store.The more important question would be whether there's any profit in it for Skype, since Apple, in its most recent financial results, mentioned that the iTunes Music Store performed "above break-even" - carrying the implication that for the previous three years it didn't. And that's for a site that has nearly 80% of the download market and has sold more than a billion songs.Skype already offers the chance to buy generic ringtones frompersonal.skype.com,, but by signing up Warners and EMI - who bring a roster of artists including Green Day and Madonna - it could move into a much more lucrative field.Mobile ringtones have been a boon for record companies: in Europe, EMI (the record and publishing group) and Universal Music reported that digital sales - downloads and the more lucrative ringtones - comprised 5.5% and 10% respectively of total revenues. For EMI, digital sales more than doubled in the first half of the fiscal year (which ended on March 31). Any more that comes from Skype will be welcome, and the record companies won't be worried whether Skype or eBay actually makes any money from the transaction.But does that make Skype a competitor to iTunes? Since the songs or ringtones will surely be in a format that won't play on Apple's iPod, there's no crossover - so this only competes in the sense that it might take some peoples' money which they would otherwise spend on iTunes songs. But anyone who has Skype but not iTunes has probably considered Apple's product already and decided against it, so that these aren't "lost iTunes sales". It's not really competition - just another outlet for the music companies to make money selling their wares.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
