In Thailand last month an 18-year-old high-school student stabbed a taxi driver to death. When asked why, he replied that it was to see if it was as easy to rob a taxi in real life as it was in his favourite video game, Grand Theft Auto. The Thai government banned the game amid talk of a 'ticking time bomb'. Just the latest in a long-running argument about the damaging effects of violent video games.To objections from the gaming industry, the UK government has just introduced plans for a strict film-style classification system, which may allay parents' fears about violence but seems unlikely to address their concerns about video games in general: that they stifle creativity, hinder social skills and reduce their children to gawping couch potatoes. Video games are back in the firing line.Last Friday saw the release of Spore, one of the industry's most eagerly awaited games. But parents can breathe a sigh of relief, because this isn't some ultra-violent gun-toting gore fest. It's the brainchild of designer Will Wright, which means, in all likelihood, that it will totally rewrite the rules on what we can expect from a video game and prove as popular with parents as it is with kids. Through his games Wright has revolutionised the industry and more than once salvaged its reputation. With his latest he may well do so again.Wright, now 48, is regarded with awe by his peers (even his company Maxis, I'm told, is seen as 'mysterious', squirrelled away in Orinda, California for so long when everyone else was in Silicon Valley), because he has developed an entirely new type of video game. And out of the most unlikely material.SimCity, his breakthrough, is about nothing more elaborate than building a city and following the principles of good town planning. This in a market dominated by fantasy and sci-fi role-play games, sports simulations and first-person shooters. Released in 1989, SimCity (and its spin-offs) have gone on to sell a staggering 17m copies worldwide. But this is nothing compared with his follow-up, The Sims. Probably best described as an interactive doll's house, in which you look after the inhabitants, The Sims boasts sales of more than 100m copies, making it the bestselling PC game of all time.His latest game, Spore, is as ambitious in scope as its predecessors ('How do we deconstruct the universe?' Wright asked by way of introduction at a recent conference). Spore is based loosely on the theory of evolution. Each player starts off as a microbial cell which gradually evolves, through feeding on other organisms and picking up 'DNA points', until it wriggles out of water on to dry land. This creature then hunts and reproduces, eventually banding together to make a tribe, which in turn grows in size and then either by conquering or allying with surrounding settlements turns into a civilisation.Finally you advance far enough to be able to send a rocket up into space for the final stage, in which you jet about the universe in search of planets to colonise and aliens to pester. From single-cell organism to intergalactic empire in one game.With his slightly nerdy haircut and glasses, Wright certainly looks the part. Sitting in his office overlooking San Francisco Bay, he has one leg draped jauntily over the armrest of his chair. Glancing round, there are pointers to Spore everywhere. Pinned to his walls are images from the Hubble Space Telescope (used to recreate star clusters in the game); over his bookshelf a poster of his favourite film, 2001 (by way of homage, when players reach the final space stage, they can drop a black monolith down to the surface of other planets to freak out aliens); on his desk an entomology microscope. 'I've got one at home, too. They're much more interesting than a telescope.' What does he look at? 'Anything. You could put your hand under there and spend an hour looking at it. Fascinating.' In the corridor outside sits a battered doll's house, presumably a leftover from The Sims.Wright is telling me at great speed (he talks with considerable velocity) about the inspirations behind Spore. What follows is typically recondite. 'It's actually an idea you see repeated over and over,' he says. 'The idea of Powers of Ten.' This is a short film by Charles and Ray Eames from 1977 that looks at the universe on various scales, gradually zooming in from the galactic (a view of the entire Milky Way) to the microscopic (quark particles in the nucleus of a carbon atom). 'In fact, Powers of Ten wasn't the first one I discovered. The original idea came from a Dutch schoolteacher named Kees Boeke. He wrote a book in 1957 called Cosmic View: The Universe in 40 Jumps. Boeke's version was amazingly accurate for the time ...' On which he leaps up and snatches down a copy of Boeke's book from the shelf.Wright goes on: 'I remember explaining Spore to the execs at Electronic Arts [EA, the software company that finances and publishes the game] before we had anything to show. I was trying to explain the content, Powers of Ten and all this. It was pretty clear they had no idea what I was talking about. But they were like: "Sure, do it."'Whether they understood or not, Electronic Arts has invested a considerable amount in the game (reportedly $20m). This is not insignificant at a time when the industry, though still thriving, is beginning to question the value of spending millions on one game (a new title, too, not a sequel), particularly given the growing popularity of cheaper, so-called 'casual games'.Casual games include the lucrative field of internet and mobile-phone games as well as PC and console games typified by Guitar Hero (a karaoke-style game) and Dr Kawashima's Brain Training (in which you solve various puzzles to help sharpen your mind). They are simpler in design, shorter in duration, and aimed at a more mainstream audience. The Nintendo Wii console (with its motion-sensitive remote) has been a particular hit, attracting a broad new fanbase with its range of family-friendly titles. I ask Wright how important it is to court this new type of player. 'It's probably the most important thing happening in the gaming industry. We're seeing that with the Nintendo Wii. That pressure to start serving the whole market rather than this little section.'Does he mean appealing to more women? 'That's a big part, but also the intergenerational market. Families. With Wii, you see kids, parents and even grandparents playing together.' Wright already has a good record on this. According to EA, 20 per cent of Sims players are over 35 and 50 per cent are female.For EA, there's a lot riding on Spore (particularly since the company reported losses of $95m earlier this year). At the same time, EA clearly has faith in Wright and has granted him considerable leeway. A great position to be in, I say. 'Yeah. Kind of,' Wright shrugs. 'For The Sims it was very different. I was always having to convince people it would be fun. That was almost more satisfying – as opposed to whatever stupid thing you say, everybody says: "Great idea, go do it."' It has been six years in development; the big question now is whether Spore can meet those expectations.At this year's Comic-Con in San Diego, a conference for comic-book nerds, video gamers and hardcore Trekkies, Wright gave a speech in which he said he believed video games had a role in helping people understand sciences. Spore, he said, would make science 'accessible and not academic'. It's a recurring theme in the way he talks about his work: games as semi-educational.How important is it that his games teach as well as entertain? 'I'm not sure teach is the right word,' he says. 'Computer games and simulations are much more powerful [as an aid] to motivate than to teach. I'd rather have a game that got a person interested in the subject than tried to put a lot of facts into their head. It's not a matter of sugarcoating education. Education when done right is inherently fun. There shouldn't be a difference between the two. Our culture has disconnected the ideas of education and fun – and if anything, I'm trying to reconnect those two things.'It goes back to the way Wright himself was taught. Raised in Atlanta, Georgia, the son of a plastics engineer and an actress, Wright attended a Montessori school up to the age of nine (his 'high point of education'). 'The basis was that you wanted kids to discover principles on their own. Montessori designed toys so kids could discover aspects of maths or geometry just from playing. The kid made the discovery, and it was much more effective than the teacher coming over and saying, "Here's Pythagorean theory," or whatever.' Wright has likened his own games to 'modern Montessori toys'.As a child, he'd immerse himself in pet subjects for months, reading everything he could. Space exploration was a passion. Another was Harry Houdini (a rub-off from his mother, who was an amateur magician. 'I learned how to pick locks,' he says). The Second World War was an obsession, too. 'I had a friend down the street – we were both into World War Two history and used to play these elaborate historical video games recreating the Battle of Kursk or whatever.' He also built a lot of models: 'ships, cars, planes, mostly from kits'.When Wright was nine his father died of leukaemia and he moved with his mother and younger sister to Baton Rouge, Louisiana. There he enrolled in the Episcopal High School and duly became an atheist. After graduating he took off to Louisiana State University to study architecture, transferred a few years later to Louisiana Tech for mechanical engineering, dropped out, drove a bulldozer for a summer and in 1980 landed up at New School, New York, studying robotics. Robots then led to computers: 'I got fascinated, totally dived in and learned how to programme.' Video games were taking off at the time. 'I thought: people are actually making money from these games. I'll try it. More as an intellectual challenge; I didn't expect to make money.' Wright's first game, programmed on his Commodore 64, was Raid on Bungeling Bay ('this stupid helicopter shoot 'em up') which Broderbund, a small software company, brought out in 1984. It was a fair success, earning Wright enough to live on for a couple of years. That same year, Wright married Joell Jones, the older sister of one of his friends, and two years later they had a daughter, Cassidy. (The couple have recently separated.)While developing Bungeling Bay, Wright became fascinated by a tangential aspect to the game. 'Underneath was a fairly elaborate simulation of factories and towns, a whole infrastructure that wasn't apparent to the player. I was having a lot more fun building that world than bombing it.' How about a game based on that, he thought, where you build your own urban environment. He threw himself into background reading. 'I uncovered the work of Jay Forrester, who wrote a book called Urban Dynamics in 1969,' Wright tells me, before citing other sources, including John Conway's 1970 Game of Life and the 'cell automata' work of a little-known scientist named Liman Wang.The prototype game Wright came up with was a radical departure in gaming terms. In it the player would oversee the development of an entire city, laying roads, building schools and hospitals, installing infrastructure, all the time balancing a long list of interdependent variables (crime rates, population levels, popularity ratings, taxes). Persuading software company Broderbund to back it was no breeze. 'When I first showed them SimCity they were a little confused. I got to this stage where I thought it was done, but they kept expecting it to have this win/lose element. I kept saying: "No. This is the way it is."' Broderbund ended up not publishing, and it sat on Wright's shelf for a few years.Enter Jeff Braun, Wright's future business partner. They met in 1987 at a friend's pizza party in Alameda, California. When Wright showed him his demo, Braun got very excited. Having previously developed fonts for the computer firm Atari, Braun was keen to get into games. Here was the perfect vehicle. 'He's a very bubbly guy,' Wright says of Braun. 'He said: "I want to play this – this is great" and persuaded me to start this company with him to develop it.' Which they did. Two years later Maxis published SimCity. Though not an instant hit, it went on to earn $230m worldwide.The idea for Wright's next game came when his house burned down in an Oakland Hills fire in 1991. Forced to replace all his possessions – everything from kitchen utensils to furniture, which he hated doing – Wright got thinking about the value of all this stuff. Which sparked an idea: a game about running a household. But how to make it work? Wright read extensively on human behaviour and systems design: books like A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander, A Theory of Human Motivation by Abraham Maslow and Maps of the Mind by Charles Hampden-Turner, which provided guiding principles for scoring the happiness of players in the game he came up with.The Sims, based in a suburban home, required that players tend to the various needs – from dietary to social – of its family of inhabitants. That meant everything from taking them to the bathroom and getting them to clean, to cooking them dinner. Arguably Wright's greatest achievement was making housework fun. Launched in 2000, The Sims was an instant hit.Three years earlier, Maxis had been bought out by Electronic Arts for $125m. Wright walked away from the deal with a reported $17m in EA stock. The Sims and its spin-offs have since gone on to earn EA in the region of $4bn.A month now before Spore ships, the pressure on the team at Spore HQ is easing up. The main office – airy, wood-beamed and half empty today – is covered with Spore flowcharts, storyboards and brainstorming sessions. For Wright, there's time to pause, too, though not for long – an exhaustive promotional world tour kicks off in a few weeks. 'I prefer to be making the game than talking about it,' he says.Does it bother him that video games are looked down on by so many? 'There are two ways of looking at that. Yeah, this bias against this form of media causes tension. But at the same time, there's some value in being a renegade. Like rock'n'roll. Something that parents don't like, kids are much more into it.' But if video games are rock'n'roll, I say, his games are more like the Beatles than, say ... 'Metallica?' he chimes in. 'Probably. My games tend to be more cross-generational. More accessible. I think parents would rather see their kids play The Sims than Counter-Strike.' No wonder. The first is about family life, the second a violent terrorist-based first-person shooter.But Wright is quick to defend games like Counter-Strike. 'It's funny,' he says. 'If [parents] are just observing the game and not playing it themselves, they're just seeing a surface representation: the pixels on the screen, the explosions, the gunshots. But if you look at kids playing Counter-Strike or [another first-person shooter] Quake, it's really more of a sport. They're very social experiences; they're not antisocial at all. It's all about working together as a team, getting their friends together – sometimes it's more like playing a game of basketball. If parents could see what the kids were seeing on the screen in a social sense, they would have a totally different perspective on it.'Agree or not, it's Wright in a nutshell. The Montessori defence, you might say: nothing beats playing the game yourself – and every game, violent or not, has something to teach us. Providing we have a go.&#183;Spore is on sale now
In triumph of the Nerds, Robert Cringely's 1996 TV documentary series about the rise of the personal computer industry, Steve Jobs was asked what made Apple such an unusual company. 'It comes down,' he said, 'to trying to expose yourself to the best things that humans have done and then try to bring those things into what you're doing. Picasso had a saying, "good artists copy, great artists steal", and we have always been shameless about stealing great ideas.'Before we get too sanctimonious about this, it's worth remembering that Jobs's adoption of Picasso's mantra is what has made Apple such an innovative force in the computer business. Its unique selling proposition is that it takes good ideas and turns them into products that ordinary human beings can use. The graphical user interface of all modern computers, for example, was not invented by Apple but by researchers at Xerox's Palo Alto lab in 1970-73.Xerox, however, proved incapable of exploiting the then-revolutionary technology, thereby providing a classic case study in fumbling the future. Jobs recognised the potential of the Xerox interface and made it available to the world in 1984 in a consumer product called Macintosh.Similarly, the MP3 format for compressing audio files was patented in 1987, and music in MP3 format was widely circulating on the net from the mid-1990s. But it took Apple to turn compressed music files into a consumer product by launching the iPod and iTunes software in 2001.It's the same story with wi-fi. The technology was around from 1990, but in order to create a wireless network at home for most of that decade you needed to be two-thirds geek and one-third lunatic. In 1999, Apple turned wi-fi into a plug-and-play consumer product under the Airport brand name, and wireless networking has become ubiquitous since then.Spool forward 12 years to last week, when the version 8 update of iTunes was released. Having duly downloaded and installed it, users were confronted with a new feature - the 'genius button'. Pausing only to spit at the implicit hubris, your columnist duly agreed to the terms and conditions (which basically involve agreeing to let Apple analyse your music library) and sat back.It works like this: click on a track in your iTunes music library and a sidebar pops up with a list of other tracks which are, somehow, 'like' the one you've chosen. By a happy coincidence, all are available for purchase from the iTunes store. So Van Morrison's 'Days Like This' triggers associations with (among others) 'End of the Line' by the Traveling Wilburys, 'World Spins Madly' by the Weepies and - more intriguingly - 'Waiting on a Friend' by the Rolling Stones and several songs by Paul Simon.But click on anything by the Beatles and the genius button turns moronic. 'Genius sidebar,' it complains, 'could not find matches for your specific selection, but here are the top songs and albums from the iTunes store.'Which rather gives the game away. The 'genius' of iTunes is really a crippled implementation of collaborative filtering, one of the oldest - and most useful - technologies to have emerged from the web. It's based on algorithms that filter information based on a collection of profiles of other users, working on the assumption that people with similar profiles may share similar interests. It is what enables Amazon, for example, to suggest books, records and videos that you might like, based on your record of purchases and the information the site holds on millions of other customers.  The difference is that the range of choice and suppliers is much greater on Amazon than it is on the iTunes store.The introduction of the genius button suggests Apple is sticking close to Jobs's philosophy about the shameless appropriation of great ideas. But the new iTunes feature is a pretty feeble appropriation. It is also a lost opportunity. Collaborative filtering improves dramatically the more people are involved.Now think of all the tracks in the music libraries of iTunes users across the world - and then imagine what could be done. So if you want to see it done better, trylast.fm, the world's largest social music platform.
Convertibles are difficult things. They are undeniably fun - the wind in your hair, the sky above, diesel fumes from buses, all that. But it's very hard not to look like a wanker in one, especially for men. If you see a man in a BMW Z4, for example, wearing sunglasses, with the hood down, there are two acceptable things to think: big cock and little cock (he is and he has got, respectively). Or both, so actually three. You should point at his car and laugh loudly, or point at him and make the internationally recognised sign for small finger - waggle your little willy at him... Erm, something went wrong with that sentence, but you know what I mean. Anyway, try it. It's fun.The alternative is something that isn't a sports car, but simply a convertible version of a car that usually has a hard roof. A Beetle, say, or a Mini. These are more acceptable (these are not opinions I'm expressing, but facts), and practical if there are more than two of you, but they also tend to be more cutesy. Girls' cars, basically. So what's the solution, if you're not a girl? A convertible Vauxhall Vectra? Don't be daft: taking the roof off a Vectra is like putting caviar on Mother's Pride, if you get my drift. A BMW 3 series? Too many people will try to buy drugs from you. An Audi A4? Not bad, a bit Sloaney.Or this, the Sloane's little sister, Audi's new baby soft top, the A3 Cabriolet. Yes, it is cute, girls would love it - do love it (of the one girl I asked, 100% said she loved it). But such is the desirability of this little car it transcends the normal sex barriers - a bit like an iPod nano, with wheels.I know you're not supposed to like cars any more, but I really do like this one. Look at it, it's lovely. And driving around with the top down, I don't feel like too much of a wanker, either. The one I try has the smaller, 1.8-litre engine; it isn't especially sporty, but that doesn't matter. I'm ambling around the Chilterns, sucking in the summer, and looking directly up at reeling red kites. Hope they don't poo on my Luxor beige Vienna leather seats...The worst thing that can happen to you in a convertible - worse, even, than being pooed on by a large bird of prey - is for you to decide at a red light to press the button to put the roof up or down, but then for the light to go green while the roof is still folding or unfolding itself. The people behind are all honking, shouting abuse at you and making the internationally recognisable sign for wanker. It's not pleasant. But the chances of that happening in this one have been considerably reduced simply because it does its folding and unfolding remarkably quickly: it went down in 9.69 seconds by my watch. This car has the Usain Bolt of roofs.They don't come cheap. The basic car is &pound;23,500. And it's easy to bump that up. As well as the Luxor beige Vienna leather, this one has a whole lot of extras - including walnut-brown inlays, cruise control, heated front seats, and an acoustic parking system - and the total cost is &pound;27,940. That's an awful lot of money for a small car. Oh, who cares though? I want one. Daddy. Right now!Audi A3 Cabriolet 1.8 TFSI Sport ManualPrice:From £23,500Top speed135mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.3 secondsConsumption38.7mpgCO² emissions174g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelPuff Daddy's little girlIn a wordYes
Games newsSince the demise of Joss Whedon's spectacularly successful TV series, fans of teenage vampire slaying have had to content themselves with the "Season 8" comic books, the usual tawdry selection of fan fiction, and a small quantity of crudely constructed video games, themselves now several years old. The announcement from developer Multiverse on plans to release a Buffy-based MMOG (that's massively multiplayer online game) should come as good news for those bereft of their weekly dose of Sunnydale. The rest of the announcement was less reassuring, with some peculiar talk of mixing 2D and 3D environments and releasing enhancements to the game in phases, with a public beta allegedly available by the end of the year. It was also confirmed that the planned Firefly game had merely been delayed rather than cancelled, bringing further tentative joy to Whedon-lovers.Too Human, Xbox 360In a plot that's less than one tenth as clever as its writers think it is, robots try and wipe out humans, who get cybernetic implants to help them fight back; but are they losing their humanity in the process? Wrapped up in a leaden bundle of recycled Norse mythology and trite voice acting, the real problems with Too Human are, appropriately enough, mechanical. To fight, you must push the right stick in the direction of those you wish to be dead. While initially fun, characters' stubborn refusal to target distant enemies makes combat partially random, a feature exacerbated by the aggressively wayward camera, which you'll instinctively try and control (as it is in every other game ever) with the right stick, only to find yourself stabbing more thin air. Onscreen instructions appear way too briefly to read them, you can't save up vital health orbs, and the unintuitive system for acquiring new skills forces you to read the dreaded instructions. It's no classic.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;50Buzz! Quiz TV, PS3Coming with four wireless buzzers that light up red and feature the same set of four coloured buttons as their gauche, wire-trailing PS2 equivalents, Buzz! Quiz TV also retains the series' red-jacketed, Jason Donovan-voiced host and the structure of many of its rounds. Apart from these details, Quiz TV is a game that feels effortlessly modern in its emphasis on social play, this time crucially including the internet. The advent of sofa-to-sofa mode, in which you take on friends or strangers, is masterfully implemented, as is the ability to add your own questions, although - at time of writing - the settle-down quality of user-generated content is yet to be established. The idiocy of crowds notwithstanding, the built-in question set, gently ribbing humour and pacing of Quiz TV will provide perfect, lightweight communal entertainment even if you think you hate games or only like the Wii.ng&#183;Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, &pound;50
This German website films musicians' responses to the question: What's important to you? To Future Of The Left, it's sandwiches (and the suggestion we try a piece of bread sandwiched between ham on one side and cheese on the other); to Interpol, it's selflessness; and to Jos&eacute; Gonz&aacute;lez it's the fingernails without which he'd be unable to play beautiful guitar. Even if you've not heard of most of the acts here, it's still an interesting site to dip into and gives an random glimpse of life on the road. Tegan &amp; Sara see the enforcement of tourbus rules of utmost importance - especially that boys sit down when peeing in their loo - whereas Jan from British Sea Power is a traditionalist and keen on the "practical hobby" of drinking. "I've been practising for a while now," he explains sagely. Wonderful stuff.
The 20 greatestcricket beardstinyurl.com/5dg89eUnderbites arethe new cheekbonestinyurl.com/5z82p7Anyone canput a Porsche in their drivetinyurl.com/6zqjruA brief historyof fembotstinyurl.com/5vyuyzHow to tellthe time without a clocktinyurl.com/5ggpvtMaybe Russiainvaded the wrong Georgiatinyurl.com/69tjmcJerry Seinfeldwants a computer that's moist and chewytinyurl.com/6dkz9sThe worstcelebrity hotel gueststinyurl.com/6k2v5e
Every once in a while a proprietary device or process strikes it lucky and becomes The One. A combination of apt nomenclature and mass-market penetration will allow it to achieve the ultimate accolade of being used as a verb - we have been Googling for the best part of a decade. But who would have guessed that a company from Tallinn, Estonia, might join this elite group? But I Skype, you Skype, he/she/it Skypes, we will have Skyped, they would have been Skyping.Skype is the best known of the VOIP services, utilising the Voice Over Internet Protocol to allow anyone with a net connection to make free calls to other Skype users. You can also top up a Skype account via credit card or PayPal to get a SkypeIn number, and make and receive local and international calls, taking advantage of all that bandwidth at a fraction of the price your home telecoms company would charge. On top of this are Skype's videoconferencing and instant messaging services, akin to iChat, AIM, Jabber and Windows Messenger.Wi-Fi Skype phones have been around for some time, so you don't have to be tied to your home or desktop when Skyping. They connect to a wireless network without the need for a computer. The Belkin WiFi Phone for Skype is an excellent and serviceable example.But what if you prefer to take advantage of all the savings your Skype account allows without having to search around town for wireless hotspots? A mobile phone with Skype capability, surely that is the way forward? Well, upwards of 50 have been capable of Skyping for some time now, with workarounds for BlackBerry and Windows Mobile, but there has been nothing quite like the new 3 Skypephone S2, an all-singing, all-Skyping mobile from Skype in partnership with Hutchison Telecom's 3 Network.The S2 is a small, neat unit, manufactured by the Chinese company Amoi. Along the bottom of its bright, clear screen parades a line of familiar icons that allow instant access to Google, Facebook, Windows Messenger and, of course, Skype. It is the work of a moment to input your Skype username and password, and have your buddy list come up and integrate itself instantly with the phone's address book. You are Skyping in seconds.You might think that such a phone is all about the nature of the network contract. If you have an all-you-can-eat data package, then Skyping looks like a good deal, but if you are charged for your 3G data access pro rata then large bills could be racked up that render the whole thing a waste of money. Well, startlingly, this phone can use standard GSM for its Skype functionality and all calls between Skype users are free. This is true Skyping. You can be out of reach of a 3G or GPRS mast and still Skype away to Sidcup or Sydney.What about email? Well, the S2 isn't a smartphone, but there is a solution: it operates with fabulous ease as a USB dongle modem. In other words, when you connect it to your PC or Mac, modem drivers mount as an install package and then it is, as they say in America, "a snap" to access the internet on your lap or desktop, at 3.6MB access speeds in a 3G area. On-the-move connectivity that doesn't depend on wireless networks or ad hoc "tethering": a superb feature beautifully implemented.This phone replaces Skype's original foray into the mobile market, the S1, and is trimmer, smarter and more feature-laden than its predecessor. The 3.2mp camera is barely more than adequate and the video frankly ropey, but aside from that there is little to carp at. The Google suite of Search, Mail and Maps is useful - though when I tried to use the latter I was given the message "Sorry, Google Maps does not work on your Amoi 8512", which I am charitably assuming is a glitch with the pre-release model. A crisp QVGA display allied to a happy thumb-feel keypad makes for a desirable and admirable phone that could save you hundreds of pounds in calls.Acronym of the weekQVGAQuarter Video Graphics Array, 320 x 240 resolution display common on phones and other small devices.stephenfry.com/blog
My Mac has died since I moved overseas, meaning that my Mac-formatted iPod is now my only source of music. I'm thinking of buying a Windows laptop and would like to transfer my music collection on to it from the iPod. Is this possible with the difference in format?The good news is that your new computer will have no problem with a Mac-formatted iPod. Most common music formats - such as MP3 and AAC files - are readable by both Windows PCs and Macs, and the iTunes software that manages your music player is compatible with both systems, too.The bad news is that Apple makes plugging in your iPod and copying over the files annoyingly difficult. This is largely because of concerns about piracy, but it's terrible news for most users who - like you - would like to use their iPod as a backup.The most straightforward way to get it done is to buy a small program that does all the hard stuff for you. An application called iPod Access comes highly recommended (about &pound;11.50; visitfindleydesigns.comto buy it directly from the makers). Once you've copied over all your files, you can tell your iPod that it's tied to your PC and start again from the beginning.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Americans are so quick to mock foreign languages that laughing at their own failures is always funny. Here, then, you will find photographic evidence of someone at a McCain rally holding up a placard that declares their man is "Keeping Ameirca Strong", meet some half-naked lady who may or may not have made a typo while advertising herself as the "sexist women of MySpace", and a store called Megaflicks which might want to reconsider the letter spacing in its sign. YouTube always provides rich pickings for those looking for grammatical meltdown, but spelling atmosphere "apmaspier" deserves a prize.
Apple has now publisheda fixfor Windows Vista users whose machinescrashedfollowing one of its arguably deceptive software updates.On Wednesday, Ed Bott providedAn inside look at Apple's sneaky iTunes 8 upgrade, which "promises an update to iTunes+QuickTime and says nothing about any other software". And there's around 80 megabytes of it. Bott says:The download consists of five installer packages and a master setup program. In addition to iTunes and QuickTime, the package includes the Bonjour service (which has been a part of iTunes for a long time), plus Apple Mobile Device Support and MobileMe.But in addition to all that software, Apple is also sneaking a couple of driver updates onto the system. One is a USB controller update, which is apparently used when connecting an iPod or iPhone to the system.In addition to this driver, the system also updates the GEARAspiWDM.sys driver (in Windows\System32\Drivers). I had to dig deep to discover this change, which is not documented anywhere. This driver is typically used with third-party programs that write to CD and DVD drives. The old iTunes versions of this driver is dated January 29, 2008. The new one is from April 17, 2008. This driver has a long and colorful history of causing Windows crashes. I remember dealing with it back in Windows 2000 days.(GEARAspiWDM.sys is not an Apple driver. It's fromGear Software, and is supplied with other software besides iTunes.)In alater post, Bott notes that the Apple "fix" is to replace the new driver with an older one: "Curiously, however, the supposedly "new" driver actually has an older version number. The September 5 file is version 1.35.0.0, and the September 10 replacement is 1.29.0.0."Just how "sneaky" all this might be is a matter of opinion. However, following Apple's deceptive attempt to install the Safari browser as an "update", you'd think Apple would atone by leaning towards full disclosure. Bott might not be alone in thinking, as he noted the first time:An even bigger problem is Apple's attitude toward its Windows customers. These additional software packages and drivers are being installed with no disclosure and no consent. A pile of software, including the troubled MobileMe service, is also being installed and enabled at startup on Windows machines, even where the user has no MobileMe account and, for that matter, no mobile device.Happily I don't have an iPod and have long since uninstalled all Apple's insecure bloatware from my PCs. But I'm still waiting for an Apple advert where the Mac guy tells the PC guy: "You know, your PC would run better if you removed all that crap Apple keeps pushing at you." Too close to the truth for an Apple advert? ;-)
Beatnik Games' Plain SightBeatnik Gamesis an indie games company based in London.  It's first game - a stunning 3D beat-em-up -Plain Sight, is soon to be released on the Xbox 360. It focusses on the Machiavellian tendencies of a little sword-wielding robot with suicidal tendencies.  I spoke with Beatnik's Robin Lacy to find about the joys of the Microsoft's free XNA development platform - a boon for indie developers - the relative merits of Xbox360 distribution over PC, and more.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Plain Sight is a game about cute robots, flaming swords and blowing yourself up. The basic rules are simple: You're a little robot and you start with one point - that's pretty rubbish, so you want more. To get more points you have to steal them off other players – this you do by killing them with your sword. The more points you steal the bigger, faster and generally better you are. However the points only count toward your final score if you blow yourself up. The more you take out, the higher your banked score.Respawn and repeat.Think of it as 'The Weakest Link' with suicidal sword wielding robots.Plain Sight is written in XNA, which means it works on both PC and Xbox 360. We're going to be having an open beta in mid November for the PC.How do players control the game?The game is playable with an Xbox 360 controller or a mouse and keyboard.What is your background?No-one at Beatnik Games has much experience in the videogame industry and we're all relatively young.Well, the development team all have academic experience, but as everyone is pretty young we're virtually new to the world of game creation at a professional level. I'm not worried though, because it's really given us the drive to make something special and show that, by approaching the industry with a full set of fresh eyes, we can actually gain a huge advantage.Name your competitors.The indie games scene is great, there's no in-fighting or anything like that, and everyone is incredibly supportive; so, from that perspective, we have no competitors. However, if you're looking at the whole games industry as a food chain, we're very much at the bottom of it, so everyone's a competitor.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?The response already has been staggering. I don't want to jinx ourselves by predicting sales figures but, from what we've seen from the beta-test applications, we're feeling optimistic.What's your biggest challenge?Writing our game engine from scratch. We decided early on that we were going to write the core game software ourselves. This gave us much greater control over what the Plain Sight would be capable of and allows us to focus on what features were important to the game. Unfortunately, it's incredibly hard and takes a great deal of time. Once it's all done, we (thankfully) won't have to go through all that again for the next game!What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?We recently had a very bizarre bug where walking the character slowly over the edge of a building would turn everything a bit yellow and send you falling through the world. We eventually tracked the problem to corrupt data in the character model, but it was pretty worrying for about an hour and definitely very weird.Are indie games the latest killer app?I think indie games fill a void in the current game market. Currently the multi-national developers spend a great deal of time and money re-hashing old IP's and game concepts. Indie game studios are usually much more experimental and more willing to take risks. The console manufacturers realise this and have spent a great deal of time encouraging the development of smaller games.For example, Microsoft has a new 'community games' initiative where anyone can upload their game to Xbox 360. They've also provided a free development platform called XNA which we have used to make Plain Sight; without XNA we'd have to spend many thousands of pounds on a development kit.What's your distribution/publishing plan?We're currently spending nearly all our time on the PC port. The PC platform is the easiest to publish for as you either have the option to self publish (through your own website) or use one of the many online publishing platforms (such as steam or gametap). We haven't yet decided which will be best for us.As the game is XNA and compatible with Xbox 360 we'll obviously be looking into XBLA or Microsoft's community games initiative.Are you the next big thing?Maybe the next big small thing will do for now.
Thecalamitous launch, at least in the UK, of the iPhone 3G in July didn't ease once people actually got the gadgets in their hot hands; people soon discovered an annoying tendency to drop calls, along with woeful battery life.Apple today though put up the 2.1 version of its iPhone software (the second software update: 2.0 was quickly followed by 2.0.1, which wasn't stellar either). For once, the release notes go further than saying "Bug fixes".Not that much further, though. The pagesaysit will bring, among others:* Decrease in call set-up failures and dropped calls* Significantly better battery life for most users* Dramatically reduced time to backup to iTunes* Improved email reliability, notably fetching email from POP and Exchange accounts* Improved accuracy of the 3G signal strength displayAll of which will be very welcome, I'm sure. And there's also one other thing:* Genius playlist creation.Oh, yes, Genius. Which is a whole topic in itself. According to my calculations,Genius is worth $8.4 billion to Apple, once it gets enough people using it (as in, everyone with an active iTunes account). That isn't peanuts. So you can see why Apple might be quite keen to roll that software out as quickly as possible.The faster backup has already been welcomed - rather than waiting literal hours for the iPhone to backup, people arereporting five-minute backups. That's got to be good too.So, how's your iPhone update/backup going? And how are you liking Genius now you now it's exceedingly valuable Genius?
Over the past week and a half, our gamesblog inbox has overflowed with entries for theViva Piñata competition, and I'm pleased to say that the winner has been chosen after much deliberation between myself, Greg and Keef.We chose this particular winner because we felt he (yes, it was a he) got the balance of sincerity and surrealism just right. From the submission:Radi-ant: With a healthy green glow and a rear mounted geiger counter (complete with sound effects), hazmat helmet and safety bootsTopical, no?Other excellent runners up include:jagdev kenthfor his suggestions for Cinnamonkey, Gooba, Jameleon and Jagular (and their awesome descriptions)Lemuelfor Mooringue (a Moozipan, but wearing a suit of sort of plate armour to make it hugely tough; sort of, in that for the meringue style it would have to be white and the edges of the plates look like the cracks you getin the top of a pavlova), the Secret Squazzil (With a long overcoat and hat, dark glasses; the ever necessary corsage/newspaper so he can be easily spotted by other spies and the ubiquitous spies briefcase) and the Disco Doenut (Sporting a multi-coloured afro, enormous star shaped glasses, uber high platforms and of course some gittery flares, this disco diva has more funky moves than a taffly on fire!)Benjamin Woodfor Treagle Tart (based on Eaglair: Feather Boa and nothing else.)Marion Hayterfor Jamonimo (Unsuccessful parachutist - Flight goggles on a lemming, based on Lemmoning)And so congratulations are in order to Chris Jones, who's leaving the party with a copy of the game, an Xbox Live Vision Camera and an exclusive Viva Piñata Card, designed by the artists at Rare. Three cheers!Stay tuned for more competitions forthcoming. We're on a roll.
Genius. It's a word that Guinness seems to have abandoned in its advertising. So Apple, which can spot a vacuum as well as the next big company intent on world domination, has been quick to pick it up.The "Genius" feature in the latest version of iTunes is getting a lot of attention: you pick a track in your iTunes library, and after a bit of munching away – and talking to Apple's online servers at the iTunes Store – it will come up with a list of 25 or more tracks that it thinks "go with" the track you selected.This feature is probably the most valuable piece of coding that any group of people has ever written. By my calculations it's worth about $8.4billion. And given that Apple works in small teams – I'd guess that a total of 10 or so would have been involved here, including QA (quality assurance) – this may be the most profitable piece of work anyone has ever doneanywhere.As people will, they were quick to point to the weakness in the Genius system: if you start with a Beatles track, then the Genius is befuddled. The reason: the iTunes Store doesn't sell any Beatles tracks.This suggests that the algorithm which works out what tracks go with what is based on data from the iTunes Store: people who bought this also bought that. And of course because the iTunes Store sells individual tracks as well as albums, if enough buyers have picked and chosen individual songs then there'll be a "cloud" of related songs.One other little tweak is that once a song is playing, you're offered "you might like" tracks from the iTunes Store which you don't have. And they're often very close to what you do have. If you've got an itchy buying finger, it's pure music catnip.If that sounds rather like Amazon's recommendation system, that's because it is. But it's smarter than Amazon's, in two ways. First, the granularity: it knows about individual tracks, rather than whole CDs, as Amazon does. Secondly, it doesn't get put off by your having bought birthday presents for friends or older or younger relatives.Haven't we all had the experience, after buying something for a nephew or niece, of getting an urgent email from Amazon telling us that High School Musical 3 is coming out and available at a special price? And rolled our eyes and wondered quite how stupid those computers at Amazon are? By contrast, Genius looks at tracks in isolation. And people on the iTunes Store are, in the vast majority of cases, buying for themselves.There's a third way that it's smarter than Amazon's system, though, and pretty much any music recommendation system you've ever seen. Apple is getting everyone else to do the work for it – that is, to put songs together (in their personal playlists) and offer them up. Genius, it calls it: it's certainly clever.It's a classic piece ofWeb 2.0-style sharecropping, where we do the work and the big company that analyses the data reaps the financial benefits – getting a vast database of "what goes with what", andalsobeing able to sell us songs.How much is a "what goes with what?" database worth? We can estimate. Last.fm, when it sold to CBS for $280m in May 2007, had 15 million users, covering roughly 65m tracks from 7 million artists.By contrast, the iTunes Store is (says Steve Jobs) the biggest music store of all, hasup to 500 million "active" usersand the store itself has something like 8.5m tracks andsold more than 5bn tracks.On that basis, if Last.fm is worth $280m, Genius is worth – once everyone's switched to iTunes 8 and switched it on – 30 times more, or $8.4billion. Even if you strip out some element of froth from the Last.fm price, Apple's got something really, really valuable. It only takes a few of those people to buy a single extra track to make Apple's revenue from the iTunes store rocket. That's quite a return on the coding effort involved.And think what happens once Apple really starts to crunch this data. It's going to see what goes with what. I've got Andras Schiff and Glenn Gould in the same playlist: why, of course, because both played all of Bach Preludes and Fugues, and the Goldberg Variations. Oh, and look, Apple will say, there's also Gould playing Bach's English and French suites.Or it will look at another of my playlists: hmm, Queens of the Stone Age goes with Desert Sessions? Ah, same guitarist/writer. And with Muse? And Radiohead? It's starting to become clearer. If you one have those, you can try to sell the others.(I did think that Apple might try to sell access to this data - which is anonymised - to the record labels, which could try to figure out where to position new or existing artists. But then I realised there's a cheaper way for the labels to do it: just use Genius in iTunes.)Genius isn't the first music recommendation system; back in the 1990s there was a system calledFirefly. Amazon of course held a strong position. There are services like Last.fm and Pandora (essentially internet radio, and cut off from the UK by foolish per-track pricing demanded by record labels) and, once you look further,Musicplasma.com(which I believe actually makes visual the Amazon recommendation system).But the problem is always leverage. Usually, to put yourself into a dominant position, you have to work at it for years; you can't suddenly flip a switch and become a force to be reckoned with. Apple has, though. At a stroke it has leapt into pole position for recommendation systems.And if you ever wondered what happened to Firefly? Microsoft bought it in 1998. Yes, Microsoft, which had the default media player on all those Windows desktops for years and years. You may think that Vista or the Xbox 360 were the biggest missteps Microsoft ever made. In retrospect, when Apple rules the music recommendation world, we may come to see that the biggest miss was by Bill Gates's company. Shall we compose a playlist aroundHalls &amp; Oates's "Missed Opportunity"?
Spaceship's place on the Barcamp boardLast week'sBarcamp Brightonwas a blast, andas we posted on Friday, we demo'd the newSpaceship!build: more levels, more rooms, more puzzles, more fun!Thewebsitewas in a bit of a state when that went up, but it's back up and running now, includinga handy starter packfor folks who're curious about the natural language processing code we're working with. Feel free to download and much around. DennisChow created some easy-to-follow instructionshere, so there really is no excuse!Spaceship! is likely to make its next debut (more debuts than a debutante) atBarCamp London 5, so if you're heading to the smoke for mega geekery 26-27 September, pop by and say hello!Finally, if you are interested in keeping up to date with what's going on, do join our new group,Gamesblog Wikigame Groupfor up-to-date, er, updates.
The second Bill Gates-Seinfeld ad will appear on Big Brother on CBS tonight but it's already onYouTube.This one shows the deadly duo boarding with an "ordinary family" of the sort you might meet in an average American sitcom.And it's much funnier that the first advert, although it would have been pretty hard to go downhill from there.
Remember 1994? Blur's Girls &amp; Boys was at the top of the charts, a new sitcom called Friends started to air and I spent a lot of time in the college computer room emailing my then boyfriend, and getting wildly excited when we found we were emailing at the same time.We'd exchange emails, rapidly click "check for mail" and, with only five minutes to wait between messages it was almost like we were having a real conversation!Times have changed, and now instant-messaging software is everywhere. Skype, Windows Live messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and Jabber have a combined total of almost 1 billion users.And that doesn't include the 783 million registered users of Tencent QQ, a messaging service most popular in China.Multi-protocol instant message programmes likeAdiumorTrillianhave been created, to allow people with multiple accounts on different messaging systems to read their messages without keeping half a dozen separate programs running.Online games like World of Warcraft have their own instant chat systems, no internet dating site would be complete without one, and even Facebook has recently jumped on the bandwagon.With all these opportunities for real-time chat, it's easier than ever to make friends online with people in different cities, different countries, and different timezones. But are instant messenger friendships 'real' friendships?Astudy last year suggested not, saying that "90% of contacts who the subjects regarded as close friends were people they had met face to face".That's not very surprising. What interests me is that other 10%: people who had not met face-to-face but nonetheless considered each other close friends.Another studyfound that 75% of online role-playing gamers – a technophile group, admittedly – had made good friendships online.This raises the question of what a "real" friendship is. My college boyfriend and I might have communicated by email, but we did spend plenty of time together IRL – "in real life". But among my geek friends – mostly younger than me – I'm practically unique in never having made friends with someone I met purely online.My instinct remains that real-life friendships must surely be more solid, more authentic, than purely online encounters. But my experience of instant messenger communication is slowly making me change my mind.My dear friend Andrea – who lives in New York – and I have probably spent a total of 24 hours in one another's physical company. But, after "meeting" online while working on a project together several years ago, we talk almost every day.In a way, this friendship seems purer than a real-life one: Andrea doesn't have to come over to my place to chat, and deal with my washing-up aversion, my bad-hair days, or the mess that accumulates when I'm working. We can share ideas, insights, complaints and triumphs throughout the day, becomingquasi-ambient communicatorsin a way that would probably drive me crazy if we were in the same room all the time.This form of communication does change friendship, of course. In a way, it makes us more likely to take one another's side.If we were living closer together we'd probably by now have spent a lot of time not just with each other but also with each other's friends, partners and families. And, when we reported an argument or a falling-out, that more rounded view might make us less sympathetic.As it is, we are each other's only windows on our worlds; this doesn't make the friendship less 'real', but it does make it different.I can't, of course, go round to Andrea's place to babysit her children. She can't bring me chicken soup when I'm ill. But the affectionate cheerleading of an online friendship are, nonetheless, pretty comforting.
What's your favourite piece of technology?MySky+ box.How has it improved your life?A lot, because we lead very busy lives and I'm a huge fan of television and it's enabled me to record lots of programmes – whether it be Match of the Day or cricket highlights. You can also set it to record an entire series, which is perfect. It's turned my life around.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it to record the cricket on Five. I use it every time I watch the telly. I'm still fascinated by the fact you can pause the telly and then go and make a cup of tea. Plus you can fast forward the adverts.What additional features would you add if you could?Possibly a tea-maker on the side of it, so I wouldn't have to bother pausing it. And one other thing that would be good is if you could just fast forward, even if it was on real time.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely not. I don't see how they could improve upon it.What one tip would you give to non-Sky+ users?Get one! Or get a TV listings magazine so that you know what's on.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I'm not sure … I'm a nerd when it comes to some things. I'm certainly not a technical person, I'm more of a nerd when it comes to sport. As much as someone loves computers or whatever it might be, I love sport.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?For me personally, I've got a pretty handy satnav system in my car. It's touchscreen, it's quite flash. One of the other guys in the band, Tom, has just had a home cinema system installed in his house, and that's a lot more expensive than my satnav!Mac or PC?I use Mac. I don't use it much, but all the other guys have MacBooks and stuff like that, and I just wanted to join the party so I bought an iBook. It's perfect, I use it for iTunes, iPhoto, internet – and that's about it.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?I think at the moment it would be some sort of audio book, or maybe a Beatles song from the Abbey Road album.Will robots rule the world?I certainly hope not, and if they do then I shall be among the revolution to stop it.What one piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like an old classic bit of technology, like an E-type Jaguar, something that just does what a car's supposed to do – drive.McFly'snew album, Radio:ACTIVE, is out on September 22. The band will tour the UK in November and December
Friday's - the weekend starts here - edition of Chatterbox
What was itYoda saidabout trying? Clearly Star Wars fans haven't been listening.  The demo ofForce Unleashed, the new Star Wars game, is apparently the first to reach1 million downloadson Xbox 360.  Force Unleashed, released next week, is being billed as the "next film", giving fans the chance to find out what happened between episodes 3 and 4.I picked up a review copy this week and so far so good. It looks great – bar some stilted cut-scene animation – and the lobbing-stormtroopers-through-the-air action hasn't got boring yet. But could that change?There is a review embargo for the 15th Sept which essentially means no online reviews until the game launches in the US. Clearly this is a marketing exclusivity deal with a mag/major review site or something but Too Human suffered a similar embargo and we know how thatturned out. What I've played of Force Unleashed so far is good, if slightly brainless, fun but Star Wars gamers have suffered enough in the last decade – KOTOR and Battlefront apart – so the pressure is definitely on.  More on Force Unleashed next week then. Anyone here tried the demo yet?
Folks who had the pleasure to attend Alex Fleetwood and Co's triumphant location-based games festival Hide &amp; Seek Festival would have certainly noticedAnd I Saw..., the ongoing I Spy-alike game running throughout the weekend. The game, which uses stickers littered throughout the playing field, mobile phones and (ahem) web analytics (no, it's really interesting for a visualisation geek like me).Well, Chris Thorpe, creator of the game, is running it again during this weekend's Thames Festival in London. Says he:To set the game up we wander around and sticker things (which we know the GPS co-ordinates for) and give them all a unique name and also a unique 6 digit code which we write on the sticker...Peopleregisterwith us and tell us their mobile phone number and give themselves a unique name and we register that in the database and give them a sticker with their code written on it.You can read others' impressionshereand see theFlickr grouptoo. And if you happen to be around the Big Smoke over the next day or so, you too could get involved.Register here!
Ah, satire. Tom Lehrerdeclared it deadwhen Kissinger received the Nobel Peace Prize. And just to keep the dirt on its grave firmly tramped down, we have the utterly predictable media reaction to the game by a one-man developer called Sigvatr and his creation: "Muslim Massacre".You may be able to figure out roughly what the plan is from the title, but let's quote fromhis announcement:The United States of America, a leader and role model for all in the modern world, is taking drastic measures to secure the freedom and safety of the world. Having born witness to the atrocities of the followers of Islam time and time again, it has been decided that the entire Muslim race shall be wiped from the surface of the Earth.(Let's point out here and now that "Muslim" is not a race. It's a faith. This would be like saying "the entire Christian race".)You, the American Hero, have valiantly volunteered to make landfall in the Middle East and ensure that no Muslim man or woman is left alive. Your mission priorities are to seek out and neutralize the Muslim leader Osama bin Laden, their radical cult leader Muhammad and finally Allah, taking down any targets you meet on the way.Good luck, obviously, in finding Allah. And indeed Muhammad - there's no identikit for him.So anyway, we have outraged anger from every and anyone who can be easily provoked into outraged anger. Let us, for the sake of letting people have their say, quote Mr Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation:The Ramadhan Foundation expresses its deep condemnation and anger at the computer game released called Muslim massacre. This game is glorifying the killing of Muslims in the Middle East and we urge ISP providers to take action to remove this site from their services as it incites violence towards Muslims and is trying to justify the killing of innocent Muslims.We have written to the British Government today to urge an inquiry into this game and take action to shut down the site; this is not satire but a deliberate attempt to demonise Muslims.The argument that "this is not satire" is an interesting one, because who's to say what's satire? I think it's one that judges decide.Good luck with the ISPs, though, as it's not hosted in Britain. It was alsoannnounced on the SomethingAwful forums, where the (principally American) readers who I don't think would normally listen to Lehrer - or indeed Kissinger - seemed to have litle trouble discerning that this wasn't telling them to go and, um, slaughter Muslims in real life.Such as the comment "It's great how blatant the humor is in this game. Yeah, its offensive. If I wasn't able to find humor in offensive material, I wouldn't be at this website, would I?"The game also contains some clips of George Bush speaking. Sigvatr knows he's pushing things: "My current host will definitely take the site down once they receive enough complaints, which they have done to me before," he says.Not that (asSpongpoints out) he's unacquainted with pushing the limits. He's the guy behindCompetitive Spree Killers- your least favourite site ranking people who kill other people. (For some reason Mao and Stalin aren't in there. Oh well.)Perhaps the interesting question is: was it the "massacre" bit of the name that offended, or the Muslim one? And if it's the latter, then would it be OK for it to be called Buddhist Massacre? Atheist Massacre? Puppy Massacre?Still, it gives the papers something while the political parties get towards the conventions.
TheTechCrunch50conference featured 52 product demos in three days, and it seemsYammercame out top of the heap. According toTechCrunch, "Yammer takes the familiar Twitter messaging system and applies it to internal corporate communications. There is such a huge demand for this type of service that 10,000 people and 2,000 organizations signed up for the service the first day it launched on Monday."The blog post also lists five runners-up: Atmosphir, FitBit, Grockit, GoodGuide and Swype.In the comments, many people are rubbishing the choice of Yammer because it isn't innovative, but TechCrunch is business-oriented and says: "It's a brilliant business model."So that's all right then.
For the past three years I've been running a one-man games company from home, programming games and selling them direct to gamers all over the world.Over that three years I discovered that all of my games were being pirated and 'shared' online. It's pretty hard to describe the feeling of finding your work pirated. The worst cases are where the person copying and posting your game on the internet insists other pirates 'thank them fortheirwork'.They mean their work copying the game, not my work actually making it. I had long been a fierce opponent ofinternet piracy, arguing endlessly and aggressively on web forums against the pirates. I'd actively fought against piracy of my games, getting copies of them removed as soon as they were found, in a never-ending battle.A while ago I realised that although IthoughtI knew what the causes of people pirating my games were, I really had no idea. The only people who could really explain why so many people pirate games is the pirates themselves. So, rather innocently, I asked them to email me and tell me why they did it. I promised to read all of them and to keep an open mind. They replied in their thousands and it became a major topic on gaming news sites.My website crashed as a result and people who couldn't contact me or email me had to post their responses on other sites. It seems nobody had ever bothered to ask this question before. The big games companies had occasionally reached for their lawyers, and the music companies are constantly issuing legal threats, combined with vast efforts to engineer technical methods to prevent piracy, but nobody had ever asked them why they did it.Some of the responses ran to several pages, a few put Tolstoy to shame. It seems there are a lot of people who have waited a long time to tell the entertainment industry what they thought, and they had a lot to say. The top reasons seemed to be the high price of games, the copy-protection used on them, and the quality of the games themselves. Many of the pirates said they found the majority of games not worth the money, others were resentful of the way copy-protection treated honest customers as criminals. Time and time again people claimed they were happy to buy good games, at sensible prices.As a result of what I found, I'm changing the way I make and sell my games. I already dropped some prices, and will keep future games cheaper, I abandoned copy-protection on all my games the next day, and resolved to work harder than ever before to make the best games that I can. I went from being demoralised and depressed by pirates to being motivated and encouraged by them. I asked them what they thought, then listened. Given the inability of big media companies to do either, I think I suddenly found my competitive advantage.Cliff Harris is the founder of Positech Games
I recently bought a new quad-core desktop machine, but I am considering increasing the amount of Ram from the 3GB now installed. Would I have to upgrade to the 64-bit version to increase my memory? I want to use my PC for gaming, but I have a fondness for my back catalogue of games.Jez RobinsonAs you know, 32-bit Windows can only use 4GB of memory, which means about 3.25GB after you've allowed for graphics and system use. The 64-bit versions can access more memory than your motherboard can support. However, the upgrade path from your 32-bit Packard Bell version is not smooth. Although Microsoft sells "in place upgrades" (hence the 15GB of disk space devoted to Vista), you can't upgrade from 32-bit to 64-bit Vista without reinstalling it as a new operating system.(Note: if you're installing a 64-bit upgrade version, don't delete the 32-bit version first!)Also, you will have to pay for your new operating system. If you buy a boxed copy of Vista, you can run either the 32-bit or the 64-bit version, so the upgrade is free. (There may be a charge for shipping you a new disc: only Vista Ultimate includes media for both.) But if you have a manufacturer's pre-installed version, what you've bought is all you get. Unless Packard Bell can offer you a deal, you may have to pay £70 or more for a retail or upgrade version. See Microsoft's guide,Knowledge Base article 932795.Whether it's worth it is a difficult question, but gamers were among the first to move to 64-bit Vista so you should be able to check for compatibility and performance of specific games online. In general, 64-bit Vista is faster and more secure, it runs 32-bit software, and cheap Ram means sales are now growing rapidly. However, it does not run old 16-bit software, and that unfortunately includes 32-bit programs with 16-bit installation routines. Two obvious solutions are to set up your PC as a dual-boot system, so you can switch between versions, or to install 32-bit Vista in a "virtual PC". There are several free virtual PC programs including Microsoft Virtual PC 2007, VMware and VirtualBox (version 1.6.2 or later). There are lots of demos and tutorials on YouTube.
I have Microsoft Office Professional 2000 and would like to know the cheapest legal way of upgrading to Office Professional 2007. I am not a student.Bob BakerMicrosoft's websitesaysyou can upgrade to Office Pro from Microsoft Works 6.0-10 or any 2000-2007 Microsoft Office program or suite except Office XP Student and Teacher. You could therefore shop around for theMicrosoft Office 2007 Professional Edition (Upgrade), which you can install on two computers -- normally your desktop and your laptop.A slightly cheaper option is the OEM version coded MSOEM162. This is designed for original equipment manufacturers and PC system builders to sell with machines, and can only be installed on one PC. It is not necessarily suitable for consumers, bearing in mind that the OEM (in this case, you) also has to provide the support. OEM versions of software may also come without boxes, manuals, or even discs.
I need to update Adobe Acrobat/Reader to read bulletins, but my attempt to download version 9 has been blocked because AVG Anti-virus (Free Edition 8.0.169) has detected Trojan horse Generic11.PWW.Cyril BraganzaAdobe says AVG has acknowledged that this is a "false positive" and it will be fixed in an update (see theforummessages from Luis,lpolanco). Avast is also correcting a false positive.
My laptop has started to show steady data input and output as soon as it connects to the web via a wireless router. This continues for as long as I leave the machine connected. AVG 8, Ad-Aware and Spybot have revealed nothing.Robert CaldicottYou are right to be concerned because the unknown data traffic could be spam or worse, if your PC has been hacked. However, the most likely cause is Microsoft's Windows Update, which dribbles away in the background so as not to interfere with normal usage. Otherwise, your firewall should tell you which applications have your permission to access the internet, and which ones are active. Active processes should also be visible in the Windows Task Manager or the superiorProcess Explorer, a free download. In your case, the culprit may be setupxv.exe, which could be malware orfake anti-spyware.The web is another common source of unknown data traffic. Some pages refresh adverts or update their contents periodically without telling you, but this should stop if you close down all browsers.If you can't see what's sending traffic, you can try using a packet sniffer to capture and examine the data being transferred. Sadly, I use Wireshark (wireshark.org), which is not a simple option for beginners. There are alternatives listed atsectools.organdSnapFiles.SmartSnifflooks easier to use. Other suggestions welcome!
Is there an external hard drive that is really automatic?Michael AbrahamClickfree external hard drives are promoted as offering the "first out-of-the-box automatic backup" and can handle up to 10 PCs. I've not used one, but the 160GB model was warmly recommended by a reader who bought it from QVC.
At last Friday'sdConstructconference in Brighton, I made the case for developing a stronger relationship between the games and the web developement communities. In a town where there are five major, international game development studios (Black Rock/Disney, (nope, not NCSoft...), Relentless, Zoe Mode and Club Penguin, plus virtual worlds developers Linden Lab), there were only a dozen or so representatives in the 800 + audience.Developers, developers, developers: the web people are keen to know how you do it. They want to know what makes your products sticky. They want to integrate your mechanics into their designs to create better user experiences and better products. And they want to talk to you.But every time I've suggested to games people that they meet up with the weberati - an industry that has a far more mainstream and accepting audience than interactive entertainment, mind - I get a slap. Apparently games people don'twantto know what tricks they can integrate into their products that might make them more compelling to the billions of non-gamers the world over. Any suggestions as to why?But those same hungry web people are on the case; they're breaking down the theory of play and are creating websites that integrate the systems integrated into games development without games devs' help.Check out the competition, folks. Just imagine the new summits of entertainment that could be reached if the twain would meet!Examples over the fold.Although games development seems to be a black art driven by a qualitative 'it just feels right' mentality (rather than, say, empirically-driven user testing, which is how the web tends to do it), there are three systems which devs incorporate into their products. They may just not realise it.Controlled SystemsThese are the bits that designers actually build into the games. They are the explicit gamey things.First, Games folks design their games to dangle carrots in front of players' eyes. Think 'Our Princess is in another castle' from Super Mario Bros. Games provide regular feedback at regular intervals, building the play experience into a crescendo. And then, just as they think they're going to take the cake, the designs steal their lunch money, promising that they'll get it if they contribute just a little bit more.Now, the web does this too - it asks people to give and give and give of themselves for the promise of something in return. It may not be as sexy as a princess in a castle, but a classic example is the registration form: give me your details and I'll give you something in return. The further users get into a site before they have to give something up, the more the user is likely to give it up. That's called cognitive dissonance, for those with a psychological bent.Second, games developers are obsessed with creating openness. The objective is to allow the player tobelievethat they are able to go into every location, do everything that they can see, engage with everyone they meet. There's a classical difficult balance here - tites like GTA San Andreas and Tomb Raider 3 were criticised for their excessive openness -but open games are more interesting to players than games on 'rails'Anyone who's ever wandered the web knows that the internet is openness taken to the Nth degree. Rabbit holes run awfully deep in there. And so, like in games, the challenge for web developers is to create the funnels through which people can explore while allowing users to drft off the path occasionally. Games do have an easier time of it, of course, with things like stories, but clever web devs can do it too.Enabling SystemsThe second set of systems are the emergent systems enabled by the creations of the game designers.Most important is community. It's the buzzword of both the web and the game worlds.  In games, it's is built out of interpersonal interaction based around a property. Games devs create senses of belonging between people who share a comon understanding for the content of the games.When it comes to digitalia, the web did it first. Now, with sites like Digg and other socially-oriented services (hey! Web 2.0!), they're just making it more explicit.Out of community comes social value, and the features, brands, characters - and stories - that are genrated by the communities based on those things developed by the designers. Games designers create the assets owned by the community that community members subsequently trade on. eBay's category 1645, the real-money transfer for virtual goods, is this taken to the extreme. The real-world value that has emerged around accounts, relics, assets were enabled by the economic systems established by the developers themeselves.Websites don't have to create a brand or an economy to fulfil this system, think again: A Million Penguins, World Without Oil, those irritating Facebook zombies, Find Satoshi: these are just some of the websites that are encouraging user-generated ludic systems, and this is where the web shines.Psychological SystemsThe last set of systems are psychological: the ones which reach into the core of the player and keep him (or her) coming back for more.Collecting things is a good example of this: it encourages self-motivation, self-challenge and self-efficacy. Icanachieve by getting all the coins, killing all the bad guys, racing all the tracks. The web has obsessively focussed on this, creating points and ratings systems that are supposed to encourage people to come back for more. And like reward cards in supermarkets, they are able to create a brand relationship. This same approach can be used to encourage people to wander the web in more critical and filtered ways. And instead of collecting coins, you're collecting knowledge instead.But the most important of these is the carefully constructed avatar, the online identity that leads the player through the game. A trend in the games industry is to create characters that develop and adapt into unique characterisations as they go through actions and activities, like the leads in Deus Ex, Black and White and Fable, and even Lara Croft in her later Tom Raiders. A role playing game element in character development is imbuing the greater games industry, with the effect that over time the player recognises that his or her actions are having an observable impact on the game itself.This isn't an impossible feat in the web industry. In fact, it happens more than you think: profiles! Or tying identities together using OpenID! Or other ways (like Metaplace, for example) which allow users to integrate their existing selves across the various platforms so they can develop their unique web profile that is based upon them and their activities.These are the three systems which games folks integrate into their development, and far from wandering in the dark, web people are taking it upon themselves to integrate them into their own designs. The result is a compelling internet which has the potential - with the support of games developers and their ideas - to create something new and beautiful indeed.For more on the other side, check outTom Armitage'srecent talk at NLGD:What games can learn from social software.
What if we fire a black hole at it?Now those fears about the Large Hadron Collider are over, let's worry about a 500 kilometre-wide asteroid hitting Earth... as has happened six times in its history, though never before to a Pink Floyd soundtrack.Next week, it'll say "For Pulping"Esquire magazine experimented with "e-ink" for its latest issue in the US. How very 21st-century! Pity nobody mentioned that using "blink" tags went out of fashion in 1998. Imagine what a shelf full of them must look like. Pity the newsagent.Andyou could write on itFor any iPhone users who wish for copy and paste: the Apple Newton could do it, 15 years ago. (Steve Jobs killed it, remember.)Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments...
If this were April rather than September, it would be easy to dismiss Code of Honour 2 as some kind of joke. It's a game that has no real identity; the cover seems to be a direct copy of Commandos, yet the gameplay is clearly modelled on Call of Duty - which would be no bad thing if it were 10% the game of either. Such hope is dashed by the childish AI, badly balanced weapons and a difficulty curve that starts at "easy" and keeps sliding downwards. Generous checkpoints allow some levels to be cleared by firing fewer than a dozen bullets, meaning the game's over in a couple of hours.
Tiger Woods may be recuperating, but the videogame that bears his name is in rude health. After last year's underwhelming effort, '09 feels like a step forward. This is most noticeable when looking at the basics, with the swing feeling smoother and more natural. This is especially true of the Wii version, which uses the Wiimote to great effect. But on PS3 and 360 as well things seem to be more accessible this time round. It's still easy to skew off the fairway, but the inclusion of Tiger's real-life coach helps and the controls generally feel more forgiving. Online has been beefed up too, with four players now able to play on the same course at - crucially - the same time. The meat of the game is the PGA Tour, with money and skills upgraded as you plough through the 16 courses and numerous challenges.  But playing against other humans is where the game really comes alive. Tiger Woods '09 is a triumph.
Fans of Japanese RPGs tend to get very excited by any new output from developer Tri-Ace, but sadly, the quirkily named Infinite Undiscovery isn't one of the company's better efforts. It doesn't do itself any favours by starting off in a surprisingly shoddy manner before improving markedly as you progress. On the plus side, it has a real-time, rather than turn-based, fighting system, decent graphics and a clever system allowing you to connect with the other members of your party (which can be pretty large) and use their abilities. But appalling lip-synching in cut-scenes, two of the most irritating game characters ever (nauseating kids called Rico and Rucha) and a glaring lack of subtlety in the fighting system count against it. Which is a shame. Once you get your character, Capell, through to the bigger battle scenes, it becomes much more fun to play. RPG devotees will find it infuriating and satisfying in roughly equal measure.
Some time during the dreary, wet days of the summer, Cliff Harris decided he couldn't do it any more. After several years of grafting away at making small-scale independent computer games - largely on his own - the developer from Surrey had reached the limit with pirates. "I was really frustrated," he says. "Pirates underestimate the demoralising effect it has on people who make games."However, he took a novel approach: he asked the pirates why they did it. All it took was a simple question on his website, asking for opinions from people who copy games. Why did they do it? Were his games too expensive? Not good enough? Or was it something he could do nothing to change?Driven to piracy"I'd gone through a year of two of frustration fighting it," he says. "You're never going to stop some people from trying to steal your games, but over time it built up - until finally I thought I couldn't be any worse off for asking people's opinions."The answers came in thick and fast (bit.ly/pirates2). Few claimed the moral high ground, but instead focused on the price (too high, even at &pound;10) and the quality of the games themselves. Some argued that buying them over the internet was much harder than stealing them: how might those without a credit card purchase them (since that's needed for PayPal)? And copy protection drove some to distraction - or more precisely, to filesharing networks.Looking over the responses, Harris decided that some of their criticism was fair - and agreed to change his approach. "I get the impression that if I make [the games] hugely, overwhelmingly, massively better, well-polished, designed and balanced, that a lot of would-be pirates will actually buy it," he wrote on his blog."I've gone from being demoralised by pirates to [being] inspired by them."His first fixes were straightforward: cutting the prices of his games and dropping copy protection to make them easier to use. He also says he's now going to try harder to make his new games more enticing - ensuring that they are sufficiently bigger and better than the last to make them worthwhile (bit.ly/pirates3).  Until Harris actually has typical sales figures, the level of success achieved by his approach remains unproven. But it is in marked contrast to the big stick and small carrot approach taken by the music, movie and computer games industries.The litigious route often pursued by media companies has brought its own sorts of success. After all, just a few weeks ago, 32-year-old Isabella Barwinska from London was ordered to pay more than &pound;16,000 in damages and costs after being found guilty of illegally sharing a pinball computer game that would have cost around &pound;10 in the shops (bit.ly/pirates4).It could be just the first of many: the lawyers acting in the case say they have thousands more writs in the pipeline on behalf of a consortium of big industry names such as Codemasters and Atari.However, while it might provide a financial fix and some headlines, not everybody agrees with prosecutorial tactics. Peter Moore, the head of EA Sports and one of the most influential figures in the games industry, said recently that he was concerned about the image these high-profile prosecutions were sending out."I'm not a huge fan of trying to punish your consumer," he told the Gamesindustry.biz website at the Leipzig Games Convention (bit.ly/pirates5). "Yes, we've got to find solutions, we absolutely should crack down on piracy, but at the same time I think there are better solutions than chasing people for money."Problem tapedThe greatest fear among industry insiders is that they could repeat the mistakes of record labels, which have tried to sue those who illegally download music but ended up damaging their own reputations. Despite a number of large settlements made by music filesharers in courts in the UK and elsewhere, statistics indicate that levels of illicit copying have not reduced significantly.The fact remains, however, that copying is a serious issue for the &pound;15bn games industry - and one that has been a concern for decades. In the 1980s, youngsters would duplicate the latest game simply by copying the audio tapes they came on. However, as games have grown more complex - especially with the internet allowing people to pass on files around the world in seconds - the high cost of making a new release has made producers keen to find an answer to illicit copying and outright piracy (where people sell games they have copied). After all, there is a huge amount on the line for the people behind best-selling games. Highly realistic, cinematic titles such as Grand Theft Auto, Bioshock and Crysis take years of development, millions of pounds and hundreds of staff.With such high stakes, few developers might be following the same extreme path taken by Harris - but others are experimenting with new ways such as in-game advertising, sponsorships, marketing deals and other ways to lower prices and so entice people into buying legitimate titles rather than just copying them.Indeed, a best-selling package like last year's Orange Box release - a bundle that included three episodes of Half-Life 2, the puzzle game Portal and Team Fortress 2 - has proved that better marketing is one way to try and fight piracy."I think we're going to see moreof this kind of stuff," says Jim Rossignol, an editor of games website Rock, Paper, Shotgun  (rockpapershotgun.com)."Older games made free via advertising networks, or bundled with newer games to balance out the $60 price tags; games as free, but pirate-proofed by being server-tied."Don't follow the  musicFaced with such problems, he adds, the creators of games must find innovative answers. "The advertising model is an interesting one, because it makes premium games free to play on a session-by-session basis," he said. "Now we've got big names trying out the free-gaming angle in front of the kind of audience that might otherwise resort to piracy. If it's going to work, these guys will find out."Advertising might be one way out of the maze for game publishers, especially since there are lots of big names entering the field - including Google and Microsoft, which dropped as much as &pound;200m on game ad pioneer Massive in 2006. But with the advertising market likely to contract sharply in a credit crunch, adverts alone are unlikely to be enough.Despite the gloomy financial outlook, Harris says he feels positive about his experiment. "If somebody got up in front of their company and said there were 50,000 people downloading your game illegally, that might sound catastrophic. To me it's 50,000 potential customers.""Don't get me wrong - I'm still opposed to piracy. I just hope we're not going to nosedive into oblivion like the music industry did."Games in numbers200mAmount in sterling thought to have been paid by Microsoft for Massive16,000Amount in sterling that Isabella Barwinksa paid in costs and damages15bnEstimated value in sterling of the computer gamers industry
MSRC stitches picsMicrosoft Research Cambridge has released AutoCollage, a desktop application that can automatically make a collage from a set of individual photos.bit.ly/autocollageHis Master's JoystickHMV's chief executive Simon Fox told The Sun: "Within the next 12 to 18 months, it's possible games will be bigger than music for us."bit.ly/hmvgamesAsus glides aheadThe Asus P552w - based on Windows Mobile 6.1 Pro - will be the first PDA/smartphone with Glide, "an innovative touch-responsive user interface".bit.ly/asus552In Texas, it's the lawTexas, Dell's home, has introduced a program to force manufacturers to collect and recycle home PCs for free.bit.ly/texasrcWe want PEGIThe UK games industry has told the government to back the Pan-European Games Information rating system, PEGI.bit.ly/ukpegiZoominfo gets ZipiPeople-finding site Zoominfo is offering Zipi, a Microsoft Outlook plug-in that lets you search 15m Zoominfo addresses from Outlook email.bit.ly/zipiGamescom plays in CologneThis week, the giant Koelnmesse is hosting the Gamescom trade exhibition (September 9-13).gamescom-cologne.comAI movie contestThe University of Dundee wants 15-21 year olds to make short YouTube videos on the theme: Artificially Intelligent.imd.dundee.ac.uk/competition
Apple underwhelmed expectant fans on Tuesday night, announcing tweaks to its iPod range and a bug-fixing software update for the iPhone, but no dramatic enhancements to its offering - and, despite many analysts' expectations, no music subscription service via iTunes.The Flash-based iPod nano range was rejigged - gaining an oval profile - and now comes in a range of colours. The hard drive-based iPod classic saw its top capacity cut, from 160GB to 120GB, though the price has fallen substantially. The iPhone and iPod Touch will receive a software update, available from tomorrow, which Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said is "a big update" that "fixes lots of bugs - there will be fewer dropped calls and big battery life improvements." Backing up will also be faster, he said.He also touted the iPod Touch as a potential gaming console, noting the number of games now sold through the iTunes Store. But at &pound;169 for the cheapest Touch - compared to &pound;180 for the wildly popular Nintendo Wii - it may be a hard argument to justify to game players.The launch left observers and analysts underwhelmed - especially after Apple had privately suggested ahead of the launch that it would be a "big deal".Instead, the focus returned to Jobs, who again looked gaunt in only his second public appearance since June. Then, there was speculation that he had suffered a reoccurence of the pancreatic cancer with which he was diagnosed in October 2003. Jobs had nothing to say on the subject - although he took the opportunity to open the presentation by echoing Mark Twain's famous observation that "The reports of my death are greatly exaggerated," referring to the accidental publication last month by the financial services company Bloomberg of his pre-prepared obituary.Also absent was any indication of two announcements that have been avidly expected since Apple launched the iTunes Store in 2003: a subscription music model, and the Beatles back catalogue on iTunes. They are now challenging the Loch Ness Monster and Yeti for elusiveness.Jobs touted the dominance of iTunes and the iPod: iTunes has 65 million customers and is the top music distributor "in any format", while NPD research data for the US show the iPod - of which 160m have been sold - with a 73% market share, against 2.6% for Microsoft's Zune, still only available in the US.
Stop winding up fearsWhile we cannot disagree that there are some problems with a small number of wind turbines worldwide, I felt that the article was written to support the anti-wind faction in the UK (Spinning to destruction, September 4). A number of the facts stated in the article were either incorrect or misleading. The issue of the location of a planned turbine in Bradford some 300ft from residential housing: this is 100 metres and the minimum that can be considered for the placement of wind turbines to housing in the UK is 600 metres (about 1,800 feet). Second, you state that most turbines turn at 25rpm: early turbines turned at this speed but most  turbines turn between 12rpm and 15rpm. In &Aring;rhus, the blade did not come loose: the turbine lost computer control and it went over-speed, causing the blade to hit the tower. Any of the issues related to wind turbine failure are due to storms and extreme winds. I think the scare tactic you have used is misleading and without true merit.Jamie R Mathlin,Great Torrington&middot; Any new energy technology will have teething troubles, but for wind power, it's mostly confined to a few broken turbines on remote hillsides. Less of the scaremongering, please.Dave Addey,Leamington SpaThis story shows a propensity for wind farms to disintegrate and send broken blades flying through the air. It doesn't talk about the dangerous effects of wind farms' pulsating noise on people's health and sleep. Add this to the fact that they don't generate enough electiricity to be worth the energy expended in making them, let alone to make a significant contribution to national needs, and you have another perfect New Labour idea - expensive, ineffective and dangerous.johnbald.typepad.comWhat we should fearI am constantly inundated by clients who worry about "what ifs" that simply aren't likely to happen, but ignore the constant risks they face (Read me first, September 4). They have policies about how many executives can be in the same plane at the same time, but ignore how many are in the same taxi in NYC at the same time.blog.amber.orgThe security gate at the airport is the wrong place to be identifying terrorists. Profiling individuals at a choke point is a sure-fire way to fail, by metric of false positives (stopping a non-terrorist) or false negative (allowing a terrorist). If, instead of hiring people to keep liquids and toenail clippers off of airplanes, we'd put more effort into following leads, identifying terrorists and making their lives hell (instead of making the rest of our lives hell), we'd be better off.www.h-i-r.netFolks, let's get real: they know they aren't protecting us from anything that matters. They know they are deceiving the public, and are sucking up billions of dollars for nothing but theatre. The money goes to their friends in the form of contracts for things which do not serve any public interest.soulkiln.blogspot.comAffairs of the real heartYes, virtual sex can be real cheating, but the question is whether it makes life more bearable and reasonable (Getting up close and very personal in virtual worlds, September 4). If a virtual relationship fills the holes in people's lives, why should we not accept that it is a way of stretching life? There will be affairs that become real, but that is the ordinary way. I know many people who have had SL affairs, but the RL ones were not with SL people.sexsecond.blogspot.comVirtual sex has taken a step forward via software, but it throws up some discussion about real-world fidelity and how we behave online. The real question: which relationship is more honest? The real world where people are embarrassed to say what they really feel, or the virtual whose mask allows relationships to develop uninhibited?site.planet-38.com/blog1Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to: Letters TechnologyGuardian119 Farringdon RoadLondon EC1R 3ERTelephone:020 7239 9925Fax:020 7239 9933.ukEmail:tech@guardian.coEdited by Charles Arthur
How to create a conspiracy theory: first, make a shocking statement featuring geek heroes, corporate censorship, cowardly mainstream media and evil lawyers. Then retract it. If the US TV programme MythBusters was trying an experiment last week, it worked.The story began on July 20, when MythBusters' co-host Adam Savage told 3,000 hackers at The Last Hope, a New York hacker conference, that the programme would not be tackling RFID (radio-frequency identification) because its host broadcaster, Discovery Channel, wouldn't allow it. Savage said that during what was intended to be a research phonecall with Texas Instruments, which makes the chips used in some contactless payment cards, the show's hosts and the station were allegedly strong-armed by the credit card companies' lawyers. "Tory [Belleci, of MythBusters] still gets a little white when he describes that phone conversation," he told the assembled hackers.The video clip of Savage's talk - "I get chills just as I describe it" - was posted on YouTube on July 23 (bit.ly/rfid2) but went largely unnoticed until August 30, when the science fiction writer Bruce Sterling sparked a storm by noting its existence in his Wired blog (bit.ly/rfid3).Just the facts, manTexas Instruments promptly issued a rebuttal: there was only one lawyer on the call along with several product managers, technical questions were asked and answered, none of the pressure Savage was describing took place and a few weeks later the company was told that the storyline had changed.On September 3, Savage issued a retraction - "I got some of my facts wrong" - and accepted TI's version; Belleci wasn't even on the call. "The decision not to continue on with the RFID story was made by our production company, Beyond Productions, and had nothing to do with Discovery, or their ad sales department." Conspiracy-wise, even better.But the really interesting question remains: what could the show have revealed about RFID and its use in payment cards, passports and the other applications we're supposed to take on trust?RFID began appearing in passports, US payment cards and the UK's Oyster cards, used to make payments on London's Tubes and buses, in 2005. Many papers published in 2005 and 2006 highlight flaws in the chips' implementation. A 2005 RFID Journal paper from Johns Hopkins University and RSA Laboratories exposed weaknesses in the cryptography implemented in the Texas Instruments chip used in automobile keys and the "Speedpass" keyfob contactless payment device used in petrol stations. In 2006, Ross Anderson, author of Security Engineering, outlined the chips' vulnerability to "man-in-the-middle" attacks. More recently, the cipher used in Oyster cards has been broken and researchers have bypassed the public key infrastructure needed to manage the cryptographic keys for RFID passports.Another problem: data stored on today's chip and pin cards is not encrypted. "You can do a lot of the functionality that you could do with the chip via the RFID interface because it doesn't ask for the pin," says the freelance security researcher Adam Laurie (rfidiot.org). Laurie was also part of the project that cracked the RFID British passport. "We can take the digital passport, remove the picture, put in my picture, re-sign the content and put it back to the chip," he says. "The only defence is checking digital signature content against a backend database." Making that work requires signing up to the Public Key Directory; only five countries have done so - and the UK isn't one of them.Says Anderson: "The solution to such problems is to design the systems properly in the first place. However, I hear from the designers of EMV [chip and PIN] that 'it's not our fault. At every stage we gave the banks options, with tradeoffs between price and security - and they went for cheap and nasty every single time.'"But companies have not tried to silence Anderson's group of researchers. "The industry were generally unresponsive, but didn't try to stop us publishing," says Steven J Murdoch, whose work showing that the pin-entry devices in common use in UK shops do not adequately protect card details and pins was profiled on Newsnight in February. "Once the BBC got involved, they started to be a little more responsive." At that point, he says, all but one of the manufacturers began answering their questions.Ari Juels, chief scientist and director of RSA Laboratories (part of the storage company EMC), is co-author of a 2006 paper analysing weaknesses in first-generation RFID-enabled credit cards. "There was a fair amount of dissatisfaction in some quarters around our work," he says. Certainly the industry has improved parts of its design. But, he says: "Unless the industry publishes open specifications - which we would encourage them to do - it's difficult for the scientific and technical community to evaluate the soundness of the infrastructure they've created."Cracking upJuels' key message, however, is much broader: each crack by itself may seem minor or, as companies often claim, unlikely to happen "in the wild". But each is a piece of what in 20 years, when billions of RFID tags are everywhere, could be a giant infrastructure. "The larger worry is that industry will put in place standards that meet short-term deployment needs but don't meet long-term infrastructure needs, and function creep will mean that tags are used in unpredictable ways. It's best to ensure that security and privacy are thought through from the start. There's importance in the principle, even if not in the application."
Microsoft said it wanted its new advertising campaign featuring Jerry Seinfeld to "spark a new conversation". And it did, provoking hundreds of news stories and thousands of blog posts. Whether it was the kind of conversation Microsoft wanted is another matter. My own blog post began by asking: "On which planet does this advert make any sense?"For the benefit of the handful of people who have inexplicably missed the viral, "Shoe Circus" features Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates buying a pair of shoes. Jerry Seinfeld is passing by the store and pops in to help. It's not a "soft sell," it's a "no sell": an ad that is, like the long-defunct Seinfeld TV comedy series, about nothing.I watched the ad again, looking for subliminals, and noted the message repeated on signs and posters: Why pay more? Gates is famously tight with money, and perhaps this is a veiled response to Apple, which doesn't even compete in the mainstream market for PCs costing &pound;250 to &pound;500. But if that's all Microsoft wanted to say, it could have said it better for less.Nonetheless, there are a few points to be made. The first is that "Shoe Circus" is just a teaser for a $300m campaign. There are more to come. After years watching wretched TV advertising, I have no trouble believing that the ad agency is screwing it up, but really it's too soon to say.The second point is that the campaign is not about selling Windows, or even Vista, which is is already at least four times bigger than anything else except Windows XP, which is actually its main competition.It's true that Vista wasn't delivered on time or with many of the features that were promised. It's also true that Microsoft was let down by driver writers and that some PC manufacturers sold Vista poorly set up on barely adequate hardware. (There's a US class action lawsuit about Microsoft's use of the "Windows Vista Capable" label.) But those things should no longer be problems. When correctly installed on suitable hardware, Vista is now very good indeed, and better than XP at a similar stage in its life.Remember, Microsoft had to devote 18 months to fixing XP's woeful security with the release of XP SP2. Vista doesn't have that sort of problem, and Vista code will provide the bulk of the next version, Windows 7. Much still needs to be done, and Microsoft is running a programme to improve installations. Basically it runs PCs through hundreds of standardised tests that measure things like boot time, compatibility, reliability and security, to show manufacturers where their systems aren't as good as they could be.Microsoft has also experimented with a mocked-up retail outlet, and some of the $300m investment in "Shoe Circus" will be spent providing US dealers with more than 150 in-store assistants. These won't be like Apple "geniuses" and will provide no support. It's an attempt - perhaps a foolish one - to improve the sales process.Ultimately, then, the Shoe Circus project isn't about selling kit, it's about improving infrastructure - drivers, software compatibility, installation and sales quality. Given Windows' advantages in the range of PCs from handhelds to supercomputers, the massive volumes of hardware and software available, the peripheral support, ease of use and price/performance, more than 90% of people are probably going to buy Windows anyway. Microsoft just needs to make moving to Vista a feel-good experience instead of, for some, a slightly scary one.
The most important influence on videogame design now is not some hot sci-fi flick or wicked graphics effect. It is YouTube. While a DIY TV channel is taking over the planet, in the spirit of the DIY TV channel, the most exciting PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 releases are creative, cooperative experiences. Sure, map editors and level design tools have been given away with games for years, but these were always for the superhardcore. In the latest games, creativity is not just a central component - it more or less is the game.Sony is the leader at the moment. The PS3 version of SingStar allows players to video their performances and upload them to a dedicated site. Next month will see the long-awaited release of LittleBigPlanet, a truly beautiful platform adventure in which gamers work together to build new levels.It's not just Sony. Exploiting the creativity of users is now an industry-wide concern. Xbox 360 owners can look forward to Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts, a comic book-style adventure where players create their own vehicles out of hundreds of parts, then show them off on Xbox Live. Similarly, Wii has the bizarre battle game Mushroom Men, which involves back-garden wars between tiny fungal soldiers. Here, you bodge together your own Heath Robinson-style weapons by scavenging and combining objects from the environment. Wii-wise, I love BlastWorks, a 2D shooter that features an easy-to-use editor allowing the construction of levels, enemy craft and even bullet attack patterns. Users then trade their wares on dedicated site,blastworksdepot.com. It arrives in the UK next month.Over the next five years the role of the game designer is going to change dramatically, from creative overlord to benevolent empowerer. The didactic linearity that characterised games in the last generation of hardware is a relic of an era in which underpowered processors needed to construct glittering but restrictive graphical corridors around gamers. In these days of open worlds and sandbox design, linearity and slavish adherence to the design whims of other people makes little sense.Going back to the YouTube point, the evolution of game design reflects the shift to web 2.0: there's a similar throughline of changing user experience, from consumption to communication to creation. We're all now constructing advanced content-sharing and community elements around our blogs and Facebook pages. It makes no sense, then, to turn on a console and find yourself prodded and pushed at every turn. Titles like LittleBigPlanet will, like YouTube, nudge users toward creativity without anyone even realising it.
Who'd be a property developer nowadays? The answer: people who develop online properties - rather than physical ones - by snapping up undeveloped sites in a practice known as website flipping. The principle is exactly the same as that of property development: flippers fix up the undeveloped sites and sell them for a profit. As with property development, it's all about adding value. In property, adding value may mean converting a loft. Online, it means increasing visitor traffic and improving website revenue."There are success stories every single day," says Bryan Clark ofsiteflipu.com, a website flipping blog. "Some sites have sold for hundreds of thousands of dollars with very little work involved."Many flippers are driven by thoughts of high-profile internet deals such as News Corp's $580m (&pound;330m) payout for the company behind MySpace, or Google's $1.65bn (&pound;884m) acquisition of YouTube. But most are happy to work on a much smaller scale, making a few hundred pounds a time from developments that can be turned around and sold on in as little as a few hours. A regular turnover of sites can generate a healthy income. "I've been flipping websites for about a year now," says Clark. "I've flipped somewhere in the neighbourhood of 200 sites for a profit of around $160,000. I can make as much or as little as I want in any given day."Site for sore eyesClare Hayes first became aware of website flipping four months ago. "It's a good way to earn a little extra money," she says.  Hayes recently flipped the websiteselfhelpportal4u.com. "It cost me less than &pound;10, and I sold it for &pound;150," she says. "I know that's not exactly a big money deal, but they do happen. You have to start out small, and at the moment I am still on the bottom rung of the ladder."Much of the appeal of website flipping is that it can be done from home on a small budget with a little effort and some basic web skills. "All you need is a computer, an internet connection and about &pound;10 to get you started," says Hayes. "You can work your own hours and, best of all, there is absolutely no limit to the amount of money you can make." That holds true in both directions, of course: you may make nothing if nobody wants your site.Some web-savvy entrepreneurs have turned the practice into a full-time job. "Flipping websites has allowed me to give up my day job as owner of an IT hardware company," says Clinton Lee, from Essex. "I now do this full time, and I've made several hundred thousand pounds in the last couple of years."Lee got into it after discovering the earning potential of Google's AdSense ad-serving programme. "One month when we were too busy to take new orders we placed AdSense ads on the company website," he says. "The theory was that visitors who clicked the ads would be taken to our competitors and we'd earn a few pennies per click. When the website showed &pound;4,500, &pound;5,400 and &pound;4,700 in AdSense earnings for three consecutive months, I decided that those figures beat slogging 80 hours a week. I ceased trading, outsourced our existing warranty commitments, continued running ads on the company website and started buying other sites." Lee bought the website techbooksforfree.com for &pound;1,300 and sold it for &pound;17,500.Programmes such as AdSense and its competitor AdBrite, which generate cash through content-related paid-for ads, are key tools used to monetise websites. They then increase visitor traffic using search engine optimisation (SEO) techniques to improve their ranking with search engines such as Google and Yahoo. A high ranking, achieved via search engine-friendly design, link-building and keywords, can increase visitor traffic. A website that is making money and attracting visitors quickly becomes a saleable commodity. Free services such asdnscoop.com, which generate website value estimates, can help flippers set price tags.Rapid turnoverOnce sites have been spruced up, they can be traded online via eBay or webmaster-specific sites such assitepoint.com. SitePoint Marketplace users are trading more than $1.2m worth of websites every month. "We're seeing over 2,000 new auctions listed per month and regular sales in the $50,000 to $200,000 range," says Matt Mickiewicz, co-founder of SitePoint. "The average website sells for between $2,000 and $3,000."But not all are in a hurry to sell their sites. "Sometimes it's worth holding on for a while to a site that's generating sizeable regular monthly cheques," says Lee. He also has some words of warning for those tempted to investigate further: "The best advice I can give first-time website flippers is to avoid falling for the biggest moneymaking scam of all - the sale of ebooks and courses on how to make money online. There are plenty of sites that offer free information for you to study."Clark also offers advice: "Start slow and don't invest a big portion of your money at any one time. There are risks involved in flipping sites, and if you become over-extended early on, you risk losing it all." Despite such risks, a growing number of people are viewing website flipping as an attractive and potentially lucrative activity."The great thing is that it's very early days and almost anyone can get involved," says Mickiewicz. "All you need is some basic internet knowledge and a willingness to learn. People who start acquiring small websites now and building their online portfolios will be the big winners in five to 10 years' time. Website trading is where domain-name investing was 10 years ago. Savvy domain-name investors who were able to get in on the ground floor were able to acquire lucrative portfolios worth millions of dollars. There's a similar opportunity now with acquiring low-maintenance, revenue-generating websites while valuations are low."
What if we fire a black hole at it?Now those fears about the Large Hadron Collider are over, let's worry about a 500km-wide asteroid hitting Earth ... as has happened six times in its history, but never to a Pink Floyd soundtrack.bit.ly/youc32Next week, it'll say "Buy Me"Esquire magazine experimented with "e-ink" for its latest issue in the US. How very 21st-century! Pity nobody mentioned that using "blink" tags went out of fashion in 1998. Imagine a shopful...bit.ly/youc33And you could write on itFor any iPhone users who miss copy-and-paste: the Apple Newton could do it, 15 years ago. (Steve Jobs killed it.)bit.ly/youc34&lt;Send links to tech@guardian.co.uk
Going on 64-bitI recently bought a new quad-core desktop machine, but I am considering increasing the amount of Ram from the 3GB now installed. Would I have to upgrade to the 64-bit version to increase my memory? I want to use my PC for gaming, but I have a fondness for my back catalogue of games.Jez RobinsonJS:As you know, 32-bit Windows can only use 4GB of memory, which means about 3.25GB after you've allowed for graphics and system use. The 64-bit versions can access more memory than your motherboard can support. However, the upgrade path from your 32-bit Packard Bell version is not smooth. Although Microsoft sells "in place upgrades" (hence the 15GB of disk space devoted to Vista), you can't upgrade from 32-bit to 64-bit Vista without reinstalling it as a new operating system.Also, you will have to pay for your new operating system. If you buy a boxed copy of Vista, you can run either the 32-bit or the 64-bit version, so the upgrade is free. (There may be a charge for shipping you a new disc: only Vista Ultimate includes media for both.) But if you have a manufacturer's pre-installed version, what you've bought is all you get. Unless Packard Bell can offer you a deal, you may have to pay &pound;70 or more for a retail or upgrade version. See Microsoft's guide atbit.ly/aj0023Whether it's worth it is a difficult question, but gamers were among the first to move to 64-bit Vista so you should be able to check for compatibility and performance of specific games online. In general, 64-bit Vista is faster and more secure, it runs 32-bit software, and cheap Ram means sales are now growing rapidly. However, it does not run old 16-bit software, and that unfortunately includes 32-bit programs with 16-bit installation routines. Two obvious solutions are to set up your PC as a dual-boot system, so you can switch between versions, or to install 32-bit Vista in a "virtual PC". There are several free virtual PC programs including Microsoft Virtual PC 2007, VMware and VirtualBox (version 1.6.2 or later). There are lots of demos and tutorials on YouTube.Office upgradeI have Microsoft Office Professional 2000 and would like to know the cheapest legal way of upgrading to Office Professional 2007.  I am not a student.Bob BakerJS:Microsoft's website says you can upgrade to Office Pro from Microsoft Works 6.0-10 or any 2000-2007 Microsoft Office program or suite except Office XP Student and Teacher (bit.ly/aj0028). You could therefore shop around for the Microsoft Office 2007 Professional Edition (Upgrade), which you can install on two computers - normally your desktop and your laptop. A slightly cheaper option is the OEM version coded MSOEM162. This is designed for original equipment manufacturers and PC system builders to sell with machines, and can only be installed on one PC. It is not necessarily suitable for consumers, bearing in mind that the OEM (in this case, you) also has to provide the support. OEM versions of software may also come without boxes, manuals, or even discs.Positively not AdobeI need to update Adobe Acrobat/Reader to read bulletins, but my attempt to download version 9 has been blocked because AVG Anti-virus (Free Edition 8.0.169) has detected Trojan horse Generic11.PWW.Cyril BraganzaJS:Adobe says AVG has acknowledged that this is a "false positive" and it will be fixed in an update:bit.ly/aj0027. Avast is also correcting a false positive.Unknown data in and outMy laptop has started to show steady data input and output as soon as it connects to the web via a wireless router. This continues for as long as I leave the machine connected. AVG 8, Ad-Aware and Spybot have revealed nothing.Robert CaldicottJS:You are right to be concerned because the unknown data traffic could be spam or worse, if your PC has been hacked. However, the most likely cause is Microsoft's Windows Update, which dribbles away in the background so as not to interfere with normal usage. Otherwise, your firewall should tell you which applications have your permission to access the internet, and which ones are active. Active processes should also be visible in the Windows Task Manager or the superior Process Explorer, a free download (bit.ly/aj0029). In your case, the culprit may be setupxv.exe, which could be malware or fake anti-spyware (bit.ly/aj0030).The web is another common source of unknown data traffic. Some pages refresh adverts or update their contents periodically without telling you, but this should stop if you close down all browsers.If you can't see what's sending traffic, you can try using a packet sniffer to capture and examine the data being transferred. Sadly, I use Wireshark (wireshark.org), which is not a simple option for beginners. There are alternatives listed at bit.ly/aj0031 and bit.ly/aj0032. SmartSniff looks easier to use (bit.ly/aj0033).Automatic backupIs there an external hard drive that is really automatic?Michael AbrahamJS:Clickfree external hard drives are promoted as offering the "first out-of-the-box automatic backup" and can handle up to 10 PCs. I've not used one, but the 160GB model was warmly recommended by a reader who bought it from QVC.Backchat&middot; Chris Berg wanted to help donate a computer to a village that has no electricity, and I suggested Aleutia (aleutia.com/). GreenNet, an ethical not-for-profit ISP based in London, says: "We work closely with Mike Rosenberg and are Aleutia's official reseller to the charity and not-for-profit sector. If you could put Chris Berg in touch with us, we'd be happy to give him some more information and tailor a solution to his needs." Seegn.apc.orgGet your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor at jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Professor Tony Moffat knows a thing or two about drugs. From dope-testing athletes to examining drugs such as cannabis or quality-control checks on prescription medicines, his expertise is much in demand. Now, as emeritus professor of pharmaceutical analysis at the School of Pharmacy, University of London, he's developed a quick portable way of testing for counterfeit medicines.Unlike other countries, counterfeit medicines are yet to become a serious problem for the UK as around 80% of all prescriptions are free on the NHS, so there's no incentive. "In the past three or four years, there have been about five instances where counterfeit medicines have infiltrated into the legitimate supply chain," says Moffat.Faking itThe motivation for counterfeiters, just as with handbags or perfumes, is profit from trading on somebody else's good name. They buy cheap, often substandard ingredients, cut down or omit active compounds and ignore quality control. Counterfeit medicines harm patients and deny pharmaceutical companies revenue for new research. Counterfeits may account for 10% of medicines globally with perhaps one third in some developing countries.You're not going to spot a counterfeit just by looking at the packet or the pills. Nor does counterfeit mean medically useless although, in places like Africa, it may contain only milk powder. "If you sell counterfeit Cialis tablets but it contains something that works, people will buy them again," says Moffat.Distinguishing counterfeit from genuine can be done, though it requires a well-equipped laboratory using techniques such as high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Both are used for quality control, an area he knows well. "We wanted to tweak the methods which we'd been developing for quality control to detect counterfeits," says Moffat.That meant bringing testing out of well-equipped laboratories and into warehouses, wholesalers, hospitals and pharmacies. As it's fast and non-destructive, Moffat felt that NIRS was the ideal tool. NIRS involves measuring the absorption of infrared light by a sample to "see" in a suspect tablet what the naked eye cannot. It produces an absorption spectrum or chemical fingerprint that is characteristic of the active pharmaceutical ingredients and the non-active ingredients.The main hurdle - other than buying a small, portable (it is used on a desktop) NIRS instrument (NIR Technology Systems), writing some software, and building a custom-made sample cell to hold tablets for testing - was to buy some counterfeit medicines and test the technique.Moffat's first attempt on the internet produced only genuine tablets. "I thought, we'll go to some sites that look really dodgy and buy them from there." This time, he succeeded, with four out of nine purchases for erectile dysfunction tablets proving counterfeit. "If you go to dodgy internet sites, there's a 50% chance that you're going to get something which is counterfeit," he warns.Since then, Moffat has obtained counterfeit medicines via the Korean Food and Drugs Agency for testing and published the results in the Journal of Near Infrared Spectroscopy. Used in conjunction with a computer for data analysis and counterfeit recognition, the NIRS instrument is sensitive enough that readings may be taken through transparent packaging.Testing, testing"It alerts you to any potential problems," says Moffat of the new screening test, which costs very little to operate. "What you can do is to take this into a warehouse and use it there. You don't need to send the stuff to a laboratory."During his research work, Moffat found out how the counterfeiters try to mimic genuine medicines. "When we shine the near-infrared beam on a tablet, it's not just picking out the active drug. It actually looks at everything which is in the tablet," he says. "We found some Cialis tablets, for example, which should contain the drug called tadalafil - they didn't. They contained sildenafil, the active drug in Viagra." And where different counterfeit tablets contain the same ingredients, this points to a common source.Dr Paul Newton of the University of Oxford's Centre for Tropical Medicine led an international epidemiological investigation into counterfeit artesunate (an anti-malarial) - work that enabled Chinese authorities to make several arrests. Laboratory tests on the counterfeits showed little or no active ingredient, which made them useless for malaria treatment. Newton therefore believes that a portable machine would help inspectors rapidly access a pharmacy's drug supply on the spot without having to wait for testing. He adds: "It will be very interesting to see how these machines perform in the field in comparison with other rapid techniques and how inexpensive they can be made."
Besides potentially revealing the underlying structure of the universe - including, perhaps, the elusive Higgs boson, the nature of dark energy and whether superstrings exist - the LHC project will show us how to manipulate vast amounts of data, in precisely the way that we will have to in the coming decades as we try to do more complex, distributed computing.After all, lots of people know that the world wide web came out of Cern, which is home once again to a particle collider project. But not many people know why the web was invented there. It was, lest we forget, because in 1989 Tim Berners-Lee, while working there, needed a manageable way to support the documentation required for Cern operations. Big servers with long directories didn't do the job; nor did Gopher or Archie, early tools that did internet searching long before Google was a glint in anyone's eye. So Berners-Lee implemented a hypertext system that would let people dig as deep as they needed to in the web of documents for the collaborative project.And today, we have a world wide web of documents and pages; arguably, every penny invested by our governments in Cern has paid off - just not in particle physics. Instead, it's been repaid through the utility of the web, and the productivity enhancements and economic growth it has enabled.Now, the LHC experiments are taking the next step. They will generate - once it's tuned and working - 2 gigabytes of data every 10 seconds, and will need to be able to store 2.2 petabytes (million gigabytes) of fresh data every year. Google processes 20 petabytes of data a day, mostly through its map applications, according to the High Scalability blog (bit.ly/lhc01); but that's slightly different from adding such vast amounts, as Cern is doing.What's more important is that, just as with the web, Cern is making its methods and programs available for free under the open source LGPL licence, and its computing model - enabling anyone who wants to build the next Google to do so with ease.But while that's unlikely, what the LHC will probably bequeath to organisations that want to learn from it is an object lesson in safely storing and then processing huge amounts of data spread all over the world.If you want to find out more about what's going on at the LHC project - in terms of output, rather than the gee-whizz of simply getting the particle beams to collide - then have at look at the Cern LHC WebHome page (bit.ly/lhc02) - and even browse the live webcams dotted around the system (all was quiet at the Alice detector -bit.ly/lhc03- when we looked on Tuesday.) And, true to its open source roots, the LHC project will be one where you'll be able to see the results evolve on the wiki pages. Open source science, indeed.
The relationship between science and technology is fascinating: at first sight, technology merely finds uses for the understanding that science provides. If you read, for example, Lewis Wolpert's little book The Unnatural Nature of Science, you will learn that technology has nothing to do with the workings of science and contributes nothing but mundane usefulness. But this really can't be true, because without technology, there wouldn't be any science in the modern sense at all.Modern science isn't unique in history because it relies on experiment; I don't even think it is about an understanding of statistics, however much that cuts off the scientifically literate from the rest of the world. No, what changed science after 1600 was the invention of the telescope and of the microscope. For the first time, what the scientist saw became something that needed conscious interpretation rather than instinctive recognition. From this stemmed the feeling that the real world was something fundamentally alien to humanity which needed to be thought about in alien, "scientific" ways. And since then, almost every scientific advance has relied on the invention of new instruments and new technology. The only important exceptions to this rule are Mendelian genetics and the theory of evolution through natural selection. Gregor Mendel could have done his work in any monastery after about 900AD; Darwin needed to travel to gather evidence, but most of his work was just unaided thought.We don't do unaided thought any longer: we use software; and any technological advance nowadays depends on software, just as almost all new scientific instruments are at least half computer. This is both a triumph and a bottleneck. Science is by its nature a decentralised activity, and the more of it that is performed by robots - which modern instruments now are - the harder it becomes for any central authority to keep track of what's going on. Yet science depends on authority: if a scientist can't trust what he or she reads, the whole enterprise breaks down. That's why scientific fraud is punished so mercilessly, and that's why scientists don't trust Wikipedia. If any article can be edited by anyone, there is no guarantee that any of it is true.So how can scientific knowledge be decentralised and still stay trustworthy? The answer may have been found in a piece of software innovation announced in Nature Genetics: a wiki called WikiGenes, developed at MIT, which tracks and makes public the author of every single word. Simply by clicking on a word you will highlight its author's name, and simultaneously everything else they have written in that article. Clicking on the name should reveal a biography, though in my tentative explorations of the system that part doesn't seem to work yet. At a stroke, this abolishes the main disadvantage of Wikipedia, which is that everything in it must be independently verified because anonymous entries have no intrinsic authority.If WikiGenes takes off it will become a place where scientists can advance their own careers by helping others. It hardly matters which motive is more important providing that the contributions come in. In an attempt to make this easier, the wiki also has a visual editor, while there are also tools to look up standardised definitions of genes and other technical terms and link to them without effort, something that is essential to prevent confusion and ensure that everyone is contributing to the same body of knowledge.The interesting thing is not so much the technology, but the thoughtful way in which it has been designed to fit with the social dynamics of science. Authorship isn't just vital for readers to know. Credit for authorship of papers is what scientific careers are built on. "How many scientists would publish their research and best theories in Nature without authorship, anonymously?" asks Robert Hoffman, the MIT computer scientist who wrote the system, in his article introducing it.What makes the project fascinating is that it shows that scientific advance is not just dependent on technology, but on sociology, too: the ways that scientists can work together are just as important as the instruments they use; and both, today, are made in software.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
I have been watching a trailer for Chelsey OMG, a TV series for 16- to 25-year-olds to be shown next month on the social network Bebo, which has more than 80 million users. It is full-length for its genre - three minutes an episode. This is so as not to strain the attention-span of today's teenies and it allows episodes to be viewed secretly at work without reducing the nation's productivity.Chelsey, a young American, has landed in planet London trying to navigate her way among dysfunctional people, helped by suggestions from the audience. It is full of interactivity, including intrusions into real lives with the option for viewers to become "friends" of the stars. If it takes off after a few episodes, the production company Channel X will know the numbers watching - including what sort of people they are - so they can try to finance the rest of it through a sponsor. The dream is that it will run and run, becoming a web hit then a film and then a book as the fairy tale is completed.I have no idea whether it will succeed. It is the latest of a growing number of Generation Web soaps - cue in MySpace's Quarterlife and Endemol's The Gap Year, for a start - as the net becomes a medium for television. If kids won't go to the television set then television must come to them wherever they are - probably networking on Facebook, MySpace or Bebo. There may be a lesson for newspapers here.These programmes are not made with Hollywood budgets. They are created increasingly by people who honed their skills at home in the polytechnic of YouTube and cut their teeth on very low budgets and self-taught skills. The next David Puttnam will probably come from one of these serials or from the exploding number of web television channels. The trend to routing television through the internet covers so many activities that it is difficult to put a single label on it. One of the leading trendsetters is the BBC, partly through using Bebo and other channels but overwhelmingly through the astonishing success of its iPlayer - 21m requests in August - enabling anyone in the UK to replay radio or TV programmes from the previous seven days in an impressively user-friendly way. Web TV also covers watching television using a Nintendo Wii console, where  the programme is routed through the internet before it appears on a regular TV set. For a list of numerous TV channels that you can see on the web go to viewmy.tv.But the really interesting things are happening where users are creating their own programmes and then either uploading them to YouTube and vodpod (the easy option) or choosing one of an exploding number of sites that provide you with your own global channel (usually for free) on mobile, PC or both. These include sites such as Kyte, hulu.com (fast-rising but only available in the US), wi-fitv.com (enabling you to buy a social station), magnify.net, mogulus.com and the UK's worldtv.com which, when linked to the mobile channel qik, enables you to put live footage from the video camera on a smartphone directly on to your own global tv channel.None of these are certain to succeed. Often the more amazing the technology, the less likely it is to triumph. It is almost preposterous that so many sites are offering us a free global television channel. Even a few years ago, that would have cost millions. But as digital cameras and cameraphones get better and cheaper, the scope for a whole new genre of creativity is enormous. At the moment progress is held back partly by the newness of it all (hence some of the dross on YouTube), the lack of a route to hook into all the advertising revenue that is migrating to the web (though that is starting to be solved) and, despite YouTube, the lack of a suitable aggregator to enable your channel to be known to potential users. The big breakthrough may come with mobile phones, as three-minute films are ideal for them. There is a fortune to be made there by someone.
The Pentax Optio A40 (SRP &pound;169) looks designed for parties. It's quite small - though better suited for a handbag than a trouser pocket - it's got a big, bright screen, a five-spot auto focus system, anti-shake, face recognition, a big CCD that supposedly cuts down on the noise (speckling in dark areas) you'd expect from a 12MP camera, red-eye reduction and autofocus.With all that in mind, I tested it in the exacting conditions of a house party and then in a London club: given those conditions, going for Green (idiot) mode seemed the wisest choice. Choosing that was of a challenge in itself, as this camera has loads of modes - including pet mode, portrait mode (with sub-choices of natural skin tone, portrait or half-length portrait), flower mode, night scene, sport (with a sub-choice of snow and surf) ... the list goes on. Or you can make your own decisions about aperture and shutter speed - though finding the mode you want involves wading through a lot of submenus."Green" mode would, it was claimed, detect faces, focus on them and then fire the flash. In practice, that didn't work very well. First, I wasn't sure when the shutter was going to fire, so it took me (and my subjects) by surprise a couple of times, and I missed several shots. More importantly, half the time it didn't focus on the face, going instead for a pin-sharp shot of what was behind the person, even if their face was in the centre of the frame. Red-eye reduction didn't work all the time, either, giving my friends rather scary-looking glares in some pictures.Although I'd use this device primarily for parties and going out, I put it through its paces elsewhere too, including taking pictures of my cat. Her fur is orange, black and white: this was a challenge for a camera that offers you settings based on the colours of your pet's fur. Pictures of her indoors were washed out: the flash blasts out a lot of light at close range but doesn't penetrate very far. Autofocus didn't work very well outdoors, either; it only managed to focus where I wanted it to about half the time when I was taking pictures in the garden. Colours, though, were rich and true.Noise is an issue with a camera that shoots such high-res images, and certainly pictures taken at the party with the flash had quite a lot in the darker areas. And for a camera that's probably going to live in a handbag, the fact that it doesn't come with a slipcase is puzzling.There's also video and sound recording, as you'd expect, which makes it a competent but not entirely consistent camera.Pros: Nice to handle, power button designed not to come on in a bagCons: Overly complex menus, dodgy autofocus, no slipcasebit.ly/pentax
Despite the dismal summer weather, these are happy days for the government's weather forecasters. The Meteorological Office last week published annual accounts showing profits of &pound;14m for 2007-08, up 56% on the previous year's. As a government-owned "trading fund", it paid a dividend of &pound;11m to the Treasury.But, as usual with the government's quasi-commercial information activities, that's not the whole story. Of the organisation's turnover of &pound;177m, only &pound;27m came from the commercial world. Most of the rest came from public bodies - that is, taxpayers' money swirling around between different official bodies. The Free Our Data campaign has long argued that sustaining this money-go-round carries a cost to the knowledge economy. But is it really blocking anyone? Is there really a gap in the market for private weather forecasters who can't afford to spend tens of millions of pounds on the latest IBM supercomputing kit, as the Met Office has just done?Yes, says veteran meteorologist Richard Pettifer, general secretary of the Association of Private Meteorological Services. The key is free data. In a recent paper in the Royal Meteorological Society's journal Meteorological Applications, Pettifer says that the market in national weather services in Europe is close to saturation - but that there is a huge potential in the "two-penny market" for cheap local forecasts. To provide such forecasts, suppliers must "be flexible, able to respond quickly to new customer requirements and, above all, have low overheads and fixed costs".These characteristics are the antithesis of national organisations. Although the Met Office is better than some of its counterparts at making data available, the costs and complexities of licensing data stunt growth. "The data are subject to wholesale pricing that is too high and in some cases there is a failure to supply the data." The solution? European law on public sector information should close what he calls the "loopholes" that let government agencies recover unspecified costs through sales.The Met Office's future, along with that of other information businesses operating as trading funds, is under examination by the government's Shareholder Executive. In its annual report this week, the executive says the study will "examine the impact any changes to the current pricing, access and licensing regimes for the information the funds hold or create would have on the trading funds' business models". The study will also distinguish more clearly what information is required by government for public policy. This is the information that the Free Our Data campaign argues should be made available for re-use by all comers. The study is due to report by Budget 2009, next spring.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog
