"THE FUTURE", WROTE the novelist William Gibson in a justifiably famous aphorism, "is already here: it's just not evenly distributed".The challenge is to spot those uneven­ly distributed peeks into our future. The Apple iPad launch provoked a storm of peeking: optimists saw it as a sign that the computer industry had finally got the message that most people can't be bothered with the mysteries of operating systems and software updates and want an information appliance that "just works"; pessimists saw it as a glimpse into an authoritarian world dominated either by governments or a few powerful companies; sceptics saw it as just another product launch.Last week provided yet another enigmatic glimpse of what may lie in store. TheWashington Postsaid Google, still reeling from the sophisticated cyber-attack that allegedly prompted a rethink of its activities in China, had turned to the US National Security Agency for help. ThePostreported that there are delicate talks on teaming up with the spooks with the goal of "fortifying Google's defences against the kind of espionage-oriented hacking attacks launched from China against it and dozens of other US companies in December".If you think this is creepy, then join the club. In terms of collective IQ, Google is the smartest company in cyberspace: for five years it's been taking the cleverest graduates from elite universities and the most experienced computer engineers. It's been such a magnet for talent that even Microsoft is enraged. In 2005, for example, an ex-Microsoft engineer named Mark Lucovsky alleged in a sworn statement to a Washington state court that Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, became so enraged on hearing that Lucovsky was about to leave Microsoft for Google, that he picked up his chair, and threw it across his office. (Ballmer called this a "gross exaggeration".)So Google is unlikely to be turning to the NSA for technical advice. Why then is it calling in the spooks? One reason could be that the world's dominant internet company is now in the crossfire of early skirmishes of the next cold war.This thought was reinforced byFinancial Timescolumnist Gideon Rachman. He'd been to the International Institute for Strategic Studies for a briefing on its annual survey, Military Balance. "The thing I found most interesting," he said, "was the confirmation that cyber-security is the hot issue … John Chipman, the head of the IISS, says the institute is about to launch a study of cyber-security which raises all sorts of issues. What if a country's infrastructure could be destroyed as effectively by a cyber-attack as by an invasion of tanks? How do you defend against that? How do you identify the culprits? What does international law have to say  – might we have to revise our definitions of what constitutes an act of war?"Chipman argues, plausibly, that we are now at an equivalent period to the early 1950s. Just as strategists had to devise whole new doctrines to cope with the nuclear age, so they will have to come up with new ideas to cope with the information age."Another glimpse of a possible future comes from the British Council. A surprising source of such insights, you might think: Oone used to associate the council with cultural imperialism and heritage-fuelled nostalgia. But things have changed. The British Council has got technology. "Learn, share, connect worldwide" is the slogan on its website. It commissioned Charles Leadbeater to think about the cultural implications of "cloud computing" – ie when the network, rather than the PC, becomes the computer.His report, "Cloud Culture: the future of global cultural relations", is being launched tomorrow with a debate at the ICA (details at http://bit.ly/9ZTSin). It's a well-informed, provocative sketch of a world in which most cultural products will be published online and held in the "cloud" enabled by the huge server farms of Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Apple etc. As a primer on the debate between optimists and pessimists about the cultural implications of ubiquitously available internet access, it'll be hard to beat.Leadbeater calls himself a "realistic optimist" and thinks a cloud-based approach to cultural relations will build communities of collaboration around shared interests and ideas on an unimaginable scale. As a realistic pessimist, I hope he's right. But I keep coming back to the question: who controls the cloud? And where does the NSA fit into this?
It is a vast orphanage, yet its inhabitants are not children, but millions of books that have been unceremoniously dumped by their owners, locked away unseen and unread. Many of the books' authors are still alive. That is not the problem. The trouble is that the copyright owners – the publishers – no longer think they will profit from making these books commercially available. Yet the owners decline to free the books and make them publicly available, in case someone else makes money from them. Many books will only be in commercial print for a couple of years before they are packed off to the orphanage to spend decades in the dark.A tragically high proportion of our culture lies trapped in this cultural coma, including perhaps 95% of commercially published books and tens of thousands of films. That is why Google's project to digitise more than seven million orphaned books, as part of a digital library that could exceed the Library of Congress, should be welcomed. A treasure trove of culture and ideas will be opened up for more people than ever to access. No one else was going to do it, so Google is footing the bill. That should be good for all of us.Yet Google's plans have also induced a sense of foreboding, chiefly among publishers and writers. By liberating the orphans, Google will acquire huge power over the future of publishing. It  will be able to head off potential competition from other databases of digital books. As we trawl through Google's library, the company will acquire yet more information about our habits and interests, which it will aggregate in its vast servers, and analyse with its clever algorithms, to sell advertising to us in yet more ingenious ways. A profit-driven corporation, run by self-confessed software nerds, is an unlikely custodian of the world's literary heritage.The debates over Google's plans are just the first of many to come about who will control our culture when so much of it is stored in vast clouds of data swirling above us. Google is the first and most successful exponent of a new kind of economic power: cloud capitalism.Another is Apple, which, like Google, can appear both very open, public spirited even, and cleverly commercial. Apple's beautiful devices, the iPod and the iPhone, are made much more compelling because of the carefully managed clouds of music and applications that they allow access to. The iTunes cloud has provided a model for how to make money from culture online, but it also includes masses of free educational content. The iPhone cloud has created an entirely new market for people to sell content and applications through mobile phones, and so turned the mobile phone industry on its head.These early exponents of cloud capitalism are setting the template for others to follow in the next decade. As they do, the internet, which even in its short life as the information superhighway and cyberspace, will change once more in ways that will engender both excitement and foreboding.Not long ago we had stand-alone computers, in my case an Amstrad with a green blinking screen, on which I kept my paltry data and simple software. The internet linked these separate computers, so that files could be sent, for example, as attachments to emails, peer-to-peer. The web landed on top of the internet to link separate documents. Browsers let us surf these links. The ethics underpinning all this came from a mixture of hippies, geeks and 1960s academics who believed in collaboration to share information and ideas.The internet that the cloud capitalists want to give us is quite different. In cloud computing, our data – emails, documents, pictures, songs and software — will be stored remotely in a digital cloud hanging above us, always there to access from any device: computer, television, games console, hand-held and mobile. We should be able to draw down as much or as little of the shared cloud as we need.When theNew York Timeswanted to make available on the web 11 million articles dating from 1851 to 1989, the paper scanned in the stories, converted them to TIFF files, and uploaded them to Amazon's cloud service S3, taking up four terabytes of space on Amazon's remote servers. Apparently someone in the IT department signed up for the service on the web using a credit card. Then using Amazon's EC2 computing platform, the TIFF files were turned into PDF files. The paper created an archive of 11 million articles entirely byusing resources borrowed from the cloud.The promise is that we might get as many different kinds of computer-generated clouds as there are in the sky, from solid stratus to high-altitude cirrus. TheWorld Digital Library, which is being created by a set of the world's leading museums, will be a permanent, global public cloud. Wikipedia is a cloud of self-managed, user-generated information. Some clouds will emerge in a crisis and have a fleeting life. Ushahidi emerged after Kenya's disputed elections in 2007-08 for people to report where violent attacks were taking place by using a mashed-up version of Google Maps.The machines making these clouds are vast, energy-efficient data centres and server farms – 7,000 in the US to date. Google has two million servers operating around the world. Microsoft is reportedly adding up to 35,000 servers a month in places such as its data centre outside Chicago, which covers 500,000 sq feet (46,000 sq metres), costs $500m and will hold 400,000 servers.The rise of cloud capitalism has led to a vicious civil war with the media old guard: last year, Rupert Murdoch accused Google of stealing his content and unveiled plans to charge his online readers. Yet the truth is that old media industries will increasingly rely on the cloud to get to their customers, whether it is books on ereaders, online newspapers on an iPhone or films on an iPad.However the potential power of these cloud providers raises all sorts of fears, not least for privacy, security and reliability: outages of Google servers have left millions of gmail users without a service. There will be disputes over who owns the particles in the cloud: witness the furore over whether Facebook owns pictures posted by its members.More worryingly, commercial providers of cloud services will have strong incentives to manage their users to maximise revenues and to discourage them from roaming from one service to another. Providers of cloud services are bound to have preferred suppliers of software and other services they will promote. The cloud capitalists will want to harvest all they can from their clouds, which means turning you and me, our preferences and interactions into pieces of information to be analysed by algorithms. They will not see us as readers, customers or members, but as bits of linked information.We could soon find cloud services trying to shape our lives. An algorithm at Facebook recently recommended that I reconnect with my wife (we live together very happily, thanks), while Amazon recommended I buy a copy of my own book. Clumsy nudges such as this are not the worry; we should worry when the algorithms become so sophisticated that we don't realise it is happening.Perhaps most worrying of all will be the relationship between these corporate clouds, holding vast amounts of data about us, and governments keen to bring the web under control, whether in the name of security, decency or maintaining social order. Governments have not known what to make of the freewheeling internet; they will be much more comfortable dealing with a few corporations that will turn the free-for-all into something more manageable.Governments are busy trying to get the internet under control, while traditional media companies fight a series of doomed rearguard actions against the web. The real power is passing to the cloud capitalists who are organising a digital landscape that is only just coming into view. What will get lost in all of this are the interests of citizens and consumers. Whose cloud is it anyway?This essay is based onCloud Culture: How the web is shaping global cultural relations, published tomorrow byCounterpoint, the think tank of the British Council.
Privacy campaigners expressed shock last night after it emerged that large amounts of confidential personal information held about British citizens on a giant computer network spanning the European Union could be accessed by more than 500,000 terminals.The figure was revealed in a Council of the European Union document examining proposals to establish a new agency, based in France, that would manage much of the 27 EU member states' shared data. But the sheer number of access points to the Schengen Information System (SIS) – which holds information regarding immigration status, arrest ­warrants, entries on the police national ­computer and a multitude of personal details – has triggered concerns about the security of the data.Statewatch, a group that monitors civil liberties in Europe, said it was aware of a case in Belgium where personal information extracted from the system by an official was sold to an organised criminal gang."It is well known that the greater the points of access, the greater the number of people who have access and the greater the chance that data will be misplaced, lost or illegally accessed," said Tony Bunyan, director of Statewatch. "The idea that mass databases can be totally secure and that privacy can be guaranteed is a fallacy."The rapid expansion of the EU has played a significant part in increasing the size of the network. In 2003, there were 125,000 computer terminals across the EU with access to the system, according to official documents. But following EU enlargement, the number of computer terminals with access to the system increased dramatically.According to the Council of the European Union "Inter-institutional File", "the SIS is built around a central database that is networked, via national systems, to more than half a million terminals located within the security services of the member states". The file goes on to explain that the system "currently contains more than 30m alerts [for wanted persons, stolen vehicles and stolen or lost identity papers and documents]". While the SIS is credited by its supporters with helping to track wanted criminals and illegal immigrants, there are concerns that the personal data it holds could be invaluable for fraudsters.
Michael John GristIn Japan, Haikyo is a word for abandonment and also a verb to describe the growing hobby of exploring its modern ruins. Photographer and writer Michael John Grist has an excellent gallery of his visits to derelict love hotels, decaying hospitals, factories, sport stadiums and museums. All are oddly fascinating, post-apocalyptical and strangely beautiful, especially the overgrown theme parks with their rusted rollercoasters and water slides that haven't seen action since the mid-80s. There's also fiction, reviews and a great piece on nuclear explosion craters.The Tobolowsky FilesStephen TobolowskyYou may recognise Stephen Tobolowsky as the over enthusiastic Josh Groban fan Sandy Ryerson from Glee, or as company man Bob in Heroes. He is one of those "isn't he the bloke in?" people, a character actor who pops up in dozens of movies who you can never quite name. Tobolowsky is also something of a master storyteller, as evidenced by his one-man film Stephen Tobolowsky's Birthday Party and this wonderful series of podcasts from US film site slashfilm.com. As well as including tales of his first kiss, details from the set of Deadwood and anecdotes about his disastrous early career, the podcasts offer rather mind-blowing pictures of a younger Tobolowsky with hair.Blog roll: JD SalingerBook CoversCollection of covers for Catcher In The Rye.Walking In Holden's FootstepsNew York Times' map of Manhattan locations in Catcher In The Rye.Dead CaulfieldsChronologies of stories plus old letters and photos.Catching SalingerVideo doc about two phonies who road trip to visit the reclusive author.New YorkerStories they published, including the uncollected Hapworth 16, 1924.BananafishWiki of Salinger's works plus news archive.Catcher In The Rye And Related MattersHolden Caulfield's eternal place in pop culture.What we learned on the web this weekDogs driving! Aargh!Dogs aregreat driversThe internetis made of catsKaty Perryhas a bit of a rashSome spectacularlybad replacements for milk in coffeeCanned beeris 75 years oldHow topredict who'll win the most Olympic medalsA disturbingcure for slothWhatSo You Think You Should Dance should be likeSome optimisticways to be negativeWhat happensif you Google "Where is Chuck Norris?"Five emotionsyou never knew you had
This time in 2004, Mark Zuckerberg was just a kid at Harvard starting to wonder whether his latest project - a little social network called Facebook - would be a success. Now he's sitting on top of a goldmine.With the world's biggest social net nowcelebrating its sixth anniversary, Zuckerberg doesn't seem to be letting up: indeed, the company has taken the time to announce that Facebooknow has 400m users, that it has forged anew search deal with Microsoftand is rolling out a newtweaked versionof the site's constantly shifting homepage.It's been a dizzying rise - and the past year, in particular, has seen astonishing growth - with an already substantial user base doubling in size and the businessedging towards making a profit, too.Given all of this, it is easy to look at Facebook's rise to prominence and wonder where it's going. Is it the next Google? The next Yahoo? Even the next Microsoft?In fact, compare Zuckerberg's work to the trajectory of other internet companies, and the answer may not be what you expect.Comparing Facebook to other companies - even internet companies - is difficult. On the one hand, its closest rivals are businesses like MySpace or Yahoo, which feed off people's social activity. On the other, it seems to have a lot in common with the algorithmic, engineering approach to information that Google takes. Then again, it also has a lot in common with something like AOL, in that it brought a community of relatively inexperienced internet users together for the first time.Looking at Facebook's growth shows exactly what's going on: continuous, explosive expansion seems to be speeding up, and even if it begins to level off - which, given that it already covers around a quarter of everybody on the planet that is online, seems likely - it is still substantial.So how do we model Facebook's development?Its closest rival, MySpace, is no use - under a year older than Facebook, it sold to Rupert Murdoch while still in its infancy. Looking at big web companies like Yahoo or eBay doesn't seem to help, as they pushed themselves to exaggerated sizes on the back of the dotcom boom.Given Facebook's strategy of heavy spending for many years in order to build up market share, it appears to have taken a page out of Amazon's book. It took Jeff Bezos and friends six years to become profitable - a similar timescale to Facebook - but crucially, the company had already gone public in 1997, less than two years after it first launched.Even Google, the model that most entrepreneurs want to follow, had turned into a massively profitable business inside six years. By the time it was Facebook's age, the company was launching on the stock market.So what does Facebook do? Even in the big-spend, long-burn model, it would be considering launching publicly soon. But yet it has reiterated at various points thatit does not want to. Ultimately, however, that is the only way that its investors are going to recoup the enormous sums they have sunk into the company.Of course, these are not exactly apples-to-apples comparisons. Yahoo and Amazon were born on the cusp of the first dotcom boom and rode through on that wave; Google had changed the advertising business fundamentally by the time it matured; AOL was already venerable by the time they helped steer the revolution. Facebook, meanwhile, has had to deal with a general stock market malaise and an IPO climate suppressed by new regulation.But if looking at Facebook in this way shows us anything, it is that the site - as it turns six years old - is heading somewhere that nobody else has been before.
Patents, acquisitions and even executive orders to developers from Cupertino are providing evidence that Apple plans to launch location-based services including an advertising platform that will send you offers from nearby stores and restaurants.Jack Purcher atPatently Apple, a blog which monitors and dissects Apple's patent filings for hints of future products, has uncoveredsome very detailed information on a range of location-based features that Apple wants to add to the iPhone and other "portable devices".Mobile phones with GPS radios can already give you the weather automatically, based on your location, or show local directory information, via built-in or third party applications such as Google's mobile apps.Apple's patent applicationwill take this in a new direction. iPhone owners will have the option to share their location with the people who call them from another mobile via a live map or a text message. If you're trying to make plans on the fly or giving someone directions that would certainly save some tedious 'Where are you?' discussions. Purcher believes it will also lead to:features such as real-time public transit schedules, inner city parking availability and social networking so that you could coordinate your weekends a little better with friends on the fly. Today's patent revs-up the social networking angle and even points us to how this will work with video calling on your iPhone.Location-based services excite and scare in equal proportions, which is why some people refer to them as Stalker Tech. Apple's patent says that their service will require the consent of the callers and will use a public key infrastructure system to provide security.Search for moneyBut this isn't just about making the lives of iPhone owners easier. There is also a lot of information in this and other patents detailing what Apple hopes to get out of building location-aware technology into the iPhone. In January,Apple bought mobile advertising company, Quattro Wireless, for $275m. It came hot on the heels ofGoogle's acquisition of AdMob two months before. After a collaborative relationship, Apple and Google increasingly see each other as competitors, but this wasn't simply a move to mirror Google.According to theUnofficial Apple Webblog, Apple has said the ad network will provide apps developers a way to make money, but it's imposing limits on what advertising it will allow on the iPhone. In-app ads already exist, andApple has just warned about the use of location-based advertising. In a message to developers, Apple said:If you build your application with features based on a user's location, make sure these features provide beneficial information. If your app uses location-based information primarily to enable mobile advertisers to deliver targeted ads based on a user's location, your app will be returned to you by the App Store Review Team for modification before it can be posted to the App Store.Is that merely a warning against spamming iPhone users senseless or an attempt to pre-emptivelycarve out a niche for their own Quattro Wireless?Patently Apple found more clues to the company's plans in its patent applications. In October 2009, Apple filed a patent for a way to sell subsidised handsets using "an enforceable ad program mechanism". As Jack blogs:The straight forward deal would be simple: if you want a subsidized iPhone or even a free one, for example, then you'll have to abide by some rather basic rules involving interaction with ads that would periodically appear on your system.From the standpoint of an advertiser, this makes perfect sense. If you're walking down the street and you've got an app from a coffee chain, for instance, it would be in their interests to send you special offers as you approach one of their stores. Some people might like this, and some might find it so irritating that they will throw their iPhone across the street. Would you be willing to get a smartphone for free or at a low cost with the stipulation that you accepted mobile advertising?
Vodafone has been forced to issue a grovelling apology to its thousands of followers on Twitter after one of its customer ­service staff broadcast an obscene message on the micro-blogging service.The message appeared on Vodafone's official Twitter account, which is used by the company to deal with customer complaints. Instead of the usual helpful hints on how to make the most of its range of handsets or direct responses to individual customer service queries,VodafoneUK's 8,824 followers were treated  this afternoon to a message reading "VodafoneUK is fed up of dirty homo's and is going after beaver".Within minutes of the message appearing hundreds of Vodafone customers had contacted the company through Twitter to ask whether its account had been hacked. Despite Vodafone deleting the message from its Twitterfeed, hawk-eyed users of the service saved a copy and were quickly sending it across the internet.Vodafone was forced to release a stream of apologies, replying to each user individually to say "we weren't hacked. A severe breach of rules by staff in our building, dealing with that internally. We're very sorry". By the evening the company had been forced to release that message to hundreds of individual followers."An individual posted an obscene remark on the Vodafone UK Twitter account," said a spokesman for the company. "The individual has been suspended pending further notice."The "tweet" is understood to have emanated from Vodafone's customer service centre in Stoke, where its web team uses social networking sites such as Twitter to keep in contact with users.It is just the latest in a growing list of social networking gaffes. As more people sign up to services such as Twitter and Facebook, organisations are having to police their activities as well as maintain their own presence on such sites.A year ago Virgin Atlantic sacked 13 cabin crew after they used Facebook to call passengers "chavs" and claimed that the airline's planes were full of cockroaches.Some companies have had their own use of Twitter hijacked by enterprising web users. Last April the Telegraph newspaper set up a so-called "Twitterfall" for its coverage of the budget. The idea was to include any tweets being created on the service that included the tag "#budget". Unfortunately Twitter users spotted that it was unmoderated, and embarrassed the paper and its owners with a stream of tweets such as "Breaking news: Barclay Brothers to pick up your tax bill in unprecedented act of philanthropy. #Budget" – and worse.
Britain's X2 Computing got a lot of publicity today by putting out a press release about the new iTablet that it said it would be releasing in April. Which is fair enough, though it did reveal the ignorance of much of the blogosphere.The iTablet as described does sound like a reasonable machine, and it's clearly an improvement on the version shown at CeBIT in 2007. It has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor, 512MB to 2GB of memory, and a 10.2-inch XGA (1024 x 600 pixel) screen. The dimensions are 252 x 192m and the thickness runs from 28mm to 35mm. It weighs 1.18kg (2.6 pounds). There's a choice of operating system: Windows 7, Windows XP Tablet Edition or Linux.This particular model is theAMtek iTablet T10L, which I expect will be shown at Embedded World 2010 and the CeBIT exhibition in Germany. It's similar to the Atom-poweredX210L that X2 announced last year.However, it's not the one in the widely-reproduced press release photo (above), which looks more like anAMtek iTablet T201. Still, an X2 spokesman says the company is one of AMtek's international partners and it will supply both machines.X2 wouldn't normally get much in the way of press coverage because it's one of the companies that has been quietly supplying tablet PCs to the industrial and commercial markets, where they have many uses in retail, healthcare, logistics etc.Now it's "looking to extend the brand".Tablets like this have been around for a decade or so, but the hype around the unveiling of Apple's iPad might enable some suppliers to reach beyond their traditional markets. Helped, perhaps, by people whose knowledge of tablet PCs doesn't extend very far beyond the iPad.
1: In July 2009, Darren Bent of Tottenhamberated his bossDaniel Levy on Twitter – putting him in line for an £80,000 fine. Can anyone top that for the cost of one tweet?2: In October 2009, England cricket all-rounder Tim Bresnanhit the expletive buttonon Twitter after being ribbed by a fellow user about his weight. He later apologised.3: In July 2009, Australian cricketer Philip Hughestold Twitterthat he had been dropped from the Ashes team of the third Test before it needed to be revealed. Management wasn't best pleased at him telling England what to expect.4: In March 2009, Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, wasfined $25,000for criticising the referees via Twitter during a game. He's reckoned to be the first to have been fined by a sports league for what he said on Twitter.5: In April 2009 the Daily Telegraph set up a "Twitterfall" for its coverage of the budget, in which it tried to include any tweets with the tag "#budget". UnfortunatelyTwitter users spotted that it was unmoderated, and embarrassed the paper and its owners with a stream of tweets such as "Breaking news: Barclay Brothers to pick up your tax bill in unprecedented act of philanthropy. #Budget" – and worse.And the latest: Vodafone UK was forced to issue a stream of apologies after an employee in its Stoke office spotted an unattended keyboard and typed a homophobic tweet – which happened to be the @VodafoneUK account (http://twitter.com/vodafoneuk) with (at the time) more than 8,500 followers... And you know what? It'sreally sorry.
Opposition to the government's digital economy bill has increased sharply, with strong criticism in the House of Lords for its failure to offer "due judicial process" to people accused of illicit filesharing under the proposed "three strikes" rules of the bill.Outside parliament, hotels and educators have complained that the bill also endangers their businesses and provision of the internet to the public because of its insistence that organisations providing net access should be liable for the actions of their customers.Thedigital economy bill, which is being sponsored by Lord Mandelson through the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, is a broad-ranging bill covering digital spectrum, greater powers for Ofcom, legislation over copyright infringement via the net, and the enabling of better access nationwide to faster internet connections.The bill proposes a "three strikes" rule which would mean that persistent copyright breaches would be lead to disconnection from the internet. The aim is to reduce illlicit filesharing by 70%. But in aletter(PDF) to Lord Puttnam, representatives from institutions such as the University of London, British Library and the Imperial War Museum, said: "Because public institutions often provide internet access to hundreds or thousands of individual users, the complexity of our position in relation to copyright infringements must be taken into consideration."It says that the bill is unclear about the role of "intermediaries" such as libraries in the bill.The letter added: "If this is not done, a public institution such as a library, school or university's internet connection as a whole could be jeopardised, resulting in loss of internet access to large sections of the public, particularly the 15 million citizens without an internet connection at home."Meanwhile, the British Hospitality Association (BHA), which represents thousands of hotel, catering and leisure establishments, worries that the requirement in the bill for hotels to provide guest details to an internet service provider (ISP) where copyright infringement is alleged could be impossible in some cases – and that hotels might be disconnected if guests are persistently infringing copyright.Disconnection would endanger a hotel's business which the BHA said would be a "grossly unfair consequence" of a guest's action."If it is passed in its present form, the difficulties of applying this bill to the hospitality industry, with its transient profile, appear not to have been considered," said Martin Couchman, deputy chief executive of the BHA.The Lords' Joint Committee on Human Rights (JCHR) notes in areport published on Friday(PDF) that "at the moment the Bill defines a process of appeals with no presumption of innocence" and that "[this] process will be applied irrespective of the sanction or evidence."That, they say, goes against natural justice, which should start with the presumption of innocence and the onus on the prosecution to prove guilt. "In the particular case of disconnection – which is a severe punishment – the need for a prior hearing based on an innocence presumption is unquestionably essential," the commitee writes.The Open Rights Group, an advocacy group, is backing the industry groups' call for a guarantee that they will not become victims of the new legislation – as well as other venues in similar positions – and encouraging more people to protest at the provisions of the bill.Jim Killock, ORG director, posted on its website: "The situation is exactly parallel for cafés, bars and hotels, as well as community centres: if you are involved in any of these you should make your views known to the front bench teams now."TalkTalk, one of the three largest broadband providers in the UK, has criticised the bill on the basis that it assumes guilt, and is unworkable in practice.In November, soon after the bill was originally published, Lilian Edwards, professor of internet law at Sheffield University,pointed outthat the bill, as currently set up, threatens the British Library with its public Wi-Fi access, with potentially swingeing fines:"The [British Library] is not set up to be a forensic investigator; obliging it to act as one will be a fantastically resource intensive exercise for a public body providing a free service. There is also an issue of privacy and anonymity, something academic researchers are often touchy about. And again, if the BL refuse to comply – or more likely, simply says it can't – it is, at least in theory, subject to a fine up to £250,000."Whether that possibility applies has not yet been clarified in the bill.However it is unclear whether it will succeed in passing through parliament, given the limited time left before the election must occur, and the amount of opposition that it is attracting from groups inside and outside parliament.
So, EA's epic literary hack-n-slasher is out today, and already Dante's Inferno producer Jonathan Knight has his heart set ona conversion of Macbeth. Shakespeare's bloody tragedy certainly has plenty of videogame boxes ticked - an imposing Gothic castle, a murderous noble and his insane wife, a battle sequence, some witches... But can we expect an influx of similar translations? And if so, which classic works of poetry, prose or theatre should be next?There are some obvious contenders. Instead of Macbeth, I would have gone for the even more gratuitously gory Titus Andronicus, a Roman revenge saga with more severed limbs than a serial killer's fridge freezer. Or maybe Othello in which the player must closely monitor the character's bubbling jealousy gauge. Hamlet, though, would be useless, a gigantic 'quick time event' in which, after an hour of ponderous CGI story, a message flashes on the screen demanding, "To be, press X. Not to be, press O".So what do you think? Any favourites from your book shelves? Let's stick with pre-20th century works - the earlier the better. Personally, I'd go for The Decameron as a vast plague-ridden MMORPG; Sir Gawain and the Green Knight as an Ico-style moral adventure; and Machiavelli's The Prince as a stealth shooter.How about you?
Your inbox may contain a message that claims: "Emails with pictures of Gordon Brown actually smiling are being sent and the moment that you open these emails your computer will crash and you will not be able to fix it!""SEND THIS E-MAIL TO EVERYONE YOU KNOW"Yes, obviously, it's a hoax, so please don't pass it on.The same email also throws in a free bonus: it warns against "a virus that opens an Olympic Torch which 'burns' the whole hard disc C of your computer."Graham Cluley of the Sophos anti-virus company speculates in a blog post (Can Gordon Brown's smile infect your computer with a virus?) that "the Gordon Brown virus hoax was started by someone as a joke, taking the mickey out of the notoriously dour Prime Minister". But sinceBrown's YouTube smilewas in the news more than nine months ago, it seems to have taken the joker a long time to give birth to something so feeble.Several sites keep track of these fake emails includingSnopes,Hoax-slayer, andUrban Legends. It's always better to spend a few seconds checking that an email is a hoax, though the chances of this sort of thing being genuine could be on a par with winning the lottery.
One of the problems with "cloud computing" is that it can work a bit like the Hotel California: you can check your data in OK, but will you ever get it out? Google is very well aware of the problem and with itsData Liberationcommitment, wants to make sure people can retrieve their data. Ideally, of course, users should be able to move stuff from one cloud to another -- from Google to Amazon or Microsoft or any similar service -- but that's not possible at the moment.Vint Cerf, often known as the Father of the Internet, raised this point in animpressively coherent answerto a question at a Churchill Club meeting at SRI (Stanford Research Institute) last month, recorded byFora.tv. Cerf says it's the same as the problem networks faced when they couldn't talk to one another: "We're at the same point now in 2010 as we were in '73 with internet."Cerf says we now need protocols and standards that will "allow people to manage assets in multiple clouds, and for clouds to interact with each other," and that mobiles could be part of that.It took five years to develop the internet protocols (and another five years to implement them for various operating systems), says Cerf. "So if we could rely on that as an indicator, maybe the intercloud problem could be solved in five years' time."Hat-tip:Fanboy
A design feature - or possibly bug - or possibly both - means that Internet Explorer can be turned into a web server which will leave your computer's files open to being read online, according to a hacker who demonstrated it at the Blackhat DC conference.Network World reports that"The flaw, said to extend across all versions of Internet Explorer, is not subject to a patching fix, according to Jorge Luis Alvarez Medina, the Argentina-based security consultant with Core Security Technologies who elaborated on the attack technique during his demo. Indeed, Microsoft advised anyone concerned about the potential for this type of attack to run IE in "protected mode," a workaround that Medina also advised. "Microsoft has, not unsurprisingly,issued a security advisoryabout it.It's broadly encouraging, suggesting that it's only going to be effective against IE (all versions) in XP. Versions of Windows above that seem to be OK."Our investigation so far has shown that if a user is using a version of Internet Explorer that is not running in Protected Mode an attacker may be able to access files with an already known filename and location. These versions include Internet Explorer 5.01 Service Pack 4 on Microsoft Windows 2000 Service 4; Internet Explorer 6 Service Pack 1 on Microsoft Windows 2000 Service Pack 4; and Internet Explorer 6, Internet Explorer 7, and Internet Explorer 8 on supported editions of Windows XP Service Pack 2, Windows XP Service Pack 3, and Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 2. Protected Mode prevents exploitation of this vulnerability and is running by default for versions of Internet Explorer on Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, Windows 7, and Windows Server 2008."And XP users run IE in protected mode, don't they?"Other workarounds in IE, according to Medina, would include setting "IE Network Protocol Lockdown," adjusting the security level setting for the Internet and Intranet Zones to "high," and disabling Active Scripting for the Internet and Intranet Zones with a custom setting."Disabling Active Scripting is otherwise known as "turning off Javascript and ActiveX". This is entirely feasible, though it then renders much of the modern web useless; for example sites like Google Maps, which rely on Ajax technology (which Microsoft invented), won't work without Javascript.So what's to be done if we want the modern web? Over to Medina:"But he also noted that since this attack appears to only work against IE, users might want to consider using "a different browser to navigate untrusted Web sites." Medina said it doesn't appear that the IE flaw is subject to patching because it encompasses design features related to how IE and Windows Explorer handle zone elevation, HTML code and MIME types."Just to expand on that:"[Medina] said the dialog with Microsoft's security team about the exploit so far has indicated that Microsoft thinks this is not something it can fix because the flaw is so much a part of the fundamental design of the browser. "In other words, it's not a bug - it's a feature. Certainly for the writers of malware it is. And it's one more reason for people to move on from XP. Let's hope the government is listening.
Google's decision to enlist the help of the National Security Agency in tackling cyber attacks has caused alarm among internet groups and bloggers, who fear that users' personal information could be accessed by the US government.The Washington Post reported yesterdaythat the internet giant had turned to the NSA, which conducts surveillance and codebreaking for the federal government, in the wake ofa cyber attack it believes came from China.The agency is responsible for securing the US administration's computer networks against similar breaches, and is said to be helping Google to understand and analyse the attacks.Sources say that the agreement will not allow the NSA to view users' searches or access email accounts, but the deal has angered some members of the online community.The Electronic Privacy Information Centre, a  public research centre based in Washington,has filed a freedom of information requestseeking details of the agency's relationship with Google."Google and NSA are entering into a secret agreement that could impact the privacy of millions of users of Google's products and services around the world," the centre's executive director Marc Rotenbergtold the New York Times.Sam Diaz, blogger and senior editor atZDNet, a technology website,said he felt "squeamish"about the possibility of information sharing between Google and the government, and was sceptical about the NSA's ability to help protect the company's infrastructure."I mean no disrespect to my country or my government but I have to ask: Is Washington really the best choice if you're looking for help with something as serious as cyber security?" he wrote."After all, I wouldn't exactly place any Washington agency at the cutting edge when it comes to fighting what was referred to as one of the most sophisticated cyber attacks experts had ever seen."Andrew Beal, writing inMarketing Pilgrim, said: "Big brother just partnered with big brother."While it's unlikely that Google's going to hand over any user information, I still don't like how close – and how quickly – Google is snuggling up with perhaps the scariest of all government agencies," he blogged.Referring to the NSA's monitoringof the email and telephone calls of thousands of Americans after the 2001 terror attacks, Beal wrote: "This is the same agency that tapped your phones and emails without a warrant after 9/11. We're supposed to feel confident it won't take a poke around Google's sensitive data?"Noah Shachtman, writer ofWired magazine'snational security blogDanger Room, described the NSA as a "particularly untrustworthy partner"."We all know that Google automatically reads our Gmail and scans our Google calendars and dives into our Google searches, all in an attempt to put the most relevant ads in front of us," he wrote."But we've tolerated the automated intrusions, because Google's products are so good, and we believed that the company was sincere in its 'don't be evil' mantra."Shachtman said Google's pledge that its agreement with the NSA would not compromise user data was "hard to believe, given the NSA's track record of getting private enterprises to co-operate, and Google's willingness to take this first step."The company said it was subject to a "highly sophisticated and targeted attack" in December 2009, which it said originated from China. In January, Google said that it was no longer willing to censor search results on its Chinese service.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's a small wind-up radio. Great for camping and supports a busy disorganised life. It always takes me beyond Sailing By on Radio 4 before slowly fading out until its morning wind up.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning. Our 20-month-old daughter, who has a habit of waking before 6.30am, likes to play with the circular handle, earning us 10 extra minutes  in bed.What additional features would you add if you could?It already has a little torch at one end. I would probably like it to be a wind-up recording device, too.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think more people will be using them to live more sustainable lives.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Battery life, particularly on the iPhone. Sort it out, Steve Jobs.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Every computer in the House of Commons library probably tops the list. They're ridiculously slow and cumbersome, and until last week used Internet Explorer 6.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Never be an early adopter.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?An apprentice nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Oh, that's the telly. A big flat 46in Panasonic. Great for PS3 gaming.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. They rarely crash even when you drop them.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I've not bought CDs for years, but I'm hardly downloading either since subscribing to Spotify. The last thing I purchased was Joni Mitchell's  Blue for the umpteenth time. I've got iTunes lists on four different devices and can't merge them all properly.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?They beat MP flatmates every time.What piece of technology would you most like to own?After the robot butler it would have to be a Midway Addams Family pinball machine. The best, ever.
The news thatMicrosoft are shutting down Live services for the original Xboxis not a major surprise. After all, the 360 has been on the market for nearly 5 years now and you have to wonder how much impact this decision will have. The additional news that Live support for any Xbox titles released as downloads for the 360 (Originals) will also be switched off could be more annoying, especially if you have only bought one of the games recently. But seeing as it is Friday let's look at the positives and remember when Xbox Live was altogether more frugal - no gamerscore or achievements back then - experience.So, what are you favourite memories from online play and Live on the original Xbox? Probably Halo-related right? Me too, although one of my best is long forgottenEngland International Football.  Yes, it was a poor footy game but it had online co-op (the first football game on Live to have this) which made for some cracking sessions with friends. Yes, clearly standards were lower back then. Anyway - what are you favorite Live memories on the original Xbox?
Microsoft has said it cannot survive on "cool ideas", just hours after a former executive accused the company of being a "clumsy" and "uncompetitive innovator".Dick Brass, who served for as a vice president at the company from 1997 to 2004,launched a broadside in Thursday's New York Timesthat accused the company of falling victim to in-fighting and petty political squabbles.In his attack, Brassdetailed how innovative projects had been stifled and killed offat the company, handing an advantage to rivals like Apple and Google."Microsoft, America's most famous and prosperous technology company, no longer brings us the future," he wrote."Unlike other companies, Microsoft never developed a true system for innovation. Some of my former colleagues argue that it actually developed a system to thwart innovation. Despite having one of the largest and best corporate laboratories in the world, and the luxury of not one but three chief technology officers, the company routinely manages to frustrate the efforts of its visionary thinkers."Responding to his accusationson Thursday evening, however, Microsoft's head of corporate communications suggested that Brass's claims were off target."At the highest level, we think about innovation in relation to its ability to have a positive impact on the world," wrote Frank Shaw.In a dig apparently aimed at Apple, whichlast week unveiled its iPad touchscreen computer for the first time, Shaw said that Microsoft did not quantify success simply by the number of exciting concepts that it developed."For Microsoft, it is not sufficient to simply have a good idea, or a great idea, or even a cool idea. We measure our work by its broad impact," he wrote.Shaw's post admitted that the criticisms made by Brass stung, but said that some of the technologies that Brass had used as examples of failure - such as theClearTypedisplay system - had, in fact, become important products for Microsoft."For the record, ClearType now ships with every copy of Windows we make and is installed on around a billion PCs around the world," wrote Shaw. "Now, you could argue that this should have happened faster. And sometimes it does."Meanwhile, he responded to claims that senior insiders at Microsoft deliberately scuppered the development of tablet computers by pointing out that some software had been specifically developed with touchscreen computers in mind.The company did not refute some of the more specific claims made by Brass - but in responding at all, Microsoft made it clear that some criticisms had hit home.The American company has long bragged that it outspends its rivals in terms of research and development, but with few obvious new businesses beyond its Windows and Office systems it has been accused of being a follower rather than a leader.Publicly, the company has said it is committed to increasing research spending through the recession, with Craig Mundie, the company's chief research and strategy officer, suggesting that it was important to keep investing during the downturn to help Microsoft develop new technologies while its rivals concentrated on staying afloat."The thing we'll work the hardest to preserve is our research and development spending," he said.Despite these claims, however, the company's research and development spending actually fell by around 10% last year.In itsmost recent financial results, which cover the three months ending on December 31, Microsoft said that it had spent a total of $2.079bn on R&amp;D - down from $2.29bn in the same period of 2008.Last year Microsoft's senior vice president of research, Rick Rashid, admitted that some technologies developed by the companies engineerscan take many years longer than expected to reach the market."There are technologies which seem to take a really long time," he said. "When I first got to Microsoft, one of the first projects I worked on was interactive TV systems. It was very sophisticated, everything was great. We built it, we deployed it, people seemed to like it – but it never went anywhere. It wasn't the right time."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
OK, so I seem to have poked something of a hornets' nest withmy earlier postabout where Adobe's Flash goes (if it needs to go anywhere) given that Apple has clearly set its face against allowing it or including it on its forthcoming iPad, as well as the existing iPhone and iPod Touch (which outsells the iPhone).Some more links to the fire. First, John Nack of Adobe had ablog post on this matter, which is more of a meta-post:"Adobe isn't in the Flash businessSeriously. It isn't in the Photoshop business, or the Acrobat business, or the [take-your-pick product name] business, either. It's in the helping people communicate business."And adds:"Flash has stepped in to fill some gaps heretofore left by other technologies. It is, however, just one possible means to an end--always has been. Adobe will of course continue to invest in making Flash better, and it'll keep investing in other ways to help creative people reach customer eyeballs. It's not a zero-sum game"OK, so with that in mind, let's move on, and incorporate some of the comments from that post. Thanks to @kalabash, who pointed to theMozilla blogabout Firefox for Maemo RC (release candidate) 2, for the Nokia N900 or N810, which comes with the caveat:"We've decided to disable plugin (not to be confused with add-ons, which are supported) support for this release.  The Adobe Flash plugin used on many sites degraded the performance of the browser to the point where it didn't meet our standards.  If you wish to enable our experimental plugin support, you will be able to manually via about:config, but do so at your own risk.  We are working on an add-on that will allow the user to have control of which sites to enable plugins for, as some sites, like YouTube, do work quite well."Yeah, OK, it's an RC for a browser you download. But this instability thing? That sounds like a pattern.Also insightful: @whereistom answering @RickWilliams's question - "With HTML5, can you add queue points in the video, and then perform actions (e.g. scripts) when you hit those points?" with taking a quick look atthis linkI don't see why not? You certainly seem to be able to access the current time using video.currentTime so attaching an event to that should be pretty simple. Obviously I have no idea what the browser support is like at the moment."He also added: "...Adobe don't seem to have been too concerned about performance outside of Windows - if they'd sorted out the mac plugin performance issues 2 years ago, I wonder if we would even be having this conversation? And Adobe can be one of the few corporations in the tech world to really challenge Apple for title of "Biggest precious twats"."Insightful, as I said.Now we come to the question - the more vexed question - of whether Flash runs on mobile phones, and if so which. @Patrician responded to my question of "Now tell us what proportion of smartphones - actually, any phones - run Flash" with the reply of "Can we start with the 40% of smartphones that are made by Nokia and then work from there? You know, the ones that run Flash lite 3.1 natively and Flash 10 through Skyfire? If you include WinMo I think that's about 50% of the smartphone market. You know, about three times the share of Apple's iPhone."But then you get @veggiedude, saying "Flash lite (or 'Flash 10') is Flash in name only - it is not Flash technologically, meaning it can't run over 90% of the Flash out there. The promise of Flash on Android has not happened yet - even though Adobe has had it as a high priority all these months. Turns out, making Flash work right is a herculean task - do not hold your breath!"But wait (and thanks @pauldhunt), here's Kevin Lynch, chief technology officer of Adobe, with apost on Tuesdaywhich opens wryly:"Some have been surprised at the lack of inclusion of Flash Player on a recent magical device"But seriously, folks.."Now we are at an important crux for the future of Flash. A wide variety of devices beyond personal computers are arriving, many of which will be used to browse the Web, making it increasingly challenging to deliver what creators and users of content and applications have come to expect of Flash on personal computers -- seamless, consistent and rich experiences. The Flash engineering team has taken this on with a major overhaul of the mainstream Flash Player for a variety of devices.""We are now on the verge of delivering Flash Player 10.1 for smartphones with all but one of the top manufacturers. This includes Google's Android, RIM's Blackberry, Nokia, Palm Pre and many others across form factors including not only smartphones but also tablets, netbooks, and internet-connected TVs. Flash in the browser provides a competitive advantage to these devices because it will enable their customers to browse the whole Web. This is being accomplished via the Open Screen Project, where we are working with over 50 partners to make this a reality across a wide array of devices."What do we conclude? Hmm, "on the verge of delivering"? OK. For developers, my suspicion is that if you don't need Flash, you avoid it like the plague. Not for nothing does it have such a bad name among those who haven't had to use it to solve some problem or another.But for those who use it all the time, it's the perfect Swiss Army Illustrating Knife, to be used for all sorts of wonderful thing. Look atthis Wrangler page- thanks, perhaps, @fusuma. (Warning: don't go there with a Mac, unless you've got a spare browser you can leave to max out the CPU. Windows users can let me know how it goes.) For someone out there, that Wrangler page is the best way it can be done. For others (I might include myself, but hey) it's an awful attempt to animate something that just doesn't need it.It's going to be interesting - as inreallyinteresting - to see how well Flash can be made to run on ARM chips (Adobe seems to have it pretty good on Intel ones).Oh, and to the people who pointed to the Tech Weekly podcast page, and pointed out that that seems to be a Flash gizmo - yes, I daresay it is. But it works fine it you go to it in the Guardian app. They're just audio files. Flash isn't necessary for everything; perhaps for anything.And to the other point, about Farmville having more users than there are iPhones sold? Two points: first, for those non-Flash devices you have to multiply by 2.5, because iPhones are only about 40% (best estimate) of the iPhone/iPod Touch market.Second:Farmville?As an argument in favour ofanything?
&bull; The war betweenAmazonand Macmillan continues apace. The latest salvo? An advert in the New York Times for Atul Gawande's new book that tries to give Amazon a slap by suggesting it is"available at booksellers everywhere except Amazon."That coincided with a series of statements from authors' groups,including the US Authors' Guild, which complained that "thousands of authors and titles are affected". Oh, and the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of Americastaged their own protest.&bull; On a similar subject, remember theGoogle Book Settlement-  that controversial deal to let the search giant digitise millions of in-copyright titlesthat had so many people up in arms? A reworked version of the agreement still isn't pleasing the US government, whofiled an objection in a New York court on Thursday, saying that even though the new deal is better, it is still "a bridge too far".&bull; And here's a good one to send you off with a smile as the weekend rolls around (or at least, it made me chuckle).Sonysays it is "very interested" in making a device to compete with the iPad.IDG reportsthat chief financial officer Nobuyuki Oneda wants to take on the Apple gadget . "Time-wise we are a little behind the iPad, but it's a space we would like to be an active player in." Somebody might want to remind himof the Dash.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
We all know that conflicts can produce some unlikely bedfellows, but as Google continuesits battle with the Chinese authorities, it appears that another unlikely alliance is being forged.According tothis report in the Washington Post, Google has now turned to one of its fiercest enemies - America's National Security Agency - to try and protect itself from interference.The NSA - the group charged with conducting surveillance and codebreaking for the US government - is said to be working with Google to help it understand and analyserecent attacks by hackers said to be based in China.On the surface, this might not seem like a big deal - after all, American companies have not been shy about asking the government for help over the last couple of years. But in truth, it marks a sharp turnaround in Google's often tense relationship with the Washington over surveillance issues.In 2006, the search engine's boss, Eric Schmidt,criticised the US government for invading people's privacywhen ittried to gain access to recordsthat detailed the online habits of millions of people. While other search engines capitulated to the request, Google refused and took the issue to court - eventually getting a federal judge to rule that the request was illegal."This was a complete violation of our users' rights," said Schmidt later that year, during a talk in San Francisco that felt very clearly like he was flexing his muscles. "We, as a society, came to a rational outcome - and if we don't like it, we can replace the people who pass those laws."The NSA's recent history has been inglorious:warrantless wiretappingscandal still continues, as well asallegations that it monitored internet useby customers of America's biggest telecoms company, AT&amp;T.While safeguards are apparently being put in place to prevent the NSA from accessing private data during its work with Google - theWashington Post story says that"the alliance is being designed to allow the two organizations to share critical information without violating Google's policies or laws that protect the privacy of Americans' online communications" - the antagonism between the two organisations has been palpable in the past.But today's reports show a different approach to relations between the NSA and Google. Why?The first - and most obvious - difference may simply be one of politics. The White House then was ruled by George Bush and Dick Cheney;  these days it is Obama who runs the show. Schmidt's close links to the president are well-known (he actedfirst as a campaign adviserand is now a member of the president's science and technology committee) and perhaps he does not feel the same antipathy any more.If that's true, it could be misplaced: the American intelligence agencies - like Britain's civil service - change little between administrations, and are often accused of following their own agenda despite ultimately reporting to the Oval Office.Secondly, it is possible that working with the NSA may help Google in other areas, such as putting the dampener on possible antitrust investigations. Schmidt already stepped down from a directorship at Apple amid concerns about potential conflicts of interest,but that did not stop regulators from continuing their investigation.The third reason, however, is much more pragmatic: simply that Google is now under threat from an entity more powerful than it bargained for. For all the company's huffing and puffing recently, the Chinese government is a beast thatcannot seem to be cajoled or controlled.And though there istalk of Google as a nation in its own right- the logical end point of corporate capitalism, perhaps - it's still clear that some things are beyond the reach of companies, however rich and powerful they may feel.By turning to the US government, Google appears to have weighed up its options and decided that protecting itself is better than engaging in a vendetta with Washington. In many ways, it is a tip of the hat to Hillary Clinton, who gave tacit support for Googleduring a speech on internet foreign policy a couple of weeks ago."New technologies do not take sides," she said. "But the United States does."Now it looks like Google is doing the same.
Symbian, the operating system used in the majority of the world's smartphones, is now available as an open source platform four months ahead of schedule as it looks to compete with Apple and Google's Android.In a move widely seen as a desperate attempt to prevent Google and Apple from grabbing an ever-larger slice of the smartphone pie,Nokia took control of the UK-based Symbian in the summer of 2008, announcing plans to make its mobile phone software free of charge.Nokia helped create Symbian with the UK-based Psion more than a decade ago and it is installed in some 330m mobile phones across the world. But its share of the smartphone market has come under attack. Two years ago, Symbian devices accounted for almost 60% of the market, but now account for less than 50%. Industry experts Ovum reckon that figure will fall to below a third by 2015, in part because of the influence of Android, which is also open source.The Symbian Foundation, which runs the platform, said the switch from a paid-for proprietary model, where developers had to pay a licence fee to create devices using the software, to a free open source model is the largest in software history.Any individual or organization can now take, use and modify the code for any purpose, whether for a mobile device or another piece of kit.Lee Williams, executive director of the Symbian Foundation, said: "The development community is now empowered to shape the future of the mobile industry, and rapid innovation on a global scale will be the result."When the Symbian Foundation was created, we set the target of completing the open source release of the platform by mid-2010 and it's because of the extraordinary commitment and dedication from our staff and our member companies that we've reached it well ahead of schedule."The hope is that allowing any developer to use Symbian will speed up the development of new and innovative devices, which will help the platform to see off the threat of Apple and Android.But it is competing in an increasingly crowded market. Handset manufacturers from LG and Samsung to Sony Ericsson have their own proprietary operating systems, as do RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, Palm and Apple. Microsoft is still trying to gain traction for its Windows phone operating system, while a slew of handsets with Android installed will be launched this year.All 108 packages containing the source code of the Symbian platform can now be downloaded from Symbian'sdeveloper websiteunder a public licence. Also available for download are the complete development kits for creating applications and mobile devices.
An Australian court has ruled that the country's third-largest broadband operator cannot be held responsible for the actions of illegal file-sharers, in a landmark case that has been warmly welcomed by British internet companies fighting government plans to make them police the web on behalf of film and TV firms.Broadband and home phone company TalkTalk, one of the fiercest critics of the UK government's proposals to clamp down on unlawful file-sharing by severing broadband connections, expressed its "delight" at the victory of iiNet over a group of some of Hollywood's largest film studios.Perth-based iiNet was being sued by more than 30 film and TV studios, including Village Roadshow, Universal, Sony and Warner Bros, for allowing its users to download copyrighted material. After an eight-week trial in Sydney's federal court, however, Justice Dennis Cowdroy ruled that the company cannot be held liable for the downloading habits of its customers. If iiNet had lost the case it would essentially have been required to police its users on behalf of copyright holders.While the ruling has no direct impact on British law, it will provide  comfort for British internet service providers (ISPs) who argue that they are "mere conduits" for internet traffic and should not be held liable for the actions of their users.The Australian Federation Against Copyright Theft, which brought the case on behalf of a clutch of studios back in 2008, argued that iiNet effectively authorised illegal file-sharing because it neither warned nor disconnected customers who were involved in swapping copyrighted material, even though it was notified of the identities of repeat offenders. In its defence, iiNet said it was not required to act on what were "mere allegations" and should not disconnect customers without a court order.Cowdroy ruled that as an ISP, iiNet provided a legitimate communications service which was not intended or designed to infringe copyright. "iiNet is not responsible if an iiNet user uses that system to bring about copyright infringement ... the law recognises no positive obligation on any person to protect the copyright of another," he said."I find that the mere provision of access to the internet is not the 'means' of infringement."The company stressed after the ruling that it  had "never supported or encouraged&nbsp;breaches&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;law" adding that  it was "eager&nbsp;to&nbsp;engage&nbsp;with&nbsp;the&nbsp;film&nbsp;industry&nbsp;and&nbsp;copyright&nbsp;holders&nbsp;to&nbsp;make ... material&nbsp;legitimately&nbsp;available".Michael Malone, iiNet's co-founder,told ABC News: "I think we've probably wasted a year when we and the internet industry and the rights holders could have been working together to find better models.In a statement, TalkTalk said it was delighted by the court's decision. "This judgment means that basic consumer and human rights in Australia will be upheld," it said.The company is  fighting  plans in the digital economy bill currently working its way through parliament, to clamp down on internet piracy by demanding that ISPs cut off persistent file-sharers. Under a last-minute intervention by business secretary Lord Mandelson, it would also grant the government sweeping powers to alter copyright law to deal with any future methods of internet piracy.The business secretary's proposals have been roundly attacked by privacy campaigners as well as internet giants including Google, Facebook, Yahoo and eBay as paving the way for a future administration to introduce "arbitrary measures" in the fight against piracy. Last month, the government tabled a list of amendments to the bill which watered down the controversial clause so that the law could only be amended in future if there was a "significant" new threat of infringement.TalkTalk believes the new law, if it gets passed, may well be challenged in the European courts. "Of course, we hope that it does not come to appeals and litigation," TalkTalk said. "We hope parliamentarians see sense and do not pass the digital economy bill without changes to protect consumer and human rights."TalkTalk refuses to divulge customers' information to lawyers pursuing alleged copyright infringers and has warned that  if it is instructed to disconnect a customer who has not been found guilty in a court of law, it will refuse to do so andchallenge the instruction through the courtsif necessary.TalkTalk's head of strategy and regulation, Andrew Heaney, has placed a petition against the proposed plan on the Number 10 website which has already received more than 32,000 signatures.
Verisign plans to capitalise on the 25th anniversary of the .com domain, which has been the hallmark of the commercial internet. The first "dot com" name was registered by Symbolics in March 1985. Verisign says its celebrations will start with an event in Washington, DC on 16 March, where it will announce four $75,000 research grants. Later, there will a gala in San Francisco to highlight the top 25 people and companies who have made "the most notable impact" on the net.There's already a"25 Years of .com"web site, which includes a Flash presentation, plus presences onFacebookandTwitter.The .com domain was originally run by the US Department of Defense, then by Network Solutions from 1991. Verisign bought the company.For a while, it was fashionable to include the .com in company names, though this became less popular after the bursting of "dot com bubble". Sun Microsystems even used the tagline:"We're the Dot in Dot Com".It's probably not that hard to come up with some of the names that will make up Verisign's Top 25 list, because most of the individuals are still around even if the companies are not. The trickier question is: Who should be on the list, but won't be?
2002: Bill Gates speaks on stage at the announcement of the availability of Tablet PCs and Windows XP Tablet PC operating system in New York; he had previously shown them off at Comdex in 2001The head of Microsoft's Office team - one of the cash cows of the software company - personally blocked the effective use of the program on tablet computers when they were released in 2001, according to a former executive at the company.Dick Brass, who was a vice-president at Microsoft between 1997 and 2004, says in theNew York Timesthat in 2001 when his team was building tablet PCs - which use touch screens rather than keyboards, "the vice president in charge of Office at the time decided he didn't like the concept. The tablet required a stylus, and he much preferred keyboards to pens and thought our efforts doomed. To guarantee they were, he refused to modify the popular Office applications to work properly with the tablet."The result, says Brass, was that "if you wanted to enter a number into a spreadsheet or correct a word in an e-mail message, you had to write it in a special pop-up box, which then transferred the information to Office. Annoying, clumsy and slow."Although Bill Gates announced the tablet concept at Comdex in November 2001, saying that "within five years I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America." Instead the format flopped, constituting less than 1% of sales in 2009.Writing in the New York Times, Brass says that Microsoft's own organisation has worked against the creation of new ideas that could have brought in future benefits. Of being blocked in 2001, he says: "even though our tablet had the enthusiastic support of top management and had cost hundreds of millions to develop, it was essentially allowed to be sabotaged. To this day, you still can't use Office directly on a Tablet PC. And despite the certainty that an Apple tablet was coming this year, the tablet group at Microsoft was eliminated."Meanwhile Apple last month unveiled its tablet-style iPad, which some analysts think will spark a rush in sales of computers which do not have an attached keyboard. ABI Researchforecaststhat 4m of the devices could be sold in 2010, rising to as many as 57m in five years' time, compared to the 300m or so PCs sold in 2009.Brass says that Microsoft now has "a dysfunctional corporate culture in which the big established groups [for Office and similar high-earning products] are allowed to prey upon emerging teams, belittle their efforts… and over time hector them out of existence. It's not an accident that almost all the executives in charge of Microsoft's music, e-books, phone, online, search and tablet efforts over the past decade have left."He concludes that "it's an open question whether it has much of a future."Brass waspreviously profiled in 2000by the New York Times, which credited him with impressing Gates with the idea of the ebook and tablet, which had 100 people working on its development.Update:Microsoft's vice-president of corporate communications, Frank X Shaw, hasresponded in a blog postin which he argues that what matters is not "innovation at speed" - which he in effect accuses Brass of demanding - but "innovation at scale".Shaw writes: "Dick generally focused on ClearType, noting that this technology was "stifled" by existing business groups. For the record, ClearType now ships with every copy of Windows we make, and is installed on around a billion PCs around the world. This is a great example of innovation with impact: innovation at scale."He adds: "Now, you could argue that this should have happened faster. And sometimes it does. But for a company whose products touch vast numbers of people, what matters is innovation at scale, not just innovation at speed. And in response to Dick's comment about Tablets and Office, I'll simply point to this product called OneNote that was essentially created for the Tablet and is a key part of Office today."
If you remember the Atari Jaguar, the veteran manufacturer's final stab at hardware salvation, you'll dimly recall that there were, despite all the odds, several must-have games for the system. Tempest 2000, of course, a decent translation of Doom, and Rebellion Software's brutally atmospheric shooter, Aliens vs Predator. This was back in 1994, before Fox besmirched this lip-smacking premise with two appalling movies. Five years later, Oxford-based developer,Rebellion, returned to the license with a triumphant PC iteration, and now once again, the studio is readying us for acid-splattered space mayhem.Officially,Aliens vs Predatorhas been three years in the making, but according to deputy lead designer Andy Haith some of the team have been quietly working toward this for the best part of a decade ("making alien models in their spare time," he smiles). There is, of course, just something about these monsters; the way they exploit and represent myriad primal fears, the way they're jammed with Freudian symbolism. The way they look cool as they tear pathetic humans apart. They are, as all true elemental horrors are, totally transfixing.Now Aliens vs Predator is back, and it looks like we are about to be captured again…The action takes place 30 years after the events of Alien 3. The ever-persistent Weyland Yutani corp has set up one of its mining operations on a planet named BG-386, where an ancient pyramid has been mysteriously unearthed. Old Weyland himself turns up for the opening ceremony and when the stone doors are prised apart, there's a carton of alien eggs just waiting for some human interaction. Naturally, it's not long before the business mogul has rounded up a group of 'volunteers' for an impregnation party.However, by entering the pyramid, the hapless scientists have also triggered a predator intruder alarm. It's hunting time. When the dreadlocked space hunters turn up in their mammoth warship, they destroy a Weyland Yutani vessel, setting off a chain of events that naturally ends in the aliens escaping the corporation's science labs on BG-386. And, hey, look over there – a gloomy industrial complex filled with colonists. Yes, say the aliens, we'll take it.From here you can start the single player campaign as a member of any of the three species. If you choose human, you arrive on the planet a couple of weeks after the alien escape, and naturally what you find is a lot of dead people and swarms of unwelcoming extraterrestrials. Select to be an alien, and you take on the role of 'Number Six' a captive beast being probed and prodded by Weyland's scientists – until a power failure invites your escape. Opt for the predator and you land on the planet to investigate what's happened to a bunch of young bloods who were sent there to earn their hunting rights and never reported back. Rebellion reckon there's around five to seven hours of gameplay in each of the stories, and they all regularly intersect to give you a wider view of the blood-drenched chaos.Having bashed through the first half-hour of each scenario it's clear that Rebellion has lost none of its love or understanding of the Aliens universe. The opening at least, is rip-roaringly atmospheric stuff. Clambering into the intricately detailed refinery, with its snaking pipes and billowing steam vents, is like taking a starring role in James Cameron's seminal movie. Indeed, the human campaign, following a grunt soldier sent in to save the colonists, is pleasingly similar to the Aliens set-up, and the script is filled with familiar references to bug hunts and 'checking your perimeters'.The sound design is excellent too. Fox supplied the Rebellion team with dozens of samples from the movies, which have been liberally employed. You'll recognise everything from the sound a control lever makes as it's thrust down, to the pulsing noise of the motion tracker (which appears in the bottom left of the screen and looks exactly as it does in the film, right down to the slightly flickering old-school LED graphics), and the elephantine screech of a downed alien. It's a vital element: the Aliens sound effects have become as subliminally recognisable as those from the Star Wars series and their presence adds both authenticity and atmosphere.Elsewhere, there are some wonderfully juicy organic noises accompanying the various eviscerating alien attacks. I wondered how a developer came by sound effects these days - is it still a case of battering melons with baseball bats? "We delve in and out of sample banks that have that sort of stuff on tap for us," says lead audio designer Nick Brewer. "But yeah, we spent some time bringing vegetables in and smashing them. We sometimes found that something you thought would make a really good squelchy noise is actually really pathetic. We spent time breaking bones from a butcher shop and realised that it doesn't sound quite like you want it to. We ended up getting dry, petrified bits of wood that make a horrible aggressive snap, and mixing those in with the melon we'd smacked with a hammer... We also got some quite brutal screams from the actors…"The effectiveness of the audio is particularly clear when you pick up your first pulse rifle ten minutes into the game and let off a few rounds. They've completely captured that iconic stuttering sound, and putting one into use against an incoming alien will be masses of fun for nostalgic Aliens fanatics. But then all this stuff is mixed in with new ideas. There's a wonderful moment early on when you're first making your way through the deserted refinery. You get into a lift and suddenly hear pumping techno coming through the walls; when the doors open, you're in an abandoned strip club, a holographic pole dancer still going through her moves as the music blares, and the lights strobe – it's brilliantly unexpected and disorientating. Then the aliens attack and we're back in familiar territory.This major alien offensive is several minutes in, though – a lifetime in game design terms, and another vital throwback to the tense movies. For a while, the game teases you into thinking an attack is imminent – you hear scuttling sounds in the air vents, and alarm tones pierce the blackness. But it's a while before the inevitable happens. Also like the movies, it is very dark. You have a torch and can also chuck out flares, but the chances are, the first time an alien pops up, you won't see it. "One of the behaviours that's really neat in the game is hide in shadow," says lead producer David Brickley. "This doesn't make much sense in the films if you think that the aliens shouldn't be afraid of humans. But in the game, it fucks with your head – you've got to go out with your torch looking for it, and it's hanging there waiting. As soon as you shine your torch on it, it hisses and it's after you."They come from hive holes in the walls, and through ducts. They revolve from floor to walls. Shooting at them is as panicked and random as it is in the films – when hit, they scuttle and squirm and writhe. In some ways, this is a concern, because after years of playing pinpoint military shooters in which enemy soldiers go down and stay down, some players may find the inability to lock onto a target frustrating. But in context it seems to work.Also bound to prove controversial is the melee system - exhibited here on this freshly released video:Players can block alien attacks, and then counter with a rifle butt; they can even instigate unarmed combat via a light attack option. This is a stark contrast to the utter powerlessness of the humans in the movies, but Rebellion insists it's vital to gameplay – it's just too frustrating to be killedeverytime one gets close. Play as the alien or predator and your hand-to-hand combat moves become more interesting, with a heavy attack option as well as context-sensitive trophy and stealth kills. As the alien, you can grab soldiers and blast your tail through their chests, then go in for a head bite. Predators can grab aliens and snap them over their knees.The predator world, though, is all about stealth not up close violence. You're able to set markers on landscape features such as trees, ledges and building roofs then leap between them, staying above your targets. It's also possible to distract enemies, using a cursor to select a position you want them to look at, then setting off a speech or noise sample that they'll investigate. As in Batman: Arkham Asylum, this allows you to split up groups of targets, and take them out one by one. There's also thermal vision option of course, and if you have enough charge in your power meter, the plasma caster (complete with sniper-style phased aiming mechanic) for long range kills.Interestingly, the predator sections initially take place in a jungle area, a rich organic domain, that contrasts nicely with the introduction to the human campaign. Apparently the designers have based the six key environments on favourite locations from all the films – so you get the refinery and the hive from Aliens, the pyramid from Aliens vs Predator, and the forests of Predator. "Fox gave us some of the concept art from the first few films," says art director Sam Grice. "In particular, on the human side of things, we were very interested inRon Cobb's concepts for the original alien film – a lot of our colony corridors are heavily based on the Nostromo ship from the first film – that was a strong influence and it led the art style for a lot of the human world."Loving the alienBut of course, for those of us who've grown up being terrified by HR Giger's alien creations, it's not the human world we're so interested in. Rebellion says it has every incarnation of the alien presence that they could possibly fit into the game – there are face huggers and chest bursters, then there are the predominant warrior aliens from the second movie, and 'runner aliens' based on the faster dog-like incarnation from Alien 3 (this one also tends to pounce more, so watch out for that). The pred-alien from the AvP movies also shows up, as does the queen. For the runner alien, the team have added a projectile acid attack – it's a modified version of what we see in briefly in the latter two Alien movies. You won't have access to it when playing as the alien, but it's apparently an important balancing element in the human campaign.The authenticity of the alien animation is largely guesswork. In the first two movies, the monsters are only ever seen in fleeting glimpses – indeed, when going back through the movies, the designers were surprised just how little movement you do see. "It's only a few frames here and there, and most of that is just people in suits," says Grice. "In the later films you see a bit more with the CG, but again they don't show what we need: a sequence of the alien walking on all surfaces, navigating, tracking you, going into attack…"So the art team has had to fill in the blanks, creating a movement that suits our perception. As Brice explains, "We tried a few things out. At first we experimented with a dinosaur-style movement, but it looked a bit too Jurassic park, like a velociraptor. Then we tried a few more human-esque animations, but it ended up looking like a guy in a suit. Now we've found this nice balance between human and animal movement."So how are the alien models actually built? "We start with concept sketches that have to be approved by the publisher and Fox," says Grice. "We needed to pick our reference sources from the different aliens in the movies and comics – ours are mostly based on the warrior aliens for Aliens, with a few changes. Then the character artists do a really high poly model - aZ Brushmodel. We take the normal mapping information from that, then move into 3D Studio Max, where the lower poly in-game model is made. We end up with a game model that's around the 12-15,000 poly mark, then it's skinned up and rigged for the animation process. You get a few minor NPCs that take a few weeks, but a major character like an alien or predator takes a couple of months to get right."Selecting the alien story is, at first, a spatially jolting experience. You're no longer confined to padding along floors – hitting a button latches you onto a nearby wall, and pressing it again puts you on the ceiling, so you're effectively able to spiral your way toward enemies. There's also a charge option, which makes the alien leap toward its prey with staggering speed, ready to deliver one of its crushing melee moves. It's this combination of dexterity, speed and strength that balances out the creature's lack of a ranged weapon.This 360-degree movement also means that if you're playing as a predator or marine, you have to learn to check above yourself at all times. The quick glance upwards you might make in most FPS titles won't protect you from a monster lurking on the ceiling - "you learn that pretty quickly in multiplayer," says Grice with a wry smile.Ah yes, multiplayer. The game will ship with seven modes including basic deathmatch and team deathmatch options, though these will be enlivened by some interesting mix-and-match possibilities: you can stick to single-species teams or go for mixed sides that benefit from all the various advantages.There are also a few interesting new riffs on familiar these, including Infestation, in which only one play spawns as an alien, the rest arrive as marines. Every time a human is killed they respawn as an alien, so it's a struggle to be the last man alive. There's also an arena-based four player co-op mode in which participants must survive for as long as possible against waves of incoming monsters. Whichever you opt for, you'd think without a ranged attack the aliens would suffer in the multiplayer context, but as well as spatial dexterity and massive melee power, they also get pheromone vision which lets them see through walls. It'll be fascinating to see how the dynamics work out online.Engine of fearInterestingly, Rebellion has chosen to use its own multiplatform engine – Asura – rather than opting for an off-the-shelf option like Unreal Engine 3. You'd think this would be a risky and expensive endeavour for an independent studio, but then having control over the core mechanics of the game – and not having to rely on a third-party for updates and fixes – probably makes sense on such an intense project. As Grice points out:"Having our own in-house tools is great. There's a lot of input from art and design on it – what direction to go in on the technical features, etc. On the tech side we chose to upgrade it to the latest generation, going through a deferred rendering route, so it's all pixel rendering-based, which means you can have a lot of dynamic lights and shadows. This is perfect for Aliens vs Predator - lighting is a key feature of the game."The team seems particularly proud of their AI and watching enemies handle the environments is intriguing. Aliens have been given pack-hunting behaviours with some flanking skills, so one will crawl towards you on the ceiling, while another may approach from another angle on the floor or walls. And if an alien in front of you pauses before attacking, it's a good sign that there's one about to tap you on the shoulder from behind."The biggest challenge with the environments was that we wanted to have as much free AI as possible," says Grice, "And that means we don't want to rely on scripting or running them in on splines like some other games would. This means keeping the environments simple enough so that the physics and AI systems can move around them, but at the same time making them visually interesting and detailed enough, especially with the corridors where we have all this paneling and pipes and cables. We're able to do it because we have aninverse kinematicssystem which let us keep a very simple basic mesh for the AI system, but also have a much more complex render mesh: the IK system will link all the limbs to it so the two work together."And so later this month the Aliens vs Predator brand returns to where it has fared most successfully – in videogames. I'm fascinated to see the finished product, mostly because of the passion of the dev team and the lengths they've gone to to ensure authenticity. Sure, I have concerns about the refinery levels: running down dark tunnels can only hold us for so long these days - we're used to open-world environments filled with explorable twists and turns. It all felt extremely linear during my admittedly brief playtest. But then the jungle environments are much more expansive, and there are whole huge sections I've yet to see.And in the end, both Alien and Predator have always been about the slow burn toward cataclysmic showdowns. The Rebellion chaps know this, and they have everything in place to do the whole scintillating concept justice once again.Coming soon: look out for our video report on the game!
Tablet PCs have been a tough sell for the past 30 years, and have never taken off with consumers, though they have enjoyed a limited success in industrial and commercial markets. This has dashed the hopes of the deadly duo, Intel and Microsoft, in particular. Microsoft has had several goes (PC Companions, XP Tablet Edition, Origami etc) without making any impact, while Intel has tried to push into MIDs (Mobile Internet Devices) as a staging post between Windows PCs and mobile phones. Companies such as Nokia and Archos have also marketed devices consumer-orientedBut the launch of the Apple iPad could change everything. US-basedABI Research saysit could be "the real start of a new market segment for media tablets". It reckons 4m could be shipped this year, rising to about 57m a year by 2015. That compares with about 300m PCs shipped in 2009.ABI defines media tablets as having "a touch-screen interface, 5-11 inches in size, with Wi-Fi Internet connectivity and video and gaming capabilities." Senior analyst Jeff Orr said: "The main focus of media tablets is entertainment. A tablet will not replace a laptop, netbook or mobile phone, but will remain an additional premium or luxury product for wealthy industrialized markets for at least several years."Previously, tablet PCs have struggled against laptops because they tend to cost more (the touch screen is an extra cost) but, lacking a keyboard, offer less functionality. PC software developers (including Microsoft itself) have also been slow to exploit handwriting and touch input even when there has been some support in the operating system. That could continue even with the multi-touch features in Windows 7.But Apple's iPad doesn't have that problem: it can tap into a vast collection of existing touch-enabled applications developed for the iPhone, which has never had a physical keyboard. An adapted version of the Linux-based Android mobile phone operating system could get a similar, if smaller, advantage. Google's Chrome OS and other operating systems will also be tried.ABI Research, which isselling a report about the new market, appears to be optimistic about media tablets. Steve Jobs, at the iPad launch, also suggested there was room for a device like the iPad that "so much more intimate than a laptop and so much more capable than a smart phone.''But Apple is still taking a gamble.There's no doubt there will be a short-term boom in iPad sales to satisfy the demand created by its advance publicity, and 4m sales sounds eminently achievable. Scaling that up to ABI's projected 57m a year could be harder, especially if the world economy is in the doldrums.Most people might think it would be nice to have a tablet handy on the sofa, while watching TV, but how many want one badly enough to pay $499 to $829 for one? Apart from you, of course…..
If you want to find an up-to-date map of Haiti, then there is only one place to go. It is not Google Maps or any of its competitors. It is the admirableOpenStreetMap.org(OSM), which is being updated even as I write by volunteers all over the world.It is the Wikipedia of the mapping world, and is used by millions of people. Started a little over five years ago in London by Steve Coast, it has steadily built up its database to the point where most of the world has now been mapped by a formidable team of volunteers which is doubling every six months: there were 212,000 at the last count, of whom 10% are active during any one month. At the end of January there were 239 people rebuilding the map of Haiti. For a bird's eye view of operations, go to theUshahidisite.When the earthquake happened it was a signal for OSM members around the globe to start downloading satellite images (either freely available or donated by Yahoo) and then to start tracing the outlines of streets on topso a map emerged. Volunteers on the ground in Haiti, often using Garmin GPS locators, added vital local information – such as which roads were passable, where the hospitals were situated, where refugee camps were, or walls, pharmacies, hedges and so forth – so rescue workers had an invaluable tool. The result is a new, detailed map that is updated frequently, unlike most commercial maps.This is only one of a number of open projects operating in Haiti in what may come to be seen as a seminal moment in the harnessing of the web to help those in need. Others includeCrisisCommons,WeHaveNeed,Sahana,open source medical softwareand numerous others, not to mention Twitter tags such as #haiti. One of the problems of using appropriate technology in disaster regions is that bricklayers in Haiti don't know of innovations that might have been pioneered in remote parts of Africa, a problem thatAkvois trying to solve with regard to water. There are also signs thatHexayurtlow-cost housing projects are starting to seed in Haiti.OpenStreetMaps is itself at a turning point as it tries to progress from a techie-driven project to one that the ordinary consumer can not only understand but contribute to as well. It suffers from what might be dubbed "open source syndrome", a complaint that also affects other OS projects including the Linux operating system – the involvement of skilled volunteers can make the early stages a bit difficult to understand for laypeople.However, they have been working on it and it is now much easier to do. A few days ago I added my local curry house to the map (next to a post box someone else had already inserted). All I needed to do was to drag a symbol of a restaurant from the bottom of the screen to where I wanted to put it and then add the words "Indian Diner". That in a nutshell is the comparative advantage that OpenStreetMap claims over other online maps. Users can add whatever detail interests them such ascycle routes, skateboarding areas, cycle parks, paths through parks – the parts Google can't reach. You have to register (it's free) as a member to alter the map. There is an iPhone app, Mapzen, produced byCloudmade(company founded by Coast and Nick Black to exploit mapping opportunities) that enables you to insert places of interest you have found on the move. If that takes off, it could lift the project to a new level.Often volunteers create maps where there was nothing before as inKiberain Kenya where basic amenities such as drinking water sources and latrines as well as churches are located to improve living standards and combat illness (eg, where latrines are located too near water sources). The Kibera team have been asked by Ushahidi and Google to include mapping of the slums of Port-au-Prince as part of the relief effort, something that hasn't been done before.Gordon Brown, the UK prime minister, has just rediscovered cooperativism as a way of galvanising people to vote Labour. He would have been much more in tune with the times if he had widened it to include the open source movement in all its different aspects. It is one of the most interesting phenomena of our times, a kind of global mutual society. While the likes of Apple and Amazon, though producing fantastic products, are becoming ever more controlling and proprietary, it is sobering to be reminded that one of the basic instincts of human nature – mutual cooperation for no cost – is thriving on a global scale.Follow Vic Keegan on Twitter
Jonathan Schwartz has tweeted his last goodbye to Sun Microsystems, the computer company that he wasn't quite able to rescue from its own weight of expectations.Schwartz took over as CEO from Scott McNealy, one of the company's founders, in 2006. At the time McNealy was seen as having been too tied to having big fights with Microsoft, but more importantly to the idea that Sun, despite its "Microsystems" name, was too wedded to the idea of selling Big Iron with Expensive Operating Systems to companies that didn't have the budget or the inclination to buy both.Though Sun flourished during the first dot-com boom, when having one of those funky purple Sun cabinets was all the rage and tweaking Solaris to run your web shop just that little bit faster was everyone's idea of a fun night in, the coming of cheap hardware, plus the emergence of Apache, Linux, MySQL and PHP/Perl meant that lots of startup companies could instead spend next to zero on software and kit, and just get the job done.Schwartz was thus in an impossible position, and though he tried hard by embracing open source, the reality was that Sun's products were always going to be niche. Fake Steve Jobs - aka Dan Lyons of Newsweek - fed the snark by dubbing Schwartz "My Little Pony" (because of his ponytail - which, let's admit it, is never a good idea on a man; if you have any doubts at all, discuss atAsk Hadley). Schwartz though had bigger problems and the layoffs at Sun made it look like the end would be brutal. InsteadOracle bought it(snatching it from IBM), which simply made it a brutal continuation.And so to Schwartz's farewell. Rather thanMcNealy's wordy letter, a sort of My Way to shareholders and staff, Schwartz chose the much more abbreviated form of a tweet - in haiku."Financial crisis/Stalled too many customers/CEO no more," hewrote.Nice to be able to blame the financial crisis - though he could equally well have written "Price of our hardware/Return on expenditure/Unbridgeable gap".OK, you have a go. Can you explain Sun's demise, in haiku?(Just as a reminder, it's 5 syllables, 7 syllables, 5 syllables. Bonus points if you write it in Japanese. Though we can't actually read Japanese.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Faced with the prospect of competition from the iPad, it looks likeAmazonwants to kick the Kindle up another gear, reportedlybuying touchscreen technology company Touchco. No official confirmation from either company, but sounds like a done deal.&bull; Carol Bartz continues to define her time atYahooby what she gets rid of: first the company's search business, then collaboration software Zimbra - now she isunloading Yahoo HotJobs website to Monster for $225m. Yahoo originally bought the company eight years ago for $445m.&bull; And we'll finish with an interesting essay from a familiar face, Bruce Schneier, who has written aboutwhy removing anonymity from the internet will never work. Thought provoking.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
When I was a child, I never knew that computers, or computer games, were supposed to be "for boys". To me, the Sinclair gameCyber Ratswasn't so far away from the board game Mousetrap, and mySnoopy Tennishand-held game was a just more exciting kind of travel solitaire. Board games weren't gendered; why would computer games be?I think it was only when I arrived at university and realised that everyone playingDoomin the college computer room was a man, that I started to feel out of place. In my 20s I certainly felt my gaming habit was unusual among my female friends, though I couldn't work out why.The traditional explanation has been that women aren't as interested in computers, maths or technology.  But I wonder if that's the whole story. In her book The Playful Self, Rebecca Abrams suggests that while feminism has made great strides in getting ­women's work taken more seriously,  it hasn't addressed the importance of women's play. Men's sports are given more media time than women's, arcades and pool halls have traditionally been very masculine environments, as have other gaming venues such as betting shops and poker clubs.The signs are that the gender balance of computer games is changing, though. Manufacturers are attempting to  target women – and not only with pink consoles. Estimates are that at least 60% of players of The Sims are women. Women areincreasingly involvedin role-playing games and now form a larger contingent ofPC gamersthan men. And games such asMass EffectandFable 2allow players to choose whether their character is male or ­female: a welcome innovation  for women tired of playing as  male characters.This is nothing but good news.  I had it right when I was eight: play doesn't have a gender, and neither does the joy of gaming.
Above: Apple Mac malware: caught on cameraI've just switched to a MacBook Pro running Snow Leopard. I was offered McAfee's anti-virus software but I've been advised by Mac users and Apple support that I do not need either anti-virus or anti-malware software running. Is that true?Jerome GoldsteinI don't know of any live malware attacking Mac OS X, so you probably don't need either anti-virus or anti-malware software at the moment. However, this does not mean you shouldn't run it. If you are a home user, you don't have to care what happens to your data, but business users do. It may be wise to take precautions, even if they don't appear to be necessary.People should also think about protecting their computers if they are a particularly attractive target for some reason. The Mac is not short of security flaws, and security consultantNitesh Dhanjani recently commented to CNetthat "the Safari web browser also has a lousy reputation in the security community -- it almost seems a child's play to locate an exploitable condition in Safari." The fact that there are no mass exploits for the Mac doesn't mean that an individual user could not be targeted in a sophisticated phishing attack. Again, even if the risk is very small, some people will want to err on the side of caution.There aren't many free anti-virus programs for the Mac, but you could always tryClamXav, which uses an open source antivirus engine. It's a graphical front end to Clam AV, and also available fromApple.Update: When I checkedmy Twitter accountthis evening, I found thatGraham Cluley from Sophos, a British antivirus company, hadtweetedabout some videos "of Mac OS X malware spreading in the wild for@jackschofieldand any other skeptics!" I've added one above. It shows a social engineering approach where users may install Mac OS X malware deliberately because they think it's a codec, an HDTV player or other bit of useful software. It's not a self-replicating virus, but then again, it is exactly the same as a lot of Windows attacks.
Cyber-warfare attacks on military infrastructure, government and communications systems, and financial markets pose a rapidly growing but little understood threat to international security and could become a decisive weapon of choice in future conflicts between states, the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies warned yesterday.IISS director-general John Chipman said: "Despite evidence of cyber attacks in recent political conflicts, there is little appreciation internationally of how to assess cyber-conflict. We are now, in relation to the problem of cyber-warfare, at the same stage of intellectual development as we were in the 1950s in relation to possible nuclear war."The warning accompanied yesterday's publication of the Military Balance 2010, the IISS's annual assessment of global military capabilities and defence economics. The study also highlighted a series of other security threats, including the war in Afghanistan, China's military diversification, the progress of Iran's suspect nuclear programme, and the impact of terrorist groups in Iraq and elsewhere.Future state-on-state conflict, as well as conflicts involving non-state actors such as al-Qaida, would increasingly be characterised by reliance on asymmetric warfare techniques, chiefly cyber-warfare, Chipman said. Hostile governments could hide behind rapidly advancing technology to launch attacks undetected. And unlike conventional and nuclear arms, there were no agreed international controls on the use of cyber weapons."Cyber-warfare [may be used] to disable a country's infrastructure, meddle with the integrity of another country's internal military data, try to confuse its financial transactions or to accomplish any number of other possibly crippling aims," he said. Yet governments and national defence establishments at present have only limited ability to tell when they were under attack, by whom, and how they might respond.Cyber-warfare typically involves the use of illegal exploitation methods on the internet, corruption or disruption of computer networks and software, hacking, computer forensics, and espionage. Reports of cyber-warfare attacks, government-sponsored or otherwise, are rising. Last month Google launched an investigation into cyber attacks allegedly originating in China that it said had targeted the email accounts of human rights activists.In December the South Korean government reported an attack in which it said North Korean hackers may have stolen secret defence plans outlining the South Korean and US strategy in the event of war on the Korean peninsula. Last July, espionage protection agents in Germany said the country faced "extremely sophisticated" Chinese and Russian internet spying operations targeting industrial secrets and critical infrastructure such as Germany's power grid.One of the most notorious cyber-warfare offensives to date took place in Estonia in 2007 when more than 1 million computers were used to jam government, business and media websites. The attacks, widely believed to have originated in Russia, coincided with a period of heightened bilateral political tension. They inflicted damage estimated in the tens of millions of euros of damage.China last week accused the Obama administration of waging "online warfare" against Iran by recruiting a "hacker brigade" and manipulating social media such as Twitter and YouTube to stir up anti-government agitation.The US Defence Department's Quadrennial Defence Review, published this week, also highlighted the rising threat posed by cyber-warfare on space-based surveillance and communications systems."On any given day, there are as many as 7 million DoD (Department of Defence) computers and telecommunications tools in use in 88 countries using thousands of war-fighting and support applications. The number of potential vulnerabilities, therefore, is staggering." the review said."Moreover, the speed of cyber attacks and the anonymity of cyberspace greatly favour the offence. This advantage is growing as hacker tools become cheaper and easier to employ by adversaries whose skills are growing in sophistication."Defensive measures have already begun. Last June the Pentagon created US Cyber Command and Britain announced it was opening a cyber-security operations centre attached to GCHQ at Cheltenham, in coordination with MI5 and MI6.William Lynn, US deputy defence secretary, described the cyber challenge as unprecedented. "Once the province of nations, the ability to destroy via cyber now also rests in the hands of small groups and individuals: from terrorist groups to organised crime, hackers to industrial spies to foreign intelligence services … This is not some future threat. The cyber threat is here today, it is here now," Lynn said.
Here's a rather snazzy sci-fi FPS that seems to have been conceived as a portable, low-cost take on Halo.Press-ganged back into miltary service by some gung-ho thugs, you are faceless jock Kal Wardin, and your mission is to investigate some nefarious alien goings-on aboard a derelict space station. Actually, investigation might be too lofty a description: the gameplay principally involves following some clearly sign-posted paths, shooting things with ever-bigger guns, and hitting the occasional switch.N.O.V.A. is not going to win any prizes for depth: run a bit, shoot a bit, collect some ammo, run and shoot some more. However what it lacks in complexity it makes up for in simple pick-up-and-play fun.Serious gamers might find it a bit too easy, but even they ought to be impressed by the top-notch graphics, atmospheric design and decent, responsive controls (by the iPhone's admittedly low standards).Less impressive is the plot; you'll need super-human patience to not skip the many cut scenes, and if you do skip you'll not be missing much. Also, it could do with a bit more variety in weapons and adversaries, and no effort seems to have been made to imbue the supporting characters with any, well, character.However, flaws aside, this is a hugely enjoyable knuckle-headed romp, and at the moment there is no better FPS for the iPhone.
Broadband is continuing to get cheaper, in terms of dollars per megabit, but users may be paying more for their connections, according to broadband-tracking companyPoint Topic. Senior analyst Fiona Vanier says: "Operators have overall been raising prices of the entry level services they offer in the last few months, particularly for DSL. They have achieved an overall reduction in the price per megabit by increasing speeds -- or at least the headline speeds they quote for the services."Since real speeds often fail to match headline speeds, "the drop in bandwidth costs may not be as dramatic as the raw data suggests," she adds.Point Topic's figures show that the worldwide price per megabit fell by almost 30% for DSL broadband last year, and by just over 23% for cable. The cost of fibre bandwidth increased by 2.1%.In the UK, DSL broadband deals had an average "headline speed" of 11.6Mbps at an average price of £21.33, in last year's final quarter. Cable broadband offered an average speed of 19.83Mbps at an average price of £28.83. The sole fibre offering was for 40Mbps at £25 per month.Real UK speeds are much lower.Akamai's latest State of the Internet (Q3-2009) reportforund that the national average download speed was just 3.5Mbps, putting the UK 26th in the world rankings.Point Topic points out that bandwidth costs vary widely across the world. DSL is cheapest in the Asia Pacific region, at less than $5 per megabit. It is most expensive in the Middle East and Africa, at almost $25 per megabit, with the US and Canada in between.Vanier says that "speeds on offer in North America for example are generally lower than in Europe and comparable services cost significantly more," so the argument for "infrastructure competition … doesn't seem to be borne out by the evidence to date."
British psychologists have found evidence of a link between excessive internet use and depression, research published today has shown.Leeds Universityresearchers, writing in the Psychopathology journal(abstract here – subscription required for full pdf), said a small proportion of internet users were classed as internet addicts and that people in this group were more likely to be depressed than non-addicted users.The article on the relationship between excessive internet use and depression, a questionnaire-based study of 1,319 young people and adults, used data compiled from respondents to links placed on UK-based social networking sites.The respondents answered questions about how much time they spent on the internet and what they used it for; theyalso completed theBeck Depression Inventory– a series of questions designed to measure the severity of depression.The report, by the university's Institute of Psychological Sciences, said 18 of the people who completed the questionnaire – 1.4% of the total – were internet addicts."Our research indicates that excessive internet use is associated with depression, but what we don't know is which comes first – are depressed people drawn to the internet or does the internet cause depression?" the article's lead author,  Dr Catriona Morrison, said."What is clear is that, for a small subset of people, excessive use of the internet could be a warning signal for depressive tendencies."The age range of all respondents was between 16 and 51 years, with a mean age of 21.24. The mean age of the 18 internet addicts, 13 of whom were male and five female, was 18.3 years.By comparing the scale of depression within this group to that within a group of 18 non-addicted internet users – again of a mean age of 18.3 years and made up of 13 males and five females – researchers found the internet addicts had a higher incidence of moderate to severe depression than non-addicts.They also discovered that addicts spent proportionately more time browsing sexually gratifying websites, online gaming sites and online communities."This study reinforces the public speculation that over-engaging in websites that serve to replace normal social function might be linked to psychological disorders like depression and addiction," Morrison said."We now need to consider the wider societal implications of this relationship and establish clearly the effects of excessive internet use on mental health."The six-page report is the first larger-scale study of young western people to consider the relationship between internet addiction and depression.Much of the previous research into the subject has been carried out in east Asia.
Google has announced its first seriousfunding for university research, with $5.7m going to 12 projects led by 31 professors at 10 universities. Only one of these is outside the US: the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory will get some funds for its Computing for the Future of the Planet research, led by Professor Andy Hopper. Cambridge isn't saying how much it will get ("a six figure sum"), but grants range between $100,000 and $1.5m.Google is supporting four areas that it says "are of key interest to Google as well as the research community". Half the awards are concerned with energy efficiency in computing -- one of Goole's primary interests -- with the other areas being machine learning, the use of mobile phones as data collection devices for public health and environment monitoring, and privacy.Professor Hopper, whose research comes in the privacy category, says the awards "place no restrictions or constraints on the funded research". However, privacy will be increasingly important to Google as it gets access to ever-larger amounts of personal data.No doubt there will also be spin-off benefits for Google as it increases its contact with bright students -- potential employees -- and introduces them to Google technologies.There's a long tradition of technology companies funding university research, particularly in the US, so it's good to see Google joining in.The Cambridge Computer Lab is based in the William Gates Building, which received "a substantial donation" from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It's next door to Microsoft Research Cambridge.
Apart from having three abbreviations in its title – perhaps a record – MX vs ATV Reflex (motocross versus all-terrain-vehicle) doesn't start well.I know that this is a fairly anal gripe, but the voiceover is immediately annoying. A bad William Shatner impression into a low-quality microphone recorded in an echoey toilet cubicle, its effect is further worsened by a grinding, patronising and limited script. After 10 frustrating minutes, I was so incandescent with rage that I could only complete the training with the sound turned off.The training section is slow and frustrating, even without the disembodied voice of Captain Kirk criticising your every failure. You are taken slowly through the complex and fiddly control system in a large arena, but while you can see lots of tempting jumps strewn around, you aren't allowed to stray from the measly training path to try them. Therefore, before I even started the first race, this game needled me. This is a pity, because once you get used to the controls – you steer your vehicle with the left stick and control the rider with the right, which is crucial for control at speed as well as tricks – this is actually quite a satisfying game.The graphics are very pretty, despite the fact – by necessity for dirt bike and ATV racing – the engine is used mostly to render earth in various muddy shades. Tricks are quite intuitive once you are used to the controls, and the feeling of having to balance your rider as well as steer is great for immersion. Additionally, being able to practice tricks during loading-times is an outstanding touch.The physics engine deserves a mention, too. Mistime a trick, and you have to watch the consequences of your mistake on your unfortunate avatar in extreme, sadistic detail. I genuinely had to look away, sometimes, so brutal are the graphics. This is compounded by the sound: what sick game developer decides that he needs a sound-effect for a spine snapping? When it's not being used to viscerally highlight the dangers of dirt-biking, the physics are very good indeed. The muddy tracks transform as you race over them, and your opponents tyre-tracks can trip you up.There are still some annoyances. The AI is pretty bad, especially when it comes to avoiding collisions, and there is no mini-map in the race levels. But there are lots of fun touches, too, as well as plenty of vehicle and game modes to fiddle about with. But what recommends this game most is the combination of that excellent physics engine and a control system that, while it does take some getting used to, is actually rather good.
Did you know that the lined surgeonfish is fiercely territorial and will attack any other fish that enters its domain? I do, because I've played Endless Ocean 2: Adventures of the Deep.There haven't been many games based entirely underwater over the years – honourable mentions, here, for James Pond on the Amiga and the Mega Drive's wonderful Ecco The Dolphin – and the first Endless Ocean game set out to fill this gaping aquatic chasm in the market.Though Endless Ocean wasn't a game, exactly – more a soothing temporary lobotomy, which gave you the opportunity to scuba dive in pretty locations and gawp at a large number of fish. The sequel lets you do this, too, but, as the "adventure" part of the title suggests, there's also a coherent – if mystical and occasionally baffling – quest narrative to go alongside it.You play the latest scuba diving recruit to an underwater survey company owned by a Captain Birdseye look-alike with a salty past, and his young granddaughter, the imaginatively named Océana. Via their incessant cajoling, you learn how to become one with the watery depths; you get to interact with the fish by stroking them or giving them food (but not killing them), learn how to take photographs and hunt for treasure, and are armed with a Pulsar gun for shooing off sharks and healing sick halibut. You get to travel the world, swim past beautiful corals and explore mystical wrecks, all to an Enya-style soundtrack and interspersed with many cut-scenes of shoals of fish ambling past prettily.There's plenty to do in this game – all of it accessible from the hub of your home island, where you can customise your diving equipment, view your photographs, arrange your next mission, or simply admire the ridiculous array of titles you've amassed via your watery exploits, all with ridiculous names like Righteous Paladin, or South Pacific Dolphin Hugger.As you've probably worked out by now, Endless Ocean 2 isn't exactly Moby Dick: the video game. There are no opportunities to fire harpoons into the side of great watery beasts*. And this, of itself, isn't a problem – there should be room in the market for gentle, passive adventures, and Endless Ocean 2 is free-form and sandbox enough to keep one soothingly anaesthetised for quite some time.Unfortunately, this potential bliss is shattered by irritation of a thousand cuts. The control system is slow and cumbersome,  and your character takes an enormous amount of time to get anywhere of interest. You feel like you're playing the game from a cocoon of soggy cotton wool, preventing you from doing anything fun, like getting caught up in a whirlpool or drowning. Furthermore the game is stuffed with irritating and often pointless prompts, of the "sure you want to dive here? Yes or no?" variety. And your journey around the depths is interrupted by a cut screen every time you reach a new area, so that you can drink in the majesty of the underwater seascape.Which brings me to the game's main flaw – the graphics just aren't good enough for a truly immersive experience. They're pretty but hardly earth shattering, with the game's engine showing both its age and the Wii's limitations, particularly when compared with the game's closest relative, the thoroughly land-related PS3 animal photographing simulator, Afrika.Unless you have a lust for a Sisyphean fish-labeling task, this game should be left to quietly sink down to Davy Jones's locker.*Although, betraying the game developers' Japanese origins, some of the fish descriptions are almost wistfully hungry in nature – one note excitedly tells of how bluefin tuna makes a great sushi topping.
With Mass Effect 2 finally out the door, I spoke to Ray Muzyka, the head of developer Bioware, and asked him about the differences between Dragon Age and Mass Effect, the future of RPG and what effect the iPad could have on Bioware's games.ME2 seems more polished than ME1 – is this simply down to the EA influence?Well, we are EA now of course. We are always pushing ourselves on each project we do. Mass Effect 2 is great, but it isn't the end. It is the beginning of the next phase of development. We are always levelling up, always improving.  Our team is always learning new and better ways to work. Always looking for new ways to show emotion and improve engagement. For example a character raising an eyebrow says more than a thousand words.  That's powerful if you can make characters come alive. There wasn't anything broken with ME1. We've improved the fidelity and there are less moments of uncanny valley. With ME2 you won't be taken out of the story. Games are an amazing art form – you can be the actor and director at the same time.How do you marry the new focus on combat with the traditional Bioware focus on narrative and characters?The combat is more intense than before. RPG's can be integrated with any kind of gameplay. Combat, exploration, personalisation, story, characters – these can benefit most games. For Mass Effect 2 we really had to think about pacing and the reward curve. We looked at the bookFlow by Csikszentmihalyito see how we measure the reward curve. We want to keep people engaged but not overly so as edge of the seat all the time is too much. Likewise we want to keep them engaged but not bored. We try to get a nice mix between boredom and tension. For combat we looked a variety of things like deploying the squad and cover system. We were definitely inspired by Gears of War here. You can outflank and use location based damage now too. Put all these elements together and you have a lot more tactical depth.  Add in a story that puts this in context and you can see how a game gets put together, There is a virtuous circle where combat leads to items leads to exploration leads to more conflict.How did the buyout by Electronic Arts (EA bought Bioware in 2008) influence the development of Mass Effect 2? Did this lead to a greater emphasis on combat?We would have made the combat more intense anyway. We got some feedback from EA that did help us. John Riccitiello (EA Head) was also my boss at Elevation Partners and he gave some great feedback about the original Mass Effect way back in 2006. We didn't put it all in Mass Effect 1 but we integrated it with the feedback from players and press and created a prioritised list for Mass Effect 2. It is all about mass market accessibility while maintaining the depth that our core fanbase love. Everyone appreciates quality and fun after all. Mass Effect 2 can be played as deep as you like. You can dive into the backstory with the codex and really get into the whole universe or you can just have fun with the story and the shooting.What is the future for RPGs? Hybrid?Our games clearly started out in the RPG space but things are more of a hybrid these days. We are approaching merging genres from the RPG side. Rockstar with GTA and even social games are merging in RPG elements into their games from the other direction. RPG mechanics are fun. Progression is fun. Characterisation is fun. Exploration is fun – everyone likes the idea of being an explorer. Combat is usually fun too. You like winning. Story is fun. That's why it is core to so many entertainment activities. My team's aim is to create the most emotionally engaging gaming experiences in the world. Entertainment is something people make time for, There is room for more than one great game or movie at a time.What about other platforms? Are your games only really suitable for PC, 360 and PS3?Not necessarily. We look at all the platforms. We have done a Sonic game for the DS. We did a Mass Effect iPhone game. We even did aFacebook game. You can create games with engaging stories on any platform though how you do this does vary massively. You don't force it but allow users of the platform to consume the content they want. You can't overly generalise but you can tune your content for the majority of users for each platform. We are careful how we approach platforms generally. We look at our core brands and see if we can extend into other platforms. It is risky though. We don't try and do everything. Quality is the key. There is more than one way to tell a great story. It doesn't have to be dialogue. It can be the way the world revolves around you or the way characters respond.Any thoughts on the iPad as a potential platform?I have only seen what everyone has on the web. It looks pretty cool. Apple makes sexy gear and I do want a iPad. But I don't know what is unique about it as a gaming platform yet. I am intrigued.How important is DLC  and where is it going?It's really hard to make high quality DLC to the level and cadence that you need to keep people interested in your game. We see our games as platforms. Dragon Age and Mass Effect are good examples of this. We want to continually support and grow these games with new content online. It's not like we left content out to put back in as DLC. We built content separately and developed it in parallel with the main game. It is developed by a separate team at the same time as the main game.What differences are there between the audiences of Dragon Age and Mass Effect 2?It's a little early to tell. I suspect Dragon Age will appeal to the more core RPG fan. But Dragon Age also had an emotionally engaging narrative which will appeal to a wider audience too. Mass Effect 2's gameplay is a little more orientated around the shooter action so will appeal to a slightly different audience. We wanted to make sure that all the games my team are working on can appeal to different audiences. I like the idea of having a game like Dragon Age that is the spiritual successor to Baldur's Gate. It has obviously been bought into the next generation with graphics and emotional fidelity but this is a game that really appeals to our core fan base.  Mass Effect has a different audience to both Dragon Age and Star Wars Republic as well our other stuff which we haven't announced yet. We have a diverse portfolio of RPGs.Why are there so few single-player RPGs coming through these days?There are only so many titles that can do well. Successful RPGs need to have a great team behind them. There is a real consistency, continuity and organisation on the teams that make these hit games. There is also huge loyalty too. The exec producer on Mass Effect has been with us over a decade. The same is true of the Project Director on Dragon Age. The same is true of groups like Irrational (Bioshock) and Bethesda. They all have continuity. All these successful teams have a vision and build on the foundation of great successes in the past. It really helps to build on knowledge. Rockstar too, and Dice at EA are all good examples of teams that have built up knowledge and success over time.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; There's been plenty of talk in recent years aboutYouTube- more specificallywhether it makes money, deals withmovie studiosand potential entry into video rentals. That last idea may be on ice, after figures that suggest that the companymade little more than $10,000during a short experiment in movie rentals. Not exactly chump change (if you can spare $10k, let me know) but certainly a long way from where Google would have wanted it.&bull;Facebookhas been doing more work with the open source community of late, but its latest effort sounds pretty interesting:HipHop, a PHP compiler that it says reduces CPU load by an average of 50% (at least for Facebook itself). Actually, it's not really a compiler, but a system that converts PHP into C++ andthencompiles it... will it make a real difference to web developers? Or will it only really make a difference to Facebook-style operations?&bull; And it's time for another episode of ourTech Weekly- and apologies to anyone who is iPadded out, but we couldn't ignore the Apple - so we drag along Nick Carr to help us ponder what it all means. We also hear from a top-ranking literary agenton Amazon's tussle with Macmillan. Thirty-three minutes of aural excitementat the click of a button.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I don't think there's much doubt about whether you're safer using Windows or Mac OS X: the answer is Mac OS X. If you want to know which is more secure, that's a different question. It's also a more complex one, because there several versions of Windows. If you want to pick on Windows XP, we know that's not secure: its failings prompted Microsoft to spend vast sums retraining its programmers in Trustworthy Computing, and to give users a more secure version free: XP SP2.By contrast, Windows 7 has more advanced security than OS X, but whether it's safer is another matter. The fact is, Windows is much more likely to be attacked. Chris Wysopal, chief technology officer at Veracode, puts it like this: "I think the Mac is less risky, not more secure. The difference is in the threat environment. An analogy would be an unlocked house in an urban vs rural environment. Both are insecure. One, the rural, is less risky."Wysopal is one of the 32 security experts quoted in a CNet article,In their words: Experts weigh in on Mac vs PC security. It's a very interesting read, and it would be even better if more contributors had said which version of Windows they were talking about.One running theme is that Mac OS X isn't attacked as much because of its small market share, but that won't last if it becomes more popular. Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at F-Secure, says:"Mac is more secure, simply because it has less attacks targeting it. If Mac would be targeted more, it could have exactly the same problems as PC does today."There's two main reasons why Mac isn't targeted as much as PC:1) Smaller user base -- making it less a lucrative target 2) Lazy attackers -- their existing codebase and expertise is on Windows, so they keep creating more Windows attacks. Hey, if they make a nice enough living by writing malware targeting Windows XP, why change to anywhere else?"Another theme is that attacks are moving to target the browser and other software rather than the operating system, and this may not turn out quite as well for Apple. Frank Heidt, CEO of Leviathan Security, says:"The risk landscape for consumers (and enterprises) has changed over the last few years. Operating systems as such are no longer the primary target of consumer-targeted attacks; applications are. In light of that fact, I'd say each operating system has its benefits and liabilities. The real risks lie in the consumer's browser choice, and security habits. From a browser standpoint, I would choose Firefox over IE, and IE over Safari."Nitesh Dhanjani, researcher and consultant, says:"I know Internet Explorer has had a considerable share of vulnerabilities, but the Safari Web browser also has a lousy reputation in the security community -- it almost seems a child's play to locate an exploitable condition in Safari. Apple really needs to get its act together with Safari since OS X is enjoying a healthy market share climb at the moment."In the end, however, a big part of the problem is the bit between the chair and the keyboard. As Graham Cluley from Sophos says: "Social engineering is the unifying threat that puts all computer users at risk, regardless of operating system. And that's what most threats exploit."Steve Manzuik, senior manager of security research at Juniper Networks, says:"Regardless of the operating system, the easiest way for an attacker to compromise a system is by going after the application level and causing the user to click, open, or run something they should not. The trend of patches over the last couple of years from Microsoft, Adobe, and even Apple supports this. Unfortunately, you cannot 'secure' user behavior."This is, no doubt, true, but the Mac still has the advantage. A careless Windows 7 user will probably run into lots of ways to get attacked by malware, whereas even the most careless Mac user seems unlikely to run into any. Even if Windows 7 is more secure than Mac OS X, the Mac is still safer.There are many more quotes ar CNet:Experts weigh in on Mac vs PC security.
Electronic Arts this week releases Dante's Inferno, a computer game based on the Italian's most famous work. But what does it bring to Dante studies?The Inferno was ­written in mid-life by a ­disappointed politician. Dante Alighieri found himself on the wrong side of the in-fighting in medieval Florence and was exiled by triumphant opponents. Frank Field could have written it. Strip away the poem's torments and theology (which, of course, you mustn't, but just to start with) and you find somebody trying to deal with thwarted ambition and a sense of injustice. Dante's Hell is what those feelings create and he looks for a way out, of somehow getting through and beyond them.The core demographic for computer games is not, I think, fortysomethings with issues – not yet, anyway – so this all changes. The Dante here is no poet but a crusader, who has fought Death himself, won (of course) and now comes riding home with the grim reaper's scythe thrown over his shoulder. Sadly, the villa in Tuscany has been trashed and Beatrice, his giant-breasted (of course) wife, lies dead in the garden. Her ghost tells Dante he must rescue her from Hell.In the original, it is "girl saves boy" – Beatrice, dead at an early age, looks down from heaven, sees Dante's soul in danger, and sends help. Here, however, Dante fights the nasties to save the girl. The lower he descends, the more haunting and powerful the graphics become, but it's a much duller story than the book. Kill one monster, kill another.Literary folk usually disapprove of computer games; supposedly they inhibit empathy whereas reading enhances it and gamers start to confuse real and virtual killing. I'm not sure. Dante's Inferno is rated 18 and has its gory moments. Playing it, though, didn't feel like violence. The constant danger gets exhausting and watching so closely gives you a headache, but dangers are overcome by intricate and involved fingering. It's like playing an ocarina. In the bloodbath, you work on your finger-eye co-ordination. You can also buy relics in Hell, and enhanced powers, paying with the souls of those you have vanquished. Or you could buy a translation of the poem and find out what it's really like to ­wrestle with demons.Ralph Pite is author of The Circle of Our Vision: Dante's Presence in English Romantic Poetry
Yes, Best Of is back to bring you the choicest cuts from the road kill thatwaslast week on Chatterbox. I'll keep the intro brief as it's past my bedtime, but as usual you'll find a compelling collection of observations and anecdotes covering everything from Mass Effect 2 to the great 'Italibold' disaster.This week's compiler is Office Pest, winner of the coveted Lifetime Achievement Award at this week'sChatterbox ceremony. Enjoy his editing skills now before he gets too big-headed to bother.Okay, sit back and bask in Reference Quality chat.Best of ChatterboxJanuary 24-29Edited by Office PestMondayRuzz got us off to a suitably geeky start with a quote from classic movie Galaxy Quest. Points (and shame) went to Matt123 for recognising the film.The usual Monday morning banter followed – what films were watched, games played, food consumed and ale quaffed. Onedaveofmany admitted to collecting his 7th platinum trophy over the weekend.  Yes – 7th.  Leave some for the rest of us…Later there was an in-depth conversation about Arnie films and quotes. Not only has this been done on the blog before, it's even made it into the 'Best Of' before! The one highlight was CrispyCrumb's digging out of an article discussing whether Bennett was in love with Matrix in the film Commando.  Quote the director – "He seems to me like the most macho soldier or person you could think of."This inevitably led to 'bad actors that have been in good films'.  Namely Keanu Reaves, Nic Cage and Christopher Lambert.The lazy masses wiled away the afternoon discussing how they would recognise each other at the blog meet up next week. PJBalloon suggested somebody wear "…a t-shirt with my image on so I can be there in spirit."  Loser's suggestion wins a prize though – "…crotchless superhero costumes."  We want pictures (and we want them published please Keef).The day was wrapped up with geeky discussions of Warhammer 40k (how you get paint off 'old metal minis'), whether game-related T-shirts are cool (the blog was divided) and how good it is having a geek as a girlfriend. After all the Warhammer talk, it seemed unlikely that anyone actually had a girlfriend.TuesdayThe day exploded with news of Eurogamer's Mass Effect 2 review. The score of 10/10 got many people excited and already thinking about blagging the day off on Friday. Fantomex was quite upset at being suckered in by the blog's enthusiasm – "Damn you all, your enthusiasm just made me order Mass Effect 2. Like, what the f**k?  Making me spend my money on things I enjoy. At least I get that badass-looking play.com armour, I guess."  Methinks Fantomex is trying to make his game-playing, WH40k-painting self sound cool.At 11:09, a post by Sorbicol broke the blog and all subsequent posts were made in bold. There were murmurs of 'the end of time' and 'GWX cometh', which were compounded by Dizzyisanegg posting a link to a story about a lamb being born with the face of a man. It got worse at 11:38 when a post by EnglishRed broke the blog even further and caused all posts to be made in bold and italic. Ye gods!Some people liked the changes. Others just decided to be evil and infect other blogs by posting in bold and italic. Headaches were rife and some people left, but unfortunately it didn't stop the geek contingent (Fantomex, CunningStunt, EnglishRed, Crispycrumb and BeardOfBees be shamed) discussing painting of Warhammer 40k pieces.  We can only hope that the techy bods who fixed the 'Italibold' disaster get to work on a filter to block this sort of talk.Later in the afternoon Ruzz had a 'literary meltdown' and the blog returned to normal – or as normal as it gets anyway…WednesdayEarly in the morning, Indiekidmunky made the mistake of criticising the blog's favourite colloquialism 'Reference Quality'. The response was, predictably, people using 'Reference Quality' as much as possible for the rest of the day.  If anybody reading this doesn't understand what it means… don't ask the chatterbox.Later on, we all commiserated with Cameroon95 who had his car broken into.  Fantomex offered some advice – "…ever considered a tripwire to set off an explosion?" Cameroon95 kept quiet after that, so we can only conclude that he was busy trying to explode some thieves.Before going out to lunch, Davefalse unwittingly spawned another Listblog – this one being films that were released in the year you were born.  The idea being that those who were going to the Gamesblog Meatup on Saturday would have to dress up as a character from one of those films. Cue much hilarity!  Which I won't bore you with here. Awards organiser Limni said it all – "Listing films that came out the year you were born. A new low."Later there was more talk about Warhammer and even the possibility of a Warhammer Meat Up. Single women beware!ThursdayTis morning brought the excitement of the new Apple iPad! Actually… it didn't.  There was only one post – by Jonston – "It's a bigger spec iPod touch!"With that over, St00 asked the blog how 'dual console owners' decide which console to buy multi-format games on, which led to the usual PS3 / 360 debate. Cameroon95 asked of 'dual console owners' – "Do you have a girlfriend?" Smike's quick response was appropriate – "Why would they need one?"Around lunchtime there was another debate – this one over whether pre-crushed garlic in a tube is as good as fresh garlic. CunningStunt says yes – the rest of us say NO! Recipeblog made an appearance for a while, which was my fault as I was shamelessly trying to promote my, frankly marvellous, curry recipes – see the Gamesblog Wiki recipe page for details folks!The afternoon conversations varied greatly – trainers, legal/financial advice, hot girls in Games Workshop stores, Danny Dyer and Warhammer 40k (again). Despite me threatening to kill myself by inserting my thumb into my eye and wiggling it about furiously to scramble my brain, the WH40k talk went on. In fact I received lots of advice about how to do it properly, such as this from RobLindsay – "…a left thumb scrambling the right side will cause motor failure in the left side and the thumb will therefore be unable to complete its task."  Thanks Gamesblog.FridayMass Effect 2 release day! Many people were upset about Game and Gamestation not opening early just for them to buy Mass Effect 2.  Many mutters of…This country.Bainbridge83 obviously got it early though and managed to plow five hours into it on Thursday night! Frankly, I think we were lucky to have anyone in to actually do any posting.Killerbee started a very late debate over whether GTA IV is really any good or not.  Bad points included the weak combat and shooting, lack of humour and abysmal (supposedly realistic) handling of cars whilst driving. This debate even caused RobLindsay to question his maturity – "Might be I'm getting old and jaded but even randomly beating up a pedestrian or shooting up an ambulance isn't as fun as it once was."  Bad, bad game.Friday was Gamesblog Meat Up Eve so plans were made, contingencies arranged and security put in place around TonyHayers. There was more talk around the dress code, which led to a variety of clothing-based discussions which slowly descended into the strange and unusual – suits, robes, pyjamas, slippers, 'house trousers', blankets with arms, kimonos and burlesque outfits.There was still some confusion over whether it was the George or the Royal George, so lets hope that the people attending don't 'do a Fantomex' and end up in the wrong venue.  Look forward to talk of smashed teeth, trains going the wrong way and people losing their PSPs, but really having them in their pocket (how stupid would that be?  Ahem…)Quotes of the week:"Ms Chubster was there and we were chatting about wedding plans as I gunned down Skags!"Chubster2010 on how to get thrown out of a wedding fair…"Who needs female company when you have cohorts of metal war dollies? I bought a load of old Eldar stuff on ebay last year…"We wonder if EnglishRed is single."@All concerned with bold blog. Push monitor 8-12 inches further back from face..."DrStatham is part of the solution."What about drying retarders?"CunningStunt poses the age-old question…"If you were aging rockstars I bet you would still have the ponytail that made you famous."In an unusually lucid moment, Mollocate comments on WH40kBlog.Also discussedGames:Mass Effect 2, Demon's Souls, Assassin's Creed 2, Modern Warfare 2Films &amp; TV:Galaxy Quest, The Road, Defiance, Sherlock Holmes, Tim Burton filmsBooks:The Road by Cormac McCarthy, Watchers by Dean Koontz, anything by Graham MastertonMusic:IdlewildWelcome to: Bainbridge83, Primer1, liammonster, MightyRioGrande
The chief executive of Arm has given the strongest hint yet that the company's technology is inside Apple's iPad.The Cambridge-based technology group - whose microchip designs are to be found in more than nine out of every 10 mobile phones sold across the world - already has chips in the iPhone and iPod. That has ledintense speculationthat Apple's A4 chip, which powers the iPad, incorporates an Arm Cortex-A9 MPCore - the same processor as Qualcomm's Snapdragon chip, which powers Google's Nexus One.In an interview with the Guardian, Arm's chief executive, Warren East, hinted that the mystery would soon be over."I would doubt whether anybody other than Apple has taken the iPad to bits yet," he said. "But in a month or so it will be available and somebody other than Apple will take it to bits - and then we will know."Famously coy about the destination of the company's technology, East hinted that the iPad was powered by Arm designs – but refused to confirm outright that the A4 chip is based on the company's intellectual property."I have seen all the same speculation that you have seen and I can point out the fact that they [Apple] publicised the fact that it runs Apple iPhone and iPod Touch applications straight off and from that you can do some inferring," he teased."But I cannot possibly confirm anything."When a new gadget is released, analysts can be relied upon to pull it apart and spot the firm's handiwork. They have yet to get their hands on an iPad, however.There had been concerns that Apple's $275m (£148m)acquisition of Californian chip designer PA Semiin 2008 would see Arm slowly pushed out of Apple's products.But the A4 chip - the first piece of silicon to emerge since that takeover - suggests there is still a very definite role for Arm to play.East was speaking after the company announced a better than expected set of fourth quarter results.It has benefited from the boom in sales of smartphones from the likes of Apple, Nokia and RIM, maker of the BlackBerry. As these devices have become more complex, meanwhile, Arm has been able to install more of its chip designs in individual gadgets - covering everything from the handset's microprocessor to Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or GPS connections.While revenues in the three months to end December were down 10%, at £85.2m, that was a better performance than the City had predicted and a lot better than the 20% drop recorded by some of its rivals.In the quarter, the company sold a record 1.3 billion chips. Annual sales of £305m were up 2%, while profits of £96.8m were down 4%.In its results statement, ARM said it is generally anticipated that the semiconductor industry will see improving conditions in 2010 compared to 2009, but warned that "the rate of improvement is still unclear as it will be influenced by consumer confidence and the broader macro-economic environment".East cautioned that the industry's expectations for growth of 15% to 20% this year, may be over-optimistic. His own prediction is for Arm to grow at 13%, with the rest of the industry seeing more modest growth.
