John Gruber of Daring Fireball hasinterviewed Dino Dai Zovione of the people who cooked up an exploit to hack into a Mac last week as part of a challenge which netted them the Mac (a 15" MacBook Pro) and $10,000. (If you're interested, it exploits a flaw in Quicktime's implementation of Java. Not much else is known.)It's an interesting interview mostly for the end part, in which Gruber asks Dai Zovi (whose primary job is what we could call "pen-testing" - trying to penetrate security systems to make them more robust) what sort of security precautions he takes.Gruber: Do you use a Mac as your primary computer? If so, what security precautions do you take? I'm going to go out on a limb and predict you do not use any sort of commercial anti-virus package.Dai Zovi: I use a Mac as my primary, secondary, and tertiary computers :). I take some extra security precautions such as always running as a non-admin account, using separate encrypted disk images and keychains for different purposes, and isolating data on different machines. I also take some extra precautions that I'm not going to advertise publicly :). I do not, however, run any commercial anti-virus packages.I've not seen any statistics on the size of the antivirus market for Macs, but I'd bet that it's proportionally a lot smaller than for Windows. But Dai Zovi's advice (create separate keychains for very sensitive passwords such as banks, if you cannot remember them; create encrypted disk images for very sensitive data; run as a non-admin user) is very sound. The problem is, of course, that the first account when you set up a Mac is an admin account. And for machines owned only by one person, that's usually the one they stay with.Dai Zovi: ... I think Apple should provide the option to create both admin and non-admin accounts in the first run as well as make it easier to store passwords in non-login keychains.Yup, that would about cover it.
Over the past couple of days, I've rolled out some of the findings from the data fiddling I've been doing with the International Game Developers Association's Game Developers Choice Awards nominations from 2007.WednesdayI gave a general overview.YesterdayI showed off which countries were most alike when it came to preferences for Visual Arts. Today, I'm getting more in depth with the category Best Game.Once again, the affiliation network diagram (created usingPajek) shows that there's a hefty cluster of countries who think that the same games were the best in 2006. As a reminder, the five games which were nominated by the most countries for this year's GDCA awards were:Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (10 countries) Gears of War (7 countries) Company of Heroes (6 countries) Elder Scrolls: Oblivion (8 countries) Guitar Hero 2 (4 countries)You can imagine that these are the games that link most of the countries. But some of the countries didn't vote for any of them. Three countries voted in complete isolation: Russia (the greatest number of votes rolled in for Magic Ball 3), Israel (their top two were The Exchange Student and Ankh) and Sweden (most of their voters preferred Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops).Some of the countries are linked by several games, and there may be conceptual trends which can be drawn when these are listed. So here goes.Canada and the USAThe US voted for the most games in this category, and Canada voted for the third most, but they shared 9 between them: Company of Heroes Dead Rising Elder Scrolls: Oblivion Gears of War Guitar Hero 2 Half Life 2: Episode 1 Okami Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Wii SportsThe UK and the USAThe UK was the second-most voting country in this category. We shared eight games with the USA: Company of Heroes Gears of War Guitar Hero 2 Half Life 2: Episode 1 Shadow of the Colossus Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Viva Piñata Wii SportsNot so different, really from the US-Canada collection, although the US and the UK were the only two countries to vote for Shadow of the Colossus and Viva Piñata.Canada and the UKSo we know we're similar to the US, but what about our connections with the other US gaming ally? Well, the nominations between the UK and Canada were the third-most similar (which isn't so surprising when you look at the lists above): Company of Heroes Elder Scrolls: Oblivion Gears of War Guitar Hero 2 Half Life 2: Episode 1 Rainbow Six: Vegas Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Wii SportsBut, Canada and the UK were the only countries who votes for Rainbow Six. The US, the UK and Canada were the only countries who voted for Wii Sports.So those were the top three. But there's another metric which can point to similarities - the proportion of games a country voted for that were shared by another.Germany and the USAThe Germans only voted for four games, and the US liked three of 'em (60%): Company of Heroes Dreamfall: The Longest Journey Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessOnly the US and Germany voted for Dreamfall: The Longest Journey.Germany and FranceThe European neighbours shared a liking for one another's games; 100% of the French voters voted like the Germans. But then again, they were popular games, and these two countries also shared these games with Canada, the UK and the USA: Company of Heroes Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessSwitzerland and the USAThe Swiss only voted for two games, but both of them were also voted for by the USA: New Super Mario Bros. DS Rayman Raving RabbidsNo one else voted for these two.Japan and the USA50% of Japan's votes were also voted for by the USA: Dead Rising Loco Roco Okami Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessThoughts? Theories? Insights?Related Links:Power Point presentation of these findingsHow similar are we?Who's Like Who: Visual Arts
Welcome to the April edition of Business Sense.Sometimes, a theme for an edition isn't planned; it emerges. And, it seems, this month the Business Sense team was of suspicious mind. Who can you trust? What advice do you listen to?Perhaps I kicked things off by reading Professor Phil Rosenzweig's startling book, The Halo Effect, just before Easter. It's a dismantling of much business writing, which finds that the advice peddled in countless best-selling business books may be much less useful that it appears. You'll find the review on page two; I can heartily recommend it as an eye-opener.Next to strike a note of caution is my colleague Jack Schofield, the Guardian's computer editor, who warns that the much-hyped Windows Vista may, actually, not yet be worth installing on your business's computers. As he explains, you might be able to get some of Vista's benefits while running older systems. His review may help you make up your mind on whether or not you should take the plunge.Finally, there's Nick Clayton's fascinating dispatch from his desk in the sun. He was offered some work recently, but a little due diligence on a potential client uncovered a few interesting things that gave him pause for thought. How does one check credentials in a virtual marketplace?But if there's one piece of advice I suggest you act on, it's Guy Clapperton's review of backup devices and services on page two. Guy had terrible trouble with his computer - and a stolen mobile - this month. When he says it's worthwhile backing your stuff up somewhere reliable, it comes from bitter experience.Finally, there's the latest update on our eBay Business Sense competition inside. The competition wraps up next month: we hope you'll join us again, on the last Friday of the month as ever, to find out who has won.
The Halo EffectPhil Rosenzweig, Free PressIf you're in business, chances are you've read one: the inspirational tale of business success in a glossy magazine, with a chief executive given the superstar treatment with a cover picture and laudatory praise over several pages inside. Or perhaps, in an idle moment in an airport, picked up one of those brassy business books, with the big lettering on the front and the seven, or nine, or 99 (always an odd number) indispensable rules inside.Some of the books are, indeed, inspirational; they can encourage us to look at our work in different ways, freshen up our approaches, prompt us to get back to fundamental practices or values that get lost in the day-to-day rush.Little wonder they sell so well, and that the authors of the most successful books carve out successful careers themselves not just as authors but as inspirational speakers and consultants. Titles like Jim Collins' Good to Great (the sequel to Built to Last, to which Collins also contributed) linger near the top of bestseller lists and the Amazon chart for week upon week.All of which makes one new book, The Halo Effect, rather unsettling. For this may be the business book to end all business books. Professor Phil Rosenzweig, a professor at IMD in Switzerland, embarks on a thorough, occasionally devastating, de-boning of a clutch of business books and popular business reporting from the likes of Business Week, Time and others. At the heart of his thesis is an analysis of the statistical methods that go into popular business titles such as Good to Great and Built to Last.He finds enormous flaws and doesn't mince his words. The early part of the book is a damning critique of (this is quite close to home) the business press and, in particular, the technology business press. His principle target - the hype of the late 90s dot.com boom and the hypocrisy of the subsequent crash - is an obvious one, but Rosenzweig executes it with precision and detail.In a chapter called Delusions Piled High and Deep, Prof Rosenzweig devotes 10 pages to dissecting Good to Great, concluding, with some exasperation: "We can't put companies in Petri dishes and run neat experiments. And since even the best studies of business... can never achieve the precision and replicability of physics, then all the claims of having isolated immutable laws of organisational performance are unfounded".This damning conclusion comes quite early in the book; you might imagine there's not much to add to a core message that says there are no hard-and-fast rules, and you can't trust what's being written about supposedly "star" companies (or ones which are losing way). If most popular analysis of business performance is flawed, what's left to discuss?But then comes the real value of this book. By examining the pitfalls that have trapped even renowned academics, there are lessons for businesspeople looking to find their own recipe for success. You are reminded, for instance, that many types of self-completed surveys are vulnerable to respondents giving the answer they want to give, or think is expected.A recurring tale in the book is of the Cargo Cult; a cult of people in the South Seas who, during the second world war, saw lots of aeroplanes land with materials and bring a degree of prosperity. Later, they wanted to bring the planes - and prosperity - back, so built runways, put fires along them to mimic landing lights, and made wooden headsets to look like headphones. The form was perfect, but of course the planes didn't come.Prof Rosenzweig's message is clear; much business writing is just like the cargo cult, encouraging us to adopt behaviour perceived to be important to successful companies, but missing the crucial ingredients that are essential to real success.His message, thus, may not be inspirational, but may be more useful than those in most business books: if we show just a little more scepticism towards those who promise remedies without sound research and logic, we stand a little less risk of forming a cargo cult of our own.
Cream soup Hamilton, venison cutlets, sole with parsley butter, a selection of cheeses: the dinner served on the flight from Frankfurt to the United States on August 17, 1936 was not so very different from the four-course menus in first class today. Hundreds of bottles of wine, beer, champagne and mineral water were carried on board.But it was almost certainly a great deal better than the first-class menu on any carrier today. The zeppelin in which this feast was served had a kitchen and a team of chefs. It crossed the Atlantic at a stately 80 miles per hour - slow enough to make scalding hot liquid in a bowl a reasonable proposition. Nine months later, the Hindenburg exploded over New Jersey, and the age of the zeppelins was over. It would be another 20 years before passengers routinely flew to America, and planes would never be large enough to house a restaurant kitchen. As the tickets got cheaper and the flight times shorter, airline food gradually acquired its current reputation.Soup is not the only food that airline catering managers forego. Sashimi is off: it could never be fresh enough. Chips are hard to pull off successfully because aircraft and deep-fat fryers are incompatible. Souffles are out of the question. In fact, anything cooked from scratch is a no-no. Yet the enforced inertia of a long-haul flight means that business class passengers often expect a "treat" - however difficult it is to turn out properly at altitude."On some of the US flights, people do like to see a steak on the menu," says Carol Conway, the catering manager at British Airways. "We do them in First, but it's a bit difficult for us to prepare steaks as people like them, because they've already been seared." A truly rare steak, she admits, is not an option.Fish, on the other hand, is more feasible. "We have a policy of using fish from sustainable sources," Conway says. "We've just launched Catch of the Day in First and we're working with [the restaurant chain] Loch Fyne. You choose from two sauces, and it rotates on a weekly basis."But freshly caught fish sauced to order is very much a perk of the first class cabin. The Club World menu, and what flight attendants call "regular PAX chow" ("Chicken or beef?") are largely cooked and assembled by mass caterers - in the case of BA, Gate Gourmet, which has 37 kitchens in Europe alone. What matters there is the ability of a dish to "regenerate" when reheated in flight and keep its texture and flavour.Tasty or taste-freeThat task is made even harder by the fact that the palate loses some of its sensitivity in flight, so delicate flavourings can taste vapid. "Because there's a drying effect at altitude, your nasal passages dry up a little bit," explains Conway. "Things like thin wine don't work very well." A new world Shiraz that can be overwhelming on the ground might work much better at altitude. Similarly, a delicate wine can lose all its subtlety.Blunted tastebuds mean that curries tend to be appreciated at altitude: a prawn bhuna masala with coconut and curry leaf rice, which BA developed in consultation with the London chef Vineet Bhatia, is now one of the most popular dishes in Club World. Bacon rolls, sausages and mash and breakfast fry-ups also go down well. "We've developed ways of keeping the eggs fresh and protected," says Conway.Passengers, BA has discovered, also like to be able to snack without having to ask the cabin crew. The Club World refit being rolled out this year includes a galley area with a "Club Kitchen", which is stocked with fruit, organic chocolate, cookies and salad. Will there be more organic food in the future? "If we're able to find a good supplier of organic food, then yes."Hard though it is to resist a fridge full of food, most nutritionists would advise against it - certainly if you are already ordering from the menu. They also recommend sticking to still water and choosing the low-salt meal (salt encourages water retention). But airlines are not interested in keeping you alert and queuing outside the toilet. One of the main functions of airline food, at least in economy, is crowd control: it keeps passengers in their seats for longer, breaks up long flights and soaks up some of the free alcohol usually on offer. The aim is to induce a post-prandial stupor.Free food is hard to resist for another reason. Humans tend to eat more if they are unsure when their next meal will be - a common anxiety when travelling to an unfamiliar place. Bringing food to eat when you arrive is fraught with risks, and the fresher it is the more likely to infringe import rules. Pack an apple, a carrot and a packet of pumpkin seeds in your luggage, for example, and you are liable to have them confiscated under US Department of Agriculture regulations intended to stop the spread of disease. You could even be hit with a $1,000 fine. Nor is it easy to pack them in hand luggage. Most smoothies and yoghurts will fall foul of the new 100ml limit for liquids in the cabin.None the less, passengers on a short- or medium-haul flight have a fighting chance of fending off hunger pangs by eating a high-protein meal and some slow-burning carbohydrates before takeoff. The arrival of Eat and Chez Gerard at Gatwick and the branches of Giraffe and Pret a Manger at Heathrow have made this challenge easier. Unless the airline is serving a free breakfast, the food on offer tends to be lamentable. Passengers increasingly share the plight of schoolchildren who have yet to enjoy a visit from Jamie Oliver - the Hobson's choice of stodge or tuck shop staples.Lisa Miles, a nutrition scientist at the British Nutrition Foundation, has nothing good to say about the food on sale on short-haul BMI flights, whose offerings are broadly typical of the no-frills carriers. "The sandwich options are heavy on mayonnaise and cheese, which are both high in saturated fat. Some options that included lean meats and roasted vegetables would be helpful." The snacks - a carb- and sugar-heavy assortment of Mini Cheddars, Pringles, salted peanuts, KitKats, a Mars bar, Maltesers, flapjacks, shortbread and Jaffa cakes - "are the types of foods that should be included in the diet in moderation," she says tactfully. "Dried fruits and mixed unsalted nuts, or perhaps fruit and yoghurt pot options, would be an improvement."Miles was more impressed by the London-JFK Club World menu for April. She approved of the "sensible" lunch starters - a choice of Asian crab salad, a Mediterranean mezze plate or salad with vinaigrette - but was less happy with two of the main courses, a steak with truffle butter and mushroom cappelletti with a herb cream sauce. "Some of the main dishes include cream and butter, which are high in saturated fat. It would also be preferable to include some vegetable side dishes."Miles also cautions against following an afternoon tea of smoked salmon sandwiches, scones with clotted cream and lemon meringue tart with a raid on the Club Kitchen. "Together, these are likely to lead to possible overeating and a high energy intake."Above all, lower your expectations. Considering the obstacles to feeding hundreds of people in a confined space at tens of thousands of feet above the ground, the presence of a cooked vegetable - albeit a pale, flabby, salty one - is remarkable. In any case, a freshly tossed salad and a brie at room temperature would be wasted on your dried-out palate.
The good news is that you don't need Windows Vista now. The bad news is that Windows itself is changing. We've enjoyed a long period of stability, which started with the launch of Windows 2000 at the end of 1999, but some upheaval is inevitable.Today, you probably have desktop PCs running Windows 2000 or XP, and Office 2003 or earlier, on 32-bit Intel Pentium 4 chips. In five years or so, it could be Windows Vista and Office System 2007 or later, running on 64-bit Intel Core 2 Duo or AMD processors. The transition should also involve changing from familiar Microsoft file formats such as doc and xls to the more open and more accessible Office Open XML formats.Most small businesses, rightly, resist change: if it ain't broke, don't fix it. It will take a very long time for more than 800 million Windows machines to be upgraded or replaced, but the industry will simply stop supplying or supporting the old stuff.Microsoft and the PC manufacturers are, of course, hoping to enjoy the financial benefits of another upgrade cycle. Microsoft is therefore trumpeting Vista's advantages. These include the much-improved user interface, new graphics features, built-in search, ad hoc wireless networking (great for mobile users), better security, and less need for support. Microsoft claims Vista is more productive in use and cheaper to run.But Microsoft has undercut its own sales pitch by making some of the new features available to Windows XP users. The main things to do are to install Internet Explorer 7 and the Microsoft.net 3.0 framework. People who use Office XP or 2003 can also install the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint 2007 file formats (http://tinyurl.com/ykx57n) to handle Open XML files. These downloads will help XP users continue working even in a Vista-oriented world.Microsoft has not made all Vista's new features available for XP, but there are other options. For example, you can get better search by installing Windows Desktop Search or the rival Google Desktop. If you really like Vista's Sidebar and "gadgets" such as the clock, yellow notepad and news feeds, you can install Yahoo Widgets, formerly called Konfabulator, or Google Desktop's sidebar. All of these programs are free.There's also Launchy (www.launchy.net). Many Vista users switch from using the Start menu to typing a few keystrokes into its search box to run programs. Launchy is a small open source program that adds this feature to XP.If or when you decide to make the move to Vista, bear in mind that its internals have changed. Applications that use high-level interfaces - which includes most business and accounting software - should work correctly. XP programs that use low-level routines, such as anti-virus and CD-writing software, will probably need upgrading. You must check essential programs for compatibility problems before migrating.Then there are two basic ways to migrate: either buy Vista upgrade packs, or new PCs. In general, it's better to go for a new PC, for three main reasons. First, a factory installation usually works better than an in-place upgrade. Second, Vista needs a moderately powerful graphics card and new drivers for peripherals. Some companies have been slow to supply them. Third, Vista is expensive - not in historical terms, perhaps, but relative to today's low hardware prices.A full version of Vista Business Edition costs around &pound;290, while a Business Edition Upgrade (for PCs running Windows 2000 or XP, not 95/98/Me) is around &pound;190. You can find them for less, but it may still be more than your current hardware is worth on eBay. If you have to upgrade the memory - at least 1GB is preferred - or the graphics card, or you're running out of hard drive space, it's probably a waste of money.Microsoft offers a Vista Upgrade Adviser to check your PCs (www.microsoft.com/windowsvista/upgradeadvisor). However, based on experience with pre-release versions on notebook PCs built for XP, I'd recommend some serious Googling before upgrading a portable. On a brand new laptop, Vista proved noticeably faster and smoother.Microsoft has put a lot of work into helping businesses to roll out Vista, but mostly to help larger companies. One exception concerns the low-cost Small Business Server 2003 (www.bcentral.co.uk/products/small-business-server.mspx), which bundles Windows Server, Exchange Server (email), Sharepoint Server, Office Outlook, a fax server and Remote Web Workplace for as few as two to five users.Small Business Server SP2 now includes the Business Desktop Deployment Workbench, known as BDD. This makes it simpler to configure and roll out Vista from the server. However, non-techie businesses may need to call in a Microsoft Partner to help set everything up, and perhaps maintain it remotely.The main thing that worried me about switching to Vista and Office 2007 was how hard it might be to adapt to the new user interfaces. Change often means giving up hard-won expertise, so productivity takes a hit.With Vista, I found the change wasn't a problem. Although it looks a lot different, Vista still works like Windows XP. You should be up to speed in a few hours or, at worst, days. It's less of a problem than switching from Windows 3 to 95. In any case, Vista has some options that let you use a "classic" mode.Office 2007 has a new interface that doesn't just look different, it changes the way you work - and there's no way back. Basically, things you know well become harder to do, at first, while things you don't know how to do are easier. I found it took a long time to adjust. It could be worth running a couple of the free courses at the 2007 Microsoft Office System Learning Portal (www.microsoft.com/learning/office2007/iworker/).All round, Vista is an improvement on Windows XP - but nothing like enough, I suspect, to get most small businesses to pay for it. However, if you're buying Windows bundled with a new PC, Vista is worth having, for both the "eye candy" and the improved security.
VoIP/instant messagingSecure businesses get the instant messageHappy with the security of your voice over IP and instant messaging services? If so, great - but you're in a tiny minority according to a new report from information security specialists Infosec Europe.A huge 93% of respondents in large organisations considered that VoIP and IM technologies were advancing faster than the ability to lock them down in a secure manner. The report also revealed IM is now a major technology in companies that have large high volumes of electronic financial transactions. This gives cause for concern; IM allows encrypted data, meaning it could be a conduit for information leaking out the organisation and into the wrong hands.VoIP was considered less of a problem in the large business arena, where take-up is lower despite a large amount of hype around the technology. But this contrasts dramatically with the small business arena where owner/managers have rushed at it because of its potential to save costs, leaving them vulnerable and without obvious resources to put behind resolving the issue.Infosec has also published research, however, which suggests the main issue is management rather than technology when it comes to securing a network. Its survey of 300 office workers and IT professionals found that 64% would cheerfully hand over their confidential passwords for a bar of chocolate and a smile.In a survey similar to one conducted last year to see how simple it would be to steal someone's identity, people at London stations and at an IT exhibition were offered a bar of chocolate to take part in a survey by an attractive female researcher. They were then asked what the most common passwords were followed by the killer "what's your password?".If they didn't give it up at this point they were asked whether it was based on a child's name, pet, or football team. Eventually 64% of people allowed the nameless researcher to wander off with their password.The research didn't say what they might have done for a whole Easter egg.Management of security issues was also a problem detected by content technology firm Chronicle Solutions, which has found confusion over acceptable use of the internet in the workplace. More than 30% of companies told the organisation that they didn't have an acceptable usage policy (AUP) in place, and of the remainder, 94% of people had not read it correctly. Forty-two per cent of people admitted they hadn't read theirs in the last year while 33% couldn't remember when they had seen it last. Literally no one was banned from blogging about their company as far as they knew.The implications are that nobody would be able to discipline someone for inappropriate use of the internet because they had no policy on the subject. Even in cases where the company did have an AUP, 82% of employees were unsure whether there would be a penalty in case of a breach.The most bizarre security story of the month, meanwhile, has to be the American company that has found a way of locking outsiders out of wireless networks - you paint the office in the internet equivalent of anti-climb paint. Emsec Technologies reckons that its $6 per square foot paint, tested by the military, will keep intruders very firmly off your network space.The drawback is that it blocks all radio signals and naturally enough it is unable distinguish between a benign employee wanting to use his or her mobile phone on-site or a hacker determined to demolish an entire network. It therefore won't suit everyone and shouldn't be used to coat an entire office, but if it comes to the UK and there's a particular area you want to safeguard, you now know how to manage it!Remote workingBT hops on to the mobile office apps bandwagonBT has started marketing its OfficeAnywhere product, which loads a lot of Office functions onto a mobile phone. The device is VoIP compliant and therefore offers free internet phone calls once the monthly fee has been paid.BT says that since 40% of workers are now out of the office for 20% of the time or more it makes sense to come out with an offering like this that enables people to take their documents and applications with them.The phone will read PDFs, handle Microsoft Excel and Word documents and offer real-time access to email, diary and contact information.Readers who already have a Windows or Palm-compatible Smartphone could be forgiven for wondering what's new about all this. But set-up is simple and the opportunity to take a subscription to BT Openzone at the same time offers a rare chance to simplify the billing process.Blackberry/satnavMore gadgets for style-conscious mobile moversAnother new player on the communications front is the white Blackberry Pearl from T-Mobile. It is available only to customers of that particular service and it offers Web'n'Walk internet access, real-time email and RIM's Qwerty keyboard for ease of data entry.Aimed at the style-conscious customer it has all the features of the existing Blackberry Pearl.Also for the business gadget buyer - and indeed the consumer - Sony has announced four new satellite navigation systems that will come out this year, two for late spring and the other two for the summer.The NV-U82 and NV-U92 are the premium products with larger than average screens at 4.8in, although they are slim units at 20mm. Both have Sony technology that allows the unit to fill in the blanks and keep the display running when the unit is in a tunnel or somewhere it won't get a signal. The NU-U72T and NV-U52 have smaller screens and will arrive in the shops in early summer.Pre-orders will be taken atwww.sonystyle.co.uk.
Joe Williamslaptopscrapyardwww.laptopscrapyard.netFeedback rating: 91 (100%)Joe Williams spent the four-day Easter holiday in the garden with a screwdriver, taking laptops to pieces so he could sell components, but that still left a backlog: "I've got quite a large pile of laptops. I'm finding, as soon as I put things up, they are sold."He is surprised at the components that sell: an internal speaker went for a couple of pounds, and broken screens go for &pound;10 to &pound;20, apparently for their plastic surrounds."I've spoken to quite a few of the buyers," he says. "Some are people at home who know how to use a screwdriver. Some I know from their addresses work for computing firms, who need spare parts."Mid-month, Williams was about to spend the last of the &pound;1,500 seed money on more broken computers, providing enough stock for the rest of the competition. He also reckoned he was about to break even.David Hallworth100percent_pure_cottonhttp://stores.ebay.co.uk/100percentpurecottonFeedback rating: 16 (100%)Business for David Hallworth selling cotton school-dresses, is getting better with the start of the summer term. "I'm surprised people are buying just one, but maybe they want to test them before buying more," he says.One problem is that he could only afford one order of his supplier's minimum one kilometre of cotton, so he is selling blue dresses only. He is negotiating with another supplier (with lower minimum quantities) to allow him to add other common school uniform colours: he reckons yellow and green would be best, based on the requests he has received. Hallworth has already extended the size-range of the younger style of dress to size 30, based on these emails.He reckons many of his customers find him through external search engines rather than eBay itself. Quite a few fail to leave feedback, depressing his rating, but he says: "I don't mind, as long as they keep buying dresses."Diane Davidsonbetween-the-treeshttp://stores.ebay.co.uk/Between-the-TreesFeedback rating: 30 (100%)Diane Davidson is ordering more Mexican hammocks and blankets, having sold items to locations including Barbados - by way of the buyer's British parents. These will come from a second supplier, so she avoids becoming dependent on one. She particularly needs more jumbo hammocks. "They were more expensive, but people have been deciding that big is best," she says, adding that she plans a sale on smaller, hard-to-sell hammocks.Davidson has added "A Short Love Story" to her eBay "Me" page, describing her love affair with Mayan hammocks. "I wanted it to be a little bit personal, to get across that I am really passionate about them, rather than just spotting a niche retail opportunity," she says.Phyllis Averydollydoodle2007http://stores.ebay.co.uk/dollydoodles2007Feedback rating: 16 (100%)Phyllis Avery is wondering whether eBay is the right place to sell her Dolly Doodle cards, on which children can write their thoughts. "It's stationery, and there is not a natural home for it on eBay," she says, although links from the website of a charity she is supporting may help.Sales of second-hand dolls have also been poor, so she has started selling new, unusual ones, for a Need to be Loved section of her shop: she is importing from Japan, as well as dolls from the US unavailable in Britain. "The angle I'm taking is, keep it different," she says. "I'm getting small batches, and when they are gone, they are gone." This seems to be working well, she adds.Avery is also using eBay's blogging facility as a marketing technique, but has found she enjoys it too: "I like going on when a thought comes into my head." she says.Karl Andersononegiantstepfootwearhttp://stores.ebay.co.uk/One-GIANT-Step-FootwearFeedback rating: 26 (100%)In a final attempt to involve the US firm he hoped would supply large-size footwear, Karl Anderson has written to the boss - "At least I'll get a definitive answer," he says - but mid-month he was still relying on careful purchasing from UK shops.This gives him less leeway to cut prices: one buyer asked for &pound;10 off a &pound;40 pair of shoes, but this would have meant making a loss, and the buyer would not split the difference. Cutting his standard &pound;10 postage charge, which covers the average cost for first-class recorded delivery, is an option. But Anderson is not sure that saving a few pounds by using three- to five-day deliveries is wise. "When I buy things I want to receive them fast", he says.He plans to concentrate on the largest sizes (up to 17) for the rest of the competition, to play to his shop's name.
Most product reviews are pretty neutral affairs. You pick a subject for the month, you get some products in, you say what's good or bad about them and try to clarify the context in which they'll be useful, and that's it.Not this time, though. This time it's personal. This time last month, you see, my network hung in the middle of an upgrade to my operating system that was coming in from the internet. It was a nightmare to get going again. Whereas I thought I'd backed up adequately, it took ages to get my system restored; the whole process felt nightmarish.I'd backed up all of my "work in progress" to a memory stick on my phone. And I had online backup for my important long-term stuff, like my accounts.But then the phone went missing. I got a replacement quickly but, obviously, the memory stick and its data had gone for good. And after the incomplete upgrade left me without access to the internet, the accounts - stuck online - were pretty useless too. I just couldn't get at them.The situation was resolved by a long and painful reinstallation of the original operating system from the CDs, but even this wasn't straightforward.So take it from me, you should prepare for the worst. Keep all your original CDs, and look at these potential insurance policies, in the shape of backup systems for your PC. One day, you may regret not acting now.The short-term storage solutionSony Ericsson K800iwww.sony-ericsson.comCost varies:mine was free with a contractBest thing:It's a phone, so you've always got itWorst thing:Eminently losable or stealable - as I discoveredStar rating:4 starsA number of luddites claim that the problem with phones is that they're getting too clever - cameras (this one has 3.2 megapixels), MP3 players (this one is identical to the Sony Ericsson Walkman it looks like except the colour and software are different) and a slot for storage space make it so much more than a phone, but will you ever use it?The answer is that you might well. A gigabyte of storage on a memory card can cost as little as &#163;15 fromAmazon.co.uk, and this will contain multiple versions of books you might be working on, spreadsheets, images, anything that can be stored.There will be minor frustrations. It is a phone, and therefore won't do anything like opening your Word documents. So you can have a look at those documents if they're sent to you by email (which it'll happily pick up for you) - it reads text only. But nobody said this was a Smartphone; it's fine for backing up the odd document you might need or of which you might want to take extra care.Consider also flash memory drives or even music players. A phone is something you're unlikely to forget. Remember, though, to take extremely good care of it and password-protect it just in case it goes missing!The offsite storage solutionBest thing:Simple to use as long as your space is secureWorst thing:If your computer isn't working, then this space is quite secure from you, tooStar rating:4 starsMuch of the standard advice about backups is to store your vital documents offsite so that you can get at them if your system goes down completely or even if your office catches fire. This certainly works in most cases as long as you have access of some description to a computer and you have kept a safe record of your username and password.Helping you do so, most ISPs provide webspace which can be used for backup in this way, and a number of companies offer dedicated backup space as well. Backing up the data on a mobile phone is also made simple by a number of companies such asMobyko.comandZyb.com- Zyb being free and offering backups of contacts and diaries, rather than simply contacts as in the Mobyko offering. The key thing is obvious: don't forget your password!The dedicated backup driveBuffalo DriveStation Combobuffalo-technology.comFrom&#163;60 plus VAT for 160Gb, the manufacturer estimates, up to &#163;217 plus VAT for 750Gb. These are street prices rather than RRPsBest thing:Backs up everythingWorst thing:We're struggling to find drawbacks. You'll find rival products, equally good, from Western Digital, Seagate and other big hard disk companiesStar rating:5 starsThis was the missing piece from my own back-up "arsenal". I had local backup of important files (until they were physically lost), but without a working computer I had no way of getting at either, nor would I even if the phone had been available.This is where a large but dirt-cheap drive becomes essential rather than simply desirable. They all come with software to make backing up simple; some third-party software from the internet will also let you make the backup drive bootable so that if you have a situation in which the operating system drops dead, as mine did, you can start up and continue to work as if nothing had happened, and then restore items to your hard drive at leisure.Always try to opt for a drive with FireWire on it rather than just USB, if your computer has the right socket. It's much faster and if you have to work using the drive it'll behave just like your computer's own hard disk. USB will look very sluggish. Remember to set it to back up automatically from time to time; never rely on your own memory to perform what can be a mission-critical task! Finally, "just in case", remember to restore the odd file once in a while to check that it's working OK.The show-off 's driveFreecom Wireless Gatewaywww.freecom.comFrom&#163;190 for 160Gb up to &#163;300 for 500GbBest thing:Wireless backup - a really, really easy way to back upWorst thing:Inevitably, the wireless element pushes the price upStar rating:4 starsThe Freecom wireless gateway takes backup to the next level by making it wireless. The drive becomes effectively another wireless drive on your network so you can partition the disk and make it a backup for a small network rather than for a single computer.The company has done a good job of making the software as simple as possible but inevitably it's not as straightforward as a single-computer one-button action. None the less this is an excellent option for someone with multiple work stations in a small office who doesn't mind sitting down with a manual for 15 minutes and working out what he or she is doing.
It's month three in the eBay Business Sense challenge, where we follow five competitors who have taken seed funding of &pound;1,500 and some expert training, and are now trying to build innovative businesses on eBay.This month, we set a challenge; the Easter chocolate challenge, where the five had to sell a hamper of chocolate for the highest possible price.On April 1, Joe Williams blogged his "devious plan" for winning. "I thought it was a given that most of the other four would time their auctions to end today, and I would then list at the start of the week with a BuyItNow price of just over the best price achieved," he wrote. "Coupled with free guaranteed next day delivery, I thought that this was a pretty good tactic."It probably was, but the other contestants disobligingly started their auctions later than expected, so Williams decided he too would use an auction rather than a fixed-price sale. He took great care in designing his listing and photographing the stock. He used "basket" as well as "hamper" in the item title, because he noticed the former appeared in eBay Pulse's list of the top Easter search terms. He also paid &pound;40 for a featured listing in two categories, as the idea was to reach the highest price, not make the most profit.He promised to donate all the money to charity through eBay's MissionFish system (which guarantees the donation will arrive and allows Gift Aid to be reclaimed) to the World Society for the Protection of Animals, and he started it at 99p, to encourage a bidding war. "Now... we wait," he concluded his post.Karl Anderson had other ideas. Although he also took care over photography and design, and similarly donated all the money to charity through MissionFish, he chose the baby-faced logo of Great Ormond Street Hospital, the beneficiary, to appear next to his item in listings. Williams and the others used pictures of the chocolate.Anderson also started the auction near the chocolate's retail price of &pound;50, rather than selling it as a bargain. "I was relying on the fact that the money was going to a suitable charity as the selling point of the item," he explains. "If I had started it at 99p, it might have reached the price it did, but it might not." He also kept the bidders' identities anonymous, on the grounds that some people prefer to donate to charity privately.It worked: Anderson sold the chocolates for &pound;107, to someone who had spent a lot of time in Great Ormond Street Hospital as a child. Matt Priddle, eBay's UK seller education manager, says the listing looked terrific, but the high starting price was a gamble: "It could have backfired," he says. "But it didn't."Joe Williams got the second highest price of &pound;56, but found courier firms would not deliver the chocolate on April 5 - Maundy Thursday - for a reasonable price. So he did it himself, making a four-hour round trip from Warwickshire to a town near Sheffield. "They were quite impressed," he says of the buyer. "They won it at 7pm the night before, and by midday, there it was."Diane Davidson and David Hallworth, who came third and fourth respectively, donated the money to charity directly, rather than through the official MissionFish system. Davidson's chosen charity, Gwynedd & Anglesey Hospice-at-Home, was not listed, and there was not enough time to request it.But as her mother was greatly helped by nurses from the charity during her last months, allowing her to stay in her own home, Davidson was determined to support it. "Technically, in terms of the challenge, I knew it would work against me, but hand on heart I would rather raise &pound;40 for a charity close to my heart than a random one," she says. The winning bidder then donated the hamper to a local care home.David Hallworth did not use MissionFish, simply because trying to do so kept crashing his computer. "Every time I tried to tick the "do you want to donate to charity box", it seemed to crash the whole site," he says. After a couple of attempts, he gave up on using the charity system, and added a statement the next day about the money going to St Christopher's refuge. He has since sent the winner the receipt from the charity.Phyllis Avery tried splitting the hamper into four lots. This technique sometimes pays dividends, but it did not work so well for a hamper of chocolate. "Two of them I had to relist," she says. "I thought there would be more of a chance for them to take off [in price], than as one product."Matt Priddle says Avery may also have been at a disadvantage because she donated only 10% to children's mentoring charity Chance UK. However, this may be unfair as she makes a 10% donation to that charity with all her items."They all did very well," Priddle adds. "It's just that the one who won did extremely well."Challenge resultsKarl Anderson:&pound;107 (1st). Title: GOSH "Chocolate: Here today... Gone today!". Subtitle: Luxury Hotel Chocolat Easter Hamper. Listed in two categories. Used Great Ormond Street charity logo for listing image (others all used photos of the chocolates). Free postage, 100% to charity using MissionFish.Joe Williams:&pound;56 (2nd). Title: Easter Eggs & Chocolate Basket, Hotel Chocolat Hamper. Subtitle: Last minute gift - FREE GUARANTEED DELIVERY by Easter. Listed in two categories. Free postage by Parcelforce, 100% to charity using MissionFish.Diane Davidson:&pound;47.44 (3rd). Title: Hotel Chocolat! Easter Hamper Choc Full of Chocolate! No subtitle. Listed in one category. Free postage, 100% to charity not using MissionFish.David Hallworth:&pound;43.51 (4th). Title: Luxury chocolate Easter egg hamper by Hotel Chocolat. No subtitle. Listed in two categories. &pound;7.70 postage, 100% to charity not using MissionFish.Phyllis Avery:&pound;35.83 (5th) in total from four auctions, from &pound;3.23 to &pound;16, with two sold on relisting. All listed in one category. Postage costs varied: one free (which sold first time), others &pound;3 to &pound;3.75). 10% to charity using MissionFish.
When Shelley Minteer was working with hydrogen fuel cells, she was always afraid of accidents. Growing worries about the safety issues while teaching students eventually saw her interests turning elsewhere. Minteer is now an assistant professor of chemistry at Saint Louis University in Missouri. At first she worked on creating chemically-selective layers using enzymes for biochemical sensors, but then found her research group coming back to fuel cells."We got interested in sugar-powered fuel cells after developing ethanol fuel cells and realising that, energetically, it made more sense to use the sugar directly than to turn sugar into ethanol and then use the ethanol," she says.Although using sugar to make electricity sounds surprising, it's actually not that novel. Peter Bruce, a chemistry professor at the University of St Andrews, says that fuel cells based on glucose have been described before but he reckons that Minteer has found a different approach."The new thing here seems to be the use of sugar and an enzyme to break it down. These sort of devices are still a long way off replacing lithium batteries. The power density is very low - about 10 to 100 times lower than alternatives," he says.Despite this, Minteer claims that her "sugar battery" is the longest-lasting and most powerful of its type to date. Sugar (as glucose) powers all living things with nature harnessing the available energy in a series of complex enzyme-driven reactions. By adapting her earlier work with the biochemical sensors, the sugar battery - a biological fuel cell - was created.Harnessing energy"A biofuel cell is a type of battery that can be recharged with the addition of more fuel and utilises enzymes as biocatalysts in order to convert chemical reactions to electrical energy," Minteer says. "We are taking those enzymes that we isolate from bacteria and tubers [potatoes] and immobilizing them on electrode surfaces to harness the electrical energy from the oxidisation of sugar. The electrodes are about the size of a postage stamp sitting in a solution of sugar water."Making sure microgram quantities of enzymes don't float away from the electrodes is vital. Minteer has made electrodes of 30-100 micron thick graphite (carbon) sheets with the enzymes held in place under an even thinner membrane made from polysaccharides. This mimics a cell membrane to allow the sugar fuel in while protecting the fragile enzymes with the right pH."Sugar is a much more complex molecule and requires a much more complex chemical mechanism to break down the fuel," says Minteer, who's tried soft drinks but found the best fuel is ordinary table sugar. The main byproduct of the electrochemical reaction? Water.The prototype sugar battery now sitting on Minteer's desk is being used to power a handheld calculator - and, she estimates, the battery has enough sugar left for several years. Minteer claims sugar batteries have the potential to operate three to four times longer on a single charge than conventional lithium ion batteries."Each cell gives a voltage of about 0.75V, but has three or four times the energy density of a typical battery, so the battery will last much longer," Minteer says.You have to stack two sugar battery cells together for a standard 1.5V - some development work is needed before the physical size matches an AA battery. Minteer has spent 18 months working on the project with a further three to five years of work needed before commercial exploitation. Her plan is to develop a mobile phone charger similar to the quick chargers currently available but with slot-in sugar solution cartridges providing the power."This is a good first application, because it requires minimal engineering compared to something like a laptop battery that requires a great deal of engineering to get the fuel pumped to all parts of the battery," says Minteer, who'd like to see the technology used in other portable electronic devices. Funding by the US Department of Defense is helping with the project - battlefield batteries rechargeable by easily obtainable sugar are the attraction here.Professor Phil Bartlett, of Southampton University, recently heard Minteer give a lecture about her work. Bartlett is an expert in electrochemistry and is deeply unimpressed with Minteer's data, which he believes is massively overhyped."Technically [it] isn't going to cut it and it isn't leading-edge," he says. "There is much, much better published work out there for other groups." Bartlett's calculations show that to provide two watts of peak power for a mobile phone from a sugar battery, you'd need an effective electrode area of four square metres.There are other bio-batteries around, though. Professor Derek Lovley, at the University of Massachusetts, has a microbial biofuel cell which he's also used to power a calculator. Professor Chris Melhuish, director of the Bristol Robotics Laboratory, even built a small robot powered by a microbial fuel cells using sugar and E. coli bacteria. A later version, Ecobot II, used a surprising fuel source."Using refined sugar is fine, but what we have explored is the use of unrefined biomass. We tried our fuel cells with dead flies," Melhuish says. "The power that you're getting out is relatively small, but so were solar cells 30 years ago."Alternative sourcesWhether you use dead flies, sugar or even rotten fruit, the advantage of using renewable fuels and avoiding the metals associated with traditional batteries seems clear. As an energy source, batteries are expensive and their manufacture consumes valuable resources, presents a disposal problem and can contaminate the environment.Professor Tom Welton, professor of sustainable chemistry at Imperial College in London, says: "There's a lot of drive to find ways of power storage that don't involve nasty heavy metals. The idea of trying alternative fuel sources is important and sugar has some real potential advantages."The sugar battery's green credentials appear compelling and, if carefully designed, could be fully biodegradeable and recyclable too. Further research by Minteer will test the effects of temperature on performance and monitor the lifetime of the enzymes. But if everything works out, then asking your mobile phone if it prefers one lump or two brings a whole new dimension to afternoon tea.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At around 6.30 on a Friday evening in February the phones in the head office of Manchester-based tool distribution company, Joseph Gleave &amp; Son, started to give an occasional ping. The company was under a sustained and well-orchestrated attack from fraudsters who were hacking into its phone system.Over the weekend they ran up a bill of &pound;2,100 in illegal overseas calls to 19 countries - including Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan, Sudan, Serbia and the Republic of Yemen. The biggest single item was &pound;71 on one call to Afghanistan, where local call termination charges are among the highest in the world.Switching technologyThe thieves made themselves more difficult to trace than inprevious casesby using a combination of the internet and more sophisticated switching technology."Dial-through fraud" exploits a facility offered on many digital exchanges that lets company employees ring in to the switchboard and then by keying certain dialling codes get an outside line to anywhere in the world. Because it's meant for employees, the company picks up the bill for the outgoing call. But anyone who cracks the protection around those codes can make unlimited calls at the company's expense.Greater Manchester Police closed the case after a quick and unsuccessful investigation. A spokesman said it had been told by BT that the calls could have originated from anywhere in the world.Police suspect the deployment of a new combination of voice over internet protocol (VoIP) calls from overseas in combination with a so-called Sim box, which a local operative secretes somewhere in the UK; in this case, almost certainly not in Manchester.To build a Sim box all the criminal needs is an internet connection - 1Mb allows for 60 concurrent calls - plus a router and a GSM gateway to regenerate the calls as mobile phone traffic.The calls come in via VoIP and are then regenerated into normal voice calls and passed through any of up to 60 Sim cards - typically 15 for each of four main mobile networks, so as not to overload the local cell structure, explains Guy Van der Meeren, chief technical officer of Meucci Solutions, a Belgian company that offers a tracing service to network operators to detect Sim boxes. The VoIP call is thus regenerated as a mobile call to the company exchange being hacked.The flat rate cost of the mobile-to-landline call is typically just a few pence, while the incoming VoIP call is free. But the unfortunate company whose system has been hacked is usually left with the bill for the expensive outgoing international leg, explains Adrian Harris, senior consultant at Neural Technologies.Most Sim box operators do not break the law so openly. They buy Sim cards from network operators, put them into their boxes and take advantage of the zero tariff offered to subscribers on the same mobile networks. They sell their phone time to people who want to call into the country where the Sim box is located, or beyond. They can charge a lot - but by using low-subscription Sims, they make big profits."Before VoIP this kind of fraud required considerable investment, specialist skills and sophisticated equipment. Now, with VoIP, the equipment is readily available, low cost and easy to set up and then move when discovered," Harris says.The incentives are huge and the market is expanding quickly. The standard tariff for a mobile-to-mobile phone call between the UK and many countries in Asia is around &pound;1.30 per minute. But anyone making regular calls to these countries via a mobile phone can cut that to just a few pence per call by keying in the right prefix before making a call.Look up "bypass operators" or "calling cards" on the internet and you will find an array of companies offering calls to the same destination routed over VoIP links for as little as 1p per minute.SafeguardsBT says it does not want to discuss the specifics of the Joseph Gleave &amp; Son case. "BT is not responsible for the security of a customer's PBX switch. This applies whether the switch is purchased or leased from BT, and whether BT installed the switch or not," said a spokesman.BT's reasoning is that switch owners can change the settings. "BT offers a service called Call Alert which can help with the early detection of any possible dial-through fraud or misuse," said the spokesman.For a quarterly fee, customers can set parameters - such as 'I never call Afghanistan', or 'I never make calls after 7pm' - and if calls are observed to Afghanistan BT would contact the customer.According to a new report from the Association of Chief Police Officers, Telecommunications fraud amounted to &pound;866m in the UK in 2004 or 2.4% of retail revenue. "This assumes the phone calls made would have been paid for at full price, which is an arguable but very far from proven assumption," says the report, while telecoms industry estimates reckon at least 5% of all international mobile phone calls are to Sim boxes. The problem isn't going away.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last Friday, an American company named Utherverse expanded the bounds of virtual reality. It began allowing members of its x-rated online world, Red Light Center, to use recreational drugs. They'll now be able, according to areportin Technology Review, "to enter a virtual rave, take virtual ecstasy, smoke a virtual joint and even chow down on some hallucinogenic virtual mushrooms".The introduction of virtual dope marks an exciting new phase in the existence of avatars, the computer-generated characters that crowd alternative universes such as Second Life and World of Warcraft.Up until now, avatars have led fairly narrow lives. Their main pursuits have been limited to fighting ogres and dragons and having simulated sex using artificial genitalia. Virtual reality, in effect, hasn't been far off a pornographic version of Middle Earth.Now avatars have a third and more modern alternative: abusing substances. Fighting, screwing and getting wasted: virtual life is becoming more like real life every day.Brian Shuster, the chief executive of Utherverse, tells Technology Review that early users of the artificial intoxicants "have reported the effects of these virtual drugs to be surprisingly realistic and lifelike". That means, he argues, that virtual dope will have a socially beneficial effect: "To the extent that users can enjoy both the social benefits of virtual drugs as well as the entertainment associated with drug use, all with no actual drug consumption, the value of taking actual drugs is diminished."If you're reading that and very stoned, it makes perfect sense. But beyond the entertainment value, the arrival of virtual dope points to an important new commercial opportunity. If avatars are able to take recreational drugs, it seems obvious that they'll also be interested in buying therapeutic drugs. Pharmaceutical companies may find a large and lucrative new market in cyberspace.Because it costs so much to develop new medications, drugs companies are desperately keen to find new customers for their wares. Just this month, Eli Lilly introduced a version of its popular Prozac pill for dogs. The new drug, called Reconcile, comes in the form of a beef-flavoured chewable treat. Aimed at the 10 million dogs that Lilly estimates suffer from anxiety and melancholia, it will compete against Novartis's canine antidepressant, Clomicalm.Avatars would seem to be at least as likely as dogs to fall victim to psychological maladies and amenable to drug therapy. The sexually freewheeling world of Second Life, for instance, is rife with gender confusion, performance anxiety and meaningless couplings. The warriors of the hyper-violent World of Warcraft face the unrelenting pressure of battle, the constant threat of annihilation and the spectre of post-traumatic stress disorder.Antidepressants, tranquillisers and sleep aids promise to be particularly popular in cyberspace. But other drugs would also sell well. A virtual form of Viagra, for example, would be a boon to some of the more elderly and infirm residents of Second Life. They would no longer be restricted to voyeurism. They could become active participants in the priapic amusements.And if Red Light Center's nascent drug culture takes off, avatars will soon be clamouring for effective treatments for addiction and withdrawal. Even in the virtual world, there is such a thing as too much entertainment.But there's bad news here, too. The introduction of illicit virtual drugs will no doubt bring calls for tough new regulations and aggressive law enforcement. The streets and alleyways of Second Life will soon be filled with jack-booted cops, drug-sniffing dogs and hypocritical politicians railing against hippies and other degenerates. Trust me: It'll be the 60s all over again.If there's one thing that people can't stand, it's seeing other people having fun. I'm certain we're going to discover very soon that avatars are just as prone to that sad affliction as the rest of us.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book will be called The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Tucked away at the end of an 83-page report by Postcomm, the regulator which oversees postal services in the UK, is an annexe that contains some very important figures: the profit and loss account for the Royal Mail's operation of its Postcode Address File.PAF, as it is known, contains the details for 27m addresses in the UK. It is a very valuable file, for as it underpins a huge part of the economy: not just the delivery of more than 80m postal items per day (which underpins Royal Mail's annual &pound;9bn revenue), but also third-party businesses that rely on postcodes. Direct marketing is one, but there is a burgeoning market too for postcodes in vehicle satellite navigation systems, location-aware devices and a panoply of distance and search sites.So how much does it cost Royal Mail to run and update PAF, and how profitable is it? Thefiguresacquired by Postcomm show that for 2005-06, the PAF unit within Royal Mail had an income of &pound;18.4m and costs of &pound;16.8m, more than half of the latter coming from maintaining it. The result: a profit of &pound;1.6m, or 8.6% of revenues. That, Postcomm says, is about the right level for PAF profitability, which it suggests should be between 8% and 10% of revenues.But there is trouble brewing over at PAF - specifically, over the input that local authorities provide to it. When a new address is created, the local authority is obliged to tell Royal Mail; the new address is then assigned a postcode. Ordnance Survey also then "locates" the postcode on its own maps. The local authorities then pay for PAF and OS data built on the information they provided. That has led an increasingly militant approach: Leeds City Council suggested to Postcomm that local authorities should have unrestricted access to PAF; another suggested they should be given PAF free because they help maintain it. (The Postcomm data doesn't say what proportion of PAF revenue comes from the public sector.)If local government withdraws cooperation or begins exerting intellectual property rights over PAF, things could become very turbulent indeed, endangering a key national resource even though its profits are minuscule within Royal Mail.Royal Mail said it is "happy" to start paying for the information from local authorities and is "confident of a successful outcome in the very near future." But will that push up the cost of PAF? On that, there was no comment.The Free Our Data campaign has a simpler solution: make PAF free online and remove the copyright restrictions on reselling it. The revenue impact on Royal Mail would be minimal; yet as well as engendering a lot of goodwill inside the public sector, doing so could encourage new private sector businesses presently put off by the cost. It's government-owned data; we should all get its benefit.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Not landingThere's a new protest movement taking to the streets (well, the ad:tech conference in San Francisco) to try to stop web sites from having landing pages.blog.nomorelandingpages.comDenmark most connectedDenmark ranks first for having the highest proportion of users connected via broadband (31.9%) ahead of the Netherlands, Iceland and Korea. The UK came 11th (21.6%), according to OECD figures for December.oecd.org/sti/ict/broadbandRIM shot at WindowsRIM plans to offer people with Windows Mobile phones software that provides a "virtual BlackBerry application experience including support for BlackBerry email".rim.netIt takes 2.0 ...Swisscom has trademarked Room 2.0 for premium hotel room broadband services aimed at business travellers.swisscom.comThis market sucksKorea's LG Electronics has announced the UK launch a range of vacuum cleaners, the LG Compressor, with "the world's first dust compression system" for May 17.lge.comBard newsPlayShakespeare.com was officially launched on the bard's birthday, April 23, to provide "the ultimate free Shakespeare resource".playshakespeare.comAnd finally ...At Gartner's symposium in San Francisco, leading analyst Jennifer Beck said: "Most IT organisations can't deliver new value because their DNA is fundamentally about control."dmnnewswire.digitalmedianet.com
TutorVista.com's founder and chairman is a successful, serial entrepreneur whose latest venture, online tutoring, is a subject that's very close to his heart. His mother was a maths professor and his grandfather a history teacher and headmaster.His vision for the Bangalore-based company is to use the internet to provide affordable, one-on-one tutoring, connecting educated but relatively low-paid teachers in India to students in the US and the UK, as well as other countries. TutorVista's 500 Indian teachers have undergone a 60-hour training programme and are paid &pound;200 for 120 hours of tutoring.Technology Guardian Is TutorVista just Indian outsourcing for education?Krishnan GaneshNot really, because we are planning to launch Spanish tutoring using teachers in Mexico, so it is really using global resources for global markets. There is an arbitrage that exists in terms of demand and supply so I don't call it offshoring or outsourcing.TG And why education?KGOne thing that struck me when I was here [in the UK] in 2005 and looking at what to do next was the serious gap in the school education system. The teachers are trying hard and the parents want really good education, but there is a serious gap in the system. The gap is because the students do not get personalised attention and the classroom is not enough. This is something I am very passionate about. I believe everyone needs some kind of personal attention whether it's a struggling student or an excelling student. We have seen that 60% of our students in the US are not failing students but excelling students.TG OK, but wouldn't face-to-face tutoring in the UK be a better answer?KGUsing internet technology we can marry the resources that we have in countries like India to solve the problem of cost. So we combine global resources and internet technology to make personalised education affordable. Tutoring in a country like the US costs $40 (&pound;20) to $60 an hour, which is not affordable to the mass market. The biggest change that makes affordable tutoring possible is VoIP technology. The second is the penetration and the cost of broadband, which in India has arrived at an affordable rate in remote towns, which is where the affordable tutors live. These people are educated and highly motivated to teach. The technology we have today allows for a paradigm shift.It's not about outsourcing or how Marks &amp; Spencer can save costs by going to India. This is about how you can get what is available to the rich, available to the common man. In the US we offer our tutoring for $100 a month for unlimited tutoring, and in the UK it is &pound;50 a month, and you can use it three hours a month or 40 - your choice.TG If you are using off-the-shelf VoIP and internet, what is to stop others from launching competing services?KGWe have developed a proprietary portal that uses the WebEx VoIP platform so we have not developed the VoIP, but that is only the voice part. We are based in Bangalore, which is the Silicon Valley of India, and we have 25 technology people who have created this platform over the past 18 months.Hundreds of tutors and thousands of students can log on to this portal simultaneously and it has all the functionality for tutor and student management. Students can download their sessions, see their account, and tutors can schedule sessions. All the tools for management are there and we have applied for two patents on that.TG It sounds like a great technology platform but it is not a face-to-face experience and there must also be a cultural issue. How can a tutor in Jaipur relate to a student in San Diego or Hull?KGThe reason we started this service is when we talked to parents and teachers in the UK and US we got positive answers first about the cost and the convenience but we also asked how they felt about their son being taught maths by someone in India. Parents have a problem that they want fixed and this is an affordable way to solve it. This is something that is really personal, the education of your children, and so it's not the same issue at all as outsourcing call centres or business processing. Here there is no jobs displacement. Here we are making kids better educated to be able to retake jobs in their countries.We also got very positive answers from the teachers, the schools and the textbook publishers because we are helping them fix a problem that they want fixed and we are not trying to replace anybody. We are not a content company and we don't award a diploma.In terms of the face-to-face issue, we use a shared whiteboard so the tutor and the student can draw a picture or show a video or an animation, so it is like a real-life experience. We are also different from text-based teaching because we use voice and it is one-on-one tutoring. We could use a webcam but we don't because that is one area of internet abuse, so we don't use it. But let me also say that there are limits - we can't teach piano on the internet. But we do teach music!TG How is the business and the technology scaling?KGWe have over 2,000 students and they are from 13 different countries, even though we have only officially launched in the US and UK. It is the internet, so they just come. Most of our students come for English tutoring. A lot of other countries use the GCSE standard but the priority is the US and UK in terms of size and need for education. And in terms of growth we expect to have 10,000 students by the end of 2007, and it scales well because we don't need a bricks and mortar centre and the tutors work from class B and class C towns in India.TG As you grow, will the technology scale or will you have to raise more than the $15m you have raised so far?KGWe have built it for scalability. To do 10 or even 100 sessions is simple, you could do it on Skype, but after that you need a scalable platform. We have tested for 1,000 simultaneous sessions, which is about 10,000 students. The money we have raised from Sequoia and Lightspeed is all the money we need to get to 10,000 students.TG Why did you launch in the US first?KGThe US is a bigger market and to be honest they really have an educational crisis there. In the UK it is an issue and there is a gap but in the US it is a different proportion there.TG What about competition?KGWe have a head start in terms of our technology platform and also in what we are offering, which is a mass market, subscription-based unlimited model. It will take at least take 12 months to build a similar technology platform. Also there are competitors at the higher end like Sylvan in the US, but they offer tutoring for $40 to $60 per hour so it is premium tutoring. Also, I am using my experience of building an outsourcing company in India to train and schedule our tutors and with technology I can make personal education affordable to people in the US and UK.TG When do you start making money?KGWe should be profitable by the end of this year, but a lot of it depends on how much we spend on marketing. We are working with online marketing, with co-marketing with publishers (HarperCollins) and with educational institutions. This is about changing the rules of the game so that we can combine technology and global resources so tutoring is no longer the privilege of the rich. At the moment personalised tutoring is a bit like going to the dentist - you only do it when the pain is too much, so parents will send a child to a tutor for a short period only to the extent that he needs it. But this is not what education should be. It should be like a gym membership, where you pay a monthly fee and use it when you like it.Curriculum vitaeAge45EducationMechanical engineering degree from Delhi University and a postgraduate degree in management from the Institute of Management in Calcutta. Visiting faculty member at several institutes in India, including the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies in Mumbai and the Indian Institute of Management in Calcutta.Career 1990founded IT&amp;T Ltd, an IT and network services company in India, taking it public in2000; Served as CEO of Wipro British Telecom/Bharti British Telecom joint venture from1989to2000; Founder and CEO of CustomerAsset/ICICI OneSource, a business process outsourcing/call centre company in India; Founded TutorVista in2005and has raised $14.2m in venture capital backing.FamilyMarried with two children. Lives in Bangalore, IndiaHobbiesTennis, reading fiction&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If it Works for youFor some years I have been adding data to an MS Works database in Windows 98SE, and the "advanced sort" facility in Works is essential to its effective use. I have tried installing it on a laptop loaded with Windows XP Home Edition but without success. Will the same apply to Vista?Fred FinneyJack Schofield replies:Microsoft Works is still a current product. Microsoft Works 8 would be fine for XP, but you may need v8.5 if you are moving to Vista. You will probably be able to load your data into the newer version of Works on XP or Vista, but this is not guaranteed. To increase your chances, always give yourself multiple options. In this case, you should save your data as a Works file, as a dBase file (dbf is a widely supported standard) and as a CSV file (comma separated variables). You can load a CSV file into almost any database, although the process can be tedious. There are several things to watch for when saving a Works file, and you should read the first part of Microsoft Knowledge Basearticle 197894for details. Microsoft Works is sometimes bundled with new PCs either free or for a very low price. The much larger Works Suite - which also includes things like Encarta and Microsoft Money - can cost &pound;40 to &pound;50. Alternatively you can buy the programs from Amazon UK etc or hunt around for cheaper OEM versions (no-frills copies that are supposed to be sold bundled with PCs). Works is, deliberately, a simplified product: it's not Microsoft Office. Having dbf and CSV files would enable you to try a more sophisticated database or spreadsheet, although there are not many cheap or free options that are easy to use. Either way, the main thing is to avoid having to re-enter your 20,000 lines of data.Co but not comWhy do we have to have the prefix "co" before our country indicator?Richard FinchJS:Internet domain names usually end with two letters for the country code, which runs from ad (Andorra) to zw (Zimbabwe). We use uk instead of gb because uk was already in use on the Janet joint academic network. American addresses should end with .us, but this wasn't needed in the beginning, because the net was US-only.Americans generally used top-level domains (TLDs) instead, such as com (commercial), edu (education) and mil (military). Each top-level domain has subdivisions, and these second level domain names (SLDs) are often used to indicate what kind of organisation it is. The UK TLD, now managed by Nominet, uses co (company), ac (academic) and mod (Ministry of Defence) instead of echoing the TLDs: com, edu and mil. Japan uses co, ac, ed (for schools) and go (for gov), among others.Take datA friend has recently sent me a Microsoft Word attachment that arrived in my mailbox as winmail.dat, which I am unable to open.JanetJS:Winmail.dat files were created by Microsoft to carry formatting information for "rich text" email messages. They are in Transport Neutral Encapsulation Format (TNEF). The best way to deal with the odd winmail.dat file is to upload it totud.at/php/tnef, which will convert it for you. If you get lots, you could download TNEF (tnef.sourceforge.net) and do it yourself.Incidentally, I answered this question more fully inSeptember 2001. However, I was unable to find it on any search engine, even though I knew exactly what I was looking for.Out for an outboxI have used Mozilla Thunderbird for a few years but I miss having an outbox so that emails aren't sent immediately after writing them, like Outlook Express and Eudora had when I last used them. Is it possible to have an outbox in Thunderbird?Daggi Kr&ouml;schel-WillisJS:Not surprisingly, there is a simple extension that you candownloadto add the outbox facility. Alternatively you could think of going back toEudora.5-star urban legendIs it true that hotel card keys hold personal data and should be retained by the customer and destroyed?Name withheldJS:It's a lovely story and dates back to an erroneous press release from the police in Pasadena, California, in October 2003. It's false, and you can read thepolice's retraction. The story is covered on urban legends siteSnopes.Money saverI've been told there is a site with the 01 alternatives to 08 numbers.Stacey McHaleJS:You're looking forsaynoto0870.com. It's easier to find if you look for it on themoneysavingexpert.comsite.
Conference calls. The name alone is enough to warn you. A conference you attend in a telephone. The only way it could be worse would be if it was inside a telephone booth. The calls are dull, excruciating and terrifying.Remind me again - why do I want to speak to all these people at once? Sat on my stairs at home with an ill child upstairs (but pretending to be in the office), I feel the sweat prickling.Inevitably, after calling the number as directed, I'm kept waiting. The clock is ticking way past the arranged time and nothing is happening. The angry knot in my stomach is growing by the second. There go several minutes of my life I'll never get back.Humming Blondie's Hanging on the Telephone and muttering darkly about what I'd like to do with the lead, I still jump out of my skin when someone else says "hello".Here we go. But now there's a problem so common you'd think it would be fixed now: a time delay on every phrase.The delay can turn the most serious conversation into something like the Two Ronnies' Mastermind sketch: specialist subject - "answering the question before last". (Question: What is Bernard Manning famous for? Answer: That is the question. Question: Who is the Archbishop of Canterbury? Answer: He's a fat man who tells blue jokes.) We do the same, but with marketing speak somehow it's less funny.Someone is repeating my name and asking if I agree. Unfortunately I can't tell who it is. "Yes," I say, "now what was the question?"Suddenly, a low slurping noise assaults my ear. Mike from the fundraising department is drinking coffee. "Turn the mute on Mike, will you," we all screech in unison. So we get baffling piped music instead. There's a wail from upstairs. Now then, have I pressed the mute button? What does the hash key do again? Should I press it or risk them hearing a poorly daughter calling for some water?"All right, sweetheart, I'll be there in a minute," I say soothingly. "No, not you Mike," I say, less soothingly. "I'm not coming to see you."We're on to point six of the agenda. (Did someone say agenda? No one told me about that.) An intermittent beeping sound invades our conversation. Someone is pressing their buttons. "Stop it," says a voice I don't recognise.A loud rasping noise follows, then silence. Uh-oh. Someone is sitting on a leather chair. I'm grateful for small mercies - it's not me. Nobody wants to be remembered as the one who insisted they didn't have wind during the last conference call.At last it's over. Phew, now what exactly have I learned? My notes are something about Debbie Harry, Ronnie Corbett and "don't forget to say pardon".The solution is to meet in person, I'm sure of it. What's a frighteningly steep train ticket between friends? Forget Skype or Instant Messenger, I'm far too old and grumpy for any of that.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Today's Technology supplement carries a short article looking atwhether mobile phones and Wi-Fi really are responsible for all the evil in the world, or at least the headache-y and disappearing bee-y parts of it.Just to wrap up on the bees. As Isurmised in a previous post, the Independent on Sunday article that got all this kicked off a couple of weeks ago was based on a very small study. And that actually looked at DECT (cordless home) phones - and DECT base stations at that. Not mobile phones, or mobile phone masts, which transmit a different frequencies. Though bees navigate by the sun and light polarisation anyway.Update:and magnetism too - they have somemagnetic particles in their stomachswhich are, apparently, used for navigation. Interesting question: were the DECT emissions strong enough to make any difference? That would imply the bees were beingdegaussed- but that requires an oscillating, comparatively strong, magnetic field. While it's a subtle distinction, an electromagnetic wave isn't the same as a degaussing field.If someone with a tiny bit more time can figure out the strength in (probably) microgauss of a bee's magnetic field, and then what the degaussing field would be, and then compare it to a DECT's output... you'll have something interesting, though it might be a proof or disproof of the contention about DECT and bees.In theInternational Herald Tribune, one of the researchers on the study, Stefan Kimmel says:"It's not my fault if people misinterpret our data," said Kimmel. "Ever since The Independent wrote their article, for which they never called or wrote to us, none of us have been able to do any of our work because all our time has been spent in phone calls and e-mails trying to set things straight. This is a horror story for every researcher to have your study reduced to this. Now we are trying to force things back to normal."Well, he can hope.
A Federation soldier from Blake's 7The PlayStation Eye
The trend for mobile phone brain-training games shows no signs of diminishing. Most of the big publishers had a bash last year, with the likes of Brain Juice Energy and Brain Genius competently ripping of Nintendo's successful recipe. Now a few smaller British firms are giving it a go.First up,Dynamo Gameshas managed to combine two mobile favourites - casual quiz games and ironic eighties licenses - into one package: Crystal Maze will feature mini-intelligence tests based around the themed areas of the camp show. According to the company's press release Crystal Maze was voted 'The Best Gameshow Of All Time' by visitors to the website www.ukgameshows.com. They surely know.Mind Games from low-profile (their words) developerCobra Mobileis a mental fitness test that's recently had a limited release as Carol Vorderman's Mind Aerobics, but is now getting a wider showing in its non-Vordermanesque incarnation. It's another collection of challenges and mini-games designed to make your brain work - although to be honest, attempting to configure your handset to send picture messages or receive email will probably have a similar effect.I also like the look of HeroQuest's Stolen in 60 Seconds, a car theft sim in which you scope out your intended target then supply your team with the correct tools before overseeing the robbery. The press release, written by someone for whom English is a second or possibly third language, promises, "atmosphere of arealgangster den". I wonder how they researched that?Also, Championship Manager 2007 has been launched this week. "We've beefed up the feature list for the game, increased the number of players and teams and made the interface even more accessible so we're confident that we'll be retaining our No.1 crown with CM 2007," beams Allison Archer, Producer, Eidos New Media. Competition comes from the serviceableLMA manager 2007. Both subscribe to the eighties school of footie management sim design - quick, simple, no match engine, the vague awareness that match results are being decided by a random number generator somewhere in the game's core.Finally, Genemation has announced a mobile version of its face capture and feature tracking software for mobile phones.GenMobilewill allow developers to put EyeToy like features into their games, or build fun photographic apps. The website has terrible spelling and politically incorrect jokes so is worth a look.
More on OreAs a family who have suffered horribly over the lies spun to the public, we are grateful to you for printing more of the truth (Operation Ore flawed by fraud, April 19). We have lost our home (but before we did, we had people throwing eggs at the house and spray painting "paedo" on it; when I complained to the police I was told "not our problem - that's what you get for being a kiddy fiddler"); our jobs (it is not suitable for a teacher to be living with a man who possibly could have paid to view indecent images); and our savings.Social Services tried to take our child and forcibly put him up for adoption (they failed) and almost all our friends and much of our family have disowned us. In our case, we proved fraud, but that did not stop the CPS from pursuing the case. Even if you could prove you had never heard of Landslide, that did not stop the local paper reporting about a "disgusting pervert" in the neighbourhood. So thank you.[name and address withheld]&middot;Let's get some perspective on what we're dealing with here, a rising and extremely pernicious crime against children. If the police contact people whose credit card details appeared on Landslide's list, then let them prove these details were stolen if that is indeed the case. Such "inconvenience" is worth it to clamp down on this horrific crime.[name and address withheld]&middot;The problem with the hysteria around child pornography and paedophilia is that if you're accused, your life can be ruined even if you're innocent. Plenty of employers will fire anyone as soon as they're accused. The alleged paedophile finds himself jobless, with all his computer equipment seized by police, who have no obligation ever to return it.meta.ath0.com&middot;I suspect that paedophilia and child abuse are rarer than the authorities would have us believe. They tend to exaggerate any evil that makes the gullible eager for state protection.lastditch.typepad.com&middot;This is, of course, an instance of everything we fear about the National Identity Register. Justice by database has the potential to generate injustice faster and more efficiently than any previous system. It's time to stop the machine - anyone whose credit card was compromised before August 1999 is a potential target.yorkshire-ranter.blogspot.comOgg is not that rottenIn consigning Vorbis to the dustbin of history you manage to ignore its major base: sound embedded in applications (Let sleeping Oggs lie, April 19). A rather wide variety of applications that include sounds - particularly games - use Vorbis because it's high quality, has an excellent reference decoder and they don't have to pay anything to use it. If it suddenly stopped existing, rather a lot of software developers would be quite piqued. Seethis, for example.Adam WilliamsonVancouver, Canada&middot;The software patent problem only applies to the US because here in the European Union you cannot patent software. Thankfully, the European Parliament has thrown out the software patent law. So it would be nice if you mention this tiny but important fact.Benjamin StukenbergBrightonYou can't beat a bookRegarding Patricia Clark's question about portable reading devices that aren't too heavy (Ask Jack, April 19). In my day, we called them books. Not too heavy, generally, and not likely to be stolen or subject to technical problems.Jenny WelshLondonStand by for a timecheckIt is unfortunately not correct to say that an appliance on standby is doing nothing (Letters and blogs, April 19). In most cases it is running a clock which is of varying importance to its functioning. It is probably not the most desirable way of powering the clock, but that is what the manufacturers have forced on us.John BattsBanbury
It's not often you get a bunch of women sitting around talking about computer games. In my case, it usually happens once a year at the Women in Games conference. Here's a little secret: we don't just complain about Lara Croft's proportions. Like the best female pow-wows, we create practical solutions to get things done.The folks at last week's event at the University of Newport were all of the opinion that games are great and more people should be playing them. We know about the emotional rush you get from beating a challenging puzzle and the sense of satisfaction that comes when the last chapter closes. So we wanted to inspire more people to play.But why? Well, there's the glib answer: we'd like to talk about our latest amazing raids while down the pub. Or the more serious one: have you thought about what would happen if a huge swathe of the working population didn't feel comfortable with the interactivity, which is inevitably rising out of the ashes of gamers' misspent youths, and making it into the marketplace? Then there's one about social inclusion: there are allusions to games integrated into the fabric of everyday life. If people stare blankly every time one pops up in a TV show or movie, they'll continue to look as silly and ignorant as I did when I got off the boat and asked if "Reeves and Mortimer" was a brand of soap powder.Now that we've established that gaming is an important and necessary part of 21st-century living, let's tackle the $64,000 question: Why don't people play games? Well, the Big Kahuna reason is that people consider it a waste of time. They may indeed be right. I find playing Tolkienesque strategy titles featuring epic clashes between orcs and goblins a waste of time, no matter how much my fellow Gamesblogger Greg sings the praises of World of Warcraft. Trying to get me to play WoW is like trying to convince a stone to flip over, develop a mouth and ask for a bottle of fizzy water. But I love other types of games. And I bet non-gamers will too.So we've come up with a simple solution. The key to getting your mother, father, sister, uncle, boss or best mate to play is to find the right game. Then, introduce them in a safe space. Expose them (gently) as a closet gamer - their Yahoo! Scrabble playing counts. Push them around their comfort zones, add a new title to their roster. Ensure there's lots of tea and cake available. And then when they're ready, bring up games in a non-gaming context.The future of western civilisation is in the balance, people. It's up to us gamers to ensure that we can compete in this computerised world. The problem- solving delegates of the Women in Games conference are behind you, every step of the way.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hotel Dusk: Room 215Nintendo DS, &pound;29.95, cert 12+, Cing/Nintendo, 4/5Even though games are a modern invention, they are not immune to the whims of fashion - as demonstrated by the way the point-and-click adventure has fallen from favour. But perhaps it is about to undergo rehabilitation - Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is one, and it works well on the DS. You play Kyle Hyde, once a high-flying New York cop, but now reduced to the life of a downtrodden travelling salesman, although he combines that with searching for his ex-partner, who went bad. Pitching up at the Hotel Dusk, Hyde is drawn into various intrigues surrounding fellow occupants and a trail that seems to lead to his elusive quarry. As ever with such games, you progress by having rather long conversations with the characters and collecting and using items. Visually, the game is stunning, with a distinctive sketched comic-book style, although the interiors are 3D, and easy to navigate with the stylus. Perfect for those who like to use their brains when they play.Steve BoxerPokemon RangerNintendo DS, &pound;29.95, cert 3+, Nintendo, 3/5Nintendo doesn't like to mess with a good thing, which explains why Pokemon has stayed largely unchanged for nearly a decade. Here's another one, but this time there's a whole new way of playing it. Rather than pit your 2D critters in turn-based battles, this time they have to be caught by drawing circles around them as they scarper across the DS screen. Easy at first - with over 200 species, some of which need "looping" a dozen times or more - Ranger turns into a frantic affair. Being a ranger rather than a trainer still involves a lot of bland and boring exploration, but Pokemon Ranger at least tries to shake up the franchise.Mike AnderieszLord of the Rings Online: Shadows of AngmarPC, &pound;34.99 + &pound;6.95 per month, cert 12+, Turbine/Codemasters, 3/5Tolkein's work has been the inspiration for many games, including the all-conquering World of Warcraft, but here, finally, is the real deal. This is a massively multiplayer online game (MMO) that sees you hobnobbing with Gandalf and Frodo in the Shire. Anyone looking for a revolution will be disappointed - this is the usual kill stuff/deliver item quest, albeit with some nice touches. The familiar story and characters interweave well with your action, while players can create music and busk for money. And there seems to be more depth to customisation, with the ability to create interesting items. The fact that the game is highly polished and relatively bug-free - unlike many MMOs at launch - is an achievement in itself. The graphics are pretty yet oddly dull, and the action can get repetitive, but there are enough positives to suggest a promising future for your virtual hobbit.Greg Howson
I find it hard to believe this one isn't a joke, but apparently George Foreman - you know, the tough grillin' former boxer who called all his children George - is now going to produce an iPod-compatible grillin' machine. Hoo!Seasoned surfers may remember ThinkGeek'sApril Fool's iGrillfrom a while back, or even the hacked together computer-inside-a-GFiGrillthat some excitable scamp from Southampton built.Ah, you think it's a laugh, but the marketing men clearly take these things to heart. I wonder if that's where theSegway came from...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yesterday Iintroducedthe data I've been looking at for the International Game Developers Association from the open nominations for the Game Developers Choice Awards. I gave an overview about which countries voted most similarly during the process for three categories: Visual Arts, Best Game and Game Design. Today, I'm looking in more detail at the games the countries have in common in the category "Visual Arts".The image above is a social network diagram of an affiliation network. The dots are the countries and the lines between them indicate that there's a connection of one or more common games. This is all of the data smooshed into a lovely visual format (for those who like charts), which shows all of the countries that voted.The first thing you can see from the sociogram (for that is what it's called) is that there is a bunch of countries interconnected by similar nominations. They're the folks in the top left. The Netherlands seems like an outsider simply because it's only got commonalities with Japan, Spain, Canada, the UK and the US.You can also immediately see that there are two countries which voted completely unlike the other countries: Denmark and Hong Kong. They're isolated - no connections between each other or the rest of the group. For the record, the people in Denmark voted most forHitman: Blood Money(developed by the Danish IO Interactive) and the people of Hong Kong voted most for Photo Club (Gamey Studio).As I mentioned, the moosh in the upper left corner represents a tightly-knit group who all voted for at least one of the same games. With the software I used to create this image (Pajek, for those keeping tabs), I can also identify which countries voted for the most games in common. There are three sets I'm going to focus on: Canada and the USA, Japan and the USA and Germany and the USA.Canada and the USAThe games these land mass neighbours voted for in common (in no particular order) were: Viva Pinata Splinter Cell: Double Agent LocoRoco Gears of War Final Fantasy XII Company of HeroesJapan and the USA100% of the games which the Japanese IGDA members nominated were also voted for by folks in the USA. Out of the three categories (Visual Arts, Best Game and Game Design), this was the strongest alliance between these two countries. The games were: Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Okami Lost Planet Gears of War Final Fantasy XIIGermany and the USAFinally, the German IGDA members only nominated two games, but both were also voted for by people in the USA: Final Fantasy XII Gears of WarAnyone have any theories? Go on, throw your hat into the ring.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday May 8 2007Silverlight is the new name for Windows Presentation Foundation Everywhere (WPF/E), not Windows Programming Foundation Everywhere as we said in error below. This has been corrected.Microsoft is presenting Silverlight as a browser plug-in that can show high definition video on both PCs and Macs using VC-1, a version of Microsoft's WMV technology standardised for HD DVD and Blu-ray discs. But this is simply the thin end of a very ambitious wedge. It could also transform website development and enable a new generation of rich internet applications (RIAs) that work both online and on the desktop.In many respects, Silverlight puts Microsoft on a collision course with Adobe, which has similar ambitions. Adobe's strategy is based on Flash and Apollo, a program in its infancy.Silverlight enables programmers to deploy a desktop application on the web, as an RIA, using the same XML user interface code. Apollo is a run-time module that will enable programmers to run a web application (developed using Flash, Flex, HTML, JavaScript and Ajax) on the desktop. Which you choose depends on where you start and where you want to go. Users benefit either way.But Silverlight is just the new name for WPF/E, or Windows Presentation Foundation Everywhere. WPF is the new way of developing user interfaces in Windows Vista, and is supported in XP via the Net 3.0 Framework. WPF/E provides a way of deploying powerful Vista-style programs across a network via Internet Explorer, Firefox and Apple Safari browsers. These RIAs can be deployed on Linux servers, says Microsoft.WPF also provides a better way for web designers and developers to work together. Instead of just producing artwork, designers can create real interfaces with buttons and other controls. The designer can then give the programmer the XML (or XAML) code for use in Microsoft's development system, Visual Studio.To generate XAML from graphics, Microsoft has launched its own range of creative tools in the Expression Suite, based on its takeover of a Hong Kong software developer, Creature House, in 2003.Adobe owns the creative market with PhotoShop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver etc, the way Microsoft owns the business desktop with Office. But Microsoft hopes to get a toehold by offering a more powerful way of working and by leveraging its Windows-based programming system.The move to WPF and XAML should benefit the Windows programming world, especially inside large companies with intranets. Whether it will be adopted elsewhere is open to considerable doubt. But it could nonetheless put Adobe under added pressure, especially if it's forced to reduce its high prices.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Forget EyeToy, the newly announced PLAYSTATION Eye takes camera gaming to a new level. In theory. Due out in the summer and designed to work on, "the next generation of social gaming titles and new services being developed for the PS3", the Eye has four times the resolution and twice the sensitivity of its predecessor. Excited then? Let's hope developers use it for more Rainbow Six Vegas style experiments - i.e. put your face in the game - rather than just Eyetoy quick games.
It's a mystery that Apple won't talk about. Independent artists have been complaining for years that Apple was deaf to their requests to include their music at the iTunes Music Store without applying digital rights management (DRM) software. Apple CEO Steve Jobs said in his February 6 essayThoughts on Musicthat the company had no choice but to use DRM to protect songs sold via iTunes because the record companies insisted on it. Complain, he said, to Universal, Sony BMG, Warner and EMI, who control 70% of the world's music. No answer, still, to the artists who wanted their music released DRM-free.A few weeks ago, EMI blinked and agreed to release its catalogue in near-CD quality (256kbps AAC format), DRM-free, via iTunes for a premium price (99p per track). The DRM-free offerings will be available next month. Just like that.Was that difficult to implement? Apple declined to discuss the decision, the technical complexity involved, or anything beyond Jobs's essay.Scott Cohen, founder of the digital distribution service The Orchard, says the change is "not technically complicated". What is complicated, he says, is the many different versions required to service digital stores, from iTunes to mobile phone downloads. There are only three basic file formats in use - AAC, MP3 and WMA - but, he says, details like bit rates and the metadata identifiers are different for each store. There are 63 variants for mobile devices alone, and overall there are hundreds. Cohen notes, though, that the really hard work is marketing the music.The reversal makes it even less understandable why independent artists who want to release their music via iTunes but without DRM have been unable to do so.'We don't need DRM'The biggest example is CDBaby, an Oregon-based company started in 1998 by musician Derek Sivers to sell his own CDs and those of a few friends. The friends now number in the thousands, and CDBaby's "long tail" business has expanded from selling physical CDs (including mine) to supplying digitised versions to the subscription download services. CDBaby supplies 1.5m songs, or about a third of the iTunes catalogue.All these files are supplied in an open format; Apple then wraps them in its Fairplay DRM. Sivers says that when Jobs's essay came out, "We sent our contacts over there an email saying, we don't need DRM, we never asked for it, and we'd be glad to do without it." The response, he says, was pretty much: "We'll let you know." Now that EMI has agreed to DRM-free downloads, he says, CDBaby's catalogue will also be available on iTunes without DRM.In CDBaby's experience, artists (as opposed to the big labels) tend not to be concerned about releasing unprotected files - they just want their music in as many channels as possible. To the few who ask for DRM, Sivers explains that applying DRM at source limits their outlets because the services' DRM systems are not interoperable.Stanford law professor Lawrence Lessig - one of the founders of Creative Commons, which promotes public access to culture - says that these two options already existed because the iTunes U educational service includes DRM-free content: "Stanford insisted upon it."Artists' wishesMore to the point, he couldn't understand why Jobs didn't at least make it possible for Creative Commons-licensed material to go out DRM-free, respecting the publicly expressed wishes of artists such as "geek musician" and singer-songwriterJonathan Coultonand Colin Mutchler."On an album like mine," says Mutchler, "legally, users are allowed to do certain things with the music that technically the DRM is not allowing them to do."To be fair, Apple was not the only company blaming the record labels. Microsoft Zune spokesman Jason Reindorp provided this statement: "Consumers have started asking for unprotected music content and if our music label partners decide to open their content up, then we would happily move in that direction."The Zune automatically applies DRM to unprotected files received from another Zune user without regard to those files' source or licensing arrangements. Protected files bought from the Zune Marketplace can only be shared if the DRM says they can.Karl Heymann, founder and owner of the classical label Naxos, which streams its catalogue unprotected and also sells through iTunes and eMusic, says that 48% of its income is from "non-physical" sales. "The artists just want to have representation on every possible digital service provider," he says. "Jobs says DRM was forced on him by the major labels to get their content and I tend to believe him." This from a man who, before the EMI announcement, predicted: "Two years from now there will be no DRM."David Pakman, the CEO of DRM-free eMusic, the world's second largest digital music service, agrees: "We think that consumers are voting with their dollars and their feet, and they have tended towards non-DRM."Meanwhile, as Pakman points out, European government pressure on Apple has been increasing; many think removing DRM is at least partly a response. Norway has ruled iTunes's lack of interoperability illegal, and Germany, France, Finland and the Netherlands all want Apple to open up iTunes to hardware rivals.Nicolas Jondet, a PhD student at the AHRB Research Centre in intellectual property and technology law at the University of Edinburgh, notes that France has created a body to ensure that DRM respects users' legal rights and is made interoperable. Jondet reasons regulatory problems aren't in Apple's interest, and Jobs would rather get rid of DRM if it's going to create them, so he placed the ball in the music companies' court.The fact that independent artists who wanted their music distributed DRM-free had to wait until one of the four majors gave the nod shows the extent to which the business is controlled by those companies. In the end it's the musicians who bear the brunt.John Buckman, founder and CEO of Magnatune, an online record label that sells music both to consumers and for commercial licensing, says: "Musicians are barely scraping a living together. The real issue for DRM is the battle for the hearts of music lovers and can an offering be put together that entices the majority of people to pay for it." If, as Jobs says, less than 5% of the music on the average iPod is bought through the iTunes store, Apple is "probably not doing a very good job of compelling people to buy digital music".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Freedom of rights managementMusicians have been badgering Apple to sell their music without copy protection for years, so why, wonders Wendy M Grossman, is it changing its tune now?Waging war with the dirty bombersThe US has launched a massive programme to scan for radioactive material that could be used by terrorists. James Bloom reports.Royal Mail's postcode database reveals its profitable sideFree Our Data campaign:Current model yields low profits and has served to anger local authorities.Are mobile phones and Wi-Fi to blame for the world's ills?Sure, say Kate Bevan and Charles Arthur, if you believe the world's crops are going to fail because, allegedly, mobiles kill bees, and Wi-Fi will make people ill.Converting non-gamers is the key to civilisationAleks Krotoski: It's not often you get a bunch of women sitting around talking about computer games. In my case, it usually happens once a year at the Women in Games conference.GamesHotel Dusk: Room 215 | Pokemon Ranger | Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of AngmarVirtual drug taking pushes online users to far-out alternative realityRead me first: Avatars now have a third and modern alternative to fighting ogres: abusing substances. Fighting, screwing and getting wasted: virtual life is becoming more like real life every day.Move aside, gadgets - the N95 is hereVictor Keegan: It's expensive for a phone but for a combined phone / camera / MP3 player, video player and satnav system it is cheap.TechnobileLinda Jones: If you're after a business built on misheard gibberish and yawning delays, then conference calls are for you.'The US really have an educational crisis there'Interview, Krishnan Ganesh: One-on-one tutoring used to be expensive. Not now, thanks to the technology linking Indian teachers with UK students.Is Operation Ore the UK's worst-ever policing scandal?Charles Arthur: The Crown Prosecution Service didn't like our lead story last week exposing the faults that run through the Operation Ore investigations.Sweet smell of success for biofuel expertSugar-powered batteries could be the renewable, eco-friendly power source the planet is gasping for, writes Michael Pollitt.Microsoft pits its Silverlight against all Adobe's FlashThis is simply the thin end of a very ambitious wedge, writes Jack Schofield, that could transform website development and enable a new generation of rich internet applications that work both online and on the desktop.The dial-through fraudsters using VoIP to outwit detectivesTelephone switchboard hacking is not new, but criminals are now using the latest technology to cover their trails. Tom Rowland reports.NewsbytesNot landing | Denmark most connected | RIM shot at Windows | It takes 2.0 ... | This market sucks | Bard news | And finally ...Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.
Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and other 2008 Democratic presidential contenders will line up in South Carolina tonight for the first of a series of traditional debates.In autumn the candidates will line up again, but next time they will not be in the same room. It will be a virtual debate orchestrated by the Huffington Post political blog with other websites, Yahoo and Slate. There will be one for the Democrats and one for the Republicans.Arianna Huffington, founder of the Huffington site, said yesterday: "We have agreement in principle from many candidates." She said it was hard to predict the size of the audience, but since so many people got their news online, she expected a sizeable audience.The debate tonight is likely to be a sweaty affair, in a university hall packed with the candidates, student audience, the media and campaign advisers. Immediately after the debate, the media and advisers will converge in the "spin-room" to argue about winners and losers.The internet version will see candidates in front of web-cameras in locations around the country. Bloggers will be able to provide instant assessments of candidates' answers and overall performance.Ms Huffington said: "It will be much easier on schedules and budgets. They can do it wherever they are. They do not have to have teams travelling with them."It will be the public that will be online. We will be able to evaluate," she added.In a separate development, MySpace, the networking website, and the reality TV producer Mark Burnett, are holding a competition to find an independent candidate. The winner will be awarded $1m (&pound;500,000) to spend on campaigning or to be donated to a political cause.
Every year thousands of commercial devices containing radioactive material are lost, abandoned or stolen. From oil well measuring gauges to industrial food sterilisers, there is a long list of "sources" that could be used to construct a dirty bomb which, when detonated, would spread dangerous radioactive material over a wide area. In the US an average of 168 sources were lost and never recovered every year from 1996-2001. Europe lost 70 per year. Thousands are reported missing in the former Soviet Union. The world is literally littered with them. Of those missing in the US, 20% were classified as risky, meaning the radioisotope was of a type that could be used to make a dirty bomb.Deadly simulationsIn simulations of a dirty bomb attack, the death toll is usually about 100 people. Many die from the initial explosion, as well as the spread of the radioactive contaminant. Peter Zimmerman, former chief scientist at the US Arms Control Agency, says: "You could make 10 times as many people sick as you would kill. The effects include loss of hair, bone marrow destruction and radiation burns that can be hard to heal." People would also experience vomiting and diarrhoea. "All this could result from two shotgun pellets' worth of material spread around a densely populated area," he says. The cleanup costs would run into hundreds of millions and some buildings might have to be torn down.But David McIntyre of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission says: "To make a dirty bomb you have to be fairly sophisticated. When you extract the material you run the risk of exposure." Which means radioactivity detectors will spot them.To reduce the chances of a nuclear or radiological dirty bomb attack, the US is currently leading a colossal effort to install a network of preventative defences at home and abroad. Within the next year or two, every person and vehicle entering the US, EU and many other countries will have to go through a portal that scans them for radioactive materials.US Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, while visiting ports in China and Singapore last year, said: "The greatest threat we have to prevent is a nuclear device being detonated by a terrorist." His department has given radiation detectors to China and Singapore as part of what he described as a "layered series of defences".Twenty-four hours before a container is embarked, the partner port must notify US Customs officials, who check it against a database. They can then request the container be scanned before it leaves. The DHS spent $500m (&pound;250m) on the Megaports Initiative last year. Hundreds of detectors are now installed at ports in 30 countries in Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. Chertoff projected that by the end of 2006 the US would "be putting two-thirds of containers through radiation portal monitors either overseas or in this country, and next year we will get close to 100%". The UK is installing its own detectors at ports and other border points. Neither the Home Office nor the Department of Transport would comment.Since 9/11, the US Government has installed over a thousand detectors inside its own country, but the technology has proved far from perfect. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey reported in 2005 that it was getting about 150 false alarms a day from its 22 radiation portals. The culprits range from contaminated scrap metal to bananas, which contain naturally radioactive elements.In Rotterdam, port guards are often alerted to radiation coming from broccoli trucks. Handheld scanners are then used to make sure more dangerous sources are not hidden inside.In March 2003 a bus travelling from New York to Atlantic City set off a detector installed in a tunnel. State Police pulled the bus over and discovered that one of the passengers had received a harmless 10 millicuries of iodine-131 earlier in the day as part of a medical procedure.Doctors advise patients having radiation therapy not to use airports for a few days afterwards but there are plenty of stories of people unwittingly setting off airport alarms.America is leading a global procurement drive for better detection equipment. The Advanced Spectroscopic Portal (ASP) is a yellow gateway fitted with gamma and neutron detectors that automatically differentiate between thousands of radiation sources. It contains a huge library of radioisotopes and will be connected to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's National Source Tracking System, a "cradle-to-the-grave database of licensed materials". The US Government plans to install portals on every major highway into New York. The ASP is currently in testing, but when ready will probably be the detector they use.Radiation portalsSaid Abousahl of the EC's Joint Research Commission coordinates nuclear safety projects. Part of his work involves the effort to secure radiological sources in Europe and neighbouring states. Another element is stopping a bomb being used. He says some European cities will soon be surrounded with radiation portals: "Some member states are planning this, but which ones remains confidential."But experts say even the new generation of sensors will find it hard to detect the material used in the most dangerous threat: a portable nuclear bomb. Leonard Spector at the Center for Non Proliferation Studies says: "Uranium-235 just doesn't give off much radiation." Even the ASP won't be able to detect uranium.The IAEA reports 16 confirmed cases of illegal trafficking in highly-enriched uranium over the past decade. Cases involving material that could be used to build a dirty bomb run into hundreds. In 2004, former US Defence Secretary William Perry said there was a 50-50 chance of a terrorist nuclear detonation occurring before 2010. Zimmerman says: "That is unlikely. I would estimate a 1% chance per year." On the possibility of a dirty bomb, he says: "I'm surprised it hasn't happened already. We've been lucky."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sure, if you believe a vociferous crowd who are ready to ascribe those ills to the new twin modern evils - mobile phones (and their masts) and Wi-Fi. They reckon the world's crops are going to fail because, allegedly, mobiles kill bees, and Wi-Fi will make teachers, pupils and people wandering around Westminster (which this week turned on its municipal Wi-Fi network) ill.The claim about bees is that they're vanishing through Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD). Yes, some are, in parts of the US, Canada and Europe; apiarists think it could be due to a cold snap or a parasitic mite. But wait. Why not mobile phones? A team at Landau University did a study in June 2006 which suggested they kill bees!Actually, no.The studyled by Jochen Kuhn put DECT phone base stations - like home cordless phones - inside two honeybee colonies, and left two others alone. There was no significant difference in the size of the honeycombs the two groups built. But bees in one of the DECT-ed colonies didn't return 45 minutes after being set free 800 metres away, while the others were back by 35 minutes. Collapse? Not necessarily: no more measurements were taken after 45 minutes, so they might all have returned after then. (Perhaps they were out gathering pollen.)"Our studies cannot indicate that electromagnetic radiation is a cause of CCD," Kuhn said earlier this week.J&uuml;rgen Tautz, a bee researcher at the University of W&uuml;rzburg, told Spiegel Online that bees might just be stressed generally: their range of food has narrowed and climate change is complicating life. "But I'm sure mobile phone signals would have no effect on a healthy, unstressed bee population."What about stressed humans, then? Some people claim Wi-Fi makes them ill, and take measures that range from dismantling their own home networks to draping themselves in a silver net as they sleep to protect themselves from what they see as harmful waves. Teachers have called for a scientific inquiry.Certainly, rigorous scientific studies on Wi-Fi are hard to find. There's only beenone(by Kenneth Foster of the University of Pennsylvania) published last March which found "measured Wi-Fi signal levels were very far below international exposure limits ... and in nearly all cases far below other RF signals in the same environments." Still, Westminster offers a brand new case study: with the biggest Wi-Fi hotspot in Europe now covering 350,000 people, it must offer a population-sized study into whether Wi-Fi makes you ill. And if the crops fail in Westminster - well, we'll know precisely which technology is to blame.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Two popular industry stories today. Videostoremag.com hastaken a look atrecent console sales figures, bringing inIDCvideogame analyst, Billy Pidgeon, to talk through the findings:"I believe the Wii will continue strong growth although supply continues to be a problem," Pidgeon said. "I'd like to see Wii hardware shipping in larger quantities or mass market consumers may cool on it. Having said that, I don't believe supply will meet demand for the Wii until 2009. Xbox 360 and PS3 need system-selling games ASAP. Halo 3 will help, as will Lair and Heavenly Sword, but that leaves a hole in Q2 which will be filled by Wii, DS and PSP hardware and software. We'll also see more PC and PS2 software picking up the slack."Elsewhere, Gamesindustry.biz has Gerhard Florin EA's executive VP of international publishingmaking some confusing commentsabout PS3:"Look at the price in two years' time, and then you can say whether it's too high... Whether it's too high or not the consumer has to decide, but I don't think for the first year the price will be a problem which holds anything back"Later he adds:"The first two years will clearly be an open race, everybody will do very well. I believe all three [consoles] are worth supporting in different ways."So, I think I get this. In 2009, we'll be able to judge whether the PS3 was too expensive two years ago, though Florin doesn't think it was, though it's the people who will decide. Oh and EA is keeping its options open.Still, we've only got two years to wait until all this makes sense.
Every week we receive far more letters and blog pingbacks than we can print in full. Especially the week just past (April 19), where Ron West's piece on how much energy one's house consumes attracted a huge response via email, and Vic Keegan's commentary on the latest "state of the blogs" drew more than 70 blog comments. Click through to read on..STAND BY FOR HOME TRUTHSYes I can understand in what you saying and I have read many debates about it and I'm just as guilty as the next guy. But if you multiple those figures by say 50 Million people doing the same thing then it could have some effect. For me well don't know .... but there is one thing though the climate is changing and I'm not worry about it , if anything is going to happen it will happen and no one will be able to stop it. All things animals and humans as well as our planet have a braking point , we might destroy ourselves first with pollution and weather changes but the planet the planet will just keep rolling like is just got over a bad virus and pick up again but maybe with out us on top of it. Julius (no post town given)Further to your article entitled "Stand by for some home truths about power consumption" this is something I have also been infuriated by. One good example of the madness, simply taken from the figures shown, is that of boiling extra water in the kettle. I estimate that most people boil an extra cupful of water in their kettle each time it's used. We brew up about six times every day so we boil up an extra 6 cups of water. At around a third of a litre a cup that's an extra two litres a day or around twice the total daily energy used in the standby mode of all the appliances in the typical house! But the biggest bee in my bonnet concerns driving and the waste of fuel. My own experiments show that the biggest waster of fuel is harsh acceleration, not "speed" as such. Just by driving smoothly and anticipating hazards (foot off the gas well before the red traffic lights for example) it's easily possible to improve fuel consumption by 10%. At an average of 30mpg and 12000 miles per annum that's 400 gallons a year, so a saving of 40 gallons per annum is easily possible - and I make that around 450kg of carbon dioxide. And that's nearly half a tonne! Multiply that by the number of cars on the road and that's a huge amount that vastly swamps the tiny amount taken in a TV on standby! And what about traffic jams and roadworks? A few weeks ago I got stuck in a huge traffic jam at the southern end of the M1. I was more-or-less stationary for about an hour and the jam was about 10km long. Assuming each car only takes around 10m of road that's 3000 cars (three lanes) sitting idling for an hour. A vehicle idling takes between half and one litres of fuel an hour so taking an average that's well over 2000 litres an hour going up in carbon dioxide. And that's over five tonnes!! Even sitting waiting at traffic lights begins to add up if you think about it. A couple of minutes a day is an hour a month and that's another half litre of fuel or over a kilogram of carbon dioxide. I could go on... Brian Harden (no post town given)Ron West may be right when he lampoons assumptions about energy use relying on pre-60's thermionic valves. However, his ignorance in suggesting that low energy light bulbs are incompatible with dimmer switches is simply untrue. Ryness, a London chain of electrical stores supplies them to order. Rigorous domestic energy economy requires thorough research - it should be a lot easier for us all including Ron West. This email is sent using power entirely sourced from photovoltaics - a century old technology Peter Cuming, LondonHe says the environmentalists have missed the point about standby power - it's Ron West who has missed the whole point. What is an appliance on standby doing? - nothing. Its just a very lazy way of turning an appliance temporarily off and on. OK, many appliances these days do not consume very much power on standby, and Ron West illustrates this point by saying he could leave his phone charger on for a year before it consumes the same power as running a bath. Excuse me, why not just reach over and turn it off at the socket - IS THAT TOO MUCH TROUBLE RON !! - how many phone chargers are left on all the time? 500,000/1 million/2 million - how much total power consumed is that? Turning appliances off properly takes very little effort and would make a contribution to reducing power produced and consumed. Ron - its about the efforts we can all make and this one is so easy to do so please don't make the couch potatoes be able to justify using the remote from their sofas. Just by the way, my Hitachi television does not have an on/off switch on the front, its round the back, they want me to put it in standby using the remote - is there a conspiracy? Chris Miles, Daventry, NorthantsThe article only considers consumption in relation to one person or one family. Presented like this, the values, and the savings from turning off these small uses of electricity are bound to appear trivial. But they do not when multiplied by the 50 million population of the British Isles. This is the problem of most considerations of global warming, and why it is so difficult to get people to bother about it. This article does not help I would have hoped for a sharper treatment from The Guardian. Professor Tony Bradshaw, LiverpoolYour reporter misses the point about standby power. Yes, his mobile charger uses just 0.009 kWh per day. But since there are 50 million mobile phones in the UK, if even half of those chargers are left plugged in that's 225,000 kWh being wasted every day! Seeing to the little things doesn't mean ignoring the big things either. Why has he got his PC switched on permanently, even with power saving? It takes no more than 2 minutes to boot up a PC - if it's not been used for an hour, I'd be surprised if anyone needed to get on the net quite that quickly. It probably takes the system about as long to wake-up from power saving mode. Rick Webber, BrightonI agree with your conclusion that it is most important to focus on the main energy-guzzling appliances in the house to have the most impact on home economics and environmental damage. Using a similar appliance energy monitor to you, I have found the main guzzlers (annual Kwh) are: 1. The Fridge freezer - 469 Kwh 2. My "Computer Cluster" - 430 KwH (Includes power strip to switch off all the cluster from 9pm - 9am - 5 pieces equipment). 3. The "TV Cluster" - 318 Kwh (Includes power strip to switch off all the cluster from 11pm - 8pm - 4 pieces equipment). 4. My wife's "Computer Cluster" - 245 KwH (Includes power strip to switch off all the cluster from 9pm - 9am. 5 pieces equipment). 5. The Kettle - 164 Kwh I do not use a Tumble Dryer or Dishwasher. The biggest surprise for me was how little energy was used by the washing machine and iron. However, I am not happy about your diminishing the value of eliminating Standby energy. Your TV standby uses 0.168 KwH per day (which is still 61 KwH a year). There is also more than one standby light on your " TV Cluster" - DVD Player, Video Recorder, Digital set top box etc all of which probably consume another 180 Kwh a year. As most of us only have a TV Cluster on for 4 - 6 hours a day, switching off the lot using a power switch,using your figures, could save 240 KwH a year. But please don't say that is not important because you also happen to have an energy guzzling power shower which is far more damaging so don't bother with eliminating the standbys. Surely the answer is to address ALL unnecessary energy sources. Unlike your power shower, the standbys are wasting energy for no benefit. If we all manage all our microcosms well the ecosystem as a whole will benefit. Your position is not helpful. As Tesco would say, "Every little helps". Peter Smart, Manager, My MicrocosmThe eco-warrior phenomenon is certainly overdue some debunking; in many cases its adherents appear to display a near-religious asceticism which seems more to do with a projected guilt on seeing people enjoying themselves rather than an attempt to encourage genuine respect for the environment. The problem seems to stem from the belief that all human activity is inherently unnatural and bad. I can't help wondering if these people would, were it legal, euthanise themselves to avoid the waste their lives will inevitably produce. Another area which seems ripe for debunking (or at least objective scrutiny) is the frenzied clamour over recycling. We all know that recycling is a very time consuming process requiring not insignificant amounts of energy. In fact, I would not be surprised if the energy required to make recycled materials (including having council lorries trundling about collecting the stuff of course) is not a great deal less than that required to make the 'fresh' stuff. What I really want to know is how is it better for rubbish to be sorted by unqualified consumers, when surely automated methods could do it much more reliably and efficiently at waste collection centres? In particular, metals could easily be removed from rubbish using electrostatic effects, plastics could perhaps also be removed in a similar fashion, while centrifuges or other techniques could surely sort out a lot of other material. Paper may be an exception, as if mixed with organic matter it could be less valuable than if clean. Even so, it is not clear just what exactly you could/should put in for paper recycling. For instance, is it OK to mix in plastics with paper? Many envelopes have clear plastic to allow the address to be seen - is it not possible that small remnants of such plastics could spoil complete batches of recycled paper? I don't know, but it does make me question the validity of the whole exercise. I happen to know a chap who routinely puts small pieces of wood in with his recycled paper on the basis that it's the same stuff; who knows what others may mix in with the best will in the world. More to the point, we know that forests remove net carbon from the atmosphere primarily as they grow: when they are stable, they release as much as they take out. Does this mean that it would in fact be better, in terms of greenhouse gases, to bury old paper in the ground, and just plant new trees? Again I don't know, and I doubt any self-appointed eco-warrior is going to give me an honest answer. Overall, I am increasingly given to think the eco-movement is simply too polluted with personal motives and vendettas for it to be taken half as seriously as it is today. Thanks again for a refreshing article, keep up the good work. Richard Deeson, BirminghamI applaud Ron West for doing his research. However I found I was confused by some of the figures shown. There appeared to be a disparity between some of the figures given e.g. VHS on standby is shown as 0.072KWH in the graph on the left and 0.72KWH in the bar graph on top. Similarly a Freeview decoder is shown as 0.096 KWH in one graph and 0.96KWH in the bear graph. Both show a difference of magnitude of a factor of 10. The figures on the bar graph seem to have a disconnect below the PC Screen number. Perhaps that's where the problem lies - the usage of appliances below that level seem to have been boosted by 10 times. [There was an error in the figures shown but not the graph; a correction has been made - Tech. Ed] From my work on electricity usage 40 years ago I seem to remember that 70+% of home energy usage is for heating of space, water and cooking, which is where the really big savings are to be made. Thank you for doing what was a relatively easy task to achieve albeit time-consuming. And one which could and should have been done years ago by green campaigners. Graham Brown, HarrowYour reporter claims his household uses 25 KWh of electricity per day, a shocking three times the national average of about 9 KWh per day. Assuming the list of appliances in the yellow graph are representative of a typical household, the average household could save up to 0.87 KWh per day, or about 9%, by avoiding leaving items on standby. I'm sure you would agree that cutting domestic carbon emissions from electricity use by 10% would be desirable! However, neither my or your reporter's methodology is robust enough to stand up to any sort of scrutiny, and therefore his suggestion that we ignore the standby issue is irresponsible. On an individual level, most things we do have a very low impact on the environment, though when added up across society are very damaging. Avoiding individual responsibility is no way to deal with the climate change problem. Harry Walton, BristolRon West misses the point entirely. Certainly, the individual homeowner will not realise major savings if he or she turns off the standby power on home appliances or uses energy efficient light bulbs; however, if everyone across the country (or even 50% of everyone) made the effort to reduce their home electricity usage just imagine how much we could save? And let's face it, we are all living, and dying, together on the same planet. Harry Williams, Newick, E. SussexI being into electronics and understanding the standby consumption issues, have always believed in what you are now publicly saying ! I have no idea where the 'experts' come from to create this drivel in the first place, but to think laws may be created from their unscientific nonsense is unbelievable. Have looked into this myself and come to similar conclusions, as would any one, if they made the measurements. Please read my bit at 'www.fisherproducts.co.uk', and note that we all pay for the privilege anyway. If the country is serious about saving energy then how about 'street lighting' miles of motorway etc. John Fisher, Barnet, HertsWhat exactly is stand-by mode and how can you recognise it? What is the purpose of it for things like battery chargers, mobile phone chargers and microwave ovens? Is it just to save the effort of switching the appliance off at the wall? Why does it use any electricity at all? If I plug my vacuum cleaner in but don't switch it on, is it on standby? Keith Davies, School of Education, University of Wolverhampton, WalsallRon West may be right when he lampoons assumptions about energy use relying on pre-60's thermionic valves. However, his ignorance in suggesting that low energy light bulbs are incompatible with dimmer switches is simply untrue. Ryness, a London chain of electrical stores supplies them to order. Rigorous domestic energy economy requires thorough research - it should be a lot easier for us all including Ron West. This email is sent using power entirely sourced from photovoltaics - a century old technology Peter Cuming, LondonIt is a pleasure to see such a good case in your article "Stand by for some home truths about power consumption" (12 April 2007) made by using measurements, rather than opinion. Contrary to rumour "Standby" in well-designed electronic equipment uses very little power, as Ron West's measurements show. You can convince yourself by feeling how hot equipment gets. For example, feel the temperature of the underside of your laptop after it has been on standby overnight with how hot it gets when it has been in use for while. Unfortunately there are typos in the data "Base energy consumption of appliances left plugged in", although the histogram gives the correct ranking. The power consumption for all the devices in the picture between "28 inch TV (CRT) Stby" and 'Portable PC Stby' are a factor 10 too large (e.g. the last should read 0.024 not 0.24). The errors leave the reader confused, which is a shame because the main message is correct and an important message. Sadly, in a casual aside West commits a serious error: he writes "Energy saving bulbs . . . have all sorts of nasty metal and chemicals in them". The energy saving bulbs that he means are compact types of fluorescent lamp, which are typically 4 times more efficient than incandescent lamps of the same light output. Like all fluorescent lamps, they contain a quantity of mercury strictly limited by international standards - the high efficiency depends on the properties of mercury atoms. The industry has made huge progress in reducing the amount of mercury in all fluorescent lamps. Although mercury is toxic, fluorescent lamps are not the major source of it in the environment, and it can easily be recovered when the lamps are recycled. There is extensive research worldwide to avoid the use of mercury in energy saving lamps completely - but we are not there yet. The remaining" metals and chemicals" in the lamps, far from being "nasty" are of relatively little concern environmentally, but there is great benefit in recycling some of them because of their high cost. Unfortunately this throwaway comment on "Energy saving lamps" will be quoted on the internet by anyone intent on rubbishing this crucially important way to reduce the world's power consumption. This error also detracts from the point of West's important article. David Wharmby, IlkleyWell done Ron. I loved your article which gets down to the nitty gritty of the subject. Our Chancellor recently visited America and while there suggested that the elimination of items on standby would go a long way to solving global warming - what a lot of rubbish as you prove by your simple maths! What has puzzled me is why our learned societies have been so slow to correct the public's knowledge on this subject. I would like to raise one point which also appears to be missed by those dealing with this subject. All electrical energy entering a home by way of the incoming cable when used to perform any task will also manifest itself as heat. This heat is not wasted during the heating season as it helps to reduce the total energy requirement. It can be further argued that the electric energy is increasingly going to be produced from renewable means and in that sense is clean. If we are serious about economy then there are lots of other ways to cut down the country's fuel use where large amounts of power is used for shop window lighting, street lighting and unoccupied offices &amp; schools at night before we need to worry about our chargers and standby equipment. Not at present a Guardian reader who picked up Ron's article almost by accident on the Web, I must now purchase the Guardian! Maurice McIlwrick, EdinburghThanks to Ron West for a sensible and scientifically-based argument to counter the environmentalists' bandwagon on the "evils of standby". To support his case further, can I also point out, using a simple "conservation of energy" argument learned in school (at least it should be), that during the winter months every watt supposedly wasted as heat by light bulbs, standby circuits etc is in fact a watt NOT having to be produced by the heating system, assuming that the system is thermostatically controlled. It is only in the summer that this energy can really be regarded as "wasted" - and even then guilt could very easily be "carbon offset" by having a COLD shower? Peter Spall, WellingRon West has some good points in his article but "if you've got an open chimney that you don't use, stick an old cushion up it." is not one of them. Blocking an old chimney at the bottom is a proven way of getting damp problems, as flues need ventilation. And when a new occupant tries to start a fire, the forgotten cushion will provide excitement for all. And although a bath uses more energy than a shower, it can be used by two people in turn, making the bath almost equivalent. Of course, two close friends can share a shower at the same time, but this can prove such good fun that it tends to go on for longer than normal, leading to greater energy usage than that quoted. David Jones, KnutsfordCongratulations on highlighting points on standby power - and taking measurements which illustrate and inform and compare with energy usage generally. I am currently developing smart meters and can broadly agree with the terms of the article BUT the reason green activists get rightly annoyed about standby because of the proliferation of electronic appliances in the home - it would not be unusual to have upwards of 20 and even 40 devices plugged in permanently including several AV decoders taking up to 10 watt each plus several TVs - phone and other adaptors can be found in large numbers and collectively these take a huge amount of continuous power (try looking for the standby power on the back of large flat screen TVs) i use a rule of thumb that 1 watt costs about £1 per year, and on this basis it is highly cost effective to force manufacturers to reduce standby power, if not to eliminate it Freeview boxes are particularly poor because they need some time for the micro controller to settle at switch on and the makers want them to have an instant reaction - hence standby is nothing of the kind and devices are deceptive - i have a Sony micro hi-fi that has a 0.25W standby (v good) , and a Panasonic DAB radio has 1.3 watt (poor) - again i think this is because of a settling time issue with the digital hardware Please do not discourage people from using CF lamps - incandescents must be discarded asap - in fact dimmable CFL are available (see megaman and varilight) and are found in the US from Philips and GE - later this year many more will be available here (NB smart meters are the largest energy saving engineering project ever devised and will involve not just the metering side but a whole raft of policy measures to lower energy consumption using smart controls in the home - appliances can and must be made more energy efficient, even fridges) To give you some idea about what standby power means on a national scale, the figures in the table show a power use of about 1KWHr daily this is about £35 per household per year, or about £750 million a year, which is about 0.1 % of GDP in wasted electricity ( 20 million households) also, at 20 million households and taking into account transmission losses and operational matters, it takes the output of 2 large power stations to supply this amount of power nationally - if they are coal, this represents more than 10 million tons of atmospheric CO2 annually standby really does matter as this is not just a percentage game, and it is rising steeply leon di marco, FSK technology, londonRon West makes some interesting points about electrical and electronic devices on standby. Despite the irresponsible advice from Sky I have my Digibox switched off at the wall except when in use. However Ron is wrong about lights. In his charts lighting is not shown (why?) - a 60W bulb on 8 hours a day would be the 5th largest 'energy consuming domestic appliance' of 16 and a 100W light on all the time (2.4kWhr/day) would have been the 2nd largest, more than most freezers and more than a tumble dryer shown on for 50 minutes. The EU is absolutely right to phase out inefficient light bulbs - we can live without dimmers. Industry has been using fluorescent lighting almost exclusively for decades. Disposal and recycling are now well established. The 'nasty metals and chemicals' he refers to are managed much better- its the carbon dioxide we need to reduce! Rich Chandler, CaldicotThere's a lot of hype about how we must all change to low energy light bulbs. A little more thought is needed. First, the energy saving only applies to bulbs left on for a significant time. Some lights we turn on for just a minute or so when needed, eg landing lights. Fitting low energy bulbs in these cases would use more electricity, not less, because the start up current is high. Second, heat from incandescent bulbs is not all wasted heat. For seven months of the year it contributes to the house heating, and our boiler has to work a little bit less to maintain the same room temperature. This period is exactly when lights are used most. Third, no one is looking at the whole life cycle of the bulbs - the economic and environmental cost of electricity, energy used in manufacture of the bulbs, and environmental costs of disposal over say a ten year period for each light fitting. Fourth, I challenge the claimed light output of some new bulbs. I have yet to see the genuine equivalent of a traditional 100W bulb. Lastly, a practical point: many of the new bulbs simply won't fit in existing lampshades (eg the uplighters in our front room). Are we supposed to chuck out these lampshades and buy new ones, assuming suitable ones are available? How does this help the environment exactly (or our pockets)? Brian Light, ColchesterI feel you make a good point. As a keen switcher-offer I was almost swayed by your science, but I know, if some one told me I could only have a ten minute shower,I would feel Big Brother had arrived, may be the environmental lobby is hoping to make us aware of cumulative affects and the benefits of small changes or is simply hoping to raise awareness of a possibility. Wouldn't we all feel awful explaining to our grandchildren that we just didn't know? Damian (no post town given)FILE FORMATSWhy do you consistently deny the existence of the Ogg Vorbis audio encoding system. It is generally better than MP3, has no licensing or royalty issues, and is open source. The BBC has done some work with it so it is not as if nobody is aware of it. You consistently denigrate &amp; ignore open source despite IBM, &amp; various governments using it, as being for difficult to use &amp; then finally,today, you recommend it for Grannies. How do you square that one? Steve Downes (no post town given)Dear oh deary me. The anti-open pro-commercial software bias in 'Technology' just seems to get worse and worse - not that we expect much better from dear old stuck-in-the-20th-century, corporate junky and free-market ideologue Jackie S. Nevertheless, to run an article like this without even mentioning the Open/Free and entirely patent- free option of Ogg-Vorbis (superior to MP3) and Ogg-FLAC (lossless) plumbs new depths even for him! John Walters, Bexhill-on-SeaHave you guys ever heard of Ogg? John Wesley, Romsey, HampshireI read with interest, your recent article on the DRM &amp; format 'wars', and noticed a glaring omission, namely OGG Vorbis. OGG is a non-proprietary, open (as in Open Source) format that offers better quality compression, option for DRM, and works well across any platforms (like PNG for audio). The reason it has not received much of the hype, is because not many (mobile) device vendors support it, yet, but do increasingly so. Keep in mind that MP3 is also the only format that is truly supported over a wide range of platforms (whereas WMA mostly for windows, AAC for mac, OGG arguably for linux), but as mentioned, a fight might be brewing around MP3. Wired or The Register recently had an article along similar lines as yours, so might be worth to check it out to compare arguments. Mark Shuttleworth (Ubuntu Linux) also recently came out in support against DRM, so check that out too. Enough rants from an Open Source enthusiast Jaco van der Merwe (no post town given)I have read the article concerning 'music formats' and have found it to be generally informative. However, i do have a concern that the 'Ogg' container format wasn't even considered. This would have fitted into the article perfectly as it is comparable to MP3, but is a 'free codec' and so will not cost any royalties for use, Unlike MP3 and AAC. Dave Walker (no post town given)I just thought I'd say what an interesting read the article 'Finding the music format of the future' was. I was however wishing throughout the article that the author would be a good little techie and turn around at the end and say 'Let's all use OGGs', but with a bit more style and finesse. But, to my dismay, there wasn't even a mention for the format. To quote Wikipedia, since I'm unable to put it better myself, "Ogg is an open standard for a free container format for digital multimedia, unrestricted by software patents and designed for efficient streaming and manipulation." Thought this is probably a whole new article in itself, I do think it's interesting that there is a format out there that is completely open standard and a great quality file format - of which I use myself - yet companies are reluctant to use it because of the nature of the industry and the bitterness of business. Since Thomson, who control patent and licensing for MP3s, have claimed that OGGs are using their Thomson/Fraunhofer technology in the format, the use of OGGs in any major progression has been thwarted with Chris Montgomery, creator of Ogg, stating that "we still have lawyers tell us they won't support OGG because Thomson would come after them". Matt Cox, Manchester&gt;&gt; I have been reading about the demise of MP3 since 1997. True, the patent may prove too cumbersome for some companies, but I'm afraid that the issue is not one for the developers, it's one for the users. Consumers use Mp3, it's the standard format, therefore, it will continue to be used until they can convince millions of people to convert their music to other formats. http://technollama.blogspot.com/2007/04/will-patents-kill-mp3-format.htmlREAD ME FIRST: UBUNTUI'm a granny 14 times over. My teenage grandchildren keep me up-to-date and I can do all sorts of things on my computer. Your article may be sensible but it's also ageist. M Rogers (no post town given)"And even Windows 98, however much we despise it, is pretty foolproof against user incompetence." This is simply not true, and won't be shared by many people who unfondly remember/still use Windows 98. With enough vigilance, and the use of SFC after installing each application, Windows 98 can remain stable. But it is an inherently unstable and easily corrupted operating system - no system restore, no protected system files, spurious DLL overwrites ... Fools and non-fools - users are on their own with Win 98. Martin Latter, Littlehampton, West SussexI too think there's a good market opportunity to re-use the older systems. I wish I could recommend Xubuntu for a 64MB machine, but really it wants somewhat more memory to run at a usable speed. But its desktop is very close to the Granny Linux you are after. So far, the top three systems I've found for older machines are Damn Small Linux, Puppy Linux and Vector Linux. But none of them have quite the ease of use of Ubuntu/Xubuntu. If only someone had enough time to squeeze Xubuntu a bit more, using those three systems for ideas. Actually, I'm not even sure I'd give Granny email. Just run the browser with web-based email. Might do it myself one day... Andrew Yeomans, TringIf you compare the usefulness for Granny, why not rather choose Puppy linux or DSL or even Slax? Geert Vansintjan (no post town given)I welcomed Andrew Brown's article on "granny-friendly" desktops as I have exactly that problem with my mother. However when I went to the Xubuntu site it was not clear how this programme could be downloaded. So a cheer for the idea and a boo for raising (false?) expectations. Philip Rayner, Corsham, WiltsI find Andrew Brown's stereotyping, by using "granny", offensive. May I reply in kind? It's only to be expected that geeks who use PCs all the time won't understand people. I know this will draw furious letters from geeks who delight in knowing people but they are, I believe, a minority. Can I suggest replacing the word granny with "woman" or "black", or even "slaphead" to give some idea of the offence? Ok the last one's gratuitous but hey, at least I know that. Dave Stretch, Grange over Sands, CumbriaI'm utterly amazed by this article. For an institution I had long held to be a Microsoft apologist at best and a shill at worst, I'm really amazed to see a decent, unbiased article pointing out what we in the open-source community have known for a long time - "Windows is neither cheap nor easy to use"... Adam Trickett, Overton&gt;&gt; Although a Xubuntu based basic PC would be a good idea, our poor 'Granny' would still have to grapple with the telecoms people in order to get a broadband connection / router / password etc. The PC is only half the problem from my experience of speaking to frustrated old users.http://rayallenoxford.blogspot.com/2007/04/granny-pc.htmlKEEGAN ON BLOGGING &gt;&gt; An idea I've always really appreciated from McLuhan's The Medium Is The Massage is this one: 'When faced with a totally new situation, we tend always to attach ourselves to the objects, to the flavour of the most recent past. We look at the present through a rear-view mirror. We march backwards into the future.' There's been a lot about blogging in the media this week, and it seems to me that the writers and presenters in question are looking into that rear-view mirror - they're looking at the future, but they're seeing the past.http://mediahonours2007.blogspot.com/2007/04/blogging-as-seen-in-rear-view-mirror.html&gt;&gt; why can't "good" be enough? Why do these reports about one tool always want to make it the be all and end all of web tools? Blogs are not going to drown out mainstream media (sorry hyper-myths). Blogs are not going to change the world (yep. they can have moments of great impact - but, well).http://www.sumofmyparts.org/blog/?p=958&gt;&gt; I think the general consensus would be that blogs have not taken off the way that everyone thought they would, but that is not to say that they have not had a tremendous impact on society and technology. From a technological standpoint, it has become so easy to set up a blog these days, that it can be done in a matter of minutes. From a societal perspective, blogs have forced the traditional media outlets to rethink their strategy. Even more so, some blogs have replaced traditional media as the reliable source on that subject matter. Take a look at PerezHilton or TMZ, they have become the definitive source for Hollywood-related gossip. Perez has become so popular that he has parlayed his blog stardom into bit parts on TV shows, notable a guest appearance on Courtney Cox's show, Dirt.http://15meanings.com/2007/04/12/are-blogs-really-relevant/&gt;&gt; Most people don't blog so neither does the average Joe. But even a tiny percentage of people in a micro-niche of a market can make connections and interrelate in a meaningful and self-sustaining way. That tiny percentage when applied to a huge population perhaps spread over several continents can still amount to a sizeable audience.http://www.webpronews.com/blogtalk/2007/04/13/why-average-joes-doesnt-blog&gt;&gt; I'm surprised anyone is surprised. To most people, writing is a chore.http://blog.v7n.com/2007/04/13/daily-search-blog-roundup-april-13-2007/&gt;&gt; This is indeed what I find in the realm of young people's blogs - a significant number of blogs are slowly abandoned, and online interaction moves to Bebo. The true bloggers, who stay the distance? They write, and writing is not easy.http://rumblingstrips.blogspot.com/2007/04/more-you-read.html&gt;&gt; to anyone and everyone who does or might be tempted to agree with the point of this article: I look forward to your shutting down your blog since apparently there's no future there. The rest of us believe that blogging has power simply because we can do it. We can broadcast our thoughts into the world. The good ones will catch on, the bad ones will be ignored or shot down and eventually die.http://www.openthedialogue.com/2007/04/so_apparently_blogging_is_dead.html&gt;&gt; I've met more people online who now seem closer to me and more understanding of me than old college friends who I have known for more than 20 years. Blogging isn't over - it's just evolving and I find that very exciting.http://greengathering.blogspot.com/2007/04/blogging-is-crap-right.html&gt;&gt; The argument used to be that no one read blogs because all blog readers were too busy writing and hawking their own blogs. A growing non-writing reader base for blogs - any blogger will tell you this - is a gorgeous, gorgeous thing.http://onlinemediacultist.com/2007/04/12/blogging-is-not-a-minority-sport/&gt;&gt; The very people pushing the growth of the blogosphere are the people who have designed and contributed to its conception, with several notable "non-tech" leaders carving out a niches for themselves (Steve Rubel springs to mind). I strongly believe that the reason the blogosphere's growth is slowing is more to do with the perception that it is run by techies FOR techies.http://blendingthemix.com/2007/04/12/to-the-average-joe-blogs-arent-cutting-it/&gt;&gt; While there is still growth in the blogosphere, it is limited primarily to those within a certain demographic (high education and higher income). Let's face it, to the majority blogs are little more than a buzz word. I would be interested in seeing what percentage of consumers of blogs are also bloggers themselves. I would be willing to bet that the percentage is pretty high.http://www.thewebpreneur.com/2007/04/12/on-the-limits-of-blogging/&gt;&gt; While blogging is not everyone's outlet to internet publication, it does make sense for some people. I use this blog to formulate thoughts and to publish my opinions that are very relevant to a select group of people. My clients enjoy reading my blog and despite the fact it probably takes 10 to 15% of my time (and makes no money), I still do it.http://themediaage.com/?p=56&gt;&gt; To me blogging is not just protected under the First Amendment of the US Constitution, it is also an instance of the Second, the right of the people to keep and bear arms. When the justice system is corrupted by the executive, we have the right and responsibility to reform it, with words, and with actions,http://scripting.wordpress.com/2007/04/12/scripting-news-for-4122007/APPLE AND INSULINIf I was Kate Bevan, or a user any other piece of life-critical medical equipment, I would be much more concerned with the quality of the software inside the device than whether it had been "designed" (for which read "styled") in a fancy iPod-influenced way. The quality of much critical software is a disgrace and its methods of production largely unprofessional. I am not opposed to good user interfaces, nice colours and pretty shapes, but can we engineer the internals professionally as well please? Peter Amey, Bradford-on-Sea&gt;&gt; On the diabetes design front, we may have found the champion we seek in Stanford Postdoctoral Fellow Joel Goldsmith, previously with Medtronic's diabetes division, who says: "What's funny is that these [insulin pump] companies tend to think that people with diabetes are somehow not the same people as those buying iPods and Nintendos and Razor phones. Why would they feel any less strongly about design issues? If they have to live with these devices 24/7, why wouldn't they feel even stronger about it?"http://www.diabetesmine.com/2007/04/more_device_des.html&gt;&gt; My suggestion: Jobs should start with hearing aids. Humans already wear an enormous amount of well designed stuff around their ears - headbands, spectacles, jewelry - there's no reason a hearing aid needs to look so lousy. Perhaps the key is to start with a design that draws attention to itself, the same way mirrored shades draw attention to a person's eyes.http://www.brandweeknrx.com/2007/04/when_good_produ.htmlCANADA'S FREE MAPS&gt;&gt; I am also hoping that other Canadian department and agencies will follow as well. We need an alternative to the extremely expensive PCFRF file which Statistics Canada sells. For the needs of our community we only need the simple mapping from postal codes to electoral districts, something that would appear to fall within the mandate of Elections Canada which already freely distributes quite a bit of other interesting data.http://www.digital-copyright.ca/node/3876
The American banking heir Matthew Mellon paid a private detective agency to electronically spy on his estranged wife, Tamara, in the run-up to their acrimonious divorce, a court heard today.The multi-millionaire thought it "would be a good idea" to hack into Ms Mellon's computer and read her emails, it was claimed. It was said he allegedly believed his wife, the head of the Jimmy Choo footwear empire, might have information "he was not getting through the court process".Southwark crown court was told a Trojan virus was used to hack into Ms Mellon's computer and that her husband was one of a number of customers that used the London-based Active Investigation Services' Hackers Are Us to allegedly break the law.Opening what is expected to be a two-month case, Miranda Moore QC, prosecuting, said another illicit activity the firm indulged in was phone tapping."Hacking and arranging for hacking into people's computers and bugging people's telephones are both illegal in this country. The agency carried out bog standard or the usual work a detective agency does," said Ms Moore. "However, it had a number of very lucrative sidelines ... It is these activities that you are going to be concentrating on."Mr Mellon, 43, of Belgravia, central London, denies one count of conspiring to cause unauthorised modification of computer material between July 1 2004 and February 4 2005.In the dock with him is ex-policeman Scott Gelsthorpe, 32, from Kettering, Northamptonshire, who helped run the agency with former colleague Jeremy Young, 38.By Mr Gelsthorpe's side was David Carroll, 58, of Highgate, north London, who also played a role in running the agency; his computer expert son, Daniel Carroll, 36, from Westminster, central London, who headed his own company just above AIS's premises; and Maurice Kennedy, 58, of Barnet, north London, another customer accused of using the detective agency's illegal services.Mr Mellon's co-accused variously deny 15 counts of conspiracy alleging fraud, the unauthorised modification of computer material, the unlawful interception of computer material, and criminal damage."He [Mr Mellon] employed the services of AIS to snoop on his then wife Tamara during their divorce proceedings because he wanted information he was not getting through the court process. But it was not by tapping into her telephone, it was by hacking or trying to hack into her emails to see what was going on," Ms Moore told the court.AIS allegedly used a Trojan computer virus said to have been created by another IT specialist, American-based Marc Caron. It would be hidden inside an email and was designed to attack the target computer as soon as it was opened.One of them was sent to one-time It girl Ms Mellon. It "purported to show what her husband was up to," said Ms Moore."And, of course, she was interested in that. She would open that email, particularly if you were going through an acrimonious divorce. You open that email and at that point, in goes the Trojan, lodges itself, sits there quietly and does what it does best - which is record every keystroke that is made."If you had online banking, your account number and password would be logged. Every time, if you are logging on often enough, you can work out what the password is ... and you can go and look at the bank account. And that is exactly what happened."They didn't take any money. They didn't steal anything, but from time to time they had a little snoop on behalf of their clients. There was a general agreement that if clients wanted that sort of information, they would say we offer this service," Ms Moore added.The jury of five woman and seven men heard that a total of 30 people were arrested in connection with the police investigation into AIS's activities.Apart from the five currently on trial, some had been dealt with, others had admitted wrongdoing and were awaiting sentence, a number were still to stand trial while the remainder had been told they had escaped proceedings.Ms Moore said the AIS's illegal sidelines brought in tens of thousands of pounds from some clients. She told jurors that among the documents recovered by police during Operation Barbatus were details of some of their prices.It cost up to &#163;7,000-a-month to bug someone's phone or hack into their computer, and &#163;2,000 to obtain bank account details.The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.
At last week'sWomen in Gamesconference in Newport, Wales, I presented an overview of some of the analysis I've been doing with the data from theGame Developers Choice Awardsopen nomination process which theIGDAkindly gave me. I was curious about the cultural differences (and similarities) between the countries who voted when it came to what was perceived as worthy of gongs for Best Game, Game Design, Visual Arts, Innovation, Audio, Writing, Technology and Character Design, and whether there were any trends which emerged.Here's the presentation:Alsohere.It deals specifically with three categories - Best Design, Game Design and Visual Arts - because these were the ones which received the most nominations. And not surprisingly, the countries who were the most similar were also the ones who voted the most.First of all, it's important to remember that we're not dealing with a totally equally representative sample from each of the countries. The people who were able to vote had to be full IGDA members, and as an English-speaking organisation (albeit with head roads into non-English speaking countries), the folks who voted the most were from the USA (66%), followed by the UK (11%), followed by Canada (10%). So there's a greater likelihood that the other countries will appear to be more like these heavy hitters simply by the sheer number and variety of games which IGDA members from those countries nominated.But what is interesting is that, while there are some discrepancies, the games which had the most votes overall in these categories were often the same ones which the most countries voted for. Gosh, isn'tGears of Warpopular.So if so many countries voted for the same games, are there some countries who voted more like others? Indeedy there are.For example, nobody voted like Denmark or Hong Kong in the visual arts category, but almost everyone else voted like one another. The USA and Canada were most alike in this category, sharing six games that they thought were top banana. The US and Japan shared like for five. Meanwhile, Germany's voting population all liked games that the US liked.In the Best Game category, again the US and Canada were brothers (sisters?) banded together, with ten votes for the same games. The UK and the US were also pretty similar in their choices with nine nods to the same titles - 21% of the UK's total votes for Best Game. Not to be outdone by the Americans, the UK and Canada were also close allies, with eight title nominations common between them.Once again, in this category the US proved to be the benchmark for others' tastes (this is about the sheer number of votes they made, people. I'm not making any claims otherwise here); 100% of Switzerland's votes, 60% of Germany's votes and 50% of Japan's votes were games nominated by the IGDA members in the home of the brave.But leaving aside the behemoth country on the other side of the Atlantic a second (south of Canada's border obviously), there were another couple of interesting similarities which emerged here. France and Germany shared a mutual liking for several games; 80% of Germany's votes were also voted by the French, and Finland and The Netherlands were similar on several counts too.Finally, in the Game Design category, which I imagined would be a beacon of cultural trends, Canada and the US share nine common votes (45% of Canada's total), and the US and the UK share five (21% of the UK's total). Other alliances which emerged were the UK and the Netherlands (two games) and Japan and Finland (67% of Japan's total votes).More detail on the Visual Arts games which countries shared tomorrow.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
I've not tried it yet but, though it always makes me feel guilty when I power up the PS3 and see the icon, but Stanford University'sFolding@home Projecthas caught the imagination of a sizable number of PS3 owners. According to Vijay Pande, Folding@home program lead, the PS3 has helped "perform simulations in the first few weeks that would normally take us more than a year to calculate. We are now gearing up for new simulations that will continue our current studies of Alzheimer's and other diseases." A new update has also launched, boosting the calculation speed. And you can set it to run only when the PS3 is idle. Given the sorry state of the launch games it may be worth doing your bit now before the decent stuff starts arriving to monopolise your PS3's processor. So, is your PS3 contributing to Folding@home?
Tom Beaumont-Griffin is the founder ofMyFilms.co.uk,a new recommendation engine for moviegoers. I spoke to him about the site, its rather unconvential beginnings and what his hopes for the future are.How did MyFilms come into being?The place where we started with this project, its objective, was to be part of an increase in the viewing of specialist films. But people are already interested in good films, we just needed to tell them there was a broader range of films out there.And you're backed by public bodies?The funding comes from the National Lottery, it's a £3m award over three years. It sits alongside other key initiatives of the UK Film Council - such as the print advertising fund that allows smaller, non-mainstream distributors to supplement their advertising budgets, and the digital screen network that means by the summer 220 screens around the country will have digital projectors and hard disk film players, which means they will be able to show different films more easily.So obviously things are a little different than the traditional model where a technologist spots a market opportunity and gets venture capital to back it. Do you still view it as a startup?I started out in theatre at the Bristol Old Vic, and did that for 12 years before moving into marketing. Now my day job is at marketing agency Sledge, but MyFilms was an idea I had and I've had to view it as an entrepreneurial startup to get it going. We came as people from outside the industry, which means I can ask dumb questions and don't worry about looking stupid. For me, it's about energy and dynamism; if you're curious you can just flow through it.Is film really something people want another recommendation system for?When we started out research, it showed that people do want to talk about film a lot more. Film gives them a place to start a conversation. Another piece of research we did started to affirm a close correlation between personality and the types of film they like; it says something about them.In reality I'm trying to start a popular movement that says there's a better movie experience out there - by all means watch your Casino Royale or whatever, but you can add in a Pan's Labyrinth or City of God too.So how does your recommendation engine work?It's changing all the time, and the more users we get, the better the data. Of course you can start with the option for "other people who like that like this", but it's a pretty blunt instrument. Because we're not commercial I can take a purist approach: I'm actually viewing the recommendation engine as the mother of all focus groups.So what models are you following?One of the things I really like is Last.fm - the way it allows you to get involved with it. If anything, that was the inspiration, but obviously we're very different to them and it's going to evolve.Evolve in what way?I have an ambition to create the DNA of a film; if we can create a sophisticated understanding of people - they're much more complex, after all - then surely we can understand exactly what makes a film work. It all comes back to the fact that it's about people, their likes, dislikes and attitudes.Where else might it go?The content around film is so brilliant, but the marketing is so entrenched. Film has genius content, and you should be able to engage with it. I'm viewing this as the beginning of something that will continue for a long time.
Fred Anderson, the former chief finance officer at Apple who left rather abruptly when the stock options scandal blew up, has alleged that in January 2001 he warned Steve Jobs, the chief executive, that backdating options would have to be charged against its profits (which Apple didn't do) - and also that Jobs "misled" him about the board's approval for the options by saying it had approved them when it hadn't.According to the Wall Street Journal,Apple has acknowledged backdating options grants, and said Mr. Jobs helped select dates for some of the backdated grants. But the company has steadfastly contended that he isn't guilty of any wrongdoing, in part because he didn't "appreciate the accounting implications" of backdating options. The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday said it was taking no action against Apple itself because of its "extraordinary cooperation" in the agency's investigation.Anderson, who saw the company through some of its tightest financial times during the reign of Gil Amelio, has paid the US Securities and Exchange Commission $3.5m in a settlement of its charges without admission of guilt or wrongdoing.That leaves Nancy Heinen, formerly Apple's chief counsel, in the crosshairs of the SEC over her alleged part in backdating options and falsifying company records to conceal the fraud.The upshot? It's still a mess, but Steve Jobs is showing aTeflon coatthat, as Nancy Banks-Smith might say, would make Ronald Reagan whistle.The Wall Street Journal's "Perfect Payday" chart of who's been done over stock options doesn't seem to have been updated with the latest, but it can't be long.
You may haveread a couple of days agothat Rez-creator Tetsuya Mizuguchi (did I tell you about the time I went to an Australian restaurant in Tokyo with him?) might be working on an interactive environmental project with Al Gore. There has been a reaction of mild surprise at the thought of a videogame developer becoming involved in such a venture - but when you think about it, games are filled with environmentally-friendly concepts.Energy and item conservation are vital components of all combat games. In survival horror, no bullet is wasted, no herb squandered, while in RPGs the obsessive collection and management of weapons, potions and foodstuffs makes up a significant element of the in-game action. Plus, in most RPGs, we instinctively know never to wander into a discoloured cloud - it's bound to be poison gas. And with a predominantly elemental basis, magic in role-playing games is a symbol of natural order gone savagely awry. If you look at it in a certain way.First-person shooters are filled with ecologically sound features. Re-spawning is the ultimate in recycling after-all, while vehicles are continually re-purposed - dumped by one player, they'll usually be picked up by another to provide more useful service in the war effort. Battlefield 1942 even introduced the engineer character class able to repair knackered tanks and jeeps (we'll pass over the fact that engineers can also lay landmines...).And then, of course, there are strategy games. Sim City, with its great chunks of blackened empty land showed what happens when civil planning goes wrong. Civilization forces the player, throughout the game, to appreciate the development of a sustainable agricultural model. It also encourages players not to bomb enemy cities into submission, but rather to sneak in and spark a revolution - so much less waste. Resource management is a fundamental element of the RTS, requiring players to understand the delicate balances between nature and industrial ambition. And then we have Harvest Moon, perhaps the most explicitly environmental game of them all.Pollution has proved a useful videogame device in dozens of games. The SNES RPG Lagoon is based around a small town whose water supply is poisoned by an evil sorcerer. C&amp;C 3 takes place on a near-future earth polluted by the energy-rich substance, Tiberium. In Ratchet &amp; Clank, Emperor Drek is a galactic post-industrial imperialist, seeking to steal chunkc of other planets to save his own devastated homeworld. S.T.A.L.K.E.R, finally released last month, creates a futuristic distopia around the abandoned Chernobyl plant.Energy bars, limited ammo, limited lives... games are built around the eco-friendly concepts of recycling, repairing and re-using. When saddled with limited inventories, players often agonise over dropping valued weapons and supplies - nothing is wasted in games. Everything is there for a reason. We learn it quickly in the virtual world - quicker, let's face it, then we've ever realised it for real.
I've been remiss in blogging lately and for that I should be lashed by several of theFlying Spaghetti Monster'swet noodles. But before you get the pasta strainer out, hear my plea. I've been practising my oral presentation skills.Tonight I'm celebrating the social life of virtual worlds at theBrighton Girl Geek Dinner(completely oversubscribed, I'm afraid. And yes, that's my real hair), and you can see a similar presentation to tonight's overview atSlideShare, where the presentation I gave last Friday at theWomen in Games Conference, will soon be sharing its web-space. I'll be back on form tomorrow.
It seems like a long time since I wrote aboutThe Cloud's plans to roll out a Wi-Fi network across the entire City of London. It is: more than a year.This week, however,it's launched- and what's more, although normally it would set you back a few quid, Nokia has decided to sponsor the first month and offer it to everyone free.Note, though, that this isn't across the entire city of London - but across theCity: the Square Mile district chock-full of bankers, executives and other money makers.Still, assuming thatWi-Fi doesn't kill you(!), it's great news for the people living and working inside the Square Mile - unfortunately Guardian Towers sits just on the fringe of the zone, meaning I'll have to pop down the road to log on.
Those who believe we are not living through a dotcom bubble of some kind should have taken a look at my inbox last week, when a little missive dropped my way pushing something called "Blogger &amp; Podcaster Magazine".My first thought, on seeing the email, was that this had to be some kind of joke. The tagline ("For Aspiring New Media Titans") coloured me sceptical, and I wasn't the only one:Jason Kottkefelt the same way ("I thought it was a not-so-clever parody. I mean, look at that cover, it's just so over the top!").Turns out thatit's real. The first issue features cover boy pin-upRobert Scoble; commentary by Shel Israel; a roundtable with Dave Sifry, Chris Pirillo and Tim Bourquin; and a Q&amp;A with Leo Laporte.Now don't get me wrong - I'm not saying writing about blogging is completely stupid. God knows I do it enough; in our time we've been accused of devoting too much time and attention to blogging, and podcasting was a term coined on these very pages.But isn't having an entire paid-for print publication dedicated to new media titans, well, missing the point a bit? If you truly believed in the format, wouldn't you just have a website with, say, a series of blogs and podcasts?Jack adds: You can read the inaugural issue ofBlogger &amp; Podcaster online in a virtual page-turning edition.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Geek fuel at Hackday in Sunnyvale.PhotographbyMisocrazyFancy building something tremendous, useful or - well - a bit weird? Then Yahoo Hackday might be for you: the recent event in the US produced some mighty little hacks (see the blog) - and a performance by Beck.Now things are coming to Britain.HackDay UKis being put together by the Yahoo! Developer Network andBBC Backstage: It's on June 16 and 17 at Alexandra Palace in London.From the site:We'll be inviting 500 developers to attend the event, which will begin with hack-related presentations from some of the Web's most respected developers. We will then dive into 24 hours of hacking on a very nice collection of tools, APIs, and data, and end with awards from the sponsors plus bragging rights until the end of eternity or the next Hack Day, whichever comes first.Naturally, we plan to provide physical and mental sustenance throughout the weekend, culminating, we hope, with a performance from a surprise musical guest.Sounds intriguing - and you might see me there.
ZD Net's Ryan Naraine has a short but interestinginterview with Dino Dai Zovi, formerly of Matasano Security, who used a Safari browser insecurity tohack a MacBookvia a website at the recent CanSecWest conference in Vancouver, Canada. With his friend Shane Macaulay, he won $10,000 and the hacked MacBook. Key points:What can you divulge about this specific vulnerability?I have to be careful because this is still unpatched and ZDI [Tipping Point's Zero Day Initiative] owns the exclusive rights to all the information. The most I can say is that running Web browsers in hardened configuration would prevent this vulnerability from being exploited.Turn off all unnecessary browser features such as extra plug-ins, JavaScript and Java.There was very little user action involved. Once the browser opened to a Web page that the attacker controlled, it was game over.What took longer? Finding the vulnerability or writing the exploit?That's a good question. I think it was about the same. I remember calling Shane around 3:00 a.m. Eastern, saying that I have something that might be exploitable. That took about five hours. It took another four hours or so to write a reliable exploit that would work on a default Mac OS X installation. I got really lucky in this case. Sometimes you'll find something within an hour, and sometimes you can spend several days or several weeks looking and find nothing.
Ok, so now I feel old - the ZX Spectrum was launched 25 years ago this month. Ol' rubber keys was a huge hit in the UK. It was home to a pile of classic games - Manic Miner,Head over Heels- and was the computer that arguably created the UK games development industry. Yes, it lacked the graphical and (especially) audio prowess of the C64, but it did have charm. Andcolour clash. So, 25 years on - what are your memories of the Speccy?
