Francesco Caio, a former chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, shied away from recommending the break up of BT Group when he was advising the government three years ago, but now believes this may be one way to ensure Britain gets the broadband network it needs.Caio says the only truly future proof network is a point-to-point fibre infrastructure, with fibre-optic cables running not just to a street cabinet, but from each home all the way to the telephone or internet exchange.He says the ultimate goal of any national broadband strategy must be the permanent search for infinite bandwidth between any two points in the country, with upload speeds as fast as download speeds."This is not just for the fun of having videos on demand or Skype," he said."Bandwidth drives transaction costs down opening the field to smaller companies and individuals. This is not a technological gizmo. This is using technology for social inclusion. The destination is fibre everywhere."The copper telephone networks Europe relies on today were built by governments. Caio, who now heads the Italian aerospace group Avio, told a House of Lords inquiry into broadband recently that no single shareholder owned company is capable of undertaking alone the massive infrastructure project of replacing every copper wire with fibre.He recommends hiving off BT's network into a separate company in which all the major broadband resellers – including Sky, Virgin Media, TalkTalk and BT itself – could take a stake.This company, which could also be listed on the stock exchange, would be promised a monopoly in the areas where Virgin Media, the only other UK company to have built its own broadband network, did not wish to operate. In exchange, its prices would be regulated.Do you think the £29bn required to build an all fibre network would be a colossal waste of money? Can copper meet our needs for many years to come? Are there ways of encouraging BT to build more fibre without breaking the company up?Post your questions in advance, or come and join the debate between 11.45am and 12.45pm (BST) on Wednesday 16 May.
The servers supporting long-awaited role-playing game Diablo 3 went online on Monday night, but then promptly crashed under the sheer weight of global demand.Players found themselves unable to access the game, many repeatedly receiving the now notorious "error37" message, informing customers that their connection had failed.The hashtag #error37 immediately began trending on Twitter, attracting a mix of furious complaints and ironic comments. "Man, Diablo 3 is super hard. I've been playing for 30 minutes and haven't even defeated the login screen," tweeted one gamer.The dungeon exploration game is set to be one of the biggest releases of the year, and fans of the series have been waiting more than a decade for the latest instalment.However, in a controversial bid to combat piracy, the title requires players to log on to developer Blizzard's servers before they can enter the game – even if they only want to try the single-player offline campaign. This has created a bottleneck that the company's online infrastructure has so far struggled to cope with.In April, Blizzard "stress tested" the Diablo servers with an open beta,and reports indicated that error37s were cropping up at this stage, too.However, as Activision discovered with the stuttering global roll-out of its Call of Duty: Elite online service last year, controlled tests don't always prepare for the sheer weight of worldwide demand.In fact, Blizzardhad already warned gamers in its online Diablo 3 launch guidethat there might be delays with logging in on launch day.Blizzard has released the following statement: "Due to high concurrency the login servers are currently at full capacity. This may cause delays in the login process, account pages and web services. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause and thank you for your patience while this is being resolved."It is expected that, over the next 48 hours, as demand settles and the infrastructure is improved, the log in process will become much smoother.However, the situation will no doubt put the whole issue of online authentication back into the spotlight.
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:Burtynsky: OilThis lavish photographic app is the result of more than 10 years' photojournalism by Edward Burtynsky, who has travelled the world shooting images related to the oil industry. More than 100 photos are included, with audio commentary from Burtynsky himself, and video walkthroughs of his Oil exhibition.iPadOfficial Highway CodeClaiming to be "the ONLY OFFICIAL Highway Code app", this includes the complete Code contents, with a progress checker, quizzes and other tools to help you learn to be a safe driver.iPhoneBeck's ScanLager brand Beck's has a new promotional app that involves scanning physical game cards to find virtual coins, and entering a competition to win a trip to Germany.iPhoneHiragana Pixel Party"Learn to read Japanese while playing a super-mega-fun rhythm action game!" encourages this app's listing on the App Store. A clever and endearing idea.iPhone / iPadKotomonAnd while we're on fun App Store listings for Japanese apps: "Dancing! Monsters! Shooting! Action! What other game combines all of these things and more?" This is a music rhythm game with credibility, since it's the work of developers who previously had a hand in music games Rez and Lumines.iPhone / iPadTrouble MakersEA's latest freemium social game for iOS is Trouble Makers, which tasks you with building an "army of fully automated minions" in an underground lab, then putting them to work on inventions.iPhone / iPadHallo – Social Voice"Just like texting, but with your voice," apparently. This app involves sending sub-30-second voicemails to individuals and groups, and promises completely free usage, with no ads. A business model will presumably hove into view at some point.AndroidThe Singing AlphabetEven creative agencies are making apps for children nowadays. Well, Ministry of Letters is a division of agency Mother, and its The Singing Alphabet is a creative take on ABC apps, with letters that sing to help kids learn their alphabet.iPadUEFA Champions Festival MunichUEFA's official app for the Champions Festival around its Champions League final next weekend has made its debut on Android, with a guide to the four-day event and social features. I suspect it'll be out on other devices this week too.AndroidMagic Tate BallThis location-based app is the work of the Tate museum, working with digital agency Thought Den. It provides a lucky-dip approach to discovering artworks by the likes of Damien Hirst, Tracey Emin, Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse, picking the piece according to the user's current surroundings.iPhoneVisit StratfordIn time for the Olympic Games, there's an official Stratford tourism app, listing attractions, shops, bars and hotels, as well as transport info and a digital postcard feature.Android / iPhoneRage of BahamutDeNA's Mobage-branded Rage of Bahamut game made its Western debut on Android recently, but now it's on iPhone too. It's a trading-card game tapping into Facebook for its social features.iPhoneLast War World EditionGamevil's WWII-themed tactical RPG game makes its way onto iPhone, offering plenty of campaigns, troops and unlockable abilities and treasures.iPhoneAbricot – DiscoveryFrench magazine brand Abricot has been turned into a colourful kid-app by Chocolapps, with a mixture of storytelling and interactivity.iPhone / iPad
It's Tuesday and I'm off to see a developer. What are you up to?
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia's last stand: can the 147-year-old company design its way back? &gt;&gt; Wired UKLengthy writeup of where Nokia is at the moment. We would humbly submit that if you've read our interview with Marko Ahtisaari, and other Nokia coverage, you know most of this already. But read it and see what else you get.Apple OS "really vulnerable", claims Kaspersky Lab CTO (UPDATED) &gt;&gt; Computing News[Kaspersky CTO Nikolay] Grebennikov originally stated that Apple had invited Kaspersky Lab to work with the company on improving its security, but has since issued a clarification. The company has now said that its analysis of OS X was "conducted independently" but that "Apple is open to collaborating with [Kaspersky] regarding new OS X vulnerabilities."In Computing's original interview, Grebennikov was specifically asked three times if Apple had requested Kaspersky Lab's assistance.That hissing noise? The deflating sound from all the sites which had written "OMG APPLE GOES TO KASPERSKY FOR VIRUS HELP" stories. Not that Apple isn't facing a problem. But it's not going to Kaspersky for the solution.How Pixar almost lost Toy Story 2 to a bad backup &gt;&gt; TestedSimply scary. Hurrah for offsite backups.Microsoft Xbox plays more web video than iPhone, iPad, or Android &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThis is great. Knock yourselves out arguing over the interpretation of the pie chart, the mysterious absence of other devices (Wii, PS3?), the non-inclusion of "PC" devices... there's enough here for days of argument. (It also shows how misleading the phrase "more than" can be.)Sexism-in-tech: how to be an entitled prick &gt;&gt; Tom MorrisThink of this as a warmup for the next link. (Read it first though.)Dresscode: Blue tie and male &gt;&gt; ElektronistaSo here I am at Dell's huge and very professional summit with founder Michael Dell, top people from Microsoft and Intel, impressive power points, expensive commercials, matching polyester ties and all that jazz, and then the - by Dell chosen - moderator starts to rejoice the lack of women in the room. "The IT business is one of the last frontiers that manages to keep women out. The quota of women to men in your business is sound and healthy" he says. "What are you actually doing here?" he adds to the few women who are actually present in the room.This may be more complex than it looks. One commenter says that Mads Christensen, the compere, is a Danish comedian, and that his talk was actually ironic and in effect a reproach to the plethora of guys in the room. Others say that Christensen isn't - that he's just a jerk. Can anyone elucidate? (Dell laterapologised, but even there commenters are saying it's overblown and he was being ironic.)The $144,146,165 Button &gt;&gt; notes.unwieldyConrolling defaults in user interface design can make people very much more wealthy.Scholar: regulating Google results would violate First Amendment &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe new Google-commissioned paper, written by well-known UCLA law professor Eugene Volokh and attorney Donald Falk, argues that such regulations would be preempted by the First Amendment. Google's search engine, they write, "uses sophisticated computerized algorithms, but those algorithms themselves inherently incorporate the search engine company engineers' judgments about what material users are likely to find responsive to these queries."The authors argue that this selection process is no different, constitutionally speaking, from a newspaper editor selecting wire stories to run, a guidebook deciding which attractions to feature, or a parade organizer choosing which floats to include. The courts have ruled that all of these editorial processes are fully protected by the First Amendment.True, but misses the point. The FTC's beef is with Google cross-promoting products such as its Google shopping comparison, or maps, or video, in its search results. When Google doesn't have a competitor in a space, the other product appears highly in search results. As soon as Google has a product, the rival vanishes from useful search results. Using the monopoly (search) to demote others in a space is, arguably, abuse of monopoly power. Microsoft's promotion in the 1990s of Internet Explorer on Windows used its engineers' judgements about what material users would find useful in browsing the web, but that didn't stop it being an abuse of monopoly. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)The Android income statement &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:When playing with the assumptions, it becomes clear that the model is most sensitive to the revenue per device and total devices in use. The profitability is entirely dependent on those figures as variable costs are a percent of sales and fixed costs are limited by talent constraints.For example, if revenues per device drop to $4.50/yr then the operating margin drops to 38%.Now we can calculate some of the more interesting figures. For example:o Android OEMs receive $0.76 on average per device per yearo Android Operators receive $1.07 on average per device per year (including Play)o Android Developers, as a group, receive $1.94 per device per year (including Play and AdMob)o Google receives a contribution of $2.75 per device per year from AndroidAgain, these figures are very sensitive to the revenue per device (currently assumed to be $6.50).Dediu points out in an earlier post that it's strange how, given the unexpected (even by Google) number of Android devices in use, that the benefit hasn't shown up clearly in Google's revenues and profits. Is the company just hiding how good a business Android is, or is it not that good compared to desktop search?Fact-checking Digitimes, the Taiwanese Apple rumour source that keeps crying 'wolf!' &gt;&gt; TIME.comHarry McCracken digs into some of the (in some cases literally) fabulous stories emanating from Digitimes. How much should you believe it? You probably already know the answer, but it's worth seeing how it fares when he goes through a sample of 25 stories from the past two years.How Common Is Your Birthday? &gt;&gt; The Daily VizUS data only, presented as a heatmap, showing the most (and least) common days for a birthday. There's a strange gap in the data for July 4 and 5 which one has to assume is something to do with national holidays, since a similar one is found around Christmas. (Here's the original data.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Age:30.Appearance:All chin and hair gel.You forgot the mad staring eyes. Is he a psychopath?He's a successful businessman!That's not exactly a no.It was meant to be. Saverin is the former Harvard student who helped to launch Facebook.I thought that was Mark Zuckerthingy. You know, the billionaire who dresses like a teenager.Hence the words "helped to". Saverin was one of Facebook's four founders and used to be its chief financial officer.Used to be?He fell out with Zuckerberg over the size of his shareholding.Ooh, matron!He now owns just 4% of the company, versus the chairman's 28%. Even so, when Facebook is floated in a few days, his stake should be worth almost $4bn.Of which the taxman will take …Remarkably little. Having moved to Singapore in 2009, Saverin gave up his US citizenship last year. Entirely coicidentally, there is no capital gains tax in his new home.Isn't this a little shifty?Absolutely not! Just ask Mr Saverin's highly paid lawyers.Hm. So how is this entirely legitimate and honourable action playing with the American public?Not too well. It doesn't help that Saverin was born in Brazil and moved to the US as a child because his family were afraid of kidnappers. As the unfortunately named Tom Glasscock posted on Facebook: "He comes to this country, takes advantage of the opportunities we offer for advancement and achievement, hits the jackpot, and then bails. Wham bam, thank you ma'am …"It does sound as if someone's getting shafted. So what does Saverin do with his lolly?He invests it in firms with names such as Qwiki and Jumio.No, the interesting stuff.He showers models  with champagne while partying in St Tropez  and Miami.Seriously?According to certain tabloids. He definitely splashes it around more than Zuckerberg, who only bought his first property last year.I can't decide which one I admire more.Then let's just hate them both.Do say:"The rich are different from you and  me …"Don't say:"… they've got better accountants."
Apple is expected to unveil the iOS 6 software at its WWDC conference in June, and while proprietary maps, Siri APIs for developers and a revamped App Store have been rumoured, the exact details won't be known until the event.However, Apple is showing off some of the apps that it expects to be big summer hits on its iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices. The company's senior director of iPhone product marketing, Stan Ng, sat down with The Guardian this morning for an iOS update briefing.The choice of apps offers some clues about Apple's priorities for its platform, and how it's positioning iOS against competition from Android in particular.The figures are familiar from Apple's most recent quarterly financials call: more than 365m iOS devices shipped so far, more than 600,000 apps in its App Store, 25bn downloads so far and a current run-rate of 1bn a month.(Google, meanwhile, said in February that 300m Android devices had been activated, while in May it reported that its Google Play Store had passed the 15bn downloads milestone, also running at around 1bn a month.)Not-so-throwaway references to the lack of iOS malware, developers making money from paid apps, and OS fragmentation during the briefing also show where Apple is looking to pitch the battle for developer mindshare this summer. With WWDC coming just a couple of weeks before Google's own I/O developer event, expect more barbs ahead.Exclusivity on the riseNg and his colleagues showed me nine apps and one iBook during the briefing, although he had a number of meetings and the selection of apps may have varied from journalist to journalist – in other words, this isn'tthedefinitive list of the apps that Apple is showing off.All of them are iOS exclusives, for now at least. This seems to be where the battleground is heading between iOS and Android, as Apple ramps up its backing for apps that aren't available on other platforms.See also the three exclusive apps shown at theunveiling of the company's new iPadin March, and senior vice president of worldwide marketing Philip Schiller'spublic abandonment of Instagramwhen it "jumped the shark" by being ported to Android.But yes, the apps. Namco'sSky Gamblers: Air Supremacyis already out – and was one of those iPad-event demos – but its publisher is adding a party-play multiplayer mode designed to be used with iOS' AirPlay feature and a TV.I watched NG and two colleagues play from a mixture of iPads and iPhones, all wirelessly connected to an Apple TV set-top box, with the TV screen split between their views. Essentially the same thing that games consoles have been doing for years.That's important in itself, since it's a sign that developers are already looking at Apple TV as... Well, as a stealth console. The action was pretty jerky, but the feature is apparently still in development.I also got a closer look at Infinity Blade Dungeons from Epic Games' Chair Entertainment studio, which was also shown at the iPad launch. The version shown off today was running on an iPhone 4S, and while the bubbling lava and blowing leaves are nice in a processor-showing-off way, I was more impressed by the developers' decision to shun a virtual D-pad and buttons in favour of touchscreen gestures.Independent spotlightThe third game Apple talked up was a different kettle of fish:SpellTower, a word game by independent developer Zach Gage, who recently generated some canny social media buzz with a "Holy Crap, I'm Near the Top, This is Crazy! Help an Indie Take On Rovio+Zynga!"price-cut promotion.Singling out a game like this to show to journalists is telling, and not just because it showcases the more casual side of iOS gaming. With no shortage of games that have crashed and burned on the App Store, Apple is clearly aware of the need to keep the dream of iOS riches alive for the indie community.Armed with its featured slots on the App Store, I'll be interested to see if Apple turns SpellTower into the next Tiny Wings, in terms of a one-man success story.Also interesting from the demo: Ng's reminder of Apple's claim that the iPod touch is the best-selling handheld games device in the world. It's been easy to forget about the iPod touch in recent times – it hasn't been updated since September 2010.If it does get refreshed this summer (or more likely, Autumn), perhaps it will have even more of a focus on gaming, and a continued challenge to Sony's PS Vita and Nintendo's 3DS. That's my reading, rather than anything specific said by Ng, though.Book-apps and iBooksAlso shown this morning was a succession of reading/book apps, including two existing titles from Touch Press:Barefoot World AtlasandLeonardo da Vinci: Anatomy.There was also an iBook –George Harrison: Living in a Material Worldby the late Beatle's widow Olivia – showcasing its use of photos and audio alongside the text.I've heard from several book publishers lately that Apple is taking a pro-active approach when it comes to separating iBooks from iOS apps – those who are simply looking to add more photos, video and audio to a print text are being encouraged down the iBooks route, with apps left for those with grander interactive ambitions.The George Harrison iBook is a good example of the former, but another app demonstrated today – a still-in-development book-app called Star Academy from developer Monster Costume – illustrated the latter.No virtual page-turns here: instead it offers parallax-scrolling scenes, visuals from artist Dylan Cole (whose CV includes Avatar, Tron Legacy and Lord of the Rings) and the promise of games and puzzles.Ng offered up panoramic-photography appTourWristand polished city-guideCool Cities Collectionas current cutting-edge travel apps – both are already available – before donning a pair of Nike trainers to show off the sportswear firm's upcomingNike+ Trainingand Nike+ basketball apps.The trainers contain sensors to measure the movements of their wearer, transmitting the data wirelessly to the iPhone apps for interpretation. The apps also include workouts from famous athletes, while tying into the NikeFuel community – a bit like Xbox Live with less sitting on the sofa.The interface between apps and third-party hardware (or, indeed, leisurewear in this case) has plenty more mileage, and for now it's an area dominated by iOS. So-called appcessories may be plentiful at WWDC, or looking further ahead, at the CES consumer electronics show in January 2013.All eyes on WWDCIn summary, then: More developers and brands are shifting towards a dual iOS/Android publishing strategy in 2012. Grumbles about Android fragmentation and the appetite of its users for paid apps continue, but the platform's sheer scale is counterbalancing that, especially for certain app genres like freemium games and social apps.From today's admittedly-small selection of apps being talked up by Apple to journalists, my takeaway is that the company's strategy is a mixture of: doubling down on genres it's stronger in, like console-quality games, book-apps and appcessories; reminding developers of the promotion it can put behind iOS exclusives, and also highlighting some of those Android negatives.That said, June's conferences will give us a much better picture of how the next generation of iOS and Android software and stores will shape up for developers.
Rockstar knows how to do sleaze, that's for sure. From the Latino sex clubs of GTA III: Vice City to the rickety saloon bars and whore houses of Red Dead Redemption, this company has always reveled in the sights, smells and pleasures of the low life. And with Max Payne 3, the third part in a downbeat shooter franchise adopted from Finnish developer Remedy, it has crafted a masterpiece of underworld carnality, depravity and violence.As soon as the action kicks off, Dan and Sam Houser – the enigmatic siblings who run the Rockstar behemoth and steer its creative output – bring their obsession with genre cinema to the fore. Crammed into this story of a fallen cop seeking redemption as a bodyguard in the crime-ridden mega-city of Sao Paulo, there are snatches of Heat, Carlito's Way, Elite Squad and most obviously Man on Fire, Tony Scott's homage to bruised masculinity and doomed heroism.Indeed, Scott's entire ouvre is here; it's in the agonised self-loathing of the lead character, the brutality of the choreographed set pieces and the hallucinogenic lighting that floods every scene with woozy oranges and yellows. But here, this isn't just about style, it's about subjectivity. Payne is a drunken wreck, delirious with grief over the murder of his wife and daughter a decade ago. His battered state of mind is constantly communicated via a barrage of effects – from blurred, doubled graphics to saturated colours blooming over the screen like migraine flashes. It is a sustained conceit that, in less assured hands, could have become tiring and off-putting very quickly. Here, it's the most enthralling hangover you'll ever have.Because whatever else Max Payne 3 is, at its heart it's a blisteringly entertaining third-person shooter. Recruited as a private security contractor by an old police academy colleague, our hero is supposed to be looking after Rodrigo Branco and his brothers, a degenerate bunch of property magnates and party monsters, living the high life as the poverty piles up against their ultra secure apartment block. It all goes to hell when a street gang attempts to kidnap Rodrigo's trophy wife, and we're quickly drawn into a bloody war between drug runners, right-wing vigilantes and covert police forces who constantly clash and collude amid the squalor.This is a breathless hair-trigger blast-'em-up that veers thrillingly between high-class clubs and low-life strip joints, from million-dollar yachts to the tumbling corrugated iron shacks of the nightmarish favelas. Through 14 chapters, the memorable set-piece encounters pile on top of each other; a messy hostage exchange in a football stadium; a tense escape from a crowded bus station, a jail break that makes Oz look like Prisoner Cell Block H. It is relentless, pulverising stuff.The key to the game is the pitch perfect control system. A customisable auto-targetting system lets players select between hard or soft auto systems, the latter subtly guiding your reticule rather than aggressively yanking it toward specific enemies. Both are smart, seamless and intuitive, allowing newcomers to acclimatise to the turbo-charged pace. There's also a free aim system for veterans, happy to do their own thing with the rather sensitive cross hairs.Manoeuvering within the environment is super slick too. Hitting "X" gets you into cover from which you can easily target enemies, or blind shoot for a more cautious spray-and-pray approach. Disengaging just takes another tap on "X", while pressing "A" gets you to roll out of cover, allowing Max to speedily traverse an environment without providing too much of a target. Eventually, you start reading locations in micro-seconds, working out how to strafe the floor plan from object to object; enjoying the feel of it. You know you're in good hands when merely getting in to cover feels fun and expressive.At the core however are bullet time and shootdodge; the twin engines in Payne's brutal, hyper-stylised combat machine. Essentially, they're tweaked updates on the standard recipe – get kills to fill the meter, then press right analogue to go into slow-mo bullet mode, allowing our anti-hero to take out multiple targets while the enemies are still getting their bearings.These have always been the signature components of the Payne experience, but here, within a series of hugely complex environments, and powered by Natural Motion's advanced character animation physics, they lead to moments of absolutely thrilling action, which perfectly blend the interactive and the cinematic. There's a possibility it ought not be this utterly satisfying to dive headfirst down a stairwell, firing twin Uzis at a roomful of coke-frazzled gang members, but you feel it every single time. Even when you crash into a table (I've done this a lot), or accidentally leap off the side of a boat (this too). We have been promised an interactive tribute to those balletic John Woo sequences for years, and now we have it.Unlike most Rockstar titles, Max Payne 3 is an entirely linear experience – there is some room to explore certain sections, but we're locked into a narrative corridor and rocketing toward a single inescapable conclusion. While that's hugely restrictive compared to the open worlds of GTA and Red Dead, it has also allowed Rockstar to sharpen its narrative skills – the labrynthine plot, while hardly revolutionary, is involving and carefully delivered, and there are several engaging little side-stories, from unrequited love affairs to the tragic tale of a much-loved local footballer who fails to escape the violence of the favela. Together with snatched news reports and plenty of discoverable clues, these add some depth to the chaotic through-line, and give us sense of this vast, corrupt universe operating just out of Max's field of vision.Holding all this together is James McCaffrey's masterful performance as Max. His gruffly delivered mental monologue is a world-weary, Picaresque diatribe – part-classic Noir voice-over, part-raging suicide note. There's plenty of pitch dark humour in there, of course, but the over-riding subtext of loss and hopelessness is Rockstar at its indulgent, nihilistic best.On top of the 10-hour(ish) campaign, there's an arcade mode, split into two options: Score Attack gets you to re-attempt any chapter you like for the highest score possible, adding multipliers to consecutive or stylish hits; New York Minute is all about finishing missions as quickly as possible, earning extra time from kills. Both have global high score tables, but players can also compare scores against their friends, which should keep competitive Payne fanatics amused from sometime.And of course, there's a diverse selection of multiplayer modes, combining team and solo-based favourites with a bunch of typical Rockstar twists. Payne Killer, for example, puts two players into the roles of Max and his academy cohort Passos – they've just got to survive as long as possible with every other player after them; if one gets killed, the successful assassin takes on the role. This is, of course, all about the fleeting allegiances that flare up between players in the buddy roles, as well as those chasing them, and it's a neat take on the familiar one-against-all mode.The highlight however is the epic Gang Wars option, which takes elements from the story mode and sows them into a multi-stage team-based face-off, split into a series of different challenges, from conquest-type territorial skirmishes to tense battles with no respawns and bomb levels where one team plants and the other has to diffuse.There are other cool plays on familiar conventions. Players can select from a range of "Bursts" limited special moves that work like Kill Streak rewards to alter the conditions in your favour. The most amusing is Paranoia, which marks out all the members of an opposing team as enemies to each other, resulting in a frenzied few minutes of accidental team kills. Screams of "don't shoot me, it's just paranoia!" will ring out around the globe.The one question mark is over the use of bullet time throughout multiplayer, which only effects other players in your sightline. It can be a little confusing and capricious, though with time, may prove a workable USP in a crowded market.Max Payne 3, then, is another stylish, self-conscious and enthrallingly full-bloodied title from the Rockstar hivemind. If it is at all possible to distil every great Hollywood action flick into one interactive experience – with all the wise-cracking thuggery and anti-hero angst that would entail – this is it.But Max Payne 3 is no mere tribute to action cinema. There's a chance it points toward a future in which action movies aren't merely copied by games, they are replaced.
Yahoo's ex-chief executive Scott Thompson,who quit on Sundayas Yahoo sought to defuse a row over allegations Thompson lied on his CV, has reportedly been diagnosed with thyroid cancer.After a board meeting on Sunday morning, the company announced that Thompson, who has led the embattled web giant for less than six months, would be replaced by Ross Levinsohn with immediate effect.Thompson's decision to step down from Yahoo was in part influenced by his cancer diagnosis,reports the Wall Street Journal. But his resignation had seemed inevitable amid demands by Daniel Loeb, an activist shareholder whose firm, Third Point, owns a 5.8% stake in the company.Yahoo did not immediately return calls from the Guardian.Thompson's diagnosis had reportedly been made even as the board was investigating why the his academic record had erroneously included a computer science degree – a falsehood that appears on Yahoo's regulatory filing.Over the weekend, Yahoosaid it would appointseveral new board members including Third Point's Loeb, the person who had had spotted Thompson's misstated academic record in a Yahoo regulatory filing in April.Yahoo also announced that Roy Bostock, Yahoo's chairman, would leave and be replaced by Fred Amoroso, a veteran technology executive."The board is pleased to announce these changes and the settlement with Third Point, and is confident that they will serve the best interests of our shareholders," Amoroso said in a statement on Sunday night.Despite a massive online presence, Yahoo has been struggling to keep up with Google and Facebook. Yahoo's share of overall US online ad revenues, which reached 15.7% in 2009, declined to just 9.5% last year, according to eMarketer.Yahoo shares rose 1.7% after Sunday's announcement."Investors are likely to take comfort in fresh leadership, particularly at the board level, as eight of the 11 board seats were named in the past year," wrote Evercore Partners analyst Ken Sena in a note.Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter said that the management changes were necessary, even though he worried that Yahoo would essentially start from scratch again with its strategy."As a practical matter, what this means for the company is that the past four months have been little more than a false start, and it must once again start at the beginning in terms of establishing a strategic direction," Schachter said in a research not.Analysts welcomed Levinsohn's appointment because of his history in media and advertising sales. Schachter said he may be "auditioning to take on this role on a permanent basis.""We view Mr Levinsohn as well-equipped to lead the organization and to build off of the company's core strengths – advertising products and digital media," said Credit Suisse analyst Spencer Wang.However, even with Levinsohn at the helm, Schachter said that Yahoo's future is uncertain: "The bottom line is that the situation at Yahoo is a mess."
In the aftermath of the Sopa fight, as top Eurocrats are declaring the imminent demise of Acta, as the Trans-Pacific Partnership begins to founder, as the German Pirate party takes seats in a third German regional election, it's worth taking stock of "nerd politics" and see where we've been and where we're headed.Since the earliest days of the information wars, people who care about freedom and technology have struggled with two ideological traps: nerd determinism and nerd fatalism. Both are dangerously attractive to people who love technology.In "nerd determinism," technologists dismiss dangerous and stupid political, legal and regulatory proposals on the grounds that they are technologically infeasible. Geeks who care about privacy dismiss broad wiretapping laws, easy lawful interception standards, and other networked surveillance on the grounds thatthey themselvescan evade this surveillance. For example, US and EU police agencies demand that network carriers include backdoors for criminal investigations, and geeks snort derisively and say that none of that will work on smart people who use good cryptography in their email and web sessions.But, while it's true that geeks can get around this sort of thing – and other bad network policies, such as network-level censorship, or vendor locks on our tablets, phones, consoles, and computers – this isn't enough to protect us, let alone the world. It doesn't matter how good your email provider is, or how secure your messages are, if 95% of the people you correspond with use a free webmail service with a lawful interception backdoor, and if none of those people can figure out how to use crypto, then nearly all your email will be within reach of spooks and control-freaks and cops on fishing expeditions.What's more, things that aren't legal don't attract monetary investment. In the UK, where it's legal to unlock your mobile phone, you can just walk into shops all over town and get your handset unlocked while you wait. When this was illegal in the US (it's marginally legal at the moment), only people who could navigate difficult-to-follow online instructions could unlock their phones. No merchant would pay to staff a phone-unlocking role at the corner shop (my dry-cleaner has someone sitting behind a card-table who'll unlock any phone you bring him for a fiver). Without customers, the people who make phone-unlocking tools will only polish them to the point where they're functional for their creators. The kind of polish that marks the difference between a tool and a product is often driven by investment, markets and commercialism.That's not to say that some dedicated hacker won't polish the hell out of a semi-legal or illegal tool for the sheer satisfaction of a job well done, but those heavily polished gems are the exceptions. Leave aside the self-interest geeks should have in good technology rules – the fact that you, personally, can't start a business based on supplying the tools your less-savvy neighbours can use. Without self-revealing, easy-to-use tools, the benefits of technology are only extended to technologists. If you want a world where only the clued-in get to reap the benefits of technology, you are a technocrat, not a geek. What's more, as you age, and your ability to stay current on technical subjects is eroded, you will become a serf along with your poor neighbours."Nerd fatalism" is the cynical counterpart of "nerd determinism." Nerd fatalists hold that the geeky way of doing things – the famed "rough consensus and running code" – and have an ideological purity that can't be matched by the old-time notions of deliberation, constitutionalism, and politics. These things are inherently corrupt and corrupting. If you move to Whitehall to defend technology, in a few years, you will be indistinguishable from any other Whitehall wonk, just another corrupted suit who sells out his ideals for realpolitik.It's true that politics has internal logic, and that habitual participants in politics are apt to adopt the view that politics is "the art of the possible" and no fit place for ideals. But there's an important truth about politics and law: even if you don't take an interest in them, it doesn't follow that they won't take an interest inyou.So we can design clever, decentralised systems such as BitTorrent all day long, systems that appear to have no convenient entity to sue or arrest or legislate against. But if our inventions rattle enough cages and threaten enough bottom lines, the law will come hunting for them. The law will seek out arbitrary victims – think of how Sopa set out to prohibit hardening DNS against fraud and phishing because it would be convenient to use fake DNS entries to stop people from reaching The Pirate Bay. When it does, technology can't save them. The only defence against a legal attack is the law. If you don't have an organised body for someone else to sue, it means that there will be no organised body to mount a defence in court, either.If people who understand technology don't claim positions that defend the positive uses of technology, if we don't operate within the realm of traditional power and politics, if we don't speak out for the rights of our technically unsophisticated friends and neighbours, then we will also be lost. Technology lets us organise and work together in new ways, and to build new kinds of institutions and groups, but these will always be in the wider world, not above it.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 12 May 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)PC (7)22 (4)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)93 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (33)Wii (8)3DS (3)334 (2)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)35 (5)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (31)PC (7)106 (6)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (42)77 (7)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)68 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (67)3DS (33)249 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (34)PC (12)2910 (15)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)PC (2)2411 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (40)PC (8)Wii (3)2712 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (33)PC (18)2713 (13)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (3)2514 (14)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (49)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (16)3DS (5)1915 (11)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)1916 (16)The Witcher 2: Assassins (18+)Xbox 360 (96)PC (4)417 (–)Starhawk(16+)PS3 (100)118 (–)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (93)PSP (7)1019 (17)SSX (3+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)1120 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)17UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
There are a couple of obvious correlations between Starhawk, Lightbox's brand new space western third-person shooter on the PS3, and Warhawk, Incognito's online warzone for Sony's console back in 2007.Both put a premium on fast-paced, arcade style third-person-shooter action involving land and air vehicles. Both were also developed by roughly the same group of people; when Incognito folded in 2009, a lot of its staff formed Lightbox.Another, perhaps less obvious influence on Starhawk is Tim Schafer's 2009 love letter to heavy metal, Brutal Legend. Aside from the open-world, vehicle-based exploration element, DoubleFine attempted to blend third-person battler mechanics with a real-time strategy element, which yielded mixed results at the time.Starhawk's marriage of TPS and RTS is far better implemented. The game's shooter mechanics will be familiar to anyone who has played a TPS in the last decade. The RTS element – or "Build 'n Battle" as it's tagged here – works an absolute treat. Players hit the triangle button to open a menu and then use a thumbstick to select the structure of their choice. Said structure then rockets onto the battlefield and constructs itself within seconds.The only niggling concern players need bear in mind is whether or not they have the right amount of currency – represented in the game as Rift Energy (RE) – to buy said structure. If they don't, they simply need to find some enemies and shoot the hell out of them. You know, like you would in any shooter.That isn't to say that Starhawk is run-of-the-mill. Its multiplayer is a bright, brilliant, chaotic jewel. Players who rack up a decent kill rate – or remain nearby their team's Rift Energy Extractor (picture an oil well producing bright globs of energy) – can call in fortresses in short order.They can order up interlocking walls, bunkers filled with machine guns and rocket launchers and watchtowers that offer sniper rifles. They can call down AI turrets to blast opposing ground troops or beam lasers to strafe enemies who attack from the air.They can even call in platforms that produce friendly troops, speeder bikes, jetpacks, jeeps with rear gun turrets, tanks and – best of all – the game's signature vehicle, the Hawk, a two-footed mech that transforms into a starfighter at the touch of a button.Up to 32 people can take part in Starhawk's online battles, which offer a decent selection of maps and some fairly standard match types – Capture The Flag , Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Zones. On top of that, the menus offer players a whole host of online options including avatar customisation, a match editor, news updates, leaderboards, event calendars, clan news and more.A huge chunk of Starhawk's interface is taken up by multiplayer options, so it's pretty clear that Lightbox is placing its online fragfests front and centre as the lifeblood of its shooter. On top of the competitive shooter aspect, Starhawk also boasts a co-op mode in which players have to defend a base against increasingly heavier armed waves of oncoming foes.It's true that the co-op is a riff on Gears Of Wars' Horde mode, but Starhawk lends it a rambunctious charm and it remains heaps of fun to play throughout.This focus on the multiplayer unfortunately has a detrimental affect on Starhawk's single-player campaign, which feels quite undercooked in the story department. In it, players are told that the discovery of a new power source, Rift Energy, prompted an intergalactic gold rush of sorts, with prospectors hurrying off to stake their claims to RE on distant planets. There's a catch: overexposure to RE turns humans into blood-crazed savages, called Outcasts, who attack prospectors on sight.Players take on the role of a bloke named Emmett, who works as a Rift Salvager, protecting prospectors and their claims. Emmett has also been slightly mutated by his exposure to RE, but the player gains no special abilities from this arrangement. Rather it seems to exist solely as a plot device aimed at making Emmett and his snarky workmate Cutter seem more like loners in a lawless galaxy.Given how tantalising the space western set up for the game's campaign is, it's quite disappointing how little Lightbox does with it in terms of the plot. Indeed, as the story unfolds over a six- to eight-hour stretch, it doesn't contain a single development that will come as any surprise to players.Furthermore, Emmett proves to be a tiresome character to spend too much time with; he's too stoic, too dour and not much fun to be around. Cutter, his partner, is far better company and his sarcastic, witty asides are one of the single-player mode's highlights.While its plot may be undernourished, the campaign does contain a series of worthy action set pieces, and really, it's not a bad way to spend an afternoon. But the single-player's main purpose seems aimed at familiarising players with Starhawk's mechanics before setting them loose in the game's online battleground, which, as has been mentioned, is where its true longevity lies.If you're a shooter fan looking for a break from the norm and you can look past the undernourished single-player campaign, Starhawk is certainly worth picking up.• Game reviewed on PS3
Ernest Kaye, who has died aged 89, was the last surviving member of the original design team that built the Lyons Electronic Office (Leo), the world's first business computer. In 1949, he responded to an advertisement for electronic engineers and, much to his surprise, discovered that the job on offer was with the Lyons teashops and catering company, which had decided that the future of business data processing lay in adapting the newly emerging computers from their technical and scientific orientation to the world of business.Intrigued by the challenge, Kaye joined Lyons and applied his experience in circuit design to the Leo. At a celebration last November at the Science Museum marking the 60th anniversary of the first commercial job to run live on Leo – a bakeries valuation and a world first – he commented that he had never worked harder in his life and was designing circuit boards till they came out of his ears.The team, led byJohn Pinkerton, took the basic Edsac (Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator) machine developed at Cambridge University and adapted it to run a whole range of business applications, propelling Lyons into computer manufacturing and sales, and for a decade or more it led the field against allcomers, IBM included. With Pinkerton and Ernest Lenaerts, Kaye published a series of articles in Electronic Engineering in 1954 that won them the Radio Industry Council's award for the year's best technical writing.Kaye stayed with the Leo project through several mergers, showing that his managerial talents went well beyond design engineering. His range of skill was recognised by the next company he joined, the large American concern, Control Data Corporation, first as UK marketing manager and then as service manager in the UK. He attended many reunions of the Leo Computers Society and had intended to come to the reunion held the day after he died. He was interviewed for the BBC TV series The 1952 Show screened on 30 March this year, reminiscing about his early years with Leo.He was born in London, the son of Dinah (née Hoffman) and Simon Kamenetzky, who had both migrated as children from eastern Europe at the time of the pogroms in 1905. They subsequently changed the family name to Kaye. Ernest showed a prodigious musical talent from an early age and won all the music prizes at his school, Kilburn grammar, and it was his love and passion for music which was to play, for him, the most important part throughout his life.He studied the piano with Harry Isaacs, achieving his performer's LRAM (Licentiate of the Royal Academy of Music) with honours. One of his first songs, a poignant setting of Shakespeare's Come Away, Death written when he was only 17, was published in 1949 by Oxford University Press, which  went on to publish sets of his piano pieces for children and, later in his life, much of his liturgical music written for the West London Synagogue. In the early 1950s he supplemented his income by giving piano lessons and composing music for jingles and children's television programmes for the newly formed ITV.But he was a man of many parts. From grammar school he went to Imperial College London, gaining his BSc in engineering and then moving into government scientific research at the GEC Research Laboratories, working on the design of electro-mechanical relay technology for homing torpedoes. It was with Leo that he made his mark.In 1970 he left the world of computers to run the family props hire business, Lewis &amp; Kaye, which his father, an antique silver dealer, had started. Lewis &amp; Kaye (now part of the Farley Group) provided props for television, films, advertisers and others, specialising in silver, glass, china and jewellery – everything from Upstairs Downstairs to Harry Potter. He ran the business for more than 30 years and did not retire until 2004.In 1947 Kaye married Marianne Zeisl, a young refugee from Vienna – they met in the arena of the Proms the year before – and together they had three children, Charles and twins Tony and Nina. They all survive him, along with  six grandchildren.• Ernest Joseph Kaye, computer engineer, born 20 June 1922; died 21 April 2012
A selection of 21 new and notable apps for you today:Nokia ReadingNokia has launched its own e-books store and reader app for Windows Phone. It's launching now in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and Spain, through the Nokia Collection sub-store in Windows Phone Marketplace. The store includes paid and free e-books, with audiobook and an RSS-feed feature to come.Windows PhonePopSci InteractiveMagazine publisher Bonnier has a new iOS app for its Popular Science magazine, tying in with its June "Invention Awards" issue. This year's crop of innovative inventors have been interviewed, and the videos can be watched in this app. Well, they can if you point it at the print issue. Yes, more media augmented reality in action.iPhone / iPadMonopoly zAPPed EditionHasbro appears to be giving some of its classic board games a new app-related twist. This is a companion app for the latest version of Monopoly, acting as the banker, while also getting players to play mini-games when they pick a Chance or Community Chest card. It appears to be US-only for now.iPhoneMachinariumBeautiful adventure game Machinarium made a splash when released on iOS, but now Android devices are getting in on the steampunk fun. It sees a robot called Josef solving his way through hand-drawn puzzles.AndroidLinkedInBusiness-focused social network LinkedIn has launched a native Windows Phone app, optimised for Microsoft's Metro user interface. Browse contacts, check out what groups are up to, and suspect people of looking for a new job whenever they add you. That last one may be just me, mind.Windows PhoneUniqlo Wake UpIt seems everything can be social nowadays, even alarm clocks. Billed as a "social alarm app", this wakes you up with music that's "automatically created based on the weather, time, and day of the week". And then the idea is that rather than swear and hit a snooze button, instead you hit a button to share the details of your awakening on Facebook and Twitter.Android / iPhoneHollywood Reporter: Cannes Film FestivalGearing up for the 2012 Festival de Cannes? Industry magazine The Hollywood Reporter wants to be your guide, with an iPad app offering news, reviews and videos, as well as a guide to what's on during the event, and those all-important party photos.iPadMy NHSMicrosoft's free NHS app provides access to information about NHS services and information, tapping into the company's HealthVault service to provide access to your NHS-approved records. No weblink, but it should be available in Windows Phone Marketplace on smartphones.Windows PhoneCollins Big Cat: Playing Story CreatorThis is the latest creative book-app for kids from HarperCollins – the sixth in its Big Cat series. Here, the story focuses on different places to play, and as before, children get to make their own stories using the pictures, characters and vocabulary too.iPadTurntable.fmAnother US-only app – blame music licensing reasons this time – is the Android version of Turntable.fm. The social music service gets people to spin songs for one another as DJ avatars in virtual chat-rooms. The Android release follows last year's well-received iPhone version.AndroidMini Motor RacingThe familiar genre of remote-control car-racing gets a reboot on Android with this game from The Binary Mill, with upgradeable cars, a four-player Wi-Fi mode and a tie-in with Fruit Ninja for branded tracks and motors.AndroidLunar RacerMore Android racing here, although the twist this time is that the action takes place in Space. It's the work of Noodlecake Studios, which previously made the popular Super Stickman Golf.AndroidNurofen for ChildrenTo be honest, with my children, it's more likely to be me needing the Nurofen, etc etc. This is a branded app blending pain-relief promotion with tracking for feeds, nappies, sleeps and vaccinations. Oh, and a picture-book feature to store photos of your nippers – dosed up or not.iPhoneBulmersWhat often comes before a need for Nurofen? Cider. Well, it does in my case. And here's an official app from cider brand Bulmers which lets you "see for yourself how to pour the perfect pint of Bulmers through the magic of augmented reality".iPhone / iPadTime MobileTime Magazine has also launched an app for Windows Phone, offering news, opinion and analysis from its bloggers, as well as photo galleries and list features.Windows PhoneNATO NewsLooking for your North Atlantic Treaty Organisation news fix? On an iPad? You're the target audience for this official NATO app. The news comes in a mixture of text and videos.iPadPride and Prejudice: Hidden AnthologiesSorry for the predictability of what follows. It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a novel in possession of a good amount of bonnets and seething class tensions must be in want of a hidden-object adventure game for iOS. Possibly. This is from Europress, following the plot of the book.iPhone / iPadMad Wig OutYou could think of this as SillyWigBooth, except branded. It's the work of DreamWorks Animation to promote its Madagascar 3 film. Slap a virtual wig from the Zooster characters onto your face, then share on social networks.iPhone / iPadM Music &amp; MusiciansM is the official magazine for songwriters and musicians from collecting society PRS for Music. Now it's available on iPhone and iPad, using Apple's Newsstand for an annual subscription.iPhone / iPadLeonardo: Dream InventorIt's a big year for the Leonardo da Vinci legacy, with the London exhibition of his anatomical notebooks and drawings. But now there's a separate book-app for children on Android that focuses on Leonardo's dreams of flying, too.AndroidAmazon:Hidden ExpeditionIt's a very good week for Android gamers already, and it's only Monday. Big Fish Games has brought its Amazonian hidden-objects game to Google devices, promising plenty of secrets to uncover.Android
In a desperate search for cash to tide it over until sales ramp up of new products, Nokia is stepping up its quest for royalties from rivals that it says infringe its patents in their technology.Last week it filedcases relating to 45 patents in the US and Germanyagainst HTC, Viewsonic and BlackBerry maker RIM.Nokia already earns €500m (£401m) annually from patent royalties in key areas of mobile telephony from a number of companies – including Apple, which last year was forced to admit defeat after a series of legal skirmishes and signed a contract worth millions every quarter for the use of Nokia patents in its iPhone and iPad.Some analysts reckon a more determined application of Nokia's patent rights could boost its income by hundreds more millions of euros a year – a badly needed source of income at a time when its core mobile phone business is losing money while it shifts its top-end smartphone portfolio from its Symbian operating system to Microsoft's Windows Phone. Alternatively, a sale of parts of that patent portfolio could generate billions of euros.Either way, at a time when its future is being threatened by falling sales and a loss of market share, Nokia's patents have emerged as the company's most valuable and stable assets. Their full exploitation could be crucial for its longer-term survival."They should be doing this. The only questions is: why did they wait so long?" said Alexander Poltorak, chief executive of patent consultancy General Patent.Nokia has already served a warning to newcomers in the mobile industry with whom it doesn't yet have licensing agreements, saying it aimed to boost its royalty revenue.HTC and Viewsonic both use Google's Android software; Nokia claims they infringe its mobile technology and software patents.For HTC, the latest lawsuits mean its business is coming under increased legal pressure. It already pays a levy to Microsoft on its Android devices, after the software company sued it over software patents it owns in the US.Apple is also suing it over similar claims in the US, seeking an import ban on some products. And now Nokia has weighed in.HTC saw its profits drop precipitously in the more recent quarter as sales in the US fell off.Others using Android are likely to be among the next targeted by Nokia. Analysts say it's likely soon to go after top Chinese and Indian vendors, as well as Amazon, whose Kindle Fire uses a version of Android."I would expect its next targets to include ZTE, Huawei and Micromax," said analyst Tero Kuittinen at Finnish mobile firm Alekstra.Nokia declined to comment on other possible targets, but spokesman Mark Durrant said in an email: "It's clear from last week's press release about actions against HTC, RIM and Viewsonic that we are taking new steps, moving beyond essential patents to other patents for which we have no obligation to license at all."Durrant explained to the Guardian that of the 45 patents, four are deemed "standards essential", for which it is obliged to license them under Frand (fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory) terms.All four are being deployed against Viewsonic in German court. "Viewsonic has so far refused to discuss licensing with us, which left is with no choice but to file suit," Durrant said.The other 41 are "implementation patents" – proprietary innovations which have not been deemed essential to any standard, and which Nokia is not obliged to license."This is why we have flagged this as a next step for us," Durrant said. "Our activity to date has been primarily focused on licensing our essential patents and we have around 40 licensees for them (and of course, we also have licensees to standards essential patents from many other companies)."These actions are primarily around implementation patents, which represent the majority of the patents in our portfolio (we have around 10,000 patent families, of which only around 1,200 have been declared as essential to one or more patents)."ZTE, Huawei, Micromax and Amazon were not immediately available for comment.The reasons for the more aggressive stance are not hard to find. Sales of Nokia's new Lumia phones have not compensated for diving sales of legacy products as the group loses out to smartphone offerings from the likes of Apple Inc, and analysts have said its cash reserves of €4.9 bn are likely to dwindle.Both Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch Ratings have recently cut their credit ratings on Nokia to "junk" status.Turning the tablesNokia's position as a patent powerhouse, ranking along with Qualcomm and Ericsson as a holder of the largest patent portfolios in the industry, goes back more than 20 years.In 1989, Motorola forced it to pay more than $10m to settle a patent infringement claim, one reason Nokia has ensured that the €45bn invested since then in mobile research and development has been as well protected by patents as possible.Before that, the then conglomerate making everything from rubber boots to televisions had famously protected more innovations at its toilet paper business than at its cellphone unit.So how much are Nokia's patents worth? One pointer is that after a legal battle against Apple in 2009-2011, Nokia gets royalties from each iPhone sold.Nokia also has the successful example of its partner Microsoft, which has signed up 10 vendors – including HTC and Samsung – to pay licensing fees for their Android devices. HTC is paying Microsoft an estimated $5 royalty for each Android phone it sells.A similar fee for its stronger wireless patent portfolio could give Nokia $800m this year alone if it signed up just half of Android makers, although in reality such an amount is unlikely since Nokia already has cross-licensing deals with some of them.Motorola's price: $750,000 per patentGoogle's planned $12.5bn acquisition of Motorola Mobility, which is now only awaiting final approval from the Chinese authorities, underlined the value of intellectual property in the fast-changing telecoms world, where established players are seeking to keep out newer rivals.The search giant is seen by many analysts as paying a high premium to patch over its lack of intellectual property in the wireless arena.But the deal doesn't mean Nokia can't go after Google suppliers, as patents the Finnish company licensed to Motorola itself are not transferable to others even in an acquisition. Also, such agreements typically only last between five and 10 years, although details of the 2010 deal aren't public.Another example of the value of patents came last July when a group of six firms including Apple, Research In Motion and Ericsson paid $4.5bn for 6,000 patents of bankrupt Nortel Networks, in the largest public sale of its kind. The price was about three times what the sale had been expected to raise.The auction, in which the group fended off Google, pushed the value of a single patent or patent family to $750,000 – a price tag which would value Nokia's 10,000 patents at $7.5bn or roughly $2 a share.(Google moved to acquire Motorola Mobility immediately after losing that, and was forced to bid significantly above its opening price to close the deal.)Yet even that could undervalue Nokia's assets. Google is paying even more for a patent in its acquisition of Motorola Mobility, whose strong intellectual property portfolio offers an entry ticket to the wireless industry.Analysts at Bernstein Research said this is the maximum value Nokia could fetch for its patents, if it splits managing portfolio to a separate company and boosts royalty-revenues three-fold.A more likely if conservative valuation would be €0.5 per share, still a big chunk of Nokia's share price of €2.47 late on Friday.So far Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop has said there were no plans for a sale, a stance that industry experts said made sense given its success in earlier patent litigation.Poltorak said: "You only get about 10% through a sale, compared with enforcing the patent. Nokia can make much more money enforcing the patents."• The byline on this article was amended on 15 October 2012 from "Charles Arthur and Reuters" to "Staff and agencies" in line with our guidelines.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFOSS Patents: Judge holds Google to infringe 8 more Java files &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents was first to publish 6 of themFlorian Müller:On Friday afternoon by local time, Judge William Alsup, the federal judge presiding over the Oracle v. Google lawsuit in the Northern District of California, entered a judgment as a matter of law (JMOL) overruling the jury (as well as Google's opposition to an Oracle motion for JMOL) with respect to eight decompiled Java files.Müller had originally said - in January 2011, 15 months ago - that 6 of those files were copied from Java into Android, and hence must be infringing. Turns out he was right (at least if you think the judge is right. And the judge is, well, a judge.)Groklaw - Google Files for SJ on Copyright Damages; Oracle: Could We Wait and Get a New Jury Instead? ~pjSo Oracle has now filed a motion asking for a postponement of phase three of the trial, the damages phase. It would like a new jury, too. It wants to wait to calculate damages until after the judge decides whether APIs are copyrightable, so it can add the 37 API files into the mix for damages, if they are. Maybe then it would have a prayer of getting some money.In short, Oracle woke up and realized it's in a pickle of its own making. It was too clever by half, and now reality has struck. It clearly is worried that if they go to the damages phase now, it will gain a big fat zero in damages. It should have thought of that before it asked for infringer's profits, but there you are.The problem with Groklaw's analyses is that it imputes motives that just don't exist, and acts as though Google's lawyers are geniuses, and Oracle's are idiots. Given that Oracle's lead attorney is David Boies, who prosecuted the Microsoft antitrust trial in 1998, you'd think its writers would be more conflicted. Apparently not.The head of Google News on the future of news &gt;&gt; MIT Center for Civic MediaRichard [Gringras, head of news at Google] doesn't believe the vertical model of a newspaper makes sense going forward. He compares the metropolitan newspapers' all-things to all-people product to content portals for specific communities. This strategy doesn't make sense given the possibilities. Yahoo!'s initial success was as a portal. But portals have disappeared online as consumers have learned to navigate the web on their own and found the niche sites they love.Paywalls are not a panacea. Richard's not against experimentation with paywall models. The New York Times was smart, he says, in designing its paywall with many levers to adjust revenue vs. traffic flow. It's not there yet, but they can experiment and find what works. He appreciates those who are looking at paywalls in a more nuanced way. Some publishers say, "They bought it before, they'll buy it again," or "We need to get people back into the habit of paying for news." But consumers never did pay the true costs.Gringras essentially goes around giving much the same talk. This doesn't make it wrong.Can Dell's open source XPS Ultrabook steal Apple's thunder? &gt;&gt; ForbesBy "Trefis contributor":Dell has announced a six-month, open source pilot program aimed at creating an ultrabook suited specifically for web and mobile developers. The Macbook Air and other OSX based machines have become the development environment of choice for a lot of web and mobile developers recently most likely due to software such as iLife, iMovie and other design tools.Sure, what developers really want is to be able to organise their photos and cut little films. Dell's efforts here are praiseworthy, but iLife and iMovie really aren't the reason why the Macbook Air has succeeded with developers. Try: lightness and SSD.Linus Torvalds v Github's Pull Request: &gt;&gt; GithubThe king of Linux vents on how rubbish Github is (for writing OS kernels, presumably). Fascinating to see it play out.Will Apple's maps move bring a real and perhaps better Google Maps to iOS? &gt;&gt; MarketinglandGreg Sterling, making a lot of sense about why Apple's maps product on iOS is so much worse than Google's on Android, despite having the same back-end supplier:Here's a bit of conspiracy theory: What if Apple wanted to replace Google Maps from a very early point and the company was biding its time until it could acquire and build the core assets and expertise to do so? Maybe that early point was when former CEO Steve Jobs' attitude toward Google changed, when he began to feel that Android was "a stolen product"?To continue with my conjecture, maybe Apple thought it would be harder to wean iPhone users off a stronger Google-powered mapping product than the comparatively weak one that exists today. I know this seems very contrary to Apple's culture and corporate ethos. Yet replacing a weaker product with a stronger one is a lot easier than taking away a strong product from users who've come to depend on it.Also, Google could then offer its own Google Maps app. Win-win.Amnesty International UK website was compromised to serve Gh0st RAT &gt;&gt; Security LabsBetween May 8 and 9, 2012, the Websense® ThreatSeeker® Network detected that the Amnesty International United Kingdom website was compromised. The website was apparently injected with malicious code for these 2 days. During that time, website users risked having sensitive data stolen and perhaps infecting other users in their network. However, the website owners rectified this issue after we advised them about the injection. In early 2009, we discovered this same site was compromised, and in 2010, we reported another injection of an Amnesty International website, this time the Hong Kong site.Take note.Adobe CS6 Installer: Continuing a proud tradition of user hostility &gt;&gt; BetalogueEntertaining, though not as bad as in the past. One point that always resonates:One day, maybe, an Adobe engineer will understand that, when the user has to go through a length installation process, the best approach is to let him enter all the required information (password, serial number, etc.) right away, and then -- and only then -- go through all the lengthy processes that are of no interest to him without asking for any user input, so that he can switch to something else and, you know, actually make valuable use of his time.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hope you all had a fine weekend – especially those of you who support a certain Manchester-based football team. But did you get any gaming done amid the drama?
As the furore swirled around Scott Thompson a few days ago, the previous Yahoo chief executive, Carol Bartz, told some of the media: "You know, I actually do have a computer science degree."Bartz was fired last September, to her fury, over the phone&nbsp;by chairman Roy Bostock – a move that&nbsp;left the company rudderless.Now it looks as though the steering wheel has broken, too. Thompson, hired from PayPal to reinvigorate the business, has been forced out over an error in his CV – which wrongly claimed he has a computer science degree. ("He should say he's leaving to go and get one," suggested one wag on Twitter.)Yahoo is in a mess. Worse than that, it has entered what analysts call the "death spiral" – where revenues fall, so costs, including staff, are cut, which causes revenues to fall, and so on.Thompson, who started in January, was initially praised by Wall Street for his first round of cuts – removing 2,000 jobs (from a headcount of around 14,000) in order to save $375m per year, saying that it was "an important next step toward a bold, new Yahoo – smaller, nimbler, more profitable and better equipped to innovate."Fine. Nice idea, although note it doesn't actually generate any new revenue. Now see if you can answer this question, which is essential for Yahoo to be able to grow, and jump out of the death spiral. It's one the next full-time (and fully-vetted) CEO should be able to answer really well.It's this: what is Yahoo for?Thompson never said. I asked it of Bartzwhen she visited London in April 2010. All the famously straight-talking Bartz had was a rambling answer about personalised offerings.Yahoo's problem is that since the advent of Google, and then Twitter and Facebook, it hasn't had a unique selling point. The upstarts all do search, and fast-breaking news, and what your friends are up to. (Ignore that Yahoo was offered Google's technology by Larry Page and Sergey Brin back in 1997, and that it tried to buy Facebook for $1bn.)Nobody knows what Yahoo is for, or what makes it special. Even its Flickr photo-hosting site is smaller than Facebook's, and Google+ is starting to draw photographers away.And being unable to define what your company really stands for, while its advertising revenue base gets eaten away by those newcomers, means that Yahoo has the most existential of problems. Nobody knows why it's still there; it is kicking out its staff; it can't expand its revenues.Perhaps a new CEO will come in and figure out a fabulously profitable new niche to exploit. (With luck, it won't be suing rivals such as Facebook over software patents – a tactic Thompson tried, and one that made Yahoo a Silicon Valley pariah.)But the likelier tale is that it's going to dwindle.The Yahoo CEO's job is a poisoned chalice. Thompson's fate proves it. Expect the executive search to take much longer this time.
Yahoo's chief executive Scott Thompson quit on Sunday as the struggling web giant sought to defuse a row over an allegedly fake computer science degree on his CV.After a board meeting  on Sunday morning, the company announced that Thompson, who has led the internet services firm for less than six months, would be replaced by Ross Levinsohn with immediate effect.Levinsohn is a former News Corp executive who presided over the Murdoch-controlled media firm's ultimately disastrous purchase of Myspace in 2005.Yahoo said Roy Bostock, the company's chairman, would also leave and be replaced by Fred Amoroso, a veteran technology executive.Thompson has been under pressure since activist shareholder Daniel Loeb of the hedge fund Third Point claimed that Thompson had misrepresented his degree.Thompson was brought in from PayPal, the online payment firm where he was president, in January. His arrival followed the controversial ousting of Carol Bartz, Yahoo's previous chief executive, who claimed the company had "fucked her over" after she failed to turn the struggling internet service firm round.But less than six months later it was revealed that Thompson's resumé claimed he had obtained a bachelor's degree in computer science and accounting from Stonehill College in Easton, Massachusetts. The college subsequently confirmed that he had achieved only the accounting degree.Thompson reportedly blamed the error on a head-hunting firm, Heidrick &amp; Struggles, which had worked on Yahoo's search for a chief executive officer. But the firm said that was verifiably not true.A special committee was established earlier this month to review the situation. Yahoo's board had been due to meet on Sunday to discuss its findings and other changes.Third Point, a hedge fund that owns 5.8% of the firm's shares, had wanted to install its own choice of directors at Yahoo and had pushed for Amoroso to join the board of directors. Loeb and several other executives close to Third Point will now also join Yahoo's board. The firm has agreed to halt its fight."The board is pleased to announce these changes and the settlement with Third Point, and is confident that they will serve the best interests of our shareholders," Amoroso said in a statement on Sunday night.Despite a massive online presence, Yahoo has been struggling for years to keep up with Google and Facebook. Yahoo's share of overall US online ad revenues, which reached 15.7% in 2009, declined to just 9.5% last year, according to eMarketer.While the online advertising market is expected to grow 23.3% to $39.5bn this year, Yahoo's share of revenues will fall further to 7.4%, eMarketer estimates.The departure of Thompson and Bostock is a victory for Third Point. Loeb said: "We are confident this board will benefit from shareholder representation, and we are committed to working with new leadership to unlock Yahoo's significant potential and value."Yahoo owns significant Asian assets, including a stake in Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce business, but has struggled to reach an agreement on a sale. Thompson was reportedly close to a partial sale of the Alibaba holding shortly before his plans were derailed by the allegations about his qualification.Yahoo bought the 40% stake in Alibaba for $1bn in 2005 and its holding is now estimated to be worth $16bn. But successive managements have failed to reach any agreement on a sale.Last month, Thompson announced a round of layoffs at Yahoo, totalling 2,000 jobs, about 14% of the total. It was the sixth round of job cuts in the past four years for the beleaguered company.Bartz, too, had sought to revive Yahoo's fortunes by cutting costs. She replaced Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang, who had returned to the company as chief executive in 2007 and in 2008 rejected a $44.6bn offer from Microsoft. Last week, Yahoo was valued at $18.51bn.
Yahoo's embattled chief executive Scott Thompson is on the verge of quitting, according to reports.Thompson, who has led the internet firm for less than six months, has been under pressure since it was revealed his resume included a fake computer science degree. The discovery was made by activist shareholder Daniel Loeb of Third Point.According to All Things D, the tech blog that is part of the Wall Street Journal, the company is preparing to say that Thompson is leaving "for personal reasons".His most likely replacement is Ross Levinsohn, who most recently ran Yahoo's Americas unit.A special committee was established earlier this month to review the fiasco. Yahoo's board was due to meet Sunday to discuss its findings and other changes that are taking place at the troubled internet firm.The company was not immediately available for comment.His departure would be a major victory for Third Point, a hedge fund that owns 5.8% of the firm's shares. Third Point wants to install its own choice of directors at Yahoo.After the resume controversy was revealed, Third Point issued a statement saying Thompson's incorrect claim "undermines his credibility as a technology expert and reflects poorly on the character of the CEO who has been tasked with leading Yahoo at this critical juncture".Thompson joined in January and had been the boss of PayPal, eBay's online payment firm. He took over after the controversial ousting of Carol Bartz, Yahoo's previous CEO.After failing to turn around struggling Yahoo, Bartz was ignominiously ousted last September and subsequently claimed that the company "fucked her over".Thompson announced a massive round of layoffs last month, announcing 2,000 jobs would be lost at the firm, about 14% of the total.It was the sixth round of job cuts in the past four years for the beleaguered company.
Why is it that when you ask Siri "what's the best cellphone ever?" (or "best mobile phone ever" or "best smartphone ever") that it responds with "the Nokia Lumia 900"?Quite simple: because Siri hands the query (being non-weather-related) off to the Wolfram Alpha search engine, which pulls its data in from Best Buy, where the Nokia Lumia 900 had a total of five - count them - favourable reviews.Here, go and have a look: "best cellphone ever", "best mobile phone ever", "best smartphone ever".In each there's a link: "user rating: 5 out of 5 (based on 4 reviews)".Where does WolframAlpha get its data for mobile phone recommendations? Best Buy.Unfortunately even that isn't accurate. If you look atthe page that that links to, it says that it has a rating of 4.4 out of 5, from 11 reviews. So Wolfram Alpha isn't quite keeping a live feed on this.But… if you look at it, thelatest reviewsdate from 11 April - which is when this all blew up. Be suspicious of those reviews. The earliest ones are more trustworthy, but even those might not be as believable as you might want.The next up? TheLG Tracfone- a $19.99 phone (this comes up whether you ask for a "smartphone", "mobile phone" or "cellphone". WolframAlpha says it's 5/5 - based on 1 review.But no, eventhatisn't right. There aretwo reviews, of which one is a 5-star (yay!) posted on 16 March and the other is a 1-star posted on… 11 May. Ah, the same day that this Siri thing came up. So that's probably not a "real" review.Whatever - it's a nice meme, but it doesn't bear fact-checking.Kudos for pointing all this out goes to MG Siegler, whopoints out how difficult it is to swim upstream through the memeto get back to the original source:After a series of never-ending clicks, I believe I was able to trace this "story" back to its roots. Dalrymple linked toAppleInsider, which links toTheNextWeb(hi Robin!), which links toZUnited, which links toWMPoweruser.So - a fun story, not entirely supported by the facts.(Revel in it anyway. Here's the photo, in small form, from WMPoweruser.)Siri recommending the Nokia Lumia 900 as the answer to 'best cellphone ever'. And now you know how the magic works.But it does tell us a couple of things.First: some people getveryworked up about what smartphone they're using. (See how people are trying to game the reviews more recently to push the rankings down.)Second: expect to see more of this kind of thing as people probe WolframAlpha to see what answer gives for "best X ever" that doesn't offer an Apple product ("best MP3 player ever" isn't going to fit the bill, but "best computer ever" will!)Third: savvy marketing people are going to start gaming reviews like this to push their phones up rankings. Actually, you'd expect this is happening already, wouldn't you?Fourth: hope that WolframAlpha to have a rethink about whether trying to answer "best X ever" is much use. Or whether BestBuy's customer reviews section is actually the place to ask.Update:in the comments, @MarcoPoloMint puts the problem that this illustrates beautifully:What there is... is a rather worrying tendency for 'intelligent search' to default to rather silly, subjective and easily manipulable review sites (Best Buy? The US equivalent of Dixons). It shows the weakness in the chain. It's worrying because voice input + intelligent search is increasingly going to be the future of human computer interaction (smartphones, now Kinect with Internet Explorer, maybe the new Apple iTV...). So these kinks and weaknesses should be sorted out now.That's it exactly. When you search for "best" anything - on sites such as Amazon, Yelp, Google, anywhere that offers a rating - you have to be aware of whether the results come from (a) a representative sample (how many Lumia reviews do you need for it to be robust? How many for a restaurant review?) (b) actual buyers (or is it marketing people stuffing the reviews?). Boiling questions down to one-line answers carries risks that are far more subtle than whether we get a laugh from Siri's responses. The question is whether we're aware of them.
You know the problem: the dishwasher that has cleaned your dishes faithfully for 15 years suddenly stops working. You call out a repairman who identifies the problem: the filter unit has finally given up the ghost. "Ah," you say, much relieved, "can you fit a new one?" At which point the chap shakes his head sorrowfully. No can do, he explains. The company that made the machine was taken over years ago by another outfit and they no longer supply spares for your ancient machine.Up until now, this story would have had a predictable ending in which you sorrowfully junked your trusty dishwasher and bought a new one. But there's an emerging technology that could change that. It's called three-dimensional printing.Eh? Surely printing is intrinsically a two-dimensional process, involving the squirting of coloured dyes on to flat sheets of paper? And indeed it is, so perhaps the use of the word "printing" in 3D printing is a bit naughty – which is why men in suits tends to call it "additive manufacturing". But there is still a strong metaphorical correspondence between the 2D and 3D processes. In the former, we take an electronic representation of a document on a computer screen and output a replica of that on to paper; in the latter, we take a three-dimensional computer model of something and use printing-like technology to create a three-dimensional version of it in plastic or other materials.It works like this: a designer uses computer-assisted design software to create a three-dimensional model of an object. Another program then "slices" the model into thin sections and instructs the "printer" to lay down an exact replica of the section in plastic (or other types of) granules which are then fused to become a solid layer. The process is repeated, slice by slice, until the entire object has been made.What comes irresistibly to mind the first time one sees a 3D printer in action is Arthur C Clarke'sfamous observationthat "any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic". You're sitting there watching the machine busily going about its business and then, suddenly, there's a complex, fully functional object with moving parts – for example theroller-bearingsthat are an essential component in every thing that runs on wheels. And then you realise that this is not a technology for making toys and garden gnomes, but something that could transform manufacturing.Why? Because up until now, manufacturing has been dominated by economies of scale. The upfront costs of "tooling up" to manufacture anything – whether it's roller bearings or automobiles – using conventional materials and assembly methods are huge, so you have to stamp out many thousands of identical products in order to get the price of each one down to a reasonable level. But with 3D printing, the tooling-up costs are much less – essentially consisting of the costs of building the computer model of the product. And since it's easy to tweak a computer model – it's just software, after all – small production runs suddenly become economic. So the technology could enable a shift from the mass production bequeathed to us by Henry Ford to what some people call "mass customisation".The disruptive significance of this has yet to dawn on many governments and corporations.  But some observers – for example writers for that great cheerleader of capitalism, theEconomist– are trying to attract their attention by dubbing digital-driven manufacturing the"third Industrial Revolution". "Digital technology has already rocked the media and retailing industries," says theEconomist, "just as cotton mills crushed hand looms and the Model T put farriers out of work. Many people will look at the factories of the future and shudder. They will not be full of grimy machines manned by men in oily overalls. Many will be squeaky clean – and almost deserted...  Most jobs will not be on the factory floor but in the offices nearby, which will be full of designers, engineers, IT specialists, logistics experts, marketing staff and other professionals. The manufacturing jobs of the future will require more skills. Many dull, repetitive tasks will become obsolete: you no longer need riveters when a product has no rivets."Quite so. There's just one fly in this techno-Utopian ointment. Just suppose theEconomistis right – that digital manufacturing really does wipe out the low-level manufacturing jobs currently provided, here and overseas, by older technology. What then happens to the hundreds of millions of people who will have no employment (not everyone can become "designers, engineers, IT specialists, logistics experts", after all), and who, incidentally, will not have the disposable income to purchase the wonderful products created by digital manufacturing? 3D printing may indeed be indistinguishable from magic; but it could turn out to be of the blacker variety.
Price  £81,242MPG  29.7Top speed 188mphIt struck a bittersweet chord that the week I found myself behind the wheel of the new 911 Carrera S –  a car that can lay reasonable claim to being the most complete sportscar the world has ever seen – was the same week Ferdinand "Butzi" Porsche died. He was the engineer who, while still in his 20s, sketched the classic shape of the 911 – a double bubble of elegance and functionality that has remained unchanged for 45 years.Porsche drivers often get it in the neck for being mindless morons – and yes, true to form, in my week in&nbsp;the 911, two fellow road users felt&nbsp;compelled to jerk their clenched fist at me in that internationally understood gesture – perhaps it should be called the "porker salute". Either way, as I&nbsp;effortlessly accelerated away from the second  of these "admirers", I&nbsp;couldn't help wonder whether anyone ever made the same abusive signal at Butzi as he sat at the wheel of the car he created. I bet he loved it when they did…Anyway, this latest Butzi beauty looks much the same as the last one, obviously, but beneath its sleek hide there are a&nbsp;few fundamental changes. It's lighter, quicker and greener. Yes, greener! Who'd ever have thought you could say that about a&nbsp;Porsche. This 911 comes with stop/start technology, deceleration battery charging and  a coast-at-idle function, all of which help pinch the petrol. But don't think Porsche has lost sight of the fact that hedonism is at its core. There's a&nbsp;"noise" button on the console that proves this. Press it and the engine sounds louder. It's a&nbsp;switchable exhaust system, which means you can drive your car without vibrating the neighbours' windows. When you buy a 911 it comes with the system set in the mute position, but many new owners reconfigure it so that the engine is always grunting and snarling at full volume, until you hit the muffler. I think this tells you everything you probably don't want to know about Porsche owners.The 911 has also radically overhauled its steering – moving from hydraulic power to electric power. Road feel is fundamental to driving pleasure and the 911 has always boasted the most absorbing of drives. A wrong step here would have been like Coca-Cola messing with its secret recipe. But worry not, you won't detect any difference, the steering still communicates with all the immediacy of a megaphone.The  car still features the marque's multi-award winning dual-clutch gearbox, which comes boasts an automatic or a paddle-shift manual. The manual also now comes with something unexpected – a&nbsp;whole extra gear: seventh. It must be inflation. I can remember my grandfather's green Ford Consul only had three gears – which he changed with a&nbsp;lever on the steering column. Seventh seems a little over the top, even if it is being marketed as an "economy cruising gear". The strange thing is that the 394bhp 3.8-litre engine is so flexible, so responsive and accommodating, that you can pretty much do everything in third.Driving a 911 – noise button on or off – is one of motoring's most sublime pleasures. But almost everything else about a Porsche is annoying. It's impossible to get out of, the back seats are crap, the boot is pitiful, you feel sick as a passenger and you feel like dying if you are in the back… But, and it must be the biggest but in the automotive firmament, we wouldn't have it any other way. Thanks, Butzi.The ride of your lifeIf you are a bike lover with a passion for speed – or there's a person in your life who is (hint, hint Father's Day is just round the corner) – then you'll be on the edge of your seat at the prospect ofFastest. Narrated by Ewan McGregor, it's a full-length documentary feature about the MotoGP Championship which is released on DVD on 11 June from Universal Pictures.Directed by Mark Neale through breathtaking camerawork, this maximum-speed doc captures the intense and heart-pounding reality of the MotoGP Championship. It's shot around the world in 2010 and 2011 and follows the legendary Valentino Rossi as he chases his eighth world title. If you've ever wondered what it would be like to race MotoGP this is as close as you'll get. The word's heart-in-mouth don't do it justice…
A conceptual follow-up to 2007'sWarhawk,Starhawkplaces you on a futuristic frontier world in the midst of a sci-fi gold rush for Rift energy. Playing as Emmett Graves, a "Rift salvager", the single-player campaign consists of defending claims with an assortment of weapons and vehicles, including powerful, transforming Hawk mechs.Starhawkblends third-person shooting with a simplified strategy element – gather Rift energy by killing mutants and you can have walls, bases, gun turrets and more deployed from orbit. Balancing the approaches simultaneously may sound tricky but both gameplay tactics work perfectly together. The real emphasis is on multiplayer, though, with a wealth of modes to explore.A twist on Capture the Flag works well with the build-and-defend elements intrinsic to the game, though the same properties cause team deathmatches to be drawn out.Overall though, it's a fantastic genre mash-up, and one of the best titles on PS3.
An opening quote from Dante Alighieri indicates the themes to be explored in the game that follows – a thoughtful theological premise that represents both the greatest strength and weakness ofDatura.The game itself is tough to portray in mere words – it's as ethereal and bizarre as the deceptively pretty hallucinogenic flower from which it takes its name. After a strange intro where you're guided into self-administering a seemingly fatal shock, you awake in a forest. Wandering around without any hints as to place or purpose, the primary challenge seems to be finding white trees dotted around, filling in a hand-drawn map while doing so.Interacting with the oddities dotted around changes things, though. You'll find yourself on a road, in an ice field, trying to escape an eerie house. People flit around, just out of sight. Played in first person, it's incredibly immersive and unsettling, an experience bolstered by a wonderful soundscape.Unfortunately,Daturanever quite matches up to its own highbrow expectations – it tries too hard to be unusual and leave its questions unanswered, preferring instead to be weird for weirdness' sake.The game is also hampered by shoddy gameplay – neither the PlayStation controller nor the Move wand make exploring the spooky woodlands fun. A short game, it encourages players to run through a few times to get the fullest experience and see how different choices play out, but its poor controls are likely to make that more of a chore.
Zombies are rarely a sign of originality in a game, tending to signify the last gasp of a desperate developer – butRebuild(app store, Sarah Northway, £1.99) is different. This indie title was originally a free flash game, but has now come to iOS where it deserves to be a big success. A zombie apocalypse/FarmVillemash-up,Rebuildpresents the player as leader of the last remnants of humanity following the inevitable undead uprising. Choose a look for your avatar, as well as a tool – think pistol or dog – to help determine what kind of boss you become.At the start there is just a ragtag collection of fellow survivors with different specialities to assign tasks to – scavenging, farming, killing "the Zed", recruiting new members and reclaiming buildings – but there are various ways to win, whether escaping by helicopter or writing a new constitution. It's resource management with a rotting-corpse twist.Moving in the other direction, popular paid-for appiSlashnow has a freemium offering, as well as a multiplayer update for the pay version (Duello, 69p/free,iOS&amp;Android). It's a simple title – slash off segments of a piece of ornately carved wood, the challenge coming in making sure you keep the ninja stars that rattle about within the wood structure together, but also without touching them. Although easy at first, by level 20 it's nerve-shredding. Multiplayer works well, turn-based play with Jenga-like deviousness, making it worth the extra cost.
Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has reportedly let slip an admission that will dumbfound the web generation he helped create – he doesn't have broadband at home.Wozniak was talking to a business forum in Australia when he confessed to not having access to cable or high-speed internet at his house in Los Gatos, California.Stunning his audience, he reiterated: "I, Steve Wozniak, don't have broadband at home,"News.com.au reported.According to the news website, the 61-year-old computer engineer went on to explain that it was a case of living in the wrong part of town, with the worst kind of service."I live one kilometere out of the main part of town," he told the Perth-based forum.News.com.au said he continued: "Broadband is a monopoly in my town. That means you can get it from a cable company – but I don't have cable."Wozniak added that there are "50 companies" trying to sell him DSL, but they would have to go through the local phone company Horizon's wires."I've got one of the two worst Horizons in the country. And so I can't get broadband in my house," he reportedly said.Wozniak is hailed as a tech hero by fans of all things Apple. Having founded the company alongside Steve Jobs, Wozniak created the Apple I and Apple II computers in the mid 1970s.Despite leaving full-time employment at the firm in 1987, he is still seen as an ambassador of the brand.Last year he queued overnightto make sure he was the first in line in get the iPhone 4S at his local Apple store.
It doesn't take long. Several minutes into their first meeting, the director of Crown Intelligence offers an undercover reporter a broad range of highly sensitive and potentially illegal personal data.A hidden camera monitors Stephen Anderson leaning across his desk in a plush office near Hyde Park, central London, saying: "I could go through his criminal history, his financial history, bank accounts, loans, medical history."It is 5 May 2011, two months before David Cameron announced the Leveson inquiry into press ethics and the media's use of private investigators to access personal data. At a time when broader debate over privacy, data protection and press intrusion is raging, Anderson confirms that the most sensitive of personal information is easily available so long as you are prepared to pay.Over the months that followed, even after the start of Lord Justice Leveson's inquiry, Anderson would provide undercover reporters with a gamut of highly personal information. On Monday Channel 4'sDispatcheswill screen its year-long investigation revealing the ease and extent to which the unregulated private investigation industry is willing to acquire personal data for a price.An undercover reporter, posing as a risk analysis company representing multinationals, approached private investigators requesting background information on political activists they claimed were targeting clients. The programme's intention was to reveal the risk to ordinary people, rather than celebrities targeted by sections of the press.Volunteers agreed to have their identities used to see how much personal information could be obtained. James Leadbitter, 31, a climate change activist from Burnley, Lancashire, was one. Another was Thomas Barlow, 29, of Manchester, a charity worker and activist. The reporter approached Crown Intelligence, whose website promised to "investigate communications, finances, lifestyle, contacts, work …" At a meeting days later, Anderson says he can deliver details on schooling, friends, love life and employment – information which is mostly in the public domain. But then the conversation shifts to more sensitive areas: Anderson says he can deliver details of criminal history, financial matters and even medical details.Cameron Addicott, a former investigator with the Serious Organised Crime Agency, was under no illusion when shown the footage. "This is the sort of service that they [private investigators] offer. But it's just quite clear that it's contrary to the Data Protection Act."However, the Data Protection Act does allow for unlawful access where it is in the public interest or for the detection and prevention of crime.Three weeks after the first meeting, Anderson contacted undercover reporters with his provisional findings on Leadbitter. One line in the report stands out. "The subject made several claims for state benefits. However, there are no current claims." Such information was unavailable from public sources.An individual's social security details are stored on the Department for Work and Pensions database. Data protection experts believe 200,000 people have access to the DWP database, including government departments and councils.Anderson was asked for more details on Leadbitter's benefits. The private investigator says he will need another item of personal data not publicly available – Leadbitter's national insurance number. Yet, Anderson explains, there might be another way, mentioning an "internal contact" that might circumvent the need for Leadbitter's NI number. A month later, for less than £500, he had acquired details of Leadbitter's state benefits and NI number.Security analysts say it is possible that Crown Intelligence might have accessed Leadbitter's benefits records by "blagging" rather than his "internal source". Blagging is the practice of pretending to be someone else and hoping the person at the other end of the phone falls for it. An audio tape obtained by the programme records someone unsuccessfully attempting to blag details of Leadbitter's bank account. Other attempts were more fruitful. Leadbitter's bank details, the account into which the benefits were deposited, were accessed. A DWP spokesman said checks showed the details had not come from them.Anderson's attention turned to Barlow. He suggested looking at his criminal history. The results yield a secret that Barlow had hoped would never be revealed – a shoplifting conviction.Anderson might have found the details lawfully in the records of Manchester magistrates court, but only if he had known where the case was heard. The offence was not in the public domain and the only way of finding it would require calling every court in the country.Anderson insists that all information was "obtained legally" using a combination of court records, surveillance, legal search tools and the internet.Tony Imossi, president of the Association of British Investigators, said a full criminal history can be obtained either from the Criminal Records Bureau or the Police National Computer, neither of which can be accessed by the private sector. The Home Office confirms there are no circumstances where an organisation can carry out a CRB check secretly.Three weeks later Crown Intelligence uncover Leadbitter's GP and the dates of his last two appointments. In Barlow's case, Anderson's health check confirms he was a sufferer from severe acne.Paul Cundy, chairman of the GP IT committee of the British Medical Association, said such information could only have been gleaned from having access to patient records. Tracing those who have accessed the records is difficult.Anderson denies any allegation of wrongdoing, saying that Crown Intelligence carried out the work in good faith and was led to believe that its work would prevent and detect crime. He also argues that, because the volunteers gave their consent, no offences have been committed under the Data Protection Act.■Watching the Detectives will be shown on Channel 4 on Monday at 8pm
The ease with which private investigators can access highly personal and sensitive information stored in secure government databases has been exposed by a report that will intensify calls to regulate the industry.An investigation by Channel 4'sDispatchesprogramme reveals how a London firm of private detectives sold personal data on individuals, including details of bank accounts, benefit claims and even a national insurance number.Undercover reporters also recorded Stephen Anderson, director of private investigators Crown Intelligence, disclosing medical details including the name of one of the volunteers' doctors, recent appointments with a GP and, in one instance, confirmation of a medical condition. On several occasions, the investigator provided information for payment that appears to be covered by the Data Protection Act, which makes it an offence to "obtain or disclose data without permission or procure the disclosure to another person".The investigation, conducted against the backdrop of the Leveson inquiry, which has intensified scrutiny on private investigators, highlights the apparent simplicity with which data that is not possible to obtain legally can be found. Anderson insists that all the data he unearthed was obtained legally.On Monday the home affairs select committee, which is conducting an inquiry into the activities of private investigators, will hear evidence from the Channel 4 investigation as MPs examine whether tighter safeguards on the industry are required. The committee will also hear about developments in surveillance equipment and the views of former information commissioner Richard Thomas on data protection. and the experiences of two people exposed to the techniques of some private investigaters.Volunteers used in theDispatchesinvestigation describe how they were left feeling "exposed and vulnerable" after their personal details were discovered by Crown Intelligence.The programme, to be shown tomorrow, also shows Anderson making extraordinary allegations that Scotland Yard secretly and frequently uses private detectives to assist with investigations.Hidden cameras film him claiming that the Met had approached him to  uncover information that the police could not.At one point, Anderson asked aDispatchesundercover reporter whether they were working for the Met. When questioned why he would ask that, Anderson replied: "We've had over the years, surprisingly or not surprisingly, quite a lot of requests from the police to do investigations."He said that the police were governed by rigid processes that meant they sometimes needed to rely upon private investigators, and was recorded claiming: "The police have to follow a strict routine in order to investigate. You can't investigate someone without enough proof about their innocence or guilt. It's Catch-22. You can't get in there to look at people, but you can't find information out about them without getting in there and they have to hold back because there's no evidence. So someone gets approached [and is told]: 'Look, erm, we'd like some information on this person'."When asked again if he had undertaken requests from Scotland Yard in the past, Anderson said: "Unofficially, and I wouldn't admit that, but yes."The Met denied it ever used private investigators. A statement read "the Metropolitan Police Service does not use and has no need for such practices," adding that the force had never used Anderson or Crown Intelligence.A statement by Anderson said that he acted "within the acceptable parameters of the profession" and "within the framework of the Data Protection Act". He added that the programme's requests for data – on activists who the programme said were intent on targeting a client – were acted upon in good faith and with a view to prevent and detect a crime being committed.Anderson said all relevant information was obtained legally and denies any allegation of wrongdoing. He added that he was given the impression that all the information would be passed on to the clients "who were in discussion with the police with a view to preventing or detecting the commission of crime". He added that becauseDispatcheshad received the consent of their volunteers to gather personal information, no offence had been committed under the Data Protection Act.
Google's latest doodle celebrates Edward Lear, the artist, illustrator and master of "nonsense" rhyme who was born 200 years ago this weekend.Although he published many popular collections of poetry and limericks during his lifetime, The Owl and the Pussycat is arguably his most famous work.Born into a middle-class family in the village of Holloway, Lear was mainly educated at home and suffered from an early age from asthma and bronchitis, as well as depression and epilepsyAfter the family split up in 1827, he began to earn a living from his mid-teens onwards by colouring screens, fans and prints, and sometimes making disease drawings for doctors and hospitalsLear applied to the Zoological Society in 1830 to make drawings of the parrots in their collection and went on to produce fine hand-coloured lithographs, which were by subscription.Although the series was never finished, it was highly acclaimed and Lear found himself employed by the the Earl of Derby, before going off to travel for three years in ItalyHe published two volumes of illustrations, Illustrated Excursions in Italy, the first of many such books and is also recorded as having given drawing lessons to Queen Victoria, who was impressed with the "Excursions".Lear later returned to the Mediterranean and also visited Greece and Egypt as well as India and Ceylon, producing large quantities of coloured wash drawings.In 1846, he published A Book of Nonsense, a volume of limericks that helped popularise the form. His most famous piece of nonsense, The Owl and the Pussycat, which he wrote for the family of the Earl of Derby in 1867.He died in January 1888, and later that year a new edition of his work, Nonsense Songs and Stories, was published.Although his nonsense books were quite popular during his lifetime, in 1912 the Observer enthusiastically reviewed a small exhibition of his drawings, but it wasn't until 1985, when the Royal Academy held a dedicated exhibition of Lear's artwork, that he was finally afforded the status of accomplished artist that had eluded him during his lifetime.One hundred years after his death,Lear took his rightful place in Poets' Cornerat Westminster Abbey. Lear achieved much, but it is as one of the finest writers of nonsense that he will be remembered affectionately by generations of children, past and to come.
Starhawk, PS3Starhawk is a spacefaring wild west story complete with dusty frontier towns, sheriffs, freighter robberies and its own gold rush (in this case prospecting for crackling blue "rift energy").You play Emmett Graves who, especially when wielding a pistol, looks quite the outlaw himself, albeit one with glowing veins and eyes after too much contact with rift energy. Your job is to cap energy wells you find with sci-fi drilling rigs, while defending them from Scabs, the game's generic piratical foe. Doing so blends traditional over-the-shoulder shooting action with a bit of tower defence, in that Graves can call in satellite drops of anything from walls to laser turrets, garages and launch pads. Those last two are particularly important because Scabs have access to the same vehicles and aircraft you do, taking combat into space in the build-up to the game's final showdown, which arrives after a measly six hours or so. It's fun, but even with multiplayer to spice things up, Starhawk's a slight game.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99Datura, PS3DaturaYou wake up in an ambulance, your disembodied hand first letting you sweep off your blanket, then pluck the heart monitors off your chest, causing a paramedic to try and defibrillate you. Regaining consciousness in a strange forest, you have to work out what on earth is going on by slow exploration and clumsy interaction via a spooky floating hand. Primarily designed for PS Move, Sony's answer to the Wii's motion control system, you can also use a joypad, although both prove frustrating. Moving is like walking through glue and even while feverishly tapping the run button it feels like trying to run in a dream. With a swelling orchestral score and an environment that responds to the choices you make, Datura is peppered with good ideas, but the control method often interferes with this intriguing three-hour mini-adventure.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £6.49 PSN DownloadGames newsAkai KatanaKeith Vaz MP has been making noises about video game censorship again, this time inspired by Anders Breivik's testimony that he played World Of Warcraft and Call Of Duty, two of the biggest-selling entertainment products in human history. If they do indeed turn people into sociopaths you'd have to admit that only converting one, given the games' reach of tens of millions, doesn't really make them a threat worth legislating against …The "Transmedia" adventure gameAlt-Mindshas been announced for a release this autumn, promising to involve players in new and dramatic ways with its detective fiction …And after the monumental success ofSkyrimand past Elder Scrolls games, a massively multiplayer online version of its world is on its way …Also out this week isAkai Katana(Xbox 360), Cave's latest foray into bullet hell.
British broadband customers are paying for services that are more than 40% slower than advertised, a Guardian investigation has found, with thousands complaining that they are being short-changed by their internet service providers.In just three days, more than 3,000 readers participated in theGuardian's online broadband speed test. It found widespread differences between the speeds promised and those delivered.Customers are paying for an average of 12 megabits per second, but actually receiving 7Mbps, a gap of 42%.Readers complained of broadband blackspots in city centres, of exposed copper lines that fail in bad weather and of having to move businesses out of homes because of poor connections."If you were buying a dozen apples and you got three, you wouldn't put up with it," said Hugh Colvin, an arts organiser who lives on the Welsh border and rents two telephone lines so that more than one member of his family can use the internet at a time. "It's outrageous that I pay the same as somebody who is in the middle of London getting 10 times the speed."The survey, part of the Guardian's Britain's Broadband Vision campaign for better online infrastructure, found that Sky customers reported a 60% shortfall, the widest gap between median advertised and actual services.Sky customers were promised an average 12Mbps and received 4.8Mbps.Virgin customers reported a 41% shortfall – they were promised 30Mbps but received 17.7Mbps. BT's customers fared best, paying for 8Mbps and receiving a quarter less at 6Mbps. The gap was 27% for BT's budget service, Plusnet. TalkTalk subscribers had been promised an average speed of 8Mbps, but were receiving 5Mbps, a gap of 37.5%.Since advertising rules changed in April, internet service providers can only claim "up to" speeds if at least 10% of users are receiving them. The threshold was criticised as too low even by the broadband companies and they are now moving away from blanket advertising to quoting a different speed for each customer.TalkTalk says its advertisements refer to average speeds, and everyone is given an individual quote before signing up. A spokesman said: "No one enters a contract with us without receiving a speed estimate tailored to them."BT said it removed speed claims from its website on 1 April. "We have provided personalised speed quotes for some years now, so our customers know exactly what they're getting before any commitment is made."A spokesman for Sky said the company emphasised unlimited download allowances rather than headline speeds. He said: "Since Sky Broadband continues to be the UK's fastest growing ISP, all the evidence points to customers responding very positively to the service we offer."A Virgin Media spokesperson said: "Virgin Media has long argued for greater clarity in broadband advertising and, while the changes in April were long overdue yet welcome, we've seen ISPs continue to hide behind generic terms or catch-all claims. We are committed to continuing to lead this industry which is why we only advertise speeds that our customers can reasonably expect to actually receive. Ofcom's independent and comprehensive research consistently shows we deliver what we say, with our 30Mb service actually providing almost 31Mb on average. That's not to say we are complacent. We continue to deliver the UK's fastest widely available broadband and we're in the process of boosting speeds for customers with our doubling upgrade and the introduction of 120Mb. Virgin Media now delivers superfast broadband as standard to millions of UK homes and we've raised expectations of what consumers deserve from their ISP."Ofcom describes proper broadband as 2Mbps or over, and this is the minimum bandwidth needed for video services such as the BBC's iPlayer. The speed tests found 18% of respondents were receiving 2Mbps or less, with many saying their service was often slower.BT, whose copper network is used by every major telecoms retailer in the UK, is spending £2.5bn to upgrade the service by installing fibre optic cables from the exchange to street cabinets. It aims to reach two-thirds of the UK by the end of 2014 and, with taxpayer help, 90% of homes by 2017.Those with fibre optic cables to their street cabinet could get speeds of up to 76Mbps, but experts say the service could still be unreliable for properties furthest from telephone exchanges, because they rely on copper wiring for the final mile.BT has countered this by including smaller market towns in its roll-out plans, and a competition allowed 10 harder-to-reach communities to win fibre for their exchange.Customers will be able to order an all-fibre line from BT from next year, although the initial price could be as high as £1,000, putting it out of reach of most householders and home-based workers.BT Group chief executive Ian Livingston said: "The UK will be a leader by comparison with other western European economies. We'll be giving fibre to within 400 meters of the average home. If people really want and need faster speeds, we can provide it."Labour says the government must update the national broadband plan, with an emphasis on more fibre connections direct to homes, businesses, schools and health centres."Ultimately fibre to the home is the aim," said the shadow minister for innovation  and science, Chi Onwurah, a former head of telecoms technology at Ofcom. "By 2020, we should have concrete plans in place. I do think that it is a failure of leadership that the government isn't prepared to do that."The communications minister, Ed Vaizey, has said the UK is on track to have the "best broadband network in Europe" by 2015.
Chirrup! says Tweetdeck, announcing the arrival of somebody's wisdom in up to 140 characters. @Marys_Daughter's, in fact, ooh I don't think I know her, and she's addressing me personally. "Ah," she tweets. "You're the reason for the parade of new cars on my route to the tube." Hmmm, found out. My neighbours on either side know my secret, that I am actually Sam Wollaston the Famous Motoring Journalist; and John the greengrocer at the top of the road does. But I was hoping to keep it at that. I don't like to make a fuss. And I rather like the image I no doubt have, Dollis Hill's man of mystery, so successful he changes his car every week. Or they might just be cross that I'm using up all the parking spaces.Anyway now @Marys_Daughter, who lives in the next street down, knows, it surely won't be long before everyone does. Cover blown. A few days later she tweets again: "My 5-yr-old is loving the red Beetle&nbsp;this week :)" Well, so am I. @Marys_Daughter's five-year-old is a&nbsp;man after my own heart. I say man, he may be a little woman,  @Marys_granddaughter. If it were the previous model, the first new Beetle which came out in 1998, I would have said it was more than likely. Because that was what is known, among less reconstructed – and less Famous – motoring journalists, as a&nbsp;"Chick Car". Yes, it was cute, but no one with a set of cojones on them would want to be seen dead in it. This one – the new new Beetle – has been hunked up and hunkered down. It's longer, lower, wider, prowlier. The windscreen is steeper, the roof flatter (which means there's more headroom in the back); it just has a bit more testosterone about it.Inside it's lovely – retro chic meets functional modern. I especially like the red interior panels to match the outside colour. And the glove compartment that looks exactly like the one in the original Beetle – it's not very big, admittedly, but there's another one underneath. The elastic straps in the door panels, to store stuff, are a neat touch, too.To drive? Yeah, nice, pretty much like a Golf, which is what it is really, just with a different body. Precise, engaging, a bit noisier than a Golf because of that upright windscreen.Crucially, it's still unmistakably a&nbsp;Beetle. Which means it's not just about getting from A to B, it's about getting there with a :) It's a toy, really, a car to make a five-year-old boy/girl passing with his/her mum stop and point. It's a car to bring out the five-year-old in anyone, even a&nbsp;Famous Motoring Journalist.I tweet back, saying they should ring the bell and I'll drive them round the block. They never do. Starstruck probably. Or weirded out.VW Beetle 1.4-litre 160 PS six-speed manualPrice£19,475Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.3 secondsAverage consumption42.8mpgCO2 emissions153g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating8/10
Since 1996 the Internal Revenue Service has regularly published a list of people who have revoked their US citizenship. Why the IRS and not the INS? Because the point of the list is not simply to keep track of who's in and who's out.The point of the list is to potentially bring shame on rich people who renounce their citizenship to dodge taxes.For one Facebook billionaire, the shaming deterrent appears to have been ineffectual.The most recent IRS listwas published on 30 April. It contains 460 names. And if you scroll down to "S," you find the name of one very, very rich person: Eduardo Luiz Saverin, the Facebook co-founderwho still owns an estimated 4% of the company.Saverin's presence on the listwas first reported by Bloomberg.With Facebook about to roll out an IPO, Saverin's 4% stake – worth about $3.8bn, if the IPO valuation holds – might leave him open to a major tax bill.Now Saverin, who is becoming a legal resident of Singapore, will face a significantly reduced US tax bill at the time of the IPO. Singapore does not have a capital gains tax.The Brazilian-born Saverin moved to the United States in 1992 and became a citizen in 1998. Three years ago he moved to Singapore, where he has set about doing the sorts of things that one imagines 30-year-old billionaires do,the Wall Street Journal reportedlast week:"Mr. Saverin is regularly spotted lounging with models and wealthy friends at local night clubs, racking up tens of thousands of dollars in bar tabs by ordering bottles of Cristal Champagne and Belvedere vodka, according to people present on these occasions. He drives a Bentley, his friends say, wears expensive jackets and lives in one of Singapore's priciest penthouse apartments."Reporting on the IRS list of former US citizens earlier this week,the New York Times notedthat the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship has increased in recent years:"According to the international tax lawyer, Andrew Mitchel, the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship rose to 1,781 in 2011 from 231 in 2008 … According to Andrew Mitchel's research, the sharp rise in Americans renouncing their citizenship since 2008 is less pronounced than it appears if one looks at the full range of data available since 1997, when it first was collected. As one can see in the chart, the highest number of Americans renouncing their citizenship came in 1997."The wags on Twitter are giving Saverin a warm sendoff:Facebook co-founder Saverin drops US citizenship, will become full-time resident of Farmville.$FB&mdash; Downtown Josh Brown (@ReformedBroker)May 11, 2012Facebook's Eduardo Saverin renounces US citizenship:bloom.bg/K70eOt- Wow. Confirmation that Singapore is Facebook's model society.&mdash; Mark Gimein (@markgimein)May 11, 2012
When it comes to broadband, a city property is no guarantee of a good connection. While country dwellers can enjoy the view outside their window when their screen freezes, residents from Newcastle upon Tyne to London's Docklands have no such consolation.Like Tony Gyles, who works from home in a suburb of Basingstoke and has to make do with 1 megabit per second – only speeds of 2mbps and above count as true broadband – many are paying for connections that deliver little more than dial-up used to.The Guardian'sbroadband speed map, built by 3,000 readers over three days, found aVirgin Mediacustomer in Newcastle paying for 30mbps but receiving 0.6mbps; a Plusnet subscriber in King's Cross on 0.621mbps; and a Sky subscriber in Docklands on a headline rate of 8mbps waiting three minutes for short YouTube videos to download.Poor access to pop videos may not affect quality of life, but for Hugh Colvin, living near Knighton, Powys, lack of a reliable internet connection hurts his wallet and his family life. His eldest son, studying physics at Warwick, could not come home during the holidays this year as his project required a broadband connection.Colvin, who organises theatre productions, rents two lines from BT at £13.99 a month each so that he can work on one while his youngest son uses the other. The fastest runs at 1.4mbps, which means although he would like to be able to communicate with actors and directors in London over Skype, he cannot. "We are rural, we don't count," he says. "Although we are part of the economy we are being gradually cut off from it."BT is installing fibre to improve the connections, and with help from the taxpayer and over £2.5bn of its own money, its improvements will reach the majority of homes by 2017.  The government says that by then, 90% of the UK should enjoy minimum speeds of 24mbps and the rest a minimum of 2mbps. But five years is a long time to wait. No surprise then, that 79% of respondents to our survey thought the government should be investing more in broadband.Graham Wilson, who lives six miles outside Norwich, sells antique watches online. He praises the good customer care at his provider, Sky, but says it has been unable to solve his service interruptions.  He is forced to relaunch his broadband connection between 10 and 50 times a day. "If it gets any worse I will have to move somewhere else," he says. "It's affecting property prices."But BT's fibre rollout may exacerbate the digital divide before it bridges it. The national phone network will get to two thirds of the UK by the end of 2014.Gyles is frustrated because the fibre upgrade covered 60% of Basingstoke but not his home. "The areas given the new faster service were those closest to the exchange and already getting the best connection speeds."Civil servant David Combe lives on the wrong side of the tracks for speedy broadband. He shares his BT line with his partner and their two children. "If anyone wants to watch iPlayer there is no point a second person going online. It's like sharing one bathroom."The streets across the railway  are closer to the exchange and  get faster speeds. They have been included in BT's fibre plans, while Combe and his neighbours have no prospect of faster speeds. "It's frustrating. They are going to catapult ahead while we crawl."
How fast is your broadband?We asked you to help test your speedsand let us know how they compared to those being offered by your broadband providers.And this is something people care about: over 3,000 of you responded within three days. So, what did you say?Obviously there are a lot of caveats with any data collection exercise like this. It's a self-selecting sample - and people with poor access to broadband are arguably more likely to take part. The telecoms industry, too, will say that it offers "up to" a given speed as opposed to an actual speed.However, the results are not significantly different from thosediscovered by Ofcom last year.How big a problem is it?The data we have shows that of the over 3,000 people we asked, they were offered a median average speed of up to 12mbps. We used median, because we wanted a typical speed, asopposed to a mean average which would be distorted by a few higher speeds.And then we asked you to test the speed of your broadband using anonline tester. It showed a median average speed being received of 7mbps, a gap of 42%. And there was a wide variation by company, too.Our sample believe the government does not spend enough on promoting broadband; that it should invest more. A quarter also had no access to broadband where they lived.These were the results:Broadband graphic Photograph: GuardianDownload the data•DATA: download the full spreadsheet, as of Friday 11 MayNEW! Buy our book• Facts are Sacred: the power of data (on Kindle)More open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianWorld government data•Search the world's government data with our gatewayDevelopment and aid data•Search the world's global development data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?•FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr group• Contact us atdata@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on Twitter•Like us on Facebook
Apple is believed to be about to ditch Google as the provider of its mapping in the next major revision of iOS, the operating system that drives the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch.Instead it will introduce its own mapping solution including a 3D view and Street View-like product adapted from a number of companies including Placebase, C3 Technologies and Poly9 which it has acquired in the past few years.If correct, the shift would mark a continuation of the company's shift away from Google-provided map data which was first noticed in MArch when itintroduced its iPhoto app for iOS, which uses the crowdsourced OpenStreetMap product rather than Google to show locations.9to5Macis reporting that iOS 6, expected to be unveiled at the Worldwide Developers' Conference from June 11-15, will introduce in-house mapping, citing "trusted sources".Apple did not respond to a request for comment.The new maps would be built around Apple's own cloud computing system, which has been gradually rolled out with iCloud users, which it says now has more than 125 million users worldwide.A key difference would be 3D representations using C3's maps, which use declassified missile target algorithms.Though Apple's maps app in iOS uses Google's data, it has lagged behind that on Google's own Android OS since the introduction in December 2010 of Android 2.3, or "Gingerbread", which brought the ability to rotate the map onscreen - allowing the user to manipulate the map to align a street with their direction of view without moving the phone itself.At the same timeGoogle also introduced a 3D view and offline modefor maps. By contrast Apple's Maps app requires a data connection to function.Google, it's known, pays Apple handsomely for its position as the search engine of choice on iOS devices (the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad) which make up a substantial part of mobile search queries. Equally, Google also has a prominent position as the provider of interactive maps (through the Maps app) on iOS, which has been there since the iPhone was introduced in January 2007.But Apple is also believed to want to break its ties with Google in mapping, though not search, where it gets a substantial split of any revenues Google receives from ad clickthroughs. However, in June 2010 itadded Microsoft's Bing as an option for search in iOS- on which it is likely it also gets a share of revenues.Google and Apple renewed their mapping agreement in May 2011, which surprised some because Apple's job postings had included a number of vacancies for people with expertise in mapping.
If you're choosing a search engine that is able to do social search, your obvious choice is… Microsoft's Bing?Yes, it is - or, following a series of upgrades by Microsoft, it might be in the near fugure. In a move that Google may well find galling, Microsoft now searches not just Twitter and Facebook – both of which barely appear in Google's search results - but also Google+, Google's own social network.And unlike Google's version of social search, which has beencriticised for overemphasising its still-young Google+ network, Bing offers a clearer balance between the competing networks.The new sidebar in Bing's search results includes contacts and activities on social networks including Twitter, whichsigned a search deal with both Microsoft and Google on the same day in 2009to give them access to its "firehose" of tweets. But thecontract with Google expiredin July 2011 and was not renewed - which means that Google, which has said that "social is the future of search", is seeing its money-losing rival running rings around it.In ablogpost introducing the changes, Derrick Connell and Harry Shum, who are both Bing corporate vice-presidents, call it "the most significant update to Bing since we launched three years ago."(Strictly, that's only true if you accept that Bing is only three years old, which isn't true because it is simply the rebadged version of Windows Live Search, the dire - and almost fatal - name that Steve Ballmer bestowed on it back in 2007. My book has the gruesome details.)But there's no doubting that the new focus on including social content in search results is a new focus for Bing, and a clever one - focussing on a place where Google is comparatively weak despite its massive heft.In the US, Google has been rolling its "Search Plus Your World" system, which puts emphasis on Google+ results, into its search results since January 2012. They have not however been rolled out more widely so far.For Microsoft, Connell and Shum tweak Google, noting that " The search industry was built on keywords, links and labels – static nouns pointing to pages. This approach is great for finding sites but search is about more than simply finding information, it's also about taking action." They then explain, in a clear dig at Google: "The fact is, search hasn't kept pace. People have become as important as pages and search needs to evolve to embrace these changes. The challenge has been to figure out how to integrate the information you care about with the people who can be most helpful to you in getting stuff done."They also focus on social: "the new Bing focuses on bringing friends, experts and enthusiasts into your search experience through a dedicated social "sidebar." With sidebar, Bing brings together the best of the web, with what experts and your friends know, giving you the confidence to act. This new way to search lets people share, discover, and interact with friends like they do in real life."Bing's advantage is that having continued its deal with Twitter, and being a shareholder in Facebook, it can get access to those two networks. And as Google+ is open (as far as Google allows it to be to the outside world; just as with Facebook, some users have their privacy settings configured to block outsiders) it can be crawled too.For now, the improved Bing is only running in the US (as with Google's Search Plus Your World) but it has already garnered plenty of attention. If Microsoft can begin to get people to go there directly as a destination, then that could start to make a difference to its red ink-pouring bottom line. It would be ironic in the extreme if Google, having led the search race for 11 years, was finally beaten to its most important next step by the arch-rival that it defines itself as being unlike.Here's avideo of the new Bing in action.
What if we manage to hit The Singularity - that oft-receding target by which your brain's contents can be uploaded to a computer system in the event of (or ahead of) your death?Wouldn't that becool?Well, maybe. But more importantly, who's going to pay for it all when we're "dead" (and so presumably not able to earn money any more)? Ah, that's it - advertising will fill the sky and "your brand preferences will be aligned with those of our sponsors".But wait! What about all those books you remember reading? Oh dear.For a fabulous glimpse of the afterlife, or as they call it, "The Singularity - ruined by lawyers", here's a video fromTom Scottand friends. (Orwatch it here.)Scott says:If you liked this[and how you could not? -Ed], you may also enjoy two novels that provided inspiration for it: Jim Monroe's Everyone in Silico, where I first found the idea of a corporate-sponsored afterlife; Rudy Rucker's trippy Postsingular, which introduced me to the horrifying idea of consciousness slums.If you want to read more aboutthe Singularity, here you go. Just bear in mind that your brain processes might one day be scanned by slightly bored lawyers.And if you think it's too farfetched - just consider this scientific experiment tomap the brain's billions of neurons.
Facebook is overvalued at the $96bn (£60bn) price tag it is seeking from its initial public offering next week, according to an investor poll.A day after the social media giant issued a warning that rapid gains in mobile users may not translate into advertising growth, a poll of traders, analysts and investors conducted by the Bloomberg newswire found 79% thought Facebook was valued too highly."This stock is going to come out, it's going to go to the moon, and then it's going to burn a lot of people," said Bob Rich, a director at the boutique investment bank Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "The valuation is asinine, and I would not put my clients' money near it."International investors are more doubtful than their American counterparts, with 82% saying Facebook is overvalued compared with 74% in the US.However,Reuters reported that Facebook's IPO was already oversubscribedand the company could raise its selling price.Facebook, whose shares have been described as "muppet bait" by the internet commentator and former stock analyst Henry Blodget, is proposing to float on the Nasdaq exchange at between $28 and $35 a share, implying a maximum value of $96bn for the whole company.The IPO would dwarf that of Google in 2004 – the year Mark Zuckerberg co-founded Facebook – which raised $1.9bn and valued the search firm at $23bn.Bloomberg reported on Friday that the IPO has so far generated lower than expected demand from institutional investors, who are concerned about the company's growth prospects. Facebook told analysts that sales may not meet their most optimistic projections, two people told the newswire.But Reuters reported a source as saying that institutional investors were demanding more shares than are available.The network's growth is slowing already. Sales climbed 88% to $3.71bn last year but, according to projections by researchers Emarketer, may climb just 64% to $6.1bn this year, the third year in a row of slowing growth.In an update to its IPO prospectus this week, Facebook cautioned that usage of the site on mobile phones was growing more rapidly than mobile advertising revenue.The company said in a regulatory filing dated Wednesday: "We believe this increased usage of Facebook on mobile devices has contributed to the recent trend of our daily active users (DAUs) increasing more rapidly than the increase in the number of ads delivered."The suggestion is that advertising on mobile phones, which is in its infancy on Facebook, may not catch up with the penetration of ads on its desktop site for some time. A list of risk factors in the prospectus warns: "Growth in use of Facebook through our mobile products, where our ability to monetise is unproven, as a substitute for use on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and financial results.""Expectations on Facebook are way too high," said Mitsuo Shimizu, a market analyst at Tokyo-based Iwai Cosmo Securities. "Given its fundamentals, the company doesn't look anywhere cheap in valuation."• Facebook's proposed purchase of the photo-sharing company Instagram for $1bn has been referred to the US Federal Trade Commission,according to reports in the FT. The FTC is understood to be asking for comments from Google and Twitter, two rivals to both companies. That could delay closure of the deal for months.
Rebekah Brooks's BlackBerry puzzled a number of experts on Friday. Specifically, they couldn't understand how a process that is carried out routinely – creating a copy of all the files on the device, or "imaging" – could have led to any loss of data.Giving evidence at the Leveson inquiry, Brooks said that at least one message on her News International corporate BlackBerry sent by David Cameron had been "compressed" so that "there's no content in it".Speaking on Friday morning, the former chief executive of News International had explained that her device was retained by the Metropolitan police, and then returned to the company in July 2011. "It contained, I think, about six weeks of emails and less so of texts, but about a month of texts," she said. "But we had to image [take a copy of] them and we had some problems with that."Asked by Robert Jay QC, counsel to the inquiry, whether there were any emails or texts from Cameron or George Osborne on the device when she left News International, she replied: "No. Although when we got the image back, there was one from Mr Cameron that was compressed, so [it was] in June, but there's no content in it.""So it's a complete mystery what if anything it might contain?" asked Jay."Yes," replied Brooks.But the mystery to computer forensics experts was what could possibly have gone wrong in imaging the device's files. That is a standard process used when computer equipment and smartphones are seized, in which an exact bit-for-bit copy is made of the contents of any storage on the device.That allows police and legal teams to consider it in detail, and even to create other digital copies – which by their nature will be a perfect copy of the original – that can then be examined without damaging the original copy that is retained as evidence.Computer forensics is now a standard course, and smartphone makers offer police and authorised experts tools to make copies of files on their devices. That includes BlackBerrys. One difference about those devices, though, is thatemails and other data stored on them is encrypted: it cannot be read directly without access to the user's password, although the administrators of the device – in this case News International – can lock or delete information from BlackBerrys remotely.A former engineer at BlackBerry-maker RIM said: "RIM has tools that allow you to look inside the [device's] filestore but obviously everything is encrypted so you can't see what's in it. However, the imaging process is – as I said – a copy process. It makes no changes to the device."Peter Warren, chairman of theCyber Security Research Institute, who has taken a forensics course, said: "It's very odd … forensics compression technology should treat all messages equally."He pointed out that if News International's or Brooks's legal team wanted a copy of the BlackBerry, "the simplest way to have done that would have been with BlackBerry Desktop manager [software, provided free by RIM] which would not have compressed the messages at all and would have given you reasonably [legally] admissible copy due to the protection that BlackBerry encryption gives you".
As an incentive to pick up a copy of Hitman Absolution, the Sniper Challenge DLC is (cough) perfectly targeted. If you've never played a Hitman game in your life, you'd probably look at it as a puzzling curio at worst and a lightweight distraction at best. But if you're one of the Agent 47 faithful, Sniper Challenge is the sort of thing that'll keep you engaged for hours on end.In a way, that's the point. Recent previews that have showcased Agent 47's new Instinct mechanic, his new propensity for tackling enemies directly and his ability to take down entire rooms with twin Ballers have had Hitman fans howling with rage. By all accounts, they say, Absolution dumps the franchise's stealth, its open-ended gameplay and everything else that made it beloved in the first place.To a degree this is the fault of the game's marketing, which has been largely aimed at attracting new players to the series. After all, how enticing does a game look to newcomers if its trailer features nothing other than a bald man in a suit waiting in the shadows for a good two minutes? They're more likely to be attracted to the slow-motion gun battles, the trails of fire left by guards as they pound a route and a screenshot of an axe slicing through someone's skull. You know, all the things that have caused such consternation among Hitman fans so far.So Sniper Challenge is Absolution's fan-targeted marketing. It's the PR aimed at long-time Hitman fans who like prowling around in shadows, who turn to their Ballers as a last resort and who will probably not use the Instinct mechanic when they pick up a copy of Absolution. These are the players who understand that successfully executing a contract with Agent 47 requires a virtue that modern gaming seems to be trying to eradicate in gamers: patience.Sniper Challenge, like many Hitman missions before it, is a slow-paced, yet highly tense affair, where the impulse to pull the trigger on a target becomes almost uncontrollable. It only rewards those with nerves of steel, laser-guided timing and the patience of a saint.The set up for Sniper Challenge has Agent 47 in Chicago to execute Richard Strong Jr, the chief executive of a high-profile weapons manufacturer. It seems his target is hardly ever seen in public, except at the annual corporate retreat, which this year is taking the form of a roof party. Agent 47 is tasked with taking out the CEO and as many of his bodyguards as possible without raising any alarms. He sets himself up on a neighbouring rooftop with a Silenced Kazo TRG sniper rifle (which DLC owners will have unlocked for the main game) and waits for his targets to arrive.This may all sound pretty straight-forward, but Sniper Challenge is a tough puzzle to crack. Aside from Strong, the player has to take out 14 bodyguards dotted around the rooftop party. Some of them are easy pickings, as they're situated away from the party on balconies overlooking the street, which, as Agent 47's handler helpfully points out, is free from pedestrian traffic at this time. Others, however, are patrolling near or among the throng of corporate revellers. If any bodies are discovered, Strong and his guards will be evacuated.Hovering ominously in the top left hand side of the screen is a score counter, which is uploaded to online leaderboards when the player completes the challenge. Players score points based around their skill and creativity in the challenge. Headshots are worth more than bodyshots, and since Agent 47 is armed with a high-powered rifle, players can score more points by killing two targets with one bullet if they're lined up just right.To avoid any alarms being raised (and to score extra points), it's worth making attempts to conceal bodies by shooting targets so they tumble off the side of the building, or land in a nearby water feature, for example. Mind you, anyone can knock a guard off the side of a building with a headshot. It takes a bit more skill and creativity to shoot through the cables supporting a window-cleaner's lift so it drops onto a target – and the game knows this and rewards points accordingly.Sniper Challenge is open-ended to a degree. There's no set order in which to eliminate the guards and Strong, and players don't even need to kill all 15 of them to complete the challenge. Once Strong is dead, the guards are just a way to rack up a higher score. On top of that, there's also a lengthy list of in-mission challenges to work through. Sniper Challenge can take as much or as little time as each player wants, depending on how high they want their score to be.So really, the only remaining question is whether it's worth pre-ordering a copy of Hitman Absolution to get hold of Sniper Challenge. If you're uninitiated in the ways of Agent 47, this may be a little bit of a wobbly entry into the series, but it's certainly worth it of you're a huge fan of the franchise. In which case you've probably ordered the Sniper Challenge already. You just didn't know it yet.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Second-screen apps are all the rage in the TV industry, but the idea is catching on for the film world too. Witness Warner Bros'new companion appfor the Blu-ray edition of Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows.The iPad app launched in early May, a couple of weeks before the Blu-ray release. It can be used as a standalone app, browsing information about the film and the world of Sherlock Holmes. But it also synchronises with the film itself.How? The syncing works over a home Wi-Fi network, with the iPad app controlling playback on the TV screen.For example, you can look at a "beat sheet" plan for a scene on the tablet then trigger that scene to play on the TV. Users without a compatible Blu-ray player or Wi-Fi network can tap in three-digit codes to achieve the same effect."The app is an opportunity to really dig deep into the whole mythos of Sherlock Holmes, and to explore the film in a different way, and at your leisure," says Donnie Roach, executive director of creative services at Warner Home Video.I know what you're thinking: can't people just settle down to watch a film without having to be fiddling with their iPad throughout – let alone pausing and jumping between scenes?Roach says the app isn't intended to be used on the first viewing of the film. It's aimed at the kind of viewers who'll previously gone back for second or third viewings with director and actor commentaries turned on, or who'll have worked their way through DVD extras."You can think of it as a digital coffee-table book," says Roach of the app, which took around three months to develop, and follows a previous companion app for Happy Feet 2, which was only released in the US.It's an iPad-only affair. Warner started developing an iPhone version of the app, but ended up focusing on the tablet exclusively. What about Android devices, though?"Not yet, but we are looking at doing these apps for future titles, and we're going to do a Kindle Fire release in the US only. We're testing the waters for each of these [platforms] as we go along," says Roach.Separately, Warner Bros has also been exploring the idea of distributing actual films through apps, with its "App Edition" releases for The Hangover, Due Date, Inception and The Dark Knight.Does the company have any plans to bring these two app strands together: apps that show an entire film and all the extra companion content?"That's absolutely the kind of thing we're looking to do in the future, bringing these two worlds together," says Roach. "We're also looking at a way to create something like this that syncs to iTunes Extras."
Apple and Google may own their own mobile advertising networks – iAd and AdMob respectively – but there is still room for innovation in the mobile ads world from startups.The latest isDrawbridge, whose chief executive Kamakshi Sivaramakrishnan actually left Google to found the company, having been chief scientist at AdMob.Her new venture has raised $6.5m in Series A funding from heavyweight venture capital firms Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and Sequoia Capital. Its big idea: "cross-device" tracking and targeting for advertisers."We essentially crunch vast amounts of data analysing user activity in the browser on desktops, and applications on mobile devices," says Sivaramakrishnan.The key point being that Drawbridge aims to match users' activity across these devices to "pair" them – the idea being to then target ads on one device based on their activity on the other, and vice versa. And it learns as it goes along."Statistical trianguation of users' activity on multiple devices," as she puts it, giving the example of someone researching travel tickets on their computer, and then being served related adverts on their mobile device.Sivaramakrishnan says that the advertising industry is already keen for this kind of technology, even if it may require a change in the way many media buyers approach mobile versus web."The average agency has a mobile media buying team, and then the online or desktop display buying team. The right hand doesn't speak to the left. Yet that defies audience behaviour: advertisers absolutely need to cross the device chasm," she says."There has been a lack of a credible solution, though. It's not an easy problem to solve by any means: the whole notion of cookies breaks when you're talking about different devices."Here's the challenge for a company like Drawbridge, and the advertisers who might use its technology. There is already a certain degree of unease around retargeting adverts online – ads that follow a user around to different websites.In a nutshell, Drawbridge's technology will extend this retargeting onto mobile devices. What is the risk that this will freak people out even more?"It's something I ask myself all the time," says Sivaramakrishnan. "I think that a relevant ad is a piece of content, but it has to be done in a fashion that is not creepy or intrusive. You don't want to be in the situation where you're following the consumer all along. It's about solving the problem of relevance."The other key question for Drawbridge concerns competition. If this idea of cross-device targeting is such an important area, won't Google pump resources into solving it too?"Cross-device advertising is the next frontier, or even the holy grail of digital advertising, so we expect to see other companies emerge in this space," says Sivaramakrishnan."Can Google solve this problem? I would imagine that it is looking at it, but there is something to be said for a company [like Drawbridge] having a laser focus at solving that single problem."Any proof will come when Drawbridge actually rolls out its platform. The company is testing its technology with a number of advertisers in private beta – Sivaramakrishnan declines to say which ones – while also striking partnerships with data management companies for the desktop side of its business. The public launch will come later this year.
One of the immutable laws of the modern games industry states that if a big hit ever emerges in another sector of the pop-culture world, it will be made into a game: any intellectual property that already has a following provide the lowest-risk basis for a video game.That's why publishers shell out megabucks to license the rights to turn films and sporting competitions into games. But occasionally, something will slip under the radar, capturing the public imagination without having its rights snapped up by the big boys, and Game of Thrones provides the perfect example.Thanks, of course, toHBO's TV adaptationof the previously obscure books, the fantasy franchise has elbowed its way to the centre of the pop-culture stage. And, sure enough, it is being made into a game – an RPG, naturally – which will arrive for the Xbox 360, PS3 and PC in June.But, strikingly, the Game of Thrones game is being made by a developer which, to put it politely, is unfancied – French outfit Cyanide Studio, previously best known for Blood Bowl, which implausibly married Warhammer and American Football – and published by Focus Home Interactive, which is so low-profile in the UK that its games have to be distributed by the slightly less obscure Koch Media.Keeping it authenticCounterintuitively, Game of Thrones' lack of pedigree could actually work in its favour. Expensively licensed games have a reputation for being hopelessly rushed and generally going through the motions whereas, as Game of Thrones' lead designer Sylvain Sechi explains, Cyanide approached it through the standpoint of being fans of George RR Martin's books."We've been working on it for more than three years," he says. "We started before HBO had even signed the rights to do the TV show, so the first part of the production cycle was based on the books."But once the TV show came out, we worked with HBO to see what we could use from that. And we spent time with George Martin, to make sure everything in the game is current, even with books that will be published later."Sechi says that while the game takes place in the same time-frame as the first book – and, therefore, HBO's first TV series."It was very important for us to create our own original story. Because it's written in parallel with the TV series and books, it allows us to give players choices with consequences."George Martin is an older guy, and he's not really into games, so the story is important for him. He gave us lots of feedback about the story we've created for the game, about his characters and even the graphics."Game of Thrones in the fleshSechi launches into a fairly comprehensive demo of Game of Thrones after explaining its key features. It's a single-path, rather than free-roaming, RPG (in other words, more Mass Effect than Skyrim). One unusual aspect of the game, according to Sechi, is that it's an RPG with two very different and unique characters."So you'll start playing as one character, and after the end of the chapter – they general conclude with a TV-style cliffhanger – you'll start the next chapter playing as the second hero," he says.The first character, Mors Westford, is a ranger of the Night Watch, who specialises in tracking people and has a dog (which, as Sechi demonstrates in one of the later missions, he can possess and control directly when stealth or the ability to get into small spaces is required).The second character you play is Alester Sarwyck, the heir to Riverspring who mysteriously disappeared 15 years before. He returns (for the funeral of his father) as a sort of fire-priest, with all manner of fire-related abilities; Sechi is keen to emphasise that, because he has been away for 15 years, he has to deal with complex political fall-out.Despite the characters' carefully crafted back-stories, you can choose between three character classes for each, and there's plenty of scope for character development – there are five main attributes (strength, agility, luck and so on) that you can level up, skill points for different weapons and a complex ability tree. Plus there is a character traits system which forces you to offset strengths against related weaknesses – a sensible-sounding but nevertheless innovative system for an RPG. The character development side of the game – so important for RPG buffs – looks pretty well designed.Game of Thrones has a conversation system which shows your character's thoughts, rather than what he will actually say."Each option creates a branch which takes you in a certain direction, and you can't go back, so it's not about trying all the options until you get the right one," Sechi says.He talks up the importance of the choices you make – both in conversation and your actions: "Some choices influence how each chapter plays out – there's one point of entry to each chapter, but several ways to get to the end, though. And you might find that a choice you make has an impact seven chapters later – for example, people you freed might join you late in the game when you're assembling a fighting force."The game's combat engine appeared to veer towards rewarding a strategic approach, by maximising magical abilities and enhancements, rather than dexterity. One reservation we harbour after the demo is that there seems to be a preponderance of story-setting cut-scenes, although that could have been a by-product of Sechi choosing to show the initial stages of the game.Graphically, it doesn't look as up-to-the-minute as the likes of Skyrim or Dragon's Dogma, but it does at least feel like an authentic rendering of Westeros in terms of general ambience.Plenty for Game of Thrones fansThe ability to pilot a character through various parts of Westeros will doubtless excite fans of the books and TV series, although they might end up wishing they could indulge in random wanderings around the game-world. However, key locations that do make an appearance include The Wall, the Night's Watch Castle Black, King's Landing and Red Keep.Some characters from the HBO series will appear in the game, voiced by the same actors and make to look as similar as possible – most notably Jeor Mormont, Varys and Cersei Lannister. And, in common with any self-respecting RPG, it should provide a pretty meaty experience.Sechi says: "You can play through it, if you're rushing in 25 hours, but we reckon it will take more like 25 to 40 hours. There are 10 secondary quests, each of which is quite massive."And, in common with the TV series, there will be some adult content, although toned down sufficiently to attract a 15 certificate. There are, at least, two brothels in the game.While it may not have the most promising of pedigrees, Game of Thrones is clearly being turned into a game for the right reason – a love of George RR Martin's fantasy world – rather than some sort of marketing-led contractual obligation. And if it turns out to be good, it could massively raise the profiles of Cyanide Studio and Koch Media.
It's the news everyone who's seen the Avengers movie has been waiting for – there's a game tie-in coming. Well... kind of. Ubisoft has just announcedMarvel Avengers: Battle for Earth, set to launch on Xbox Kinect and the Nintendo Wii U in the autumn.However, while the game is based around the characters from the hit film, there's no connection with the movie plot itself. Instead Battle For Earth follows the comic book's Secret Invasion storyline and is set to feature 20 different characters, including Iron Man, Hulk, Captain America and Thor, as well as a selection of other "fan-favorite" super heroes and super villains from the Marvel Universe.Development duties have gone to Ubisoft Quebec, previously responsible for PowerUp Heroes and the Black-Eyed Peas Experience as well as some work on the Assassin's Creed series. The emphasis will, of course, be very much on "motion-controlled gaming". Possibly throwing Captain America's shield? Stamping on things and shouting 'Hulk mad!'? Pretending to hit things with a hammer? Frankly the possibilities are limited. Sorry, limitless.The Avengers movie is rare in that ithasn'tbeen accompanied by a direct game conversion – the recent Thor and Captain America flicks both received tie-ins courtesy of Sega. However, this is not a first – a loose adaptation of the Dark Knight movie was in development at EA's Pandemic studio, but the project was never released and the studio was closed in 2009.There will no doubt be more info on Marvel Avengers: Battle for Earth at E3 next month...
A selection of 16 new and notable apps today:The Silver Goat MovieThe Silver Goat claims to be "the first film in the world exclusively created for iPad", shot in London by filmmaker Aaron Brookner. The plotline promises "a psychological romance fused with dark comedy".iPadStorypandaiPad app Storypanda wants children to get creative, writing their own stories as interactive books, which can then be shared with other users of the app. The app also functions as a story-store, offering paid and free books for in-app download every month.iPadCity A.M. for iPhoneUpdate:City A.M. has contacted us to say the app's launch was an error – it's not being released yet, so has been removed from the App Store.London's financial newspaper City A.M. has a new iPhone app, offering each daily edition as well as news updates throughout the day. The puzzling thing: City A.M. is a free newspaper in its physical form, but the app costs £22.99.iPhonePrincess Petal and the TrapdoorAttic Sound &amp; Music's new book-app for iPad tells the tale of a princess who "doesn't want to stay in her room", with voice narration from CBeebies presenter Cerrie Burnell.iPadTotal FilmFuture has relaunched its Total Film iOS app with more interactivity, animation and full-screen film trailers. The new 'interactive edition' is being created using Future's own FutureFolio software.iPhone / iPadMog the Forgetful CatHarperCollins' latest book-app for kids focuses on memory-challenged cat Mog, who annoys her owners right up to the point where she foils a burglary (*cough* SPOILER!). The app animates the book's illustrations, while enabling multiple grown-ups and/or children to record voice narration and video.iPhone / iPadCoinKeeperExpense-tracking app CoinKeeper has launched on Android, offering a way for people to keep track of their daily spending, with multiple accounts and currencies supported.AndroidMole DetectiveMole Detective is the latest example of an app that aims to provide an early warning of skin cancer by taking photos of moles, and comparing theirm over time.AndroidEat Restaurant FinderAppdragon's new Android app catalogues more than 5,000 restaurants and cafes in the UK, showing their menus, photos and locations. The app also promises discounts, vouchers and loyalty schemes.AndroidAge of SorceryThere's some good buzz building around Age of Sorcery, a free massively multiplayer online game for Windows Phone with bags of monsters, magic and exploration.Windows PhonePunch HeroGamevil's latest iOS game takes inspiration from classic title Punch-Out, giving it a freemium twist with purchases of stars and gold in-game.iPhone / iPadHead Over Heels: ZX SpectrumGamers of a certain age will need no introduction to Head Over Heels, a pioneering isometric title that saw you switching between two characters to solve puzzles. The link above is for the iPhone version of this ZX Spectrum emulation, but there'salso an iPad edition.iPhone / iPadMCN Sport digital editionMagazine publisher Bauer Media has a new iPad app for its MCN magazine, covering all things two-wheeled and motorsporty. Published four times a year, the app sells issues for £4.99 or £17.99 for an annual subscription.iPadMy L'Oréal ColoristThis is a US-only app for cosmetics brand L'Oréal that gets people to scan boxes of hair dye in-store, then answer questions to "see if it's the best shade for you".iPhoneTheSiliconRoundabout AppNews from the five-square-mile startups cluster in east London? This app's got it. It's aggregating stories on startups big and small, although it might want to check its reference to Hammersmith-headquartered Shazam on its About page...iPhoneKLIKHow to stand out in the crowded photo-sharing market? KLIK is using facial recognition to make it faster for users to tag their Facebook friends. Editing filters are included too.iPhone
