Streaming music service Spotify is thought to bepreparing to go public later in 2014, but there&apos;s an alternative: getting bought by a bigger technology company. One in particular is in the frame: Google.Technology news site Recode reported on Monday that Google&apos;s current chief business officer, Omid Kordestani – who describes himself on his LinkedIn profile as the company&apos;s &quot;business founder&quot; – isjoining Spotify&apos;s board of directors.A day later, the Wall Street Journal claimed thatGoogle has already tried to buy Spotify, late in 2013, before being put off by the company&apos;s desired $10bn+ price tag, as well as Google boss Larry Page&apos;s &quot;lack of enthusiasm for subscription entertainment services&quot;.Recode followed up with a dismissal of that report– &quot;there have been neither formal nor informal discussions between the companies about an acquisition, directly or indirectly&quot; – but the amount of smoke around the question suggests at least a spark, ready to ignite at some point.Why would Google want to buy Spotify though? Here are a few reasons why this particular rumour is being taken seriously within the technology and music industries.1. Spotify is the biggest subscription streaming music serviceI&apos;ve chosen those words carefully, because the world&apos;s biggest streaming music service is YouTube – a big chunk of its 1bn monthly visitors are watching music videos – while even if you discount videos, SoundCloud (which claims to reach 250m monthly listeners) is arguably the biggest audio streaming music service.ButSpotify has 40m active users and 10m paying subscribers, with the latter figure making it the biggest brand in subscription-based streaming music. That&apos;s double the paying customers of rival Deezer (5m), while rivals like Rhapsody (1.7m), Beats Music (unknown) and Rdio (likewise) are some way behind.If a big company wanted to get into streaming music, snapping up one of those smaller fish – as Apple did with Beats Music – is a sensible option. But if someone wanted to make a splash and pick up the biggest brand, Spotify is the obvious choice.Why Google might not buy:The biggest subscription music company comes with the biggest price tag: Google may be one of the richest technology companies in the world, but that doesn&apos;t rule out rejecting $10bn as too much to pay.Google recently bought personal radio app Songza.2. Google has been in the market for a streaming acquisitionYes, even though it already owns YouTube and is working on launching a paid subscription option for music on it. Yes, even though Google also owns Google Play Music All Access, a direct competitor to Spotify launched out of its Android business.Oh, and yes, even thoughGoogle paid a rumoured $39m for Songza, another streaming music service, earlier this month. That&apos;s three streaming music services and counting, even if Songza is different: a &quot;personal radio&quot; service based on themed playlists rather than Spotify-style &quot;on demand&quot; listening.&quot;Music industry sources say Google is in the market for a streaming music service and has been quietly surveying the landscape as the sector explodes,&quot;suggested a report in the New York Postin early June, citing fears within Google that &quot;Spotify gets so big no one can catch them&quot;.This month&apos;s Recode and Wall Street Journal stories both suggest that YouTube&apos;s new boss Susan Wojcicki – a Google veteran – may be most open to the idea of buying Spotify, while news this week that the executive in charge of YouTube&apos;s upcoming subscription service isleaving the companysuggests that the company&apos;s strategy isn&apos;t as set-in-stone as you might expect.Why Google might not buy:It could spend several billion dollars fusing its existing streaming services into a powerful single player instead. Songza could be the final piece in that puzzle, not a stepping stone to a Spotify acquisition.3. Spotify has good relationships with the music industryGoogle&apos;s relationship with the music industry has been challenging, to say the least. Industry bodies like the UK&apos;s BPI and US&apos; RIAA have beenattacking Google for years over the role its search engine plays in online piracy.YouTube, meanwhile, has been taking lots of flak recently for the contract it sent out to independent labels for the upcoming subscription service. Indie trade bodies WIN and Impala have filed a complaint with the European Commission about this, claiming their members are beingbullied into signing an unfair contractwith the threat that their videos will be removed from YouTube if they don&apos;t.Beyond these specific rows, though, there&apos;s a simmering distrust of Google within many quarters of the music industry, even though there is also recognition of the hard work being done by some within the company: the creator relations people at YouTube and the team running Google Play&apos;s music aspects.Spotify? A number of musicians have criticised the company publicly, but when it comes to labels and publishers, it has a much better reputation. That includes many independent labels, stretching back to the way Spotify signed a deal with their licensing agency Merlin before it launched, including giving it some equity in the company.Within the industry, Spotify is seen as a &quot;good actor&quot; by more people – not just major labels – than Google. Buying Spotify could be an (admittedly expensive) way of rebooting that relationship.Why Google might not buy:Rather than improve Google&apos;s reputation, buying Spotify risks being seen in some quarters as an axis of music-value-destroying evil (seethis piece from music industry attorney Chris Castle– one of Google&apos;s fiercer critics from the music world – for an early glimpse of that backlash.)Spotify has signed up more than 10m paying subscribers.4. Spotify understands subscription-based entertainmentLarry Page may have a &quot;lack of enthusiasm for subscription entertainment services&quot;, but it&apos;s also fair to suggest that his company has a lack of experience in making those kind of services work.YouTube has had subscriptions available for individual video channels since May 2013, but they don&apos;t appear to have set the online world alight. Google Play Music All Access&apos; figures are unknown.Android&apos;s Google Play app store might havepaid out $5bn to developers in the last year, but Apple paid out $10bn from sales of apps and in-app purchases to a much smaller number of customers. In short, Google&apos;s strength remains making money through advertising, not subscriptions or purchases.Spotify has nearly six years&apos; experience in a subscription entertainment business, including figuring out how to turn non-paying ad-funded users into paying customers. That knowledge could be hugely valuable to Google beyond music, if the company is serious about these kinds of models.Why Google might not buy:It has the resources to hire in a bunch of people who DO understand subscription entertainment. Also, there&apos;s the question of whether Google&apos;s CEO will rule out a move in that direction, as per the WSJ report.5. Apple is preparing to make its big move in streaming musicApple&apos;s big move in streaming music wasn&apos;tlaunching iTunes Radio, another personal radio service, and it wasn&apos;t agreeing topay $3bn for the parent company of Beats Music. It&apos;s what happens next: how iTunes Radio and Beats Music sit alongside one another (or, as seems more likely, merge) and roll out around the world.From CEO Tim Cook down, Apple executives have a mantra when it comes to music being &quot;part of Apple&apos;s DNA&quot;, even if music is actually less important than apps nowadays in both direct revenues for Apple, and the indirect ability to sell more devices.iTunes remains the biggest music downloads store in the world, but there is growing evidence that music downloads may have already peaked and tipped over into decline, hastened by the growth of streaming. $3bn spent on Beats suggests Apple&apos;s move to counter that threat will be big and bold.Why does this mean Google might buy Spotify? Because if Apple throws its weight behind Beats Music – imagine the potential for bundling a subscription into every iOS device – one way for Android to battle that would be with the biggest streaming music brand in the world.Why Google might not buy:Google Play Music All Access could and should be Android&apos;s launchpad to compete with Apple on music, if the smartphone war moves in that direction. Or YouTube&apos;s new service, of course.Could Mark Zuckerberg beat Larry Page to buy Spotify? Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images6. If Google doesn&apos;t buy Spotify, Facebook mightOnline chatter about a company&apos;s forthcoming IPO can be just what it seems: information leaking out about a forthcoming IPO. But it can also be mightily useful for smoking out potential acquirers who might want to whisk in with a big offer before it goes public.So, Spotify. For several years now, Facebook has seemed the more obvious ultimate exit for Spotify and its investors.The two companies have had a tight relationship since beforeDaniel Ek was the only digital music executive to appear on-stage with Mark Zuckerbergas he announced the company&apos;s new &quot;open graph&quot; platform in September 2011, and in tech mogul Sean Parker they share an investor and senior adviser.There are two notable strands to Facebook&apos;s recent corporate strategy: its willingness to take big bets on acquisitions ($1bn on Instagram,$2bn on Oculus VRand$19bn on WhatsApp) andits moves towards &quot;unbundling the big blue app&quot; on mobile devices, launching what Zuckerberg has described as &quot;single-purpose first-class experiences... the best tools to share with different size, groups and in different contexts&quot;.If Facebook decides music is one of those single-purpose experiences it needs to own, Spotify would be the logical choice. And the prospect of a Facebook-owned Spotify might be just the thing to nudge Google into making its own offer for the company.Seeformer CEO Eric Schmidt&apos;s admission in 2009that the company deliberately overpaid around $1bn for YouTube because &quot;we believed that there would be a competing offer&quot; for past evidence of its willingness to move quickly in these situations. And then think about why it might be useful to have your chief business officer on the board of the company you might want to acquire before rivals...Why Google might not buy:Well, why Facebook might not buy – its appetite for multi-billion acquisitions may have eased for now. While Google&apos;s YouTube overpayment worked out well, that doesn&apos;t mean Page and co would stump up over the odds for Spotify in any bidding war.7. Google might be the answer to Spotify&apos;s profitability challengesSpotify is growing fast: up from 24m users and 6m subscribers in March 2013 to 40m and 10m respectively in May 2014. But the company still looks a long way from being profitable: it pays out 70% of its income to music rightsholders as royalties, and its losses increased from €45.4m in 2011 to €58.7m in 2012.Streaming music is a financial sinkhole, as much due to the costs of expanding globally and the technical costs of hosting and streaming the music as to the royalties.The companies involved – Spotify included – see this as a necessary step towards a future where the economics do start to work, but there is still a big debate about when (or whether) this will happen.This is why Spotify might sell to Google, rather than why Google might buy Spotify. But if there&apos;s any sense that, several huge funding rounds down the line and with the prospect of going public bringing even more public scrutiny of its economics, Spotify might be open to an acquisition, that may nudge Google into action.Why Google might not buy:It has plenty on its hands grappling with music industry economics with the YouTube subscription service. Also, struggling with profitability isn&apos;t a barrier to Spotify going public: in the US, personal radio service Pandora has made regular losses, while Twitter is a prominent non-music example.•Five big challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music•Strong growth for streaming in 2013, but global music sales fell•What&apos;s next for Spotify? Going &apos;beyond the Play button&apos;•Zoe Keating reveals iTunes, Spotify and YouTube payouts•Why aren&apos;t Swedish indie labels celebrating Spotify&apos;s success?
Google is being hauled in front of European data protection regulators on Thursday to explain its handling of the “right to be forgotten”ruling by the European Court of Justice(ECJ).The ECJ ruling meant that EU citizens had the right to request that information online that is inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive be removed from search listings and other non-media websites.Google&apos;s interpretation has been a high publicity approach, encouraging a wide debate about the complexity of the ruling and introducing a removal request form to its website.The company is judging each case independently, and then removing some requested links from search results that specifically mention the relevant name and subject.&apos;They&apos;re going to have to do some tidying up&apos;&quot;Google is a massive commercial organisation making millions and millions out of processing people&apos;s personal information. They&apos;re going to have to do some tidying up,” the Information Commissioner Christopher Grahamtold Radio 5 liveThursday morning.Google will join Microsoft and Yahoo in a meeting in Brussels today to discuss the fallout from the ruling and the actions taken to respond to the ruling. The Guardian understands that Google has seen regulators privately and publicly applying pressure, given their dissatisfaction over its methods, including its notification of websites on removal of their links from the search index.Googlereceived more 12,000 requestsfor link removals within 24 hours of its European web form to handle requests being online. That number rose to 70,000 removal requests in less than two months. Google began removing links, includingthose to Guardianarticles,in June.&apos;All this talk about rewriting history&apos;Many have seen the removals as censorship, with websitesset up to expose those linksthat have been removed under the ruling. The alerts over link removals have also caused news organisations to highlight the removals meaning that those seeking to be “forgotten” end up back in the public eye.&quot;All this talk about rewriting history and airbrushing embarrassing bits from your past - this is nonsense, that&apos;s not going to happen,&quot; Graham said discounting fears that removal of links from search impacted the wealth of public knowledge.The meeting of regulators and search companies, known as the Article 29 Working Party, could place further restrictions and give strict guidance on how Google and other search engines respond to removal requests.Google publicly expressed dismay on the ECJ’s ruling. Former chief executive Eric Schmidtsaid in May that“Google believes, having looked at the decision which is binding, that the balance that was struck was wrong.”Larry Page, Google chief executive, alsoexpressed concernthat the ruling will be “used by other governments that aren’t as forward and progressive as Europe to do bad things&quot;, though has since distanced himself from that position.Google initially made it known that a paedophile, politician and doctor were among the initial removal requests, but has since acknowledged more diverse and compelling claims.&quot;The issues at stake here are important and difficult, but we&apos;re committed to complying with the court&apos;s decision,&quot;wrote David Drummond, Google&apos;s legal officer.&quot;Indeed, it&apos;s hard not to empathise with some of the requests that we&apos;ve seen – from the man who asked that we do not show a news article saying that he had been questioned in connection with a crime (he&apos;s able to demonstrate that he was never charged) to the mother who requested that we remove news articles for her daughter&apos;s name as she had been the victim of abuse.&quot;Google’s link removals only affect its website domains within Europe, with the links still visible on sites likegoogle.comoutside the Union.•A manifesto for the future of the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; debate
Microsoft’s latest Lumia 930 top-end smartphone is still a Nokia for now, and shows promise as a viable competitor in the flagship smartphone battle with Apple, Samsung, HTC and Sony.Aluminium meets glass and plasticThe Lumia 930 is another example of Nokia’s legendary hardware build quality. It’s solid, gives the impression it could take a knock or two without issue and feels nice in the hand.An aluminium band around the outside meets Gorilla Glass on the front and a quality soft touch plastic on the back – in this case bright green. The screen has a sculpted edge that tapers down to the aluminium side, which feels nice to the fingers as they slide across it, but makes me worry that the main screen area could get more easily scratched if the 930 was placed on its screen.Aluminium edges contain Nokia's characteristic colourful plastic back, which isn't removable. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt’s about as different as a black slab smartphone can get, and while I think it looks fresh and interesting not everyone will like the hard aluminium edges and vibrant colour scheme.The excellent 5in full HD OLED display is vibrant, crisp and bright (although very reflective outdoors making it slightly difficult to read), but makes the 930 a big phone. Those upgrading from an iPhone 5 will feel it’s enormous, but it has a slightly smaller profile than the Samsung Galaxy S5 and other large Android phones.Weighing 167g it’s also quite heavy compared to all the current crop of competing Android smartphones, 4g heavier than theSony Xperia Z2, 7g heavier than theHTC One M8, 22g heavier than theGalaxy S5and 37g heavier than theGoogle Nexus 5. It’s also heavier than the 139g Lumia 925 that came before it.The Lumia 930 feels reassuringly weighty, but isn’t too heavy in the hand or pocket, although it might be too big for some.SpecificationsScreen:5in full HD OLEDProcessor:2.2 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:32GBOperating system:Windows Phone 8.1Camera:20-megapixel PureView camera, 1MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:137 x 71 x 9.8mmWeight:167gWireless charging built-inOne of the benefits of Windows Phone is that almost all Windows Phones feel alike in their operation. The Lumia 930 has a powerful processor, but it doesn’t feel any faster or zippier than previous models.Multitasking is handled with aplomb and no unintentional lag was noticeable anywhere in while using the phone. Some of Windows Phone’s animations take some time to do their thing, making getting into and out of menus take a bit longer than you’d expect, but that is Microsoft’s choice on the software side.Volume, power and a dedicated shutter button sit in the right-hand edge of the Microsoft smartphone. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe powerful processor does come into its own when dealing with photos and advanced affects, which are chewed through in record time.On paper the Lumia 930 has a fairly small 2,420mAh battery compared with its size (the Galaxy S5 has a 2,800mAh cell), but the Windows Phone manages to last a good day in use with lots of email arriving throughout the day, a bit of Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, as well as a few short videos and an hour or two of listening to music.Some other larger smartphones will make it through two days, with most benefiting from more power efficient newer processors, but the Lumia does have built-in Qi wireless charging.With a wireless charger in the box, there is certainly some joy and convenience to be had just plonking the phone on a pad to charge at night instead of having to scrummage around for a microUSB cable in the dark.Nokia’s battery-saving mode, which limits the number of apps that can run in the background, helps extend battery life without inhibiting functionality too badly and can be switched on automatically when battery charge is low.Windows Phone 8.1 - the best yetThe Lumia 930 runs Microsoft’s latest Windows Phone 8.1 software, which is a big step forward to catching up to Android and the iPhone in terms of usability.The live tiles on the home screen are a cross between small widgets displaying at-a-glance information and app icons. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe unique cross between app icons and widgets called live tiles are great, showing at-a-glance information. Microsoft has added a proper notifications shade that pulls down from the top of the screen complete with quick settings for turning Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, flight mode and rotation lock on and off.One particularly nice feature is that the wallpaper on the home screen slides behind the tiles, some of which are transparent giving making them look like little windows. It’s a small thing, but a nice touch.The majority of the rest of the software works as well as Android or iOS. There aren’t any customisable keyboards, but Microsoft’s built in one is decent. With a lot of apps installed the list of all apps is rather long and tedious to navigate.The app list scrolls on forever if you have a decent amount of apps installed. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianMicrosoft’s worked hard to bring big-name apps to Windows Phone, and for the most part it has succeeded. Spotify, BBC iPlayer, Netflix, Evernote Instagram, Facebook and Twitter are all there. I missed Pocket (the saved for later app), Marvel Unlimited and Google’s apps like Google Maps and Hangouts.Microsoft’s apps are solid, including Office and OneDrive (the service formerly known as SkyDrive). Nokia’s Here Maps works well, with decent offline maps too, plus Nokia’s MixRadio, which isabout to be spun out into a separate company, is a particular standout.Games, on the other hand, aren’t up to par with Android or Apple’s iOS. There are some games, but the majority of the good ones aren’t available on Windows Phone yet. Microsoft might sort that out with better Xbox integration, but it hasn’t yet.Great cameraThe Lumia 930's camera is one of its best features combining Zeiss optics including optical image stabilisation and a 20-megapixel sensor. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Lumia 930 has the same 20-megapixel “Pureview” cameraas the Lumia 1520with a two-stage shutter button like a compact camera. While not quite as powerful as the 41 megapixel monster on the Lumia 1020, it is still one of the best cameras on a smartphone.Nokia uses “supersampling” to make a 5MP image from a 20MP sensor – which removes artefacts from images – but also gives users the option of accessing the full image. Low light performance is good aided by optical image stabilisation to prevent shake blur, as is detail, saturation and colour accuracy in good light.Nokia’s Pro Camera app is great, providing both a simple but intelligent point-and-shoot experience, as well as every option a camera phone photographer is likely to want, all clustered under an intuitive ring interface.Nokia’s Refocus app also allows users to refocus images after taking them, just like every high-end smartphone seems to do these days.Outdoors the screen is highly reflective making it quite difficult to see when in direct sunlight, even with the brightness on maximum. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianPriceThe Lumia 930 is a high-end smartphone – the top of Microsoft’s current lineup – but costs from around £440. Officially it costs £550 direct from Microsoft,Nokia’s website has multiple listingsfrom resellers for £440, which undercuts quite a lot of the competition including the Sony Xperia Z2, iPhone 5S and HTC One M8.Verdict: solid for something a bit differentThe 5in smartphone is considerably bigger than an iPhone, but is about the same size as the current crop of flagship Android smartphones. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Lumia 930 is the best Windows Phone yet. It looks as unique as a black slab can, is solidly built and will appeal to those looking for something a bit different. It’s even got an FM radio, which is becoming rarer these days.Windows Phone 8.1 is the best version of Microsoft’s software to date, catching up on some features while most of the biggest apps are there, unless you’re tied into Google’s services. Some users will miss the games and other less mainstream apps, while you’ll also have to put up with coming third when it comes to app updates.Overall, the Lumia 930 is a solid phone, but not a remarkable one. Worth buying if you’re looking for something different, but there are better smartphones around for the same amount of money.Pros:Great camera, wireless charging, 32GB of storage, Nokia apps, solid buildCons:Lack of games, lack of non-mainstream apps, reflective screen makes outdoor viewing more difficultOther reviews•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster - but still plastic•Sony Xperia Z2 review: powerful, waterproof, but just a tad too big•Moto G review: the best smartphone you can buy for £135•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•iPhone 5S review: Apple&apos;s best is all about fingerprints and software
The European Central Bank (ECB) has been hacked, with attackers stealing email addresses and contact data from the organisation&apos;s public website.In a statement, the bank said that no internal systems or market sensitive data were compromised. &quot;The database serves parts of the ECB website that gather registrations for events such as ECB conferences and visits. It is physically separate from any internal ECB systems.&quot;The bank says that &quot;most&quot; of the stolen data was encrypted, but that parts of the databases including email addresses, some street addresses and phone numbers were stored in plaintext. Also stolen, in encrypted form, was &quot;data on downloads from the ECB website&quot;.The break-in was only discovered when the thief emailed the bank to ask for financial compensation for the data. The bank is contacting all people whose email addresses or other data may have been compromised.In March 2014, Russia&apos;s central bank fell prey to a different hacking attack, with a denial of service attack causing the site to stumble under the weight of traffic. That attack came in the run up to its quarterly interest rate decision.Aseparate denial of service attacktook down China&apos;s central bank in December 2013. The attack was widely pinned on bitcoin advocates, angry at the country&apos;s attempts to clamp down on the cryptocurrency.•Police arrest suspects in StubHub ticket site fraud investigation
Blizzard has introduced theCurse of Naxxramas, the first major expansion for Hearthstone, its collectible card game on iPad, PC and Mac.The free-to-play expansion bolsters the single player mode of the game, introducing players to the five wings of Naxxramas, an ancient necropolis ruled by the archlich Kel&apos;Thuzad.In practical terms, that means that players duel against several new AI decks and heroes, winning rewards such as new legendary cards, class-specific spells and minions, and a unique set of art for the backs of their decks.Released on Wednesday, the first &quot;wing&quot; of the expansion is free to play for the first month, and includes three new opponents: the Spider Lord Anub&apos;Rekhan, Grand Widow Faerlina, and the wing boss Maexxna the spider queen. Beating each of them grants the player a new pair of cards, and winning against all three unlocks Maexxna herself as a legendary card.Beating the three bosses also unlocks two of the expansion&apos;s class challenges, for Rogue and Druid, which give players pre-made decks and challenge them to beat an opponent tailored to exploit their strengths and weaknesses, as well as a heroic mode which cranks the difficult up to ludicrous levels.Over the next five weeks, the other four wings will be opened up to the public, and players can buy entry for real money or in-game gold. A single wing will cost £4.99 or 700 gold, while there are discounts for buying multiple wings at once. Once the launch month ends, the overall price of all five wings will max out at £17.49.First thoughtsThe first pass through the dungeon won&apos;t keep many players occupied for that long. With a moderately rounded deck, it&apos;s perfectly possible to beat each of the bosses on the first try, and there&apos;s little reason to replay them once you&apos;re done.But the class challenge and heroic modes offer more prospects for long-term fun. The pre-made decks of the former are worth playing with several times just to get a sense of the sort of deck-building enabled by the new cards offered in the expansion.As for the latter … look, you aren&apos;t going to beat it for a while. One of the bosses in heroic mode has a hero power that lets them return two of your cards to your hand. It costs zero mana. It will annihilate you.But in the long term, the effect of Naxxramas is likely to be in the cards it adds to the pool. There&apos;s a strong theme of death running throughout, with most of the new minions having &quot;deathrattle&quot; effects, which fire when they&apos;re killed, and by the end of the expansion, there will be a further six legendary cards available to all.Moreover, the expansion effectively changes the model of the game&apos;s new cards from that of a collectible card game – where players buy packs of five random cards out of a total pool of 250 – to something more like a &quot;Living Card Game&quot;, of the sort used in games such as the Game of Thrones and Star Wars card games. Once Naxxramas has been out for a while, every player will have access to the same pool of 30 cards, with a fair few extremely strong contenders. That could have the effect of dampening some of the game&apos;s more unsavoury pay-to-win elements (where those players who have invested hundreds of pounds in new cards wind up with a hefty advantage in PvP play).The big downside of the expansion? It makes the unnecessary restriction against offline play much more painful. Offering strong, fun AI opponents to play against should make the game the perfect companion for flight, or a quick journey underground. Instead, it just makes Blizzard feel a bit money-grubbing.•Hearthstone gaming tournament bans women players igniting sexism row
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThis MP Wants People Who Steal World Of Warcraft Weapons To Be Punished Like Real-Life Thieves &gt;&gt;&gt; BuzzfeedMike Weatherley, who is also David Cameron&apos;s chief advisor on intellectual property, asked ministers to consider new laws so that &quot;people who steal online items in video games with a real-world monetary value receive the same sentences as criminals who steal real-world items of the same monetary value&quot;. The Conservative MP, who himself plays the fantasy role-playing game Warcraft, told BuzzFeed that players sometimes spend large amounts of real world money on in-game items.The far more pertinent question for most, of course, would be whether conventional property rights can be extended to digital downloads from sites such as iTunes or Amazon. That would obviously affect criminals who steal accounts - but it would also pose thorny questions for the companies who sell such digital property, and have got used to being able to impose restrictions on their use and sale.NVIDIA&apos;s new Shield is a tablet built for gaming &gt;&gt;&gt; EngadgetShield Tablet dumps the original Shield&apos;s 5-inch screen in favor of a bigger 8-inch, 1080p display, swaps the original Tegra 4 in favor of K1 and drops the controller bit entirely. Should you wish to pair a controller with Shield Tablet and NVIDIA thinks you should the company&apos;s making one (it&apos;s even got WiFi Direct for lower latency than Bluetooth), but it&apos;s totally optional and doesn&apos;t come packed in with the tablet. So, what is this thing? Who is it for? And is it any good?Android gaming isn&apos;t quite as big as it is on the iPhone and iPad, mainly because developers have struggled in the past to deal with the various device specifications. The original Shield was great, let&apos;s hope the tablet is too.A brand new Foursquare, with a brand new logo and look, is almost ready for you &gt;&gt;&gt; The Foursquare BlogEveryone explores the world differently - guided by their own unique tastes, their friends, and the people they trust. Local search has never been good at this. It doesn&apos;t get you, and, as a result, everyone gets the same one-size-fits-all results. Why should two very different people get the same recommendations when they visit Paris? Or the same list of places when they&apos;re looking for a bar? We&apos;re about to change that. In a couple weeks, we&apos;re rolling out a brand new version of Foursquare that&apos;s all about you. Tell us what you like, and we&apos;ll be on the lookout for great places that match your tastes, wherever you are.The first part of the Big Foursquare Relaunch was splitting the app in half, moving checkins over to the new Swarm app. This is the second half. But they&apos;ve got an uphill struggle, after existing users rebelled over the change.You can try Apple&apos;s OS X Yosemite beta starting from tomorrow &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarThe beta is totally free but you&apos;ll need to sign up over on Apple&apos;s site. Remember though, this is still in development, so you can expect a few bugs and crashes. In fact, Apple recommends installing it on a secondary Mac in case, you know, you&apos;ve just got one lying around.You do have a spare Mac, right? Still, it&apos;ll be interesting to see what&apos;s genuinely useful in all that new stuff.Surprise: Snapchat&apos;s most popular feature isn&apos;t snaps anymore &gt;&gt;&gt; The VergeSnapchat says that its most popular feature is now its most public, least ephemeral one: Stories. Snapchat tells The Verge that more Stories are now viewed per day than snaps. One billion Stories are viewed per day, the company says, up from 500 million just two months ago. If you&apos;re not familiar, Snapchat&apos;s Stories feature launched late last year and lets users create compilations of snaps that last 24 hours. Stories are only be viewable by friends, unless you change a setting to let anyone who adds you view your Stories.Watch out for Facebook&apos;s new &quot;Tales&quot; feature, coming soon to Slingshot.Microsoft unsheathes cheap Android-killer: Behold, the Lumia 530 &gt;&gt;&gt; The RegisterThe 530 is a smaller device than the Lumia 520 or recently launched Lumia 630/635, with a 4-inch display. Yet it still packs a quad core processor and can take memory cards of up to 128GB. As with the 520 and 630, the designer omits a front-facing camera and LED flash. A dual-SIM variant will be available in some markets. It bundles offline maps, free navigation and an Office client, with some 15GB cloud storage for new users. As you&apos;d expect, it&apos;s 2G and 3G only, not LTE.The Lumia 630 was decent, but not spectacular. Will the Lumia 530 beat Motorola&apos;s £80 Moto E? It&apos;ll be difficult. Microsoft killed off the Nokia X line to do this though.New Xiaomi Mi Band is ridiculously cheap &gt;&gt;&gt; CNETThe Mi Band will retail for the ridiculously low price of just 79RMB (which converts to $13, £7.5, AU$13.5). It has a 30 day battery life, which is impressive compared to some of the smartwatches and fitness bands on the market today. It also doubles up as a discrete alarm clock.When simplicity is the key, why does it have to cost hundreds?Did HTC just leak its own smartwatch? &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarAt first glance it looks a tad like the first-gen TomTom Runner, but zoom in and this is definitely a UWO (Unidentified Wearable Object).HTC&apos;s been rumoured to be creating a watch for a while now. Some expected it at MWC in February, and then again at the MTC One M8 launch. HTC&apos;s smartphone hardware is some of the best in the business, perhaps its smartwatch will be too.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Facebook comfortably beat Wall Street expectations on Wednesday, announcing that its once-struggling mobile business now accounts for 62% of advertising revenues.“We had a good second quarter,” said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook&apos;s founder and CEO. “Our community has continued to grow, and we see a lot of opportunity ahead as we connect the rest of the world.”Revenue for the quarter ending June 30 totalled $2.91bn, an increase of 61% over the $1.81bn reported in the same quarter of 2013. Excluding the impact of year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates, Facebook said revenue would have increased by 59%.The social network announced net income of $791m for the latest quarter, up 138% compared to $333m for the same period last year.The number of Facebook’s monthly active users reached 1.32bn as of June 30 an increase of 14% year-over-year. The number of daily users was 829m, up 19% year on year. Facebook said the number of mobile users topped 1.07bn at the end of June.On a conference call with analysts Zuckerberg said people in the US spend nine hours a day on digital media, but less than an hour on Facebook. “One thing that’s exciting is there is still so much room to grow,” he said.Advertising revenue rose 67% to $2.68bn compared to the same quarter last year. Doubts about Facebook’s ability to make money from adverts on mobile, the fastest growing area for the company, were a major factor in the company’s embarrassing share price collapse after its initial public offering in May 2012. Mobile ads now account for 62% of ad revenue, up from 41% for the same quarter last year.Research firm eMarketer calculates that Facebook accounted for a 5.8% of worldwide digital advertising revenues in 2013, up from 4.10% in 2012. It is expected to reach nearly 8% by the end of this year. Digital advertising spending globally increased 14.8% to $120.1bn in 2013 and is expected to grow another 16.7% this year to reach $140.2bn.Facebook is almost entirely reliant on advertising for revenues. Payments and other fees totalled $234m in the quarter, a 9% increase from the same quarter last year. But there are signs that it is looking to broaden its income streams by adding more e-commerce to the site.Earlier this month Facebook announced the introduction of a “buy” button that will allow users to purchase items in adverts or other posts without leaving the social network.Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg said the buy button was a “small experiment.” “Commerce is really important to us,” she said. &quot;But I don’t think people should confuse this with Facebook selling things directly.”Forrester research analyst Melissa Parrish said the results were impressive but she was keen to see how Facebook would differentiate itself from other advertisers. “Mobile advertising is potentially really interesting,” she said. “At the moment its ads that get you to click to download other people’s apps. That makes sense but there are only so many apps people want to download.”She said Facebook was one of the very few companies positioned to take mobile advertising to the next level which she said consisted of “deeply integrated, highly personalised, content-based ad products.”
Aleks Krotoskiis joined byJemima Kiss,Samuel Gibbsand Alex Hern. The tech team discuss a series of recent updates by key online services including Amazon's subscription book service, Twitter's enhanced chat function and Facebook's "buy" button.Also the team discussEdward Snowden's recent address to the Hope conference in New York, in which he appealed to developers and hackers to use their skills to enhance our privacy online and protect our digital rights.The team look at the curtailing of data by the Irish government, which deemed that its genealogy portal was in some cases breaching people's privacy.Finally Aleks talks to psychologistProf Monica Whitty, an expert in digitally mediated relationships and author of Cyberspace Romance: The Psychology of Online Relationships. Monica discusses the recent spate of films such asSpike Jonze's Her andTerry Gilliam's The Zero Theorem, which delve into our growing reliance on the digital world for emotional fulfilment.  Also Monica discusses her work into the cyber-crime of online romance scams and the destructive power of these virtual relationships.
Are your eyeballs, or the eyeballs of your family, constantly glued to a screen? Do your fingers have more contact with your digital devices than they do with, well, anything? You, like many other people in the clutches of the digital age, may be a tech addict. But the New Forest has a solution:the Tech Creche.The Tech Creche is a place where you and your family can surrender your digital devices and car keys, and skip off for a tech-free family day in the New Forest National Park. Enjoy activities from days of old – like chatting, making eye contact, and not Googling things you wonder about (instead of saying, "I guess we'll never know!" you can say "We'll Google it later, just look at the damn birds.")You might think you could create your own tech creche by leaving all your devices at home when you go out for a day with the family. But many of us just can't, and only use the off switch when it loses signal and needs the trusty off-and-on-again treatment.People's inability to turn off their devices is giving rise to ventures like theOFF Pocket, a phone case that blocks wireless signals. It's marketed as a counter-surveillance tool, but also "an easy way to disconnect". You know what else is an easy way to disconnect? Turning off the phone. It takes two seconds – far fewer seconds than it takes to order and wait for delivery.Or why not lock yourself in a room without signal, along the lines of thebaby-on-the-ceiling detox scene in Trainspotting? Canadian artist Julien F Thomas teamed up with an architecture firm in Vancouver to create the Faraday Cafe. It's basically a Faraday cage: the cafe's walls block all electromagnetic radiation, effectively turning your smartphone into nothing more than an expensive MP3 player. If your tech addiction has such a grip that you need to hole up in a box for a break, surely you'll snap, order your coffee to go, and leg it back to signilisation (yes, that is the word "signal" merged with "civilisation", because tech addiction).The underlying fear that technology hogs too much of our attention has led businesses to repackage off switches, airplane mode and the idea of leaving devices at home and sell them all back to us. They've rebranded the forest as a place for your digital detox, a phone case as a way to escape being "found", and a cafe as a place where you'd be a master conversationalist and world-class poet if only you could just ditch the device.
Dropbox has announced new features that it hopes will entice more users to its services for businesses, introducing passwords and expiry dates to help control access to shared documents, and a view only option.The file storage and sharing tool has made significant investment in its search facility, making it faster on mobile devices and at scale, head of product, business and mobile Ilya Fushman told the Guardian.Documents, including detailed presentations and spreadsheets, can now be searched fully through text search, while the new &apos;project harmony&apos; feature allows users to see who else is in a shared document.An enhanced preview feature can give a quick view of Microsoft Office documents, and that feature will be available on the Dropbox Android app.Dropbox launched the beta trial of its service for business in November 2013 as part of a wider strategy to expand its userbase. It currently has 300 million users globally, with 1bn documents uploaded or shared every day.Dropbox for Business, which offers enhanced services for £11 per month, now has 80,000 paying companies, Fushman announced. Around 70% of those are outside the US, and one third are in Europe.The company claims that 25% of UK internet users have signed up to Dropbox, making it Dropbox&apos;s second largest market after the US.Dropbox has expanded its developer tools and API so that document previews and shared folder features can be incorporated into third-party apps.Johann Butting, Dropbox&apos;s head of EMEA, said that 87% of Dropbox&apos;s most engaged users are accessing the service through mobile, and that 36% joined Dropbox by signing up on mobile.&quot;Mobile is much talked about as a driver for economic recovery in the UK and we&apos;ve seen that reflected in our business as well,&quot; he said. &quot;We think that we have more than 50% of UK SMEs using Dropbox which is phenomenal. If you compare usage patterns there with other geographies the UK is meaningfully ahead, which shows that the sector here is significantly more innovative.&quot;A lot of growth is from the traditional UK strength in creative sectors; we know that one in six London jobs is in the creative sector.&quot;&apos;We offer the highest level of security&apos;Fushman defended Dropbox&apos;s security, followingrecent criticismby NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and about the appointment of former US secretary of state Condoleezza Rice to the Dropbox board.&quot;We have the highest level of encryption and data for our users. Any data on our servers is encrypted, and we offer extra authorisation and authentication security including two-factor authentication,&quot; he said.Snowden had praised the &apos;zero knowledge&apos; principle, in which businesses have no access or ability to decrypt user data because it is encrypted by them before being uploaded.Fushman said Dropbox would be unlikely to take this step because it would limit some rich features such as document preview, but added that third-party Dropbox tools offer this service.&quot;We have a large developer ecosystem, and a lot of [third-party] developers offer client-side encryption. So if you want that level of encryption you can get with somebody else, you can choose to have that - it comes down to user choice.&quot;Some of the more collaborative tools such as document rendering or sharing, it&apos;s very hard to implement those in high fidelity when something is encrypted client-side, and you have to be very diligent as a user because if you lose that password, we can&apos;t help you. We want that kind of level of service to be a choice, rather than something we impose.&quot;Rice &quot;a great role model&quot; in an industry that lacks diversityAsked about the controversy over the appointment of Condolezza Rice, Fushman said Dropbox was &quot;excited&quot; about having her as a board member.&quot;She&apos;s on the bard of HP and Chevron, she&apos;s experienced global matters and she&apos;s a great to have on our board as a role model and as strong figure in technology, she&apos;s really empowering,&quot; he said.A spokesperson said: &quot;We have never been part of the Prism programme and would resist any programme like that.&quot;Butting pointed to the company&apos;s extensive privacy policy, its insistence ofpublishing transparency reportsdetailing government requests for data and the recentsix-star ratingby privacy campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation.•Dropbox partners with Deutsche Telekom – but only outside Germany
The UK&apos;s tech sector is significantly more reliant than the US on the beneficence of &quot;angel investors&quot; – the private individuals who invest in very early stage startups.Almost two-thirds of executives who work in the technology sector reported angel investors as a source of funding in 2013, compared to just 41% of American execs, accordingto the annual innovation economy reportfrom commercial lender Silicon Valley Bank.That makes angel investment the most significant source of funding for British startups in 2013, outstripping venture capital, which was used by just under half of the nation&apos;s tech startups.The different sources of investment may be part of the reason why British execs are more positive than those across the Atlantic.&quot;UK executives who successfully raised capital in 2013 are less likely than those in the United States to say the fundraising environment is extremely challenging,&quot; the firm reports, &quot;and more likely to say it is either somewhat challenging or not very challenging.&quot;Britain&apos;s tech sector also has a significantly higher reliance on grants from the Government than Silicon Valley. One in 10 execs took state funding in 2013, more than twice the rate of their American colleagues.On the other side of the equation, Britain sees markedly less money from private equity and corporate investors than the US does, with slightly more than one in ten and one in twenty respectively reporting them as sources of income.Despite the differences between the two nations, British executives still aim for a more American style of fundraising when asked about the future: half of them plan on getting income from venture capital as their next source of funding, and 30% are looking to angel investors, while just 1% want the money to come from a government grant.The report, Innovation Economy Outlook 2014, was based on interviews with 1,200 executives working in high growth businesses worldwide, 100 of whom were based in the UK. Half of them worked at a company with fewer than 10 employees, and more than 80% were in the software sector.•The investors on the trail of a British Facebook
William Shatner, the Canadian actor, musician and pop culture legend most famous for playing Captain Kirk inStar Trek, has written a lengthy, unfavourable review of Facebook&apos;s newMentionsapp.Shatner took to his Tumblr,Shatner Speaks, to post his thoughts on an app, whichFacebook says&quot;makes it easy for public figures to talk with their fans and each other on the go&quot;. Shatner isn&apos;t too keen.In an in-depth analysis spread over five chapters, the actor compared the Mentions app with Facebook&apos;s other app,Pages, which anybody who has a Facebook page can download. Mentions, as Shatner notes, is available only to verified accounts.He wasn&apos;t a fan of having to follow other celebrities in order to get started on Mentions, writing: &quot;I think that is a big flaw in the set up. If this app is for celebrities then why force them to follow another celebrity in order to set up this app?&quot;. He was unimpressed when the app suggested he followGeorge Takei.Notifications infuriated him: &quot;Turn off notifications because if you post something your phone spends the next hour sending you notifications of every person who makes a comment.&quot;The postings section of the Pages app is &quot;sexier&quot; than that of Mentions, he notes. However, he does praise Mentions for showing a &quot;form of insights with groupings of numbers of statistics in a chronological manner.&quot; So that&apos;s something.Shatner&apos;s overall opinion?&quot;I’m not quite sure why Facebook released this app for &apos;celebrities&apos;. It seems to be ill conceived. I will probably use it to post to my Facebook when I’m on my phone but it doesn’t allow for mail or groups. I will continue to use my regular Facebook App as well as the Pages app.&quot;At least Facebook can console itself by knowing that it isn&apos;t the only social network that has come in for Shatner criticism. The actoronce took offenceatTwitter&apos;s verification process, questioning how rigorous it was, and eventually requesting to be &quot;unverified&quot;.Maybe I need to request to be unverified? Who wants to be part of a broken system that folks can pay $ or reward cronies while others wait?&mdash; William Shatner (@WilliamShatner)June 22, 2014• Facebook closes its $2bn Oculus Rift acquisition. What next?
The US sends more spam than any other country in the world by a considerable margin, with France and China a distant second and third.Areport by security company Sophos,which tracks the locations of computers that send spam emails filling inboxes globally, reveals that the UK does not rank in the top 12 “spam-relaying” countries in the world.“The vast majority of spam is sent unsuspectingly from computers infected with malware, so that if you aren&apos;t careful, you may end up being part of the problem,” said Paul Ducklin, security expert for Sophos,in a blog post.The US sent 24.2% of the world’s spam in the past three months, with France sending just 6.7%, China 6.2% and Italy 5.2%, according to the company’s data.Bulgaria in on the act tooThe US’s large population skews the overall picture of global spam. When broken down into spam message per person – normalised against the US as the number one spammer – Bulgaria tops the list for countries with populations over 300,000, relegating the US to 12th position.“Simplifying greatly, the average computer in a country that weighs in at two times the spam-per-person of the US probably has about twice the chance of being infected with malware,” explained Ducklin. “Similarly, if computers in your country are, on average, twice as well protected (and your users twice as cautious) as in the US, you&apos;d expect to show up with a spam-per-person rate of 0.5 times the US figure.”Computers infected with viruses capable of forcing them to send spam without their user’s knowledge are also likely to be stealing user data, logging passwords, hacking other’s computers and websites as well as posting on your social networks, Ducklin warned.To avoid your computer falling victim to infection by viruses and becoming part of the spam problem, security experts recommend avoiding clicking on links within emails, not opening attachments unless you trust the person sending them, to keep your software up to date and to run at least some basic anti-virus software, of which there are many freely available.•How to protect yourself from phishing
Amazon&apos;s first foray into the smartphone world after the success of its Kindle Fire tablets has hit a snag: it&apos;s not very good. Or at least that&apos;s what the first reviews pouring out of the US seem to indicate.Amazon&apos;s gutsy phone fails to ignite - CNETJessica Dolcourt was less than impressedright from the off:What doesn&apos;t work is the premium price ($200 on-contract, $650 off; there is no pricing yet for the UK or Australia), the so-so performance, and the slightly sub-prime specs. The quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor struggles to respond, battery life sputters out quicker than I&apos;d like, and the phone also throws off enough heat to melt a pat of butter.Amazon Fire phone review: a unique device, but you&apos;re better off waiting for the sequel - EngadgetEngadget&apos;s Brad Molenfeels that the gimmicks took focus leaving little consideration for the rest of the phone:Amazon appears to have put so much effort on the Fire phone&apos;s unique features that it didn&apos;t focus on making the device attractive. It looks more like a prototype than a phone that&apos;s supposed to compete against well-designed beauts like the iPhone 5s, LG G3 and HTC One M8. The use of glass on the front and back is a throwback to the Nexus 4 and iPhone 4/4s, which means it&apos;s a fingerprint magnet and more susceptible to breaks than polycarbonate. The sides are protected with a rubberised polyurethane material, however, which should improve the phone&apos;s chances of survival if dropped.Review: Amazon’s Fire Phone offers new gimmicks, old platform growing pains - Ars TechnicaPast tablet successisn&apos;t enough to guarantee a win for Amazon in the high-end smartphone gamefor Andrew Cunningham for Ars Technica:The problem is that even if all of your media lives in Amazon&apos;s cloud, phones running iOS or Google-approved Android can access all of it without the third-party app gap or FireOS&apos; idiosyncrasies (the exception is Instant Video on Android, thoughrumour has itthat Amazon will be releasing that app soon).Amazon Fire Phone Review: Full of Gimmicks, Lacking Basics - the Wall Street JournalThe Wall Street Journal&apos;s Geoffrey A. Fowlercan&apos;t get past the poor battery life, gimmicky features and mediocre app ecosystem, a problem stemming from Amazon&apos;s use of its own Android-based software:The Fire is the grown-up equivalent of a 9-year-old riding a bike with his hands in the air. &quot;Look, Ma, no hands!&quot; It&apos;s a neat gimmick, but it won&apos;t get you very far.• In the past five days, I couldn&apos;t once get the Fire&apos;s battery to last to day&apos;s end—a telephonic cardinal sin.• Don&apos;t expect to get all the apps you love: Though it runs on a version of Google&apos;s Android operating system, Google apps like Maps, Drive and YouTube are locked out. And the Fire can&apos;t transfer most app purchases from previous phones.• The controls that track your head, which Amazon calls &quot;dynamic perspective,&quot; never become as natural and predictable as just touching the screen with your fingers.Amazon Fire Phone review: The shopper’s smartphone - SlashGearChris Davies from SlashGear poses the question, with five cameras with wide-angle lenses constantly looking out from the screen,is the Fire Phone the a spy&apos;s wet dream?Dynamic Perspective certainly works, but I found it ranges in usefulness depending on what you&apos;re actually trying to do. Amazon is clearly keen to show it off from the start - even the lock screen is in the form of a scene that pans around - and then it shows up in the maps app to let you peer around 3D buildings, for instance, but it never feels like it&apos;s bringing anything essential to the experience. It can even be a distraction, shifting the UI around when the Fire Phone is simply sitting on a desk near you as it catches sight of your head occasionally.With a total of five cameras staring out at you from the front of the Fire Phone, you could understand some being wary about monitoring. Amazon tells me that images from the Dynamic Perspective array are only kept for as long as it takes to figure out the XYZ coordinates and then deleted completely; not only that, they never leave the phone itself, and third-party developers only get those coordinates, not the raw feed from the cameras themselves.Amazon Fire Phone review: It’s not for me, but Amazon Prime or Kindle Fire users will like it - GigaOMKevin C. Tofel from GigaOMisn&apos;t enamoured with the phone overall, but sees Amazon&apos;s Firefly feature that recognises images, text and products as handy, even if other apps can do similar things.As far as Firefly goes, it can be handy, although there are similar apps that do much the same. Most of the time, it recognized objects I scanned. Of course, if it does find them, you can easily buy them from Amazon with a tap or two; it’s a very integrated shopping experience. Also useful is capturing text with Firefly: Any recognized, actionable text becomes a link to tap. Scan a business card, for example, and you’ll get links to send an email, call the person or visit their website. And the app saves a history of what you’ve scanned, which is useful for later.Amazon Fire Phone review: the everything phone - the VergeThe Verge&apos;s David Pierce warns that the Fire Phoneis like a gateway drug to buying more stuff from Amazon, which is exactly what the company wants – keep you inside its ecosystem, consuming Amazon content and buying Amazon goods.Two days after I first turned on the Amazon Fire Phone, I walked into the foyer of my apartment building and saw a package with my name on it. This was odd: I’m the guy who orders something and then sits patiently by the front door waiting for it, not the guy who gets surprised by packages on a Saturday.This is how life changes when you begin carrying around Amazon’s first smartphone. The Fire Phone, which will be available July 24th for $199 and a two-year contract, is the most immediate and accessible device ever made by the company that endeavours to sell us absolutely everything.Time and time again, however, the Fire Phone has reminded me that there’s a difference between good ideas about phones and good phones. A big difference.Can the Amazon Fire Phone Take on iPhone and Samsung? - RecodeWalt Mossberg thinks Amazonhas a long way to go to catch up with the likes of Apple and Samsung:Then there is a whole list of features offered by Apple and Samsung that the Fire lacks. Among these are things like fingerprint readers, built-in health sensors, integrated video calling and more. The Fire’s built-in app for viewing Microsoft Office documents can’t edit those documents unless you buy a premium version of the app. And the phone doesn’t support Bluetooth Low Energy, though that’s coming via a software update.Finally, there are only about 185,000 apps available for the Fire, less than 20% of what’s available for Apple and Android phones. Amazon has added a bunch of key apps, but some, like an official YouTube app, are still missing.A solid device beneath a layer of whiz-bang frippery - New York TimesDigging beneath the gimmicky features the New York Times&apos;s Farhad Manjoofound a solid, basic smartphone. Whether that&apos;s enough to justify a cost of $650 is another question.The Fire Phone is uncommonly friendly and easy to use. As a bare-bones smartphone, it should prove especially attractive to people who find themselves overwhelmed by today’s crop of do-it-all superphones. When you forget about its whiz-bang marketing, the Fire begins to stand out as something much more interesting: a phone for the rest of us.Amazon Fire: the phone that makes you the star - MashableMashable&apos;s Pete Pachal likes what he sees –a smartphone that makes you feel special– as long as you&apos;re an Amazon customer:The Fire phone&apos;s true specialty is making its owner feel like the centre of the universe. Whether it&apos;s Mayday&apos;s instant assistants, Firefly&apos;s crowd-pleasing scans, or the UI that responds to a mere glance, Fire is all about you, the customer.Check that. It&apos;s about you, theAmazoncustomer. Amazon services run deep in the Fire phone, and it hooks new loyalists by including 12 months of Prime membership. You can&apos;t fault a company for evangelising its own products, though, and Amazon&apos;s (unlike, say, Samsung&apos;s) are often best in class (Prime Video offers a lot that Netflix doesn&apos;t).What about the UK?Amazon has yet to release information on when the Fire Phone will be available outside of the US. It took over 10 months for Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire tablet to reach Europe in 2012 and the Fire Phone is likely to follow a similar pattern.Whether that is enough time for Amazon to fix the bugs and make whole experience a more convincing prospect for buyers is unknown. Judging by the US reviews, it seems doubtful.Other phone reviews•HTC One M8 review•Samsung Galaxy S5 review•Sony Xperia Z2 review•Moto G review•Google Nexus 5 review•iPhone 5S review
Apple faces a class action lawsuit in California from former retail and corporate over claims of unpaid wages and denied break time.Initially filed in 2011, the lawsuit has been slowly winding its way through California courts, and was certified as a class-action suit on Tuesday, allowing all the claimants to fight their case as a group.Previously, the case had been filed by four people working across the company&apos;s divisions, in both the headquarters and its retail arm. Now that it&apos;s been certified as a class-action suit, the potential pool of plaintiffs could grow considerably, with the risk of becoming a headache for the firm.The four plaintiffs, who each worked for Apple for between one and 11 years, are bringing the case in an attempt to recover alleged &quot;failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to furnish accurate itemised wage statements, and failure to timely pay wages on the end of employment&quot;,according to court documents.Specific claims include regularly working five hours without a meal break, a notice period of just three days, and a two-day delay in paying wages after that employment ended, all of which would be against Californian labour law.The claims themselves may seem inconsequential, but with the pool of potential plaintiffs estimated at 18,000 people – the number of non-exempt Apple employees in the state – the sheer weight of numbers could turn it into a problem for the company, which has only recently settled another high-profile employment case.In April, Apple and Googlesettled an antitrust lawsuitover allegations that they had colluded in order to avoid poaching each other&apos;s talent. Lawyers had been seeking $3bn in damages, but the companies, which also included Intel and Adobe, eventually agreed to pay $324m.
FacebookfounderMark Zuckerberghas been called by the US government to testify in the trial of Paul Ceglia, a former Harvard college associate charged with forging an April 2003 document which apparently entitled him to a50% stake of the social networking company.Zuckerberg is expected to be a key witness against Ceglia in the trial, which is scheduled for 27 November.“It&apos;s a witness [Zuckerberg] that the government 100% knows it will be calling at trial,” prosecution attorney Christopher Freysaid at a court hearingin New York.The forgery charges originate from a 2010 civil lawsuit Ceglia filed against Zuckerberg and Facebook, when Ceglia claimed the pair had signed a contract in 2003 when both were students atHarvard University.Zuckerberg had previously worked as a programmer for for Ceglia&apos;s company, StreetFax.com, and maintained the only valid contract between them related to that company.Prosecutors in Manhattan charged Ceglia in 2012 with forging documents, including the contract and email correspondence with Zuckerberg, and a federal judge dismissed the lawsuit.At Tuesday&apos;s hearing, the judge, Andrew Carter, denied a request from Ceglia&apos;s lawyers to authorise warrants for Zuckerberg&apos;s mobile phone, email accounts and bank records at Facebook from 2003 to 2004 as overly broad.He also rejected their bid for Zuckerberg&apos;s Harvard email account and any possible disciplinary records against him for unauthorised use of the school&apos;s computer system.This is not the first time Zuckerberg has been involved in law suits. The claim from the Winklevoss twins that they wereentitled to a sliceof Facebook&apos;s profits was dramatised in the blockbuster filmThe Social Network.• The Winklevoss twins are only the beginning of Zuckerberg&apos;s problems
A researcher has revealed what he claims to be previously undiscovered ways that users can be surveilled through their iPhone.Researchreleasedby iOS exploitation expert Jonathan Zdziarski at the Hackers On Planet Earth conference in New York last week showed there were a number of previously undocumented “forensic services” and “surveillance mechanisms” within iOS.These tools, Zdziarski claims, would allow anyone with a decent level of technical skill and determination to get hold of plenty of sensitive data of a target, including photos, contacts and location.Zdziarski suggested the National Security Agency (NSA) might have used such methods for accessing targets’ information, but said he had no proof.Apple has explained these services as genuine “diagnostic” features to allow IT departments and store assistants to manage iPhones.But Zdziarski said these functions break Apple promises in that they “bypass backup encryption while copying more of your personal data than ever should come off the phone for the average consumer”.“I understand that every OS [operating system] has diagnostic functions, however these services break the promise that Apple makes with the consumer when they enter a backup password; that the data on their device will only come off the phone encrypted,” he said in ablog postin response to Apple’s explanation for the tools’ existence.What Zdziarski’spapernoted, however, was that any exploitation of these features would require the phone to be paired with a compromised computer, something the user would have to agree to.Pairing requires the iPhone to be unlocked and then connected to a PC via USB, representing another barrier to exploitation. Apple has beenkeen to point all this out.Yet some risks remain. When this pairing takes place, a pairing file is created and stored on both the PC and the iPhone. Anyone who retrieved that file could siphon off all kinds of data from an iPhone, according to the researcher. Data from the phone could even be accessed over Wi-Fi if the paired devices were on the same network, Zdziarski said.“That tiny little pairing record file is the key to downloading, installing and even manipulating data and applications on the target device,” the paper explained.“This is good news for the ‘good’ cops, who do crazy things like get warrants; it’s very bad for anyone who is targeted by spy agencies or malicious hackers looking to snoop on their data.”Once a law enforcement official, intelligence agent or malicious attacker has that file, either by hooking up a phone to their own desktop and initiating the pairing process or hacking a pre-paired PC, they could access all kinds of data that would reveal much about the victim.Via a feature called “lockdownd”, the “com.apple.mobile.installation_proxy” service allows for anyone with an Apple enterprise licence to download malware without having to have the software vetted.The “com.apple.mobile.house_arrest” tool could be used to access databases and personal data from third-party apps. There’s also an option to turn on a packet sniffer, which records all online activities carried out on the device.But the most worrying feature, according to Zdziarski, is a “file relay”, which includes a mechanism to copy all metadata stored on an iPhone, while picking up GPS location data, the user calendar and contacts book, photos and recent messages typed on the screen. This is “data that should simply not be allowed to come off the device without knowledge of the user’s backup password”, Zdziarski said.The feature allowed access to information that should have been encrypted, he added, and this data is “far too personal to ever be used by Apple”. It would only be useful for intelligence agencies and police, Zdziarski said.Though many want more information from Apple on these previously undisclosed services and security bypasses, the company can continue to point out that an attacker would need to be in control of that pairing file and in proximity of a target iPhone to retrieve data.The company had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.•Researchers: Lawyers blocked our Black Hat demo on de-anonymising Tor
Electronic Arts has revealed strong revenues for the financial quarter to 30 June, but the company is also delaying two key titles.Battlefield: Hardline, an offshoot of the publisher&apos;s long running military shooter series based around a &quot;cops and robbers&quot; theme, will now be delayed from October 2014 to early 2015.In a document released to support its financial announcements, EA stated: &quot;Additional player testing has shown great excitement for this new world of cops and criminals inside the Battlefield franchise. It also showed us how, with more time, we could go deeper and innovate more.&quot;Development studio, Visceral, is apparently now &quot;testing and implementing&quot; new features and a beta test will be released before the launch of the game.Also delayed is fantasy role-playing adventure, Dragon Age: Inquisition, which will now hit shelves a month later than expected on 18 November. EA stated that the developer was &quot;taking a little more time to put the final touches on the game.&quot;Electronic Arts&apos; net revenue has risen over 50% compared with the same period in 2013. The company reported a figure of $335m for the three-month period to June 30, compared with $222m last year. The strong performance of new shooter Titanfall as well as the continuing success of the Fifa series contributed greatly, as did EA&apos;s mobile division.The company is forecasting revenues of $965m for the second fiscal quarter of 2014, bolstered by the much-anticipated release of life sim sequel, Sims 4.
Subtweeting: it’s the internet equivalent of talking about someone behind their back – or at least that’s how people usually explain it.But in truth, the art of subtweeting consists of many different strokes. It’s not something that can be so succinctly defined. Subtweeting can be brilliant, it can be cruel, it can be rude, it can be annoying as hell.Here’s a little guide on what subtweeting is, how it’s mostly employed, how to do it wrong, and how to do it well.The basicsA subtweet means you are commenting about someone who you have not @ in. For those peoplewho were born in 1880who are new to Twitter, an @ symbol followed by a person’s Twitter username is known as a Twitter &quot;mention&quot;.This means that they will receive a notification whenever you include them in a tweet, and other people will be able to see the link to their Twitter account.The person mentioned will keepreceiving notificationsrelated to the tweet in which they were mentioned. It’s at the core of how Twitter works, and how people use the service to communicate.Variations of subtweeting – what’s in a name?Some people include in the definition of subtweeting an instance when one mentions a person’s name but doesn’t @ mention a person’s name. (Guys, I didn’t say this was simple.)For example, if I were to subtweet my boss,Jemima, some people would deem it subtweeting if I wrote: “Jemima Kiss eats too much salt”. If I wrote something like “My boss eats so much salt that she’s basically Lot’s wife”, that would be be considered a definite subtweet, if a genial one.Here’s an example of when I subtweeted newsreaderSusanna Reidby mentioning her name, but not her twitter handle. Which backfired when she saw it.@ladyhaja!!&mdash; Susanna Reid (@susannareid100)July 8, 2014Subtweeting someone while identifying them by name usually happens if: in this case, you are talking about a public figure in a not-really-offensive tweet; making a general observation, but not needing to specifically address them; or if a celebrity has a twitter handle that bears no relation to their name and you want people to know who you are talking about. (Russell Brand, for instance, whose Twitter handle is@rustyrockets).Some people don’t have Twitter – they still talk &quot;face to face&quot; (??) – so it may be necessary to name them in a Tweet if you want to say something like: “Susanna Reid and I in Malaga 2014 #yolo!”.The final reason would be if you wrote a horrible tweet about someone with their name in it and you are basically a v mean/cowardly person indeed.Variations of subtweeting – anonA lot of people will only call something a subtweet if it explicitly does not identify anybody by name or mention, but the tweet is about and/or subliminally directed at someone.In this sense, the subtweet is the Twitter-born cousin of vaguebooking. If you think you don’t know what vaguebooking is, you absolutely do:Photograph: Facebook/Failbook.comVaguebooking statuses often end in either ellipses or emoticons, though vaguebooking is slightly different to subtweeting, which always has to be about a person. Sometimes vaguebooking is just a means of general attention seeking.It’s insulting someone via stealth. Instead of confronting someone in the playground, it’s passing a note about them in the classroom. This is why someparents are worriedabout subtweeting as a form of cyberbullying. Conversations can crop up as Twitter back-and-forths about a person, but without explicitly naming them.Zayn Malik from One Direction subtweets. Photograph: Zayn Malik/TwitterA subtweeter being reprimanded. Photograph: TwitterThe best subtweets, however, can be incredibly witty and waspish – think of anOscar Wildeone-liner. These subtweets are the very best, in that the person being subtweeted knows it refers to them, but the tweet is also decipherable to a user’s general audience, and isn’t out-and-out obvious as a bitchy tweet about someone else. If it is obvious, then you’re falling into the trap of vaguebooking.You want your tweet to be a generally strong tweet, which makes people laugh, or nod their head in recognition, while also being obvious to your target that it’s about them. You don’t want to come across as bitchy, bitter, sad, passive aggressive or attention-seeking (which, unfortunately most subtweets do). It’s a very specific skill.WTF #subtweetSome people have now taken to using a subtweet hashtag, which totally defeats the object. The people who tend to end their subtweets with “#subtweet” have usually subtweeted so clumsily that people already know it’s a subtweet (see pitfalls above). That’s just #stupid.Why do some people use#subtweethashtags on subtweets? Silly.#subtweet&mdash; HannahJane Parkinson (@ladyhaja)July 22, 2014• Twitter takes on WhatsApp with direct message chat upgrade
It's Wednesday.
Sales of the iPad have slumped to half their pre-Christmas high, with signs that demand for Apple's tablet computer may be in permanent decline. Despite a forecast-busting $7.7bn (£4.5bn) profit, the computing firm's shares dipped in after-hours trading as sales of its tablet fell to 13.3m from their all-time high of 26m in the quarter to December.Despite its adoption by thousands of businesses, schools and government agencies, including Australia's Qantasairline, which has 15,000 iPads, and Swedish local government, which has bought 100,000, the 9% year-on-year fall in units sold prompted speculation that Apple has reached "peak iPad"."If somebody had forecast this two years ago, it would have been seen as a fever dream," said Terro Kuittinen at social media consultancy Magid Associates.While many phone owners still regard the latest iPhone as a status symbol, it appears tablet buyers are less concerned with replacing their iPad every one or two years.The slump means Apple is now largely dependent on the iPhone, which sold 35.2m units, up 13% on the same period last year, to fuel growth. Revenues came in at $37.4bn for the June quarter, within the company's guided range, and Apple said revenues would be between $37bn and $40bn in the September quarter.The company is expected to unveil an iPhone 6 this autumn, with two models with larger screens, and a smartwatch could also arrive in time for Christmas."We have an incredible pipeline of new products and services that we can't wait to show you," chief executive Tim Cook said.Thanks to a distribution deal with China Mobile, which now sells iPhones to its customers, revenues surged 28% in China to nearly $6bn. Performance in America was flat, but Europe grew 6% to $8bn.Apple's shares yesterday came close to the all-time high of 21 September 2012, the day the iPhone 5 went on sale, but later dipped 0.5% to $94 in after-hours trading.The shares are up 20% since April, when the company delivered stronger than expected sales, but investors are waiting for the arrival of the watch to decide whether Apple can continue to innovate as successfully as it did under Steve Jobs.Having reached $705 two years ago (a stock split in June reduced the value of the shares by a factor of seven), making Apple the world's most valuable company, ahead of Exxon, the shares slumped to under $500 as Apple dropped plans to launch a TV and Samsung gained momentum in smartphones.
Yahoo is set to acquire mobile app analytics firm Flurry for an undisclosed sum, said to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.The analytic tools that Flurry offers to developers are crucial for advertisers trying to make the leap to mobile ads, and Yahoo will use the company’s technology to help boost its own advertising revenue from smartphones.“When completed, our acquisition of Flurry will be a meaningful step for the company and reinforces our commitment to building and supporting useful, inspiring and beautiful mobile applications and monetisation solutions,”said Scott Burke, Yahoo’s head of advertising technology.“Our combined offerings will enable more effective mobile advertising solutions for brands seeking to reach their audiences and gain unique insights across desktop and mobile,” he added.Flurry’s president and CEO, Simon Khalaf, said that “as part of Yahoo, Flurry will continue to serve the application developer community in the way we always have, only better.”Mobile applications on the Flurry platform. Photograph: /Flurry“Mobile and its applications have disrupted every segment of the economy from media and entertainment, to communications, to travel, to retail and healthcare,” he said. “Time spent on mobile devices by the average US consumer has risen to two hours and 42 minutes per day in 2014.Eighty-six per cent of that time is spent in apps, and about 60% of that time is spent in applications built by independent app developers. Over the past six years, we have been honoured to work with and support these developers.”According to figures from eMarketer, the global mobile advertising market is set to reach $32.71bn in 2014, up 85% from 2013’s total of $17.71bn. But Google and Facebook accounted for more than two thirds of that total, and while Yahoo has called its earnings from the market “meaningful” on its most recent earnings call, it does not report its revenues from the sector.The firm does report its share of global digital ad spending, however, which is down year on year: in 2014, Yahoo’s portion of the digital ad market is 2.52%, down from 2.86% a year prior, also according to eMarketer. Its share of digital ad revenues is also falling in the US, from 6.8% to 5.8%.•Yahoo reports another quarterly revenue decline despite CEO’s efforts
Parenting manuals? Pfft. The internet is now the flustered parent&apos;s first port of call for tricky questions of all kinds.From the earliest years (&quot;Should baby poo really be that colour?&quot;) to the curious years (&quot;Daddy, what&apos;s the most aggressive penguin in the world? Ask Mr Google! Ask Mr Google!&quot;) online sources are preserving millions of parents&apos; sanity. Not to mention their wafer-thin claims to omniscience.Which brings me neatly on to loom bands.My seven year-old son appears to have quietly put in the regulation 10,000 hours of practice to become an expert at weaving tiny coloured rubber bands into intricate designs –this year&apos;s craze among pre-teen children.Judging by the 50p-per-wristband he&apos;s charging family members, he&apos;s also honing his entrepreneurial skills.Meanwhile, I&apos;ve been floundering: my schooldays taught me to flick an elastic band across the room at someone&apos;s nose with decent accuracy, but not how to craft a neatly finished fishtail bracelet, let alonea dress worth £170,000 on eBay.Enter, the internet. In the last week of panicked research, several YouTube channels, websites and apps have been helping me feel rather less at sea.On this, the second day of the school summer holidays in the UK, I suspect there are a few other parents in the same boat. With that in mind, here are some of the best sources I&apos;ve been using to become less of a loom-n00b.Justin’s Toys(above)An accessible collection of how-to videos on this YouTube channel, from easy bracelets through to more complicated fare like skeleton-puppet and snail charms.Rainbow LoomThe official website of the company that&apos;s done most to fuel the loom bands craze, its design may be basic, but it has a good spread of tutorials for novices.InstaLoomTaking its cues from Instagram, this iPhone app is a social network for loom-band makers showing off their creations: less step-by-step guides, and more inspiration.TutorialsByAMore advanced fare in this YouTube channel: perfect if you want to make your children fall over in surprise at your ability to make a loom Snow White or unicorn.LoomloveThis website has more how-tos that go beyond basic bracelets, from sun charms and rattlesnakes to peas in a pod, presented in easy-to-follow video format.Loom Video TutorialsAn iOS app with more video tutorials, drawing from the websites listed above, among others. Its developer&apos;s other apps include the Loom Nation community.DIYMommyThis YouTube channel has some really inventive advanced tutorials to follow, specialising in 3D charms: strawberries, footballs and a marvellous guinea pig.Rainbow LoomSearching for &quot;loom bands&quot; on Android&apos;s Google Play store brings up a haystack of apps, but this is one of its needles: aggregating video how-tos for various levels.Crafty LadybugAnother YouTube channel – I&apos;ve found videos the best medium for learning – with tutorials including an octopus, fireman and dalmatian.A ninja charm made from loom bands. Photo: CoolMomPicks/Izzalicious DesignsCoolMomPicksFor its Ninja Charm alone, this blog post is worth bookmarking, but it also offers 12 more designs for parents who&apos;ve moved beyond basic loom crafting.•Pass Notes: Loom bands rubber bracelets craze
Google has been given 18 months by the Italian data regulator to change how it handles and stores user data.Users will now have to grant permission before the firm creates a profile on them, and Google has to honour requests to delete data within two months (although it will have an additional six months to remove the content from backups). Google will also have to explicitly inform users that the profiles it creates on them are for commercial purposes.In astatement, the data watchdog said Google&apos;s disclosure to users remained inadequate, despite it having taken steps to follow local law.A Google spokesman said &quot;We&apos;ve engaged fully with the Italian DPA throughout this process to explain our privacy policy and how it allows us to create simpler, more effective services, and we&apos;ll continue to do so. We&apos;ll be reading their report closely to determine next steps.&quot;It has also agreed to present a roadmap to the regulator by the end of September, showing how it will comply with the decision.The command follows a cross-European investigation that found that the Californian company was in violation of the EU&apos;s privacy policy laws.Italy&apos;s Data Protection Authority led the inquiry, which began after Google consolidated 60 of its privacy policies into one all-encompassing policy, covering services as varied as YouTube, Gmail and Google Search. Users were not given the ability to opt out of the consolidation.That consolidation, which occurred in January 2012, eventually resulted in the companywas toldin July 2013 to rewrite its privacy policy or face sanctions.Watchdogs from across Europe complained to the company, with the head of the UK&apos;s ICO saying that the new policy presented &quot;serious questions&quot; about compliance with the UK Data Protection Act. France and Spain also complained.•European watchdogs order Google to rewrite privacy policy or face legal action
Facebook has introduced Save, a new feature which allows users to bookmark content from their news feeds to revisit later.Announcing the launch of Savein a blog post, Facebook software engineer Daniel Giambalvo wrote: &quot;Every day, people find all sorts of interesting items on Facebook that they don’t have time to explore right away. Now you can save items that you find on Facebook to check out later when you have more time.&quot;Saved items will be private, but users can share items with Facebook friends. The feature is designed to encourage users to save music, links, places, books and movies; the tool is accessed through the drop-down menu in the upper right hand corner of a post or piece of content.Users will be able to bookmark content to view later. Photograph: FacebookThe bookmarking feature will be available both on web versions and the iOS and Android mobile apps of Facebook. To access saved content on web, there will be a link on the left hand side of the page to view either all saved content, or items arranged by category.The mobile version will introduce a ‘More’ tab, with saved content collated there. Items that have been saved can be shared, ordered, permanently archived or deleted.Facebook's new Save feature on desktop. Photograph: FacebookBefore Save, there was no clear way to revisit older posts, and the non-chronological nature of the news feed made it difficult to resurface a post that users may have wanted to read at a more convenient time.Twitter doesn’t have a specific bookmarking feature, but savvy tweeters often favourite posts as a means of coming back to them later on.Save is another example of how Facebook is increasingly focusing on breaking news and trending content. Facebook has said Save will be rolled out to all users over the next few days.•Facebook testing &apos;buy&apos; button to allow users to purchase goods directly from the site
For more than two months now, the inaptly-named “right to be forgotten” has remained buoyant in the news cycle. The reasons are as complex as the distortions, but distinctly missing from the discourse is critical engagement with the foundations and implications of the European data protection regime that gave flight to the discussion.Also missing is an exploration of the proposed course of action by Google and other players engaged in implementation, and an assessment of how those responses could be strengthened and improved.TheArticle 29 Working Party– the advisory association of European data protection authorities that ought to be at the helm of navigating solutions – hascalledGoogle and other search engines to a meeting in Brussels on 24 July to discuss the ruling and its concerns. This is a welcome though belated move, but what is required is a thorough discussion of what is possible: proactive, not reactive.What is the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot; ruling?On 13 May, the European Court of Justice (ECJ)ruledthat, in some circumstances –notably, where personal information online is inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive in relation todata-processing purposes– links should be removed from Google’s search index. A Spanish lawyer, Mario Costeja González, was concerned that Google searches on his name prominently featured two foreclosure notices published under legal requirement in 1998, when his home was repossessed for debt.The Spanish data protection authority rejected his claim to remove the original archived notices, but asked Google to remove referring links from its index. Google appealed, and the Spanish court requested guidance from the ECJ. The ECJ accepted Mr Costeja’s claim that indexing the notices was irrelevant to Google’s purposes as a search engine under the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive, triggering an international discussion on the availability and accessibility of information online.The ECJ’s ruling was unexpected. Contrary to theadvisory opinionof Advocate General Niilo Jääskinen, Google was found to be a European data controller with associated responsibilities. More controversially, by allowing the deletion of links in this case, the ECJ opened the gamut to a challenging regulatory debate about privacy, freedom of expression, and access to legally-published information, not to mention complex questions associated with implementation.The result is a watershed in the evolution of theinfosphere– the informational environment represented by our increasingly hyperconnected world. So what were the foundations of the ruling, and what strategies might be considered in formulating a suitable response?Why is it called the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos;?The ECJ’s ruling has been labelled the ‘right to be forgotten’ – an unfortunate and polarising catchphrase that inadequately reflects its legal origins and practical effect.Legally, Mr Costeja’s right is just one facet of his individual privacy rights derived from the EU Data Protection Directive and the European Convention on Human Rights. Privacy rights inevitably involve boundary problems as they come into conflict with rights to freedom of expression and access to information. These rights are not absolute; fair balance is required.In this context, and against the current default, the ECJ strongly emphasised the importance of individual privacy interests in otherwise privatised, economically-driven digital curation and navigation, recognising the ubiquity of digital information and the ever-increasing influence of search engines and other intermediaries in shaping who we are and what we do online.So what is the ruling about?The ECJ’s ruling appealed at base to deeply-heldsocial valuesof autonomy, forgiveness, and closure. It correctly recognised that, in physical (offline), virtual (online), and increasingly hybrid (or ‘onlife’) spaces, we must afford one another the possibility to make mistakes, to restart, and to move on.However, ‘to forget’ is a misleading label, and the vague interpretation that the court gave to the notion of relevance – which is always relative to changing interests – is unsatisfactory. Although current data protection law precludes such a course, a better ground might be to consider a clearly identifiable reference to whether information is harmful, prejudicial, or exclusively personal.Neither the taxonomy (‘right to be forgotten’) nor the logic (relevance determined by age as justification for support) truly addresses the broader need for information sedimentation – solutions,adaptedto the infosphere, that enable us, individually and as a society, toremember without recalling; to live with, but also beyond, experience; to acknowledge without constraining.How is the ruling being put into practice?There is understandable discomfort concerning implementation of this ruling by Google and other intermediaries. It applies to 500 million European citizens whose data are strewn across billions of webpages. When Google first responded with anonline complaint formallowing individuals to identify “irrelevant, outdated, or otherwise inappropriate” links, apparently 40,000 claims were made within the first six days, with another 30,000 in the month following.The risk is that, in order to manage the interests recognised in the ruling at scale, powerful but blunt tools may be deployed. Such tools, it is feared, may serve the interests of disinformation, rather than better information and more social cohesion.Nevertheless, it is unhelpful to claim that the ruling invites censorship. These criticisms fail to engage with the interests at stake or to consider creative solutions. It must be recalled, prosaically, that the search industry is a business. There are already well-established practices in reputation management and search result optimisation that customise online information delivery.Five principles for creative solutionsThe crucial challenge is how to achieve appropriate information sedimentation inside the infosphere. So far, there have been few public details on the procedures being applied by Google and other intermediaries to deal with requests in response to the ruling.While the haste and seriousness of efforts to comply must be lauded, caution must be applied to ensure that any solutions adequately address both individuals’ interests in information concerning them, and the public interest in useful information curation. Here are five strategies worth testing.1. Build on past experience in a transparent fashionCurrently, Google’s complaint form has an unconstrained 1,000-character input box. It could become more useful by structuring inputs according to how different types of information may be treated, with a hierarchy based on the seriousness of the privacy intervention.Costeja’s case is just one amidst the considerable experience that national data protection authorities have accumulated, tasked with balancing personal data protection rights against the public interest.Google could work with these authorities, other data controllers, academics, and practitioners to aggregate past cases, guidelines, and experience, in order to chart the contours of individual interests that data protection law must respect, and to integrate that knowledge with the growing volume of new requests. This will allow the refinement of tools and policies that can be applied consistently and respectfully, by private or public data controllers alike, in a way that is transparent to the public.2. Seek interoperable, durable, empowering responsesIt would be better for the infosphere, and individuals’ experiences within it, if Google’s solutions could integrate with those developed by other search engines and information aggregators, from Bing and Yahoo, to Twitter and Facebook, and if those solutions could be unconstrained regionally (currently anyone can access information that has been ‘forgotten’ by simply using a search engine not based in the EU).If acollaborative approachis pursued, it could also provide options for smaller, less-resourced intermediaries, ensuring that when individuals operate across multiple platforms, there is some institutional memory and coordination to prevent either under- or over-determination of individual requests.The online form creates collateral problems in collecting identifying information, and in relying on individuals to identify and bring information to the attention of search engines. Not every user has the awareness, skills, and resources to monitor his or her information online, so we must be conscious of usability issues, particularly (though this is not the case at the moment) in view of a possible future expectation that the presence, rather than absence, of damaging information is a matter of choice.Empowering users with a self-filled form is undoubtedly an improvement, but it should be accompanied by an exploration of proactive responsibilities for information quality control by other agents in the infosphere.3. Constrain discretion and arbitrarinessThe fruitful synthesis of decided cases and new claims will help to focus the technical expertise of Google and other search engines. Individuals should be able to assess readily – ideally, through a simple online tool – whether personal information that they notify to a data controller will be dealt with in an automated fashion or by applying human discretion.In both cases, the principles and guidelines being applied should be made clear.4. Investigate a generally available right to commentThere has been considerable speculation regarding whether Google will issue individual take-down notices, as is presently done for copyright-infringing material, or otherwise notify the public (eg. via the original publisher) that information has been removed. While there is certainly a need for transparency, this can be done more successfully via the three mechanisms described above – in an aggregated and de-identified manner – than by highlighting individual cases.Issuing individual notices may create speculation and attention that could be more damaging than the information was in the first place, undermining information sedimentation.It is appropriate that notices should be sent to webmasters so there is an opportunity for independent assessment of the merits of a case and for archival purposes.However, it is not appropriate for those notifications to then be republished in identified form to the public at large or to appear on a website such ashiddenfromgoogle.com, which would likely cause unwanted damage or distress, potentially in breach ofdomestic law.There are many alternative technical possibilities to de-indexing, including reordering information results, de-identifying information, and appending additional qualifying information. In particular, where possible, the capacity to tag information at scale could be very useful, since it would also improve the quality of the infosphere. One of the problems with search, and with the infosphere more generally, is that the popularity of some information is not a good reflection of its truthfulness or utility.Instead of an all-or-nothing approach, internet services could be encouraged to consider a generally-available right to comment – for example, by linking metadata to alternative URLs that clarify, update, or contextualise. This would retain an important element of transparency, and could be effectively deployed alongside a more limited right to removal.The problem is the conflict between information and disinformation – particularly, in preventing overburdening web interfaces and search results with augmented content. Here, the expertise of Wikipedia’s Jimmy Wales, who has been co-opted to advise Google on this ruling, will be invaluable.There is now considerable experience in crowdsourcing, community standards, and endorsement, all of which could ensure that tagging of search results produces an information experience of higher quality, usability, and reliability, which is at the same time respectful of individuals’ past lives and legal requirements, as well as being technically feasible and economically viable.The more we live in the infosphere, the more natural it will be to take care of it as our informational environment.5. Contrast removal at source with removal on republicationAlthough a limited right to comment might be generally warranted, the removal of information is also envisaged by the ruling, and must be addressed. The important distinction here is between the right affirmed by the ECJ – to have a link removed from a search index, ie. on republication – and the right under existing and revised data protection law, which would allow removal at source.These different solutions have different strengths and weaknesses, making them more suitable to some applications than others. They require focus on a uniquely digital issue, which is that theavailability(there and then, e.g., as a printed text in a physical newspaper in an archive) and theaccessibility(anywhere and anytime, eg., as a link on a search engine online) of information have been decoupled.While the reality and redundancy of digital information, once made broadly accessible, may make it impractical ever to forget completely, we should study ways in which information can be made easier or harder to find, more visible or opaque and, as a result, more useful and less damaging, when required.How we deal with this difficulty requires sensitivity to competing interests, now and in the future, and a full appreciation of legal, social, technical, economic, and ethical considerations.The seriousness of acting responsiblyToday, episodes of our lives in the infosphere appear as digital traces across sources beyond our control. As those traces grow ever larger and move towards near complete reflection and inspection of our lives, it is important that we reflect carefully on how this information and its sedimentation can be pro-actively and safely managed.We are, after all, designing the environment in which future generations will spend their lives. It is an extraordinary opportunity and a huge responsibility. We must take both very seriously.Julia Powles researches law, science and technology at the Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge (St John’s College)Luciano Floridi is Director of Research and Professor of Philosophy and Ethics of Information at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford (St Cross College). Professor Floridi has been appointed as an independent, unpaid, external member of Google’s Advisory Council on the ruling discussed•Google admits to errors over Guardian &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; link deletions
Apple’snew patentfor a “wrist-worn electronic device” resembles an iPod nano strapped to the wrist, detailed illustrations reveal.The patent documents an “iTime” wearable device that has small touchscreen device and can be docked into a wrist strap turning it into a smartwatch, connecting to an iPhone, iPad or computer to access information and receive alerts.Apple's patent specifically calls the smartwatch module 'iTime', although the company filed for an 'iWatch' trademark in 2013. Photograph: USPTOThe touchscreen module can be removed from the strap and used independently, precisely like an iPod nano (which Apple specifies in the patent). The patent also references a thinner, fully integrated smartwatch design much like the new LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live Android Wear devices.The drawing belays how thick the band is likely to be. Photograph: USPTOThe patent application was filed in 2011,published by the US patent office todayand spotted by technology siteAppleInsider.A smart strap filled with extra gadgetsThe bracelet undocked from the touchscreen device. Photograph: /USPTOApple describes how the watch strap could contain “additional circuitry” to add functionality to docked touchscreen, providing things like a heart rate monitor, an accelerometer for motion tracking, a GPS receiver or vibrating alerts.The company describes how arm movement gestures could be used to control the smartwatch instead of having to resort to swipes or taps on the touchscreen.Touchscreen module plugged into the watch strap dock. Photograph: USPTO“The gesture might be a horizontal movement for one user input option (eg decline incoming call), and might be a vertical movement for another user input option (eg accept incoming call),” Apple said in the patent filing.Taps, bounces and shakes are also suggested as suitable gestures for commanding the smartwatch.A more traditional approach to a smartwatch, which is more likely to resemble the final product, shows the module and strap fully integrated with a curved screen. Photograph: USPTOApple has long been expected to release an “iWatch” to partner with its iPhone, applying fortrademarks in July 2013andreadying for mass production this July. The company’s next iPhone, due to be unveiled in September could see a smartwatch announced alongside it.•The next iPhone is expected to come covered by a sapphire screen, could a smartwatch too?
The Tor network promises online privacy by routing users&apos; internet traffic through a number of servers – or layers – while encrypting data.The surveillance whistleblower Edward Snowden is known to have used Tor to maintain his privacy, while the documents he leaked showed that the US National Security Agency (NSA) struggled to uncover identities of those on the network.However, a presentation promising to detail flaws in the anonymising network has been cancelled, organisers of a major hacker conference have confirmed.The talk, called &quot;You don&apos;t have to be the NSA to break Tor: de-anonymising users on a budget&quot;, was due to be delivered by the Carnegie Mellon researchers Alexander Volynkin and Michael McCord, but anotice on the Black Hat conference websitesaid lawyers from the university had stepped in.The counsel for Carnegie Mellon said that neither the university nor its Software Engineering Institute (SEI), had given approval for public disclosure of the material set to be detailed by Volynkin and McCord, according to the Black Hat organisers.Their talk was one of the most anticipated sessions at this year’s conference, which starts on 2 August in Las Vegas. They promised to explain how anyone with $3,000 could de-anonymise users of Tor.Details on the presentation, which have now been removed from the Black Hat site, suggested that a determined hacker could “de-anonymise hundreds of thousands Tor clients and thousands of hidden services within a couple of months”.Besides individual users, there are numerous criminal websites making use of Tor, including sites offering hitman services and illegal drugs, even though the most prominent example, Silk Road, was shut down in 2013.Organisers from the Tor Project said they were working with the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) at Carnegie Mellon, which is sponsored by the US Department of Homeland Security, to release information on the problems identified by the researchers.“We did not ask Black Hat or CERT to cancel the talk. We did (and still do) have questions for the presenter and for CERT about some aspects of the research, but we had no idea the talk would be pulled before the announcement was made,”said Tor Project president Roger Dingledine.“We never received slides or any description of what would be presented in the talk itself beyond what was available on the Black Hat webpage. Researchers who have told us about bugs in the past have found us pretty helpful in fixing issues, and generally positive to work with.”Carnegie Mellon had not responded to a request for comment by the Guardian at the time of publication.•What is Tor? A beginner&apos;s guide to the privacy tool
Facebook now owns virtual reality startup Oculus VR, after closing the$2bn acquisition,which was announced by the two companies in March.The social network is paying $400m in cash plus 23.1m Facebook shares for the maker of the Oculus Rift headset, with a further $300m in incentives if it hits certain milestones in the future.So what now? Will Oculus VR expand beyond its current focus on games? When will the Rift – currently available to developers – go on sale to the rest of us? Is Facebook going to stuff ads into virtual worlds and mine them for our data? And is this finally virtual reality’s big moment, after plenty of hype but also disappointment in the past?Facebook’s decision to spend two Instagrams (or, alternatively, 0.1052 WhatsApps) on Oculus VR has unsurprisingly sparked plenty of debate. Here are some answers to some of the key questions.Why is Facebook buying Oculus?Partly because Mark Zuckerberg is rich and powerful, and because he can. After going public, and with a burgeoning online ads business, Facebook is flush with cash, but the control its chief executive retains over the company means he can splash millions on startups.The uncharitable view is that Oculus VR is a boy’s toy for Facebook’s still-youthful CEO: he tried the Rift, and loved it so much he bought the company. Unsurprisingly, Zuckerberg himself says it’s more a long-term strategic bet on the future for social networking.“At this point we feel we&apos;re in a position where we can start focusing on what platforms will come next to enable even more useful, entertaining and personal experiences,” hewrote in a status updateas the acquisition was announced in March.“With Oculus, it&apos;s that they&apos;re the clear leader in something that has the potential to be the next important, or one of the next most important computing platforms,” he told analysts later that day.Does this mean Oculus VR is giving up on games?Not for now: a point that has been stressed by both Zuckerberg and Oculus VR’s co-founders from the moment the deal was announced – sensing the likely worries of developers who&apos;ve already invested money (on a Rift devkit) and time (on making games for it).&quot;Oculus already has big plans here that won&apos;t be changing and we hope to accelerate,” wrote Zuckerberg, outlining plans to keep Oculus as an independent entity under Facebook&apos;s umbrella – an arrangement similar to Instagram and WhatsApp.&quot;The Rift is highly anticipated by the gaming community, and there&apos;s a lot of interest from developers in building for this platform. We&apos;re going to focus on helping Oculus build out their product and develop partnerships to support more games.&quot;For their part, Oculus VR&apos;s founders maintained their commitment to games too. &quot;Over the next 10 years, virtual reality will become ubiquitous, affordable, and transformative, and it begins with a truly next-generation gaming experience,” theywrote in their own blog post.“This partnership ensures that the Oculus platform is coming, and that it’s going to change gaming forever.”What else does Facebook want Oculus for?Some analysts snorted at the deal when it was announced in March, pointing out that the games Facebook is most closely associated with – FarmVille, Candy Crush Saga etc – are a world away from the immersive, 3D games that developers hope to create for Oculus Rift.Zuckerberg claimed his eye was on a much bigger picture, though. &quot;This is just the start. After games, we&apos;re going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences,&quot; he wrote.&quot;Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face – just by putting on goggles in your home.”In other words, Facebook is buying Oculus VR because it hopes developers will create lots of non-gaming experiences for it too, with social networking (and, ultimately, advertising) built in.“By feeling truly present, you can share unbounded spaces and experiences with the people in your life. Imagine sharing not just moments with your friends online, but entire experiences and adventures,” he wrote.“These are just some of the potential uses. By working with developers and partners across the industry, together we can build many more. One day, we believe this kind of immersive, augmented reality will become a part of daily life for billions of people.”When quizzed by analysts,Zuckerberg compared virtual reality to smartphones, suggesting that just as new apps emerged for mobile devices that hadn&apos;t previously made sense on PC, so VR will spark new ideas.&quot;I think you&apos;re going to see that and it&apos;s going to take a while for that to develop, which is partially why I think this is a five-plus year thing,&quot; he said.Wait, what: advertising?Facebook&apos;s mantra for big acquisitions – Instagram, WhatsApp and Oculus VR alike – is to talk about focusing on user growth in the short term, then figuring out how to make money later. There are no details yet on specific plans for Oculus VR, but Zuckerberg did give analysts a couple of hints.&quot;We’re not going to try to make a profit off the devices long term. We view this as a software and services thing,&quot; he said. &quot;Where if we can make it so that this becomes a network where people can be communicating and buying things and virtual goods, and there might be advertising in the world, but we need to figure that out down the line.&quot;So yes, advertising, at some point.Minecraft creator Markus Persson isn't sure Facebook is good news for Oculus Rift gaming. Photograph: Emma Johansson/DN/SCANPIX/Press Association ImagesDoes everyone think the acquisition is a good thing?Predictably, no. The most prominent critic was Markus &apos;Notch&apos; Persson, the creator of Minecraft, who cancelled embryonic plans to make a &quot;slimmed down&quot; version of the popular game for Oculus Rift, whileoutlining his concerns in a blog post.&quot;Facebook is not a company of grass-roots tech enthusiasts. Facebook is not a game tech company. Facebook has a history of caring about building user numbers, and nothing but building user numbers,” he wrote.“People have made games for Facebook platforms before, and while it worked great for a while, they were stuck in a very unfortunate position when Facebook eventually changed the platform to better fit the social experience they were trying to build.”Musician Peter Berkman – part of chiptune band anamanaguchi – expressed wider concerns about what Facebook might be looking to get out of virtual reality besides direct advertising.“Between head &amp; iris tracking, in-game data, and Facebook’s incredible systems- there will be a plethora of information to mine along with the ability and intent to do it,”wrote Berkman in March.“It is infinitely easier to mine data in a completely simulated reality - Facebook will know where you’re looking, what you’re doing, and how long you do it. The data promised to them by VR (tele-conference meetings, games that portray our deepest desires, fears and fantasies) is everything they wish they could gather in the real world. When they cross-reference that with all the other information they already have on a billion people (faces, social dynamics, etc), suddenly there is one company with a lot of control.”We don&apos;t know whether Oculus Rift will go mainstream, and we don&apos;t know what people will be doing with VR technology – but right from the start, Facebook will be questioned about how it&apos;s using the resulting data. That, at least, is a good thing.What&apos;s in this for Oculus?Some critics of the acquisition would like to have seen Oculus VR stay independent, but when explaining its decision to sell up, the company&apos;s management team have stressed the positive aspects of life within an internet giant.&quot;This partnership is one of the most important moments for virtual reality: it gives us the best shot at truly changing the world,&quot; wrote the team in their blog post announcing the deal.&quot;It opens doors to new opportunities and partnerships, reduces risk on the manufacturing and work capital side, allows us to publish more made-for-VR content, and lets us focus on what we do best: solving hard engineering challenges and delivering the future of VR.&quot;Oculus VR&apos;s chief technology officer John Carmack actually popped up on Berkman&apos;s blog post to give his views on why the acquisition was inevitable, and might be a positive thing.“The [VR] experience is too obviously powerful, and it makes converts on contact. The fairly rapid involvement of the Titans is inevitable, and the real questions were how deeply to partner, and with who,” he wrote.“Honestly, I wasn&apos;t expecting Facebook (or this soon). I have zero personal background with them, and I could think of other companies that would have more obvious synergies. However, I do have reasons to believe that they get the Big Picture as I see it, and will be a powerful force towards making it happen. You don&apos;t make a commitment like they just did on a whim.”CEO Brendan Iribeadded this in Mayin an appearance at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference: &quot;Do you want to build a platform that has one billion users on it, or only 10, 20, or 50 million?&quot;Will I be able to get an Oculus Rift headset sooner now?You can buy an Oculus Rift now, if you&apos;re a developer: the headset devkit is in its second generation andorderable from the company&apos;s website for $350– complete with a tickbox to check noting that &quot;I understand this hardware is intended for developers and it is not a consumer product.&quot;Whenwillit be a consumer product? Nobody&apos;s saying for now, including Zuckerberg when analysts asked him about a likely release date.While it&apos;s tempting to say Facebook&apos;s resources should accelerate plans for the Rift&apos;s proper launch, it could work the other way: Oculus VR might use those resources to hire in a bunch more engineers and tackle some of the challenges it hadn&apos;t felt able to take on before.Sony's Project Morpheus is the gaming giant's take on virtual reality. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWhat are the alternatives?Oculus VR certainly isn&apos;t the only company exploring a new generation of virtual reality hardware, even if Facebook&apos;s resources may help it hoover up more engineering talent ahead of its rivals.Those rivals include Sony, which unveiled its ownProject Morpheus VR headset for PlayStation 4the week before Facebook announced that it was buying Oculus. A prototype for now, Sony has grand ambitions for the device, asgames chief Andrew House told The Guardian earlier this month.&quot;It&apos;s definitely more than an experiment. We&apos;ve made some commitments; we&apos;re putting significant investment into the product,&quot; said House.&quot;We do now think that we can get to this point of delivering a magical sense of presence - where your brain tricks you into thinking you&apos;re actually in this place. We think there&apos;s something there that could be really, really interesting for a next frontier of game development.&quot;How about Microsoft and Xbox One? &quot;Virtual reality is a really interesting area, especially for games, and while it seems like it’s been &apos;just over the horizon&apos; for the last 20 years or so, I think we could finally start seeing it prove out soon for both gamers and developers,&quot;its games boss Phil Spencer told Forbes in April.&quot;Our Microsoft research team has been playing with virtual reality for quite a while, and while we don’t have anything to officially announce, it’s clearly an area people are excited about. The potential is definitely there.&quot;With Microsoft currently undergoing layoffs and internal reorganisations, it remains unclear when (or even whether) that research will turn into a commercial product. A reminder, though, Jaron Lanier – one of the prime movers in VR technology in the late 1980s – is an interdisciplinary scientist at Microsoft Research...So, what next for Oculus VR?In the short term, its own developer conference,Oculus Connect, which takes place on 19-20 September in Los Angeles.Besides gathering developers working on games and apps for the Rift, the company promises it&apos;ll be giving them a heads-up on the next developments for its technology, with keynotes from CEO Brendan Iribe, founder Palmer Luckey, CTO Carmack and chief scientist Michael Abrash on &quot;Oculus, virtual reality, and the future of the medium&quot;.That&apos;s when we&apos;ll hear from the horse&apos;s mouths what the future really holds for a Facebook-owned Oculus VR.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on VR•Facebook and Oculus Rift: game developers react•Oculus CEO: we want to put 1bn people in virtual reality
When a new smartphone or tablet arrives there is an expectation that it should be so well designed, so intuitive that anyone can use it – with no training or manual required. But are they really that easy to use?Even relatively tech savvy users, who are perfectly at home with a mouse and a keyboard, have struggled to adjust to the touchscreen way of doing things.A common complaint is that it&apos;s not clear to a new users what is and what isn’t a button. Gestures also catch people out, with quite a few of them only ever discovered accidentally.Gadget manufacturers expect users to be confident enough with devices to explore and fiddle with every part of the system to see what works and what doesn’t. But for less confident technology users, a new device can be intimidating, and there&apos;s often a fear of breaking something or doing something the wrong way.One person&apos;s&quot;I wonder what the button does - let&apos;s tap it&quot; is another person&apos;s &quot;I don&apos;t know what it does so I&apos;m not going to touch it&quot;.Apple has had tutorials on its site for some time, but is looking toaddress these kinds of issueswith anew “tips” app and website. It guides users through different functions and features, including responding to notifications, managing email and using Apple’s voice assistant, Siri.Isn&apos;t it about time that more companies started thinking about how complex these so-called “intuitive” devices have become, and actually create user manuals for the 21st century?Tell us your experiences of intuitive, or not-so intuitive, design. Should every device come with an instruction manual? Or is good design as much about inviting the user to use the device naturally and with confidence as it is about rounding the edges?
Payment startup Stripe is launching in Australia, letting merchants in the country join the UK, Ireland, USA and Canada in taking payments using the service.The company bills itself as a programming language for money, pitching itself to app and website developers on ease of use. It can be added to most services with just a few lines of code, and automatically supports features such as subscriptions, use of multiple currencies, and one-tap purchasing out of the box.&quot;Stripe’s mission is to grow internet commerce by providing everything an online business needs to accept payments,&quot; said John Collison, the company&apos;s co-founder and president, of the launch.&quot;We hope Stripe&apos;s powerful set of tools and APIs helps Australian businesses scale globally.&quot; At launch, Stripe&apos;s Australian pricing will be 1.75% + 30¢ for domestic transactions and 2.90% + 30¢ for international and American Express transactions.Long exclusive to the USA and Canada, in August 2013, Stripe expanded to the UK and Ireland. Then, at the beginning of 2014, it began a stint of international expansion, opening up its platform to all currencies at the consumer end. In March 2014,Stripe also began taking bitcoin, although the service remains in beta at the moment.But while the company was long tipped as a serious disrupting influence to huge companies such as Paypal, in the last year the scales have turned. The eBay-owned payments company, which had developed a nasty reputation for obstinate customer service and difficult developer tools, purchased a direct competitor to Stripe in the form of Braintree, and has picked up contracts from customers like Dropbox and Airbnb which ought to be a shoe-in for Stripe.That prompted Silicon Valley publication Pando Dailyto questionwhether &quot;winning the hearts of Valley startups&quot; was enough to win the war over payments.&quot;Clearly, sky-high valuations for unproven companies aren’t unheard of in the Valley. But there is a difference in valuing a Snapchat, an Instagram, or even a Spotify at huge premium with no basis on its financial performance. Those are huge potentially ad-backed consumer phenomenons that a company like Facebook could plug into its business and immediately monetize, as Google did with YouTube,&quot; wrote Carmel DeAmicis and Michael Carney. &quot;Stripe is not.&quot;•Bitcoin to be accepted by payment service Stripe
Apple is planning its biggest iPhone launch to date with the expected larger iPhone 6, according to leaks from the supply chain.The company has demanded 70-80m iPhones covering the expected 4.7in and 5.5in models by the end of the year, theWall Street Journal reports.The combined order surpasses last year’s 50-60m iPhone 5S and 5C numbers, which was the largest new iPhone launch at the time.&apos;Demand percentage turned out to be different than we thought&apos;Apple broke records, selling 9m iPhones in the first weekend, but the iPhone 5S outsold the cheaper iPhone 5C by two to one. The iPhone 5C failed to live up to expectations, causing Apple’s suppliers to cut production and Apple to introduce a cheaper 8GB iPhone 5C to try to ignite sales.Apple&apos;s chief executive, Tim Cook, said that the company’s strategy of both phones at the same time - the first in the iPhone’s history - did not go to plan.“I think last quarter we did a tremendous job, particularly given the mix was something very different than we thought,”he said in an earnings call in January. “It was the first time we’d ever run that particular play before, and demand percentage turned out to be different than we thought.”Rumoursaround production issuesfor the larger iPhones, the first to move past 4in screens, have put doubt on the efficacy of a large launch for the iPhone 6.Some have pointed to Apple’sexpected use of new sapphire crystal screensas the cause of production issues, which have been difficult to produce in large areas like those required by 4.7in and 5.5in smartphone screens.• An expert who wasconsulted by Apple 18 months agosays that a harder sapphire crystal iPhone screen is possible, and that Apple’s patents for glass-sapphire blends could result in anew hybrid screen more resistant to scratching
We bought my 11-year-old son a 7in Zoostorm SL8 mini tablet for Christmas. He loves it and has used it with games and photos. Recently, the tablet has started not performing well with some of the games he has downloaded, and he decided to save up for an iPad-sized (10in) tablet. He’s up to about £250, and I am finding it hard to help him choose. It has to be Android so he doesn’t lose his games (and Google Play vouchers). I thought of the Tesco Hudl. Might they be bringing out a new one in the autumn?DominicThe Android tablet market tends to split between expensive, top-tier products from leading brands and really cheap models that rarely seem to reach reviewers. Some of them might be bargains, from firms such as PiPO and Cube, but I wouldn&apos;t know.At the moment, the most attractive top-tier 10in Android tablets include the new beautifully thinSony Xperia Z2, theSamsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 Edition, and the rather old (2012-vintage) Google Nexus 10. Both the Samsung and Xperia Z2 have quad-core Snapdragon processors with 3GB of memory, which means they offer the high performance that is needed for gaming, with the Samsung being the fastest. Unfortunately, both cost about £400, which is the same as a 16GB Apple iPad Air. The Nexus 10 has a 1.7GHz Samsung Exynos 5 dual-core chip with 2GB of memory, which reflects its advancing age.However, you can find the Nexus 10 at relatively low prices, if you shop around. For example, Play.com has the16GB model for £235and the32GB version for £290, with free delivery. (These are US units supplied with UK mains cables.)Google&apos;s UK pricesare £319 and £389, but it&apos;s currently out of stock, so perhaps it&apos;s about to announce a long-overdue replacement. Rumours suggest this is being made by Asus, which already makes the Nexus 7. If so, it won&apos;t use a Samsung processor, so I&apos;d expect another quad-core or octo-core Snapdragon.There are some cheaper alternatives made by name brand suppliers. For example, Lenovo offers the differently-shapedYoga 10Android tablet for only £199.99. While solidly constructed and nicely polished, it has a relatively slow 1.2GHz Mediatek MT8215 quad-core processor that wouldn&apos;t be the best choice for gaming. Still, the MT8215 is roughly in the class of an Apple A6, Nvidia Tegra 3 or Snapdragon 400, which is a cut above the 1.5GHz dual-core Amlogic AML8726 in the Zoostorm SL8 mini 2.There are also some cheaper 10in Samsung tablets floating around, including theGalaxy Tab 3 at £279and theGalaxy Tab 4 (T-530) at £279.99. The Tab 3 is unusual in having anIntel Atom Z2560processor, but it&apos;s only slightly quicker than the Mediatek and similar chips. It&apos;s not one of the speedy Atom chips like the Z3740 used in theAsus Transformer T100 Windows 8 convertible10.1in tablet+keyboard (£289.99).As for the Hudl, the Tesco chief executive, Philip Clarke,told the Guardianthat a new Hudl 2 would be launched this year, and it&apos;s expected in September. But he said &quot;The new model will be an enhanced version,&quot; which suggests to me that it will be an updated 7in tablet not a 10in tablet. Given that tablet industry sales have been trending towards smaller, cheaper models, I wouldn&apos;t bank on Tesco going large, but it&apos;s not impossible.However, Argos is planning to launch a 10.1in Android 4.4 (KitKat) tablet that could cost about £130. Argos entered the market last year with a 7in Bush MyTablet model for £99, butit took a beating in reviews, and lost out to the Hudl and the £80Aldi Medion Lifetab. We can but assume the company has learned from its experience and its next models will be better. Unfortunately, I can&apos;t tell you the specification or price. Argos&apos;s press office says it will be announcing the new range next week.Otherwise, your son could always try a PiPO tablet, such as the 9.7inPiPO M6with its 1.8GHz Rockchip RK3188 quad-core processor for £175.51. I&apos;ve never seen one of the company&apos;s products so I can&apos;t comment, but some of its tablets, such as thePiPO M1 (Max M1),get generally good reviews on Amazon.co.uk.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAreal developers call out journalists after allegations of being a Kickstarter scam &gt;&gt;&gt; PolygonWest Games&apos; recently stated in a campaign update that Russian president Vladimir Putin allegedly emailed the game studio about access to the game&apos;s alpha.The saga of Areal, a Kickstarter project to build a spiritual successor to cult classic game STALKER, is weird enough. But that Putin letter cannot be real... right?Meet your digital butler: a &apos;Social OS&apos; &gt;&gt;&gt; WSJThe sum of all these contextual apps is, for now, a kind of ambient awareness of the contents of my day that I suppose more organised and less distractible people have known for years.We&apos;ve been promised this sort of awareness since the dawn of the PDA. Could it nearly be upon us? I hope so, I&apos;ve already double-booked myself once this week.Hands on: Honda Uni-Cub review &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarZipping around a room of journalists and Honda execs I felt and looked a tad ridiculous. But judge me all you want, one day you&apos;ll all be doing it.And therein lies the problem.Latest Argos tablets to start at £80 - prices, specs &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKAvailable from 26 July, the new range will consist of tablets measuring 7 inches, 7.85 inches and 10.1 inches. In the two larger models Argos has beefed the MyTablet&apos;s processor up from a 1.6GHz dual-core processor to a 1.4GHz quad-core processor, which promises a significantly speedier performance.Let&apos;s hope they&apos;re a littlebetter quality than the last one.iPhone 6: new photos could confirm light-up Apple logo notifications &gt;&gt;&gt; UswitchTellingly, the plastic part looks to have been made thin enough that light can easily shine through to alert you to updates and other important messages.Another battery-sapping feature, that. Of course it could bea window for the antennae...Cortana will hit the UK in &apos;less than two weeks&apos; &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarResponding to someone on Twitter, Marcus Ash, Group Program Manager of Cortana, said: &quot;Barring an unforeseen issue, down to less than 2 weeks for the developer preview.&quot;Cortana&apos;s coming to the UK. About time too. Will she have a different accent though?How Bungie developed Destiny for the Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS4 and PS3 &gt;&gt;&gt; Digital Trends&quot;I&apos;ll speak for the hypothetical player,&quot; Wolfson explains. &quot;I have a disadvantage sniping across the map because [my opponent with a next-gen console] is only two pixels on my screen and I&apos;m four pixels on his. You see that in the world of PC gaming, where people are always racing to the best video card to give themselves the advantage.&quot;Damn those pixels. And those camping snipers, they&apos;re the worst. Ruining it for all us cross-platform players.Star Citizen: Chris Roberts assures us that all the funds are used for development &gt;&gt;&gt; Load The GameCloud Imperium Games&apos; Star Citizen is widely known as being the most successful crowd-funded title in gaming history. The record was set back in November 2012 when the game managed to raise over 4.2 million dollars in only about a month or so. But the fund raising campaign didn&apos;t stop there however, and is still on-going to this day. As of this writing, Star Citizen managed to raise the impressive sum of almost $50 million.Around $50m is a ludicrously high sum for a crowdfunded game to have in its coffers. For Star Citizen, that largely reflects its fairly innovative model of, essentially, F2P upgrades before the game has even launched, with some backers paying hundreds of dollars for the ability to start the game with better spaceships. But with that amount of cash behind it, the pressure for the devs to not mess up is strong. Will they be able to make it work?UK creative industries and ISPs partner in major new initiative to promote legal online entertainment&gt;&gt;&gt; BPIThe campaign will aim to inform and encourage consumers - ranging from the next generation of digital users to &apos;silver-surfers&apos; - about the huge range of entertainment content that is available from legal and licensed sources; giving them greater confidence when buying and using content online and providing additional guidance about internet safety.Of course, if they choose to ignore the four educational letters nothing will happen. No teeth to this.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
1994:Make it soAmerican entrepreneur Jeff&nbsp;Bezos first registers his fledgling company under the name Cadabra Inc in July 1994. But troubles with the name (not least that people mishear it&nbsp;as "Cadaver") prompt a change. Bezos, a Star Trek fan, also considers calling the company MakeItSo.com, after Captain Picard's catchphrase in Star Trek: The Next Generation, and holds a party for the show's final episode in May 1994. On 1&nbsp;November, however, he registers Amazon – because it begins&nbsp;with A, sounds exotic and, he mistakenly believes, is the longest river in the world (the Nile is actually more than 400km longer).Key productThe complete Star Trek: The Next Generation. But see next year for the company's first sale.1995:Amazon.com goes liveOn 16 July 1995, the world gets its first glimpse of Amazon.com. Early orders tend to be for esoteric titles that are hard to locate in&nbsp;mainstream bookstores, while overseas orders (particularly from US&nbsp;military personnel) make up a large&nbsp;proportion of sales. The year's bestseller is indicative of early customers' interests – How to Set Up and Maintain a World Wide Web Site: The Guide for Information Providers by Lincoln D Stein.Key productDouglas Hofstadter'sFluid Concepts and Creative Analogies: Computer Models of the Fundamental Mechanisms of Thought, the first book ever sold on the site.1996:Send us your freaksDespite losing $52,000 in 1994, Amazon's fortunes begin to change, not least because of Bezos's bullish attitude. The new unofficial company motto becomes "Get Big Fast". Amazon introduces an 8% referral commission to sites that direct customers to Amazon to purchase a&nbsp;book. A front-page interview in the Wall Street Journal in May ("How Wall Street whiz finds niche selling books on the internet") proves a watershed moment. Daily orders double overnight, with revenues growing at 30-40% a month. To meet demand at&nbsp;the warehouse, an Amazon representative allegedly tells a temp agency to: "Send us your freaks."Key productAmazon'sbestselling book&nbsp;of the yearwas a prescient one – David Siegel's Creating Killer Web Sites: The Art of Third-Generation Site&nbsp;Design.1997:Just the factsBarnes &amp; Noble sues Amazon on 12 May 1997, alleging that Amazon's claim to be "the world's largest bookstore" is false. Undeterred, on 15 May 1997, Amazon announces its stock market launch, offering shares at $18 and raising $54m. The company sees a 900% growth in annual revenues and Bezos officially becomes a multimillionaire. With Amazon now approaching $60m in sales annually, Bezos instigates a huge infrastructural overhaul to cope with the fact that Amazon is clearly Getting Big Fast.Key productInto Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster, becomes the first book that is not a web design guide to top the site's annual list of bestsellers.1998:Expand or bustAmazon's global ambition continues with the acquisition of Bookpages.co.uk, a UK online book retailer, which becomes Amazon UK on&nbsp;15 October 1998. Exchange.com and&nbsp;Germany's Telebuch are also bought up and the relentless expansion continues into product areas too, with&nbsp;the company looking beyond books. In January, it adds digital rights&nbsp;management-free music to its list of offerings for the first time, as well as buying IMDB.com. The year's most significant acquisition reveals the&nbsp;scope of Bezos's ambitions: he hires Walmart's vice-president of distribution, Jimmy Wright. Asked what sort of products he&nbsp;will be charged with distributing, Wright is&nbsp;told by Bezos: "I don't know. Just design something that will handle everything."Key productThebestselling album of Amazon's first year as a music retaileris U2's compilation album The Best of 1980-1990, beating Jewel, Celine Dion and Alanis Morissette.1999:Man of the YearJeff Bezos, Amazon founder. Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesAnother watershed moment as Jeff Bezos is named Time magazine's "person of the year" in its December issue. Announcing on its cover that "E-commerce is changing the way the world shops", Time identifies Bezos as the one person who&nbsp;more than any other has been responsible for – and has most taken advantage of – this phenomenon. In another bullish statement of intent, Amazon is granted the patent for "1-Click" ordering , and a month later it files a patent infringement lawsuit against Barnes &amp; Noble for offering a 1-Click "Express Lane" service. In 2000, it licenses 1-Click ordering to Apple Computer for its online store.Key productThis is the first of five years in which Harry Potter books willtop the bestseller charts. The third book in&nbsp;the series, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, takes the top spot, while the first two books round out the top three.2000:Diversify or dieThe dotcom bubble reaches its peak on 10 March 2000, and Amazon becomes one of the most high-profile losers as its share price tumbles from a high of $106.69 on&nbsp;10&nbsp;December 1999 to $15.56 on 29&nbsp;December 2000. However, one key&nbsp;factor helps it to survive where others fail: the emphasis on selling the Amazon brand over any individual product offering, with its diversification into multiple areas is cemented with&nbsp;the launch of Amazon Marketplace, allowing businesses and sole traders to list their products directly on&nbsp;Amazon.Key productThe success of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire confirms that Pottermania isn't going anywhere. All four of JK Rowling's books appear in Amazon'stop five bestsellers for the year.2001:After the bubbleWith the first dotcom bubble bursting in 2000, the year begins on a down-note as Amazon lays off 1,500 workers in January and closes its Seattle call centre, vowing to become more profitable. Indeed, it makes its first quarterly profit: a net income of $5m on $1bn revenues in the fourth quarter. By April, the inexorable rise of the online bookselling model sees Amazon and Borders join forces to launch borders.com – using Amazon's technology.Key productWith JK Rowling taking time off before the next Potter instalment, it falls to the company's video games department – set up in 1999 – to meet customers' insatiable desire for more of the boy wizard. The PC game tie-in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone becomes Amazon'sbestselling game of the year.2002:Who blinks firstInspired by the high-value customer schemes of airlines, Amazon launches Free Super Saver Shipping in January for orders of more than $99 (eventually dropping to $25). The potential loss-leader eventually proves another stroke of risk-taking genius. Another pitfall is skilfully evaded as Amazon negotiates an unheard-of discount rate with UPS. In typical Bezos style, the deal is struck after a 72-hour standoff, with Amazon using FedEx and the US Postal Service to deliver all its orders instead. Amazon also introduces Amabot, a&nbsp;recommendations algorithm that replaces editorialised content.Key productAnother apt title takes the top spot for books:Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap … and Others Don't, a business manual that sells more than three million copies.The Harry Potter film series provided a filip for Amazon’s bestselling books. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd/Allstar/Warner Bros2003:Goodbye to all thatBezos first coins the term "unstore" to spell out what makes Amazon unique – limitless shelf space, personalisation, the juxtaposition of used and new items, allowing negative comments – explaining that the normal rules of retail don't apply to Amazon. Neither, it seems, do the normal rules of meetings: Bezos orders all TVs removed from conference rooms, later giving them away as award prizes to employees identifying bureaucratic and wasteful practices. Having survived a helicopter crash in Texas in March, Bezos is once more proving bulletproof: in December, Amazon announces its first full-year profit ($35.3m).Key productWhat else? The hardcover release of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix re-establishes JK Rowling's dominance of the book market, while&nbsp;in second place Dan Brown's The&nbsp;Da Vinci Code marks the arrival of another publishing phenomenon.2004:Diamonds aren't foreverAmazon's diversification spreads into an unlikely venture – selling jewellery and undercutting traditional retailers. Paris Hilton is signed up to sell her designs exclusively through Amazon. Innovations including Diamond Search and a personalised ring-designing tool prove technologically pioneering, but the appeal of buying such high-value products in person proves a rare occasion in which offline bucks the online trend. In the same year, Amazon acquires Joyo.com, the Chinese e-commerce site, opening up a lucrative new revenue stream.Key productThe Da Vinci Code keeps on selling and is the site's bestselling book in 2004, a year after it was first published, once the rush to read the latest Potter book has died down.2005:Join the clubAmazon's interest in high-value customers continues as it launches Prime, its "all you can eat" membership programme. As usual, while there are rumblings of unease within the company, Bezos shouts them down with the words: "This is a&nbsp;big idea." Acquisitions in 2005 once again reveal the boom areas that are catching Amazon's eye: print on demand (BookSurge), DVD on demand (CreateSpace.com) and e-book software (Mobipocket).Key productAn Amazon Prime membership, which gives customers in the United States unlimited access to free two-day delivery in exchange for tying them in to an annual fee of $79.2006:Rocket manAmazon relocates its&nbsp;headquarters to a 280,000 sq ft space&nbsp;in Kent, Washington. Another significant change takes place in Britain: ownership of the main Amazon.co.uk business is transferred to a Luxembourg company – Amazon EU Sarl – with the UK operation classed only as an "order fulfilment" business and all payments for books, DVDs and&nbsp;other goods going directly to Luxembourg. The new Washington State site is filled with memorabilia including Star Trek props and a genuine Soviet Union cosmonaut suit. On 10 November 2006, the Wall Street Journal announces that Bezos has acquired a launch site for a space flight programme entitled Blue Origin.Key productOn 25 August, Amazon announcesan open beta testof Amazon EC2, which will go on to become the core component of its mammoth cloud-computing operation. In 2014, Amazon's cloud-computing operation is expected to make $5bn in&nbsp;revenue.2007:Electronic inkIn November, Amazon introduces the first Kindle e-reader, hoping to build a market for&nbsp;digital books. Critics balk at the original asking price of $399, but the initial stock sells out in five hours. Showing its commitment to the old-fashioned written word as well, in December the&nbsp;company pays £1.95m for a handwritten copy of JK Rowling's The Tales&nbsp;of Beedle the Bard (Rowling donates her proceeds of the sale to&nbsp;charity).Key productThe Kindle e-book reader, which gets off to a flying start and continues to grow its market. Morgan&nbsp;Stanley Research estimates that Amazon will sell $5bn worth of Kindles in 2014.2008:Mobile firstIn another year of acquisitons and lawsuits, Amazon buys rival online books site AbeBooks.com – which specialises in collating online sales for independent bookstores and out-of-print titles. In April. Amazon launches TextBuyIt, an early phone-shopping and price-comparison service that works via text messaging. The same month, the company files a lawsuit in New York after the Legislature passes a landmark bill requiring online retailers to collect sales taxes on shipments to state residents. Other states soon follow suit.Key productThis year is less about what Amazon sells than what – or who – it bought. The headline acquisition is Audible.com, the world's largest producer of&nbsp;audiobooks, which it buys for an estimated $300m.2009:Toy storyIn June, Amazon finally settles a 2004 legal dispute with Toys R Us over an alleged violation of its business partnership (when Amazon allowed other toy merchants to sell their goods via the site, reportedly reneging on an exclusivity deal between the two companies). Amazon agrees to pay Toys R Us $51m. Bezos once again shows his appetite for buying up rival organisations (and thereby obtaining their expertise and skillset) when Amazon acquires Stanza, which manufactures a rival e-book reader to the Kindle.Key productAfter moving into the manufacture of its own electronic products with the Kindle, Amazon launches AmazonBasics, a low-cost hardware brand offering AV cables, blank DVDs and other consumer electronics.2010:Trouble with The ManWith the increasing success of e-books and the Kindle's market dominance, the book industry once again starts to show its unease with Amazon. In January, Amazon stops selling books by Macmillan in a dispute over the pricing of its e-books. By December, Bezos shows a rare instance of backing down in the face of pressure, when Amazon agrees to stop hosting the WikiLeaks website after questions by congressional staff and an enquiry by the US Senate Homeland Security Committee. Meanwhile the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP) reveals that while Amazon was operating facilities in 17 states, it was paying tax in only four.Key productThis is the year that Amazon buys Quidsi Inc, the parent company responsible for diapers.com, soap.com, wag.com and yoyo.com, sellers of nappies, soap, pet food and childrens' toys.2011:Amazon Loves FilmAmazon announces its move into a Netflix-style online video streaming service, available to those customers paying for membership of Amazon Prime. By July, Amazon's total market capitalisation tops $100bn. In a continuing dispute, Amazon threatens to shut down its Dallas facility when the state sues for $269m in back sales taxes. The state eventually backs down. In October, Amazon announces a digital partnership with DC Comics, prompting Barnes &amp; Noble to remove its comic books from its shelves.Key productA LoveFilm account. Amazon buys the subscription-based DVD rental service in January for £200m.2012:The taxman comethThe Guardian reveals that Amazon has avoided billions in corporation tax, paying almost nothing despite recording £7bn in sales. In the face of increasing competition from Apple's iBookstore and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook, Amazon's ebook market share falls from a high of more than 90% in 2010 to 60%. It launches its second-generation ebook reader, the Kindle Fire HD, in September. The company also announces an out-of-print books line – plus a "free" digital book lending library, with subscribers to Amazon Prime being offered an ebook per month at no extra cost.Key productFifty Shades of Grey, which&nbsp;began life as a self-published ebook in 2011, finishes 2012 as both Amazon's most downloaded ebook, and, along with its sequels Darker and Freed, the site's first, second and third bestselling books.2013:Control the skiesIn a typical moment of&nbsp;Bezos-style chutzpah, Amazon announces an unusual strategy in its&nbsp;delivery fulfilment plans: it is investigating options for same-day parcel delivery by unmanned drones. The service, entitled Amazon Prime Air, promises it will "get packages into&nbsp;customers' hands in 30 minutes or&nbsp;less". Bullish as ever, a press release reveals that the service should be available by 2015 – once the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s rules&nbsp;on the safety of unmanned aerial&nbsp;vehicles are finalised. Rather more prosaically, in November it agrees&nbsp;a partnership with the US Postal&nbsp;Service to deliver orders on Sundays (initially in Los Angles and New York).Grand Theft Auto V: Grand Theft Auto V proves so popular that Amazon UK sells out five days in advance of its release.Key productReleased in September,Grand Theft Auto Vbecomes the fastest-selling entertainment product of all&nbsp;time, shifting 32.5m copies by the end&nbsp;of the year. The game proves so popular that Amazon UK sells out five days in advance – and is forced to deliver some pre-orders late.2014:Living Wages for Amazon workers!The Amazon Fire TV set-top box system is announced (Amazon's answer to Apple TV); alongside Kindle Unlimited – a subscription-based service offering access to all ebooks and audio books on the platform for a&nbsp;monthly fee of $9.99. A fake book briefly appears in Amazon's listings: A&nbsp;Living Wage for All Amazon Workers! The stunt is part of an ongoing campaign to draw attention to the company's continued use of low-paid workforce while maximising profits.Key productThe fictional paperbackLiving Wages for Amazon Workers!is removed from the site the morning it&nbsp;launches.
What do you need to be a YouTube sensation? An international pop career? A witty Game of Thrones spoof? Footage of a wet cat? How about a short video of someone unwrapping plastic toys? The channel run byDisneyCollectorBRwas thethird most-viewed on YouTube last week, beaten only byShakiraand cult Swedish game&nbsp;commenterPewDiePie. It isestimated to have made millionsafter racking up more than 2.4 billion views with videos of toys being "unboxed".The mystery woman's most popular video, with more than 90m views, is "Angry Birds Toy Surprise Jake and the Never Land Pirates Disney Pixar Cars 2 Easter Egg Spongebob". The video opens with a shot of "six egg surprises I just found at Target", on a blue surface against a bright green background.The internet phenomenon of "unboxing" could be the ultimate I-could-have-done-that million-dollar venture. Unboxing is essentially filming yourself opening boxes of toys or gadgets, uploading it to YouTube and, for users such as DisneyCollectorBR, realising you're rich.All we see of the anonymous presenter is her disembodied and nicely manicured fingers unwrapping the contents. Some quiet guitar music kicks in as she pulls out the contents and describes them in a sing-song voice, with an occasional comment such as, "This is awesome!" or "No candy in this one." It's weirdly hypnotic, delivering the fun of endless egg surprises for its young audience.How could someone make millions just by unwrapping figurines from Kinder eggs? If they get enough views, any YouTube user can make money from ads displayed during their videos. If their video is engaging enough to keep the viewer's attention long enough for them to watch the ads that pop up, they get paid a nominal fee. By captivating small children and toddlers to the tune of billions of views, that translates into serious cash for DisneyCollectorBR.But the unboxing audience isn't made up entirely of small children getting a midsummer hit of Christmas-morning excitement. Its origins lie in the gadget and fashion world, where vloggers unbox everything from Xboxes to video games, phones, clothing, trainers, coffee machines or Uggs, so consumers can get a preview of what they're buying. You can even watch people unbox live reptiles. In short, if it's for sale, someone is probably unboxing it on YouTube.Useful as it is to see what comes in the box, adults are just as susceptible as children to so-called "toy porn". Even though several videos ongearlive.com'sunboxing page are marked "unboxing review", suggesting a grown-up unboxing with sensible and practical commentary, the page tagline is: "Vicarious thrills from opening new gear." Even as adults, we still evidently squirm at the excitement of opening a brand new toy.
It&apos;s the social media trend which takes inspiration from a teen horror film, and quickly became a very real horror for young girls and women across America and the globe in yet another display of &quot;revenge porn&quot;.The #twitterpurge hashtag was created to coincide with the release ofThe Purge: Anarchy, a sequel to last year&apos;sThe Purge. The film&apos;s premise is that for one night of the year all crime is legal.A teenager in the Santa Clarita Valley area of San Franciscoset up a number of Twitter accountsand the hashtag #twitterpurge to try to replicate the anything-goes phenomenon on the social networking site.But the trend, which peaked on the night of the film&apos;s 19th July release, was quickly hijacked by users posting nude photos of ex-girlfriends, (in some cases including the targets&apos; Twitter handles, or in other cases,subtweeting).&quot;Revenge porn&quot; has become a significant problem in a culture where18% of students have reportedsending nude pictures to others.Dedicated websites have cropped up to host these picturescropped up to host these pictures (one of the most prolific was started by the internet personality Hunter Moore). The effect on women is humiliation, breakdown, ruined lives and in some cases, suicide.In November of last year, a 17-year old Brazilian girlkilled herselfafter nude photographs were published online, and in 2012 Canadian high school studentAmanda Todd killed herselfafter topless pictures of her were circulated on Facebook.Twitter removed the original account under itschild exploitation policy, but copycat accounts sprang up. As more and more pictures were spread, users deleted their accounts after being &quot;exposed&quot;. Women were branded &quot;thots&quot;(a slang word for &quot;slut&quot;), and their nude pictures commented upon and retweeted. The practice soonspread to Facebook and Instagram.Other users, however, fought back. Many expressed disgust for the misogyny and contempt for privacy on show:Goes to show how quick people are to hop on the bandwagon for exposure.Twitter Purge is immature,ignorant and something many will glorify.&mdash; C.T.F.™ (@CrisisTheFuture)July 20, 2014How is#twitterpurgeeven a thing? This is horrible&mdash; Noah (@GeensNoah)July 20, 2014if you&#39;re participating in this#twitterpurgeyou are a horrible person. You&#39;re ruining someone&#39;s life and could push them to suicide.&mdash; MeaganAnne♔ (@meagann_annee)July 20, 2014why the hell is#twitterpurgeactually a thing, that&#39;s so horrible.&mdash; m a d e l i n e (@townsend_maddie)July 21, 2014realest thing I&#39;ve read all day#twitterpurgepic.twitter.com/ccEdvMvNzl&mdash; Relatable (@JustReIatabIe)July 19, 2014&quot;@k4te_n4sh: waaaaay too long to fit on one tweet but my thoughts on the pathetic#twitterpurgetrendpic.twitter.com/K1Ll9YlPTs&quot;&mdash; Logan&#39;s Queen❤ (@_TheTweetyBird)July 21, 2014Urban Dictionary, surprisingly, fought back too:Urban Dictionary called out the practice. Photograph: Urban DictionaryThe Twitter Purge comes just a week after a picture of a16-year-old girl who was raped at a party was mocked and trended on Twitter, eventually becoming a meme. And as many pointed out, users tweeting pictures of people under 18 were liable for arrest under child pornography laws.Some believe that legislation should be put place in to stop further tragedies occurring; 11 US states havecriminalised revenge porn, while Canada, Brazil and Japan are taking similar steps. In the UK,the government has saidit will look at introducing laws which will, campaigners hope, protect both women and men from this kind of abuse online.• What rhymes with disaster? Robin Thicke trolled hard in Twitter Q&amp;A
It&apos;s the opportunity frustrated parade organisers have been waiting for: games publisher Atari has announcedPridefest, a &quot;social sim&quot; which invites players to create their own pride event in a city of their choosing.In development for smartphones and tablets, the game involves designing parade flotillas with &quot;eye-catching attractions and entertainment&quot; in order to increase the vibrancy and happiness of the town.Players need to beat challenges and solve puzzles to unlock new decorations and other festival supplies; there will also be social features allowing participants to share their personalised parades with friends.The Atari brand has been through many hands since its heyday in the seventies when Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney formed the company to develop classic titles like Pong, Breakout and Centipede. Since then, the name has been owned by several companies including Hasbro and French video games firm Infogrames. Afterfiling for bankruptcy protectionin 2013,a new company emergedspecialising in social casino sims and casual smartphone titles.“We are excited to be developing Atari’s first LGBT-themed game that will give players of all backgrounds the chance to play a fun and unique game that represents a passionate cause,” said Atari COO, Todd Shallbetter.“We will continue offering a variety of games that are inclusive for all Atari fans and Pridefest is another example of how we are doing that.” The company also recently sponsored theGaymerXgaming festival in San Francisco.LGBT representation is being taken increasingly seriously within the games industry. From gay and bisexual characters in major titles like Mass Effect and The Last of Us, to independent titles exploring issues of gender and sexuality, there is growing movement toward inclusivity.Major games publisher Electronic Arts has been active in promoting equality and diversity,taking part in pride parades in Seattle and San Franciscoand facing anti-gay boycotts for its inclusion of same sex relationships in Mass Effect and Star Wars: the Old Republic.Meanwhile, Nintendo recently apologised after disallowing gay relatonships in its life simulator game, Tomodachi Life.Little else is currently known about Pridefest, with no release date or screenshots provided at this time.•Nintendo apologises over lack of gay relationships in video game•Some people are gay in space. Get over it
Edward Snowden will dedicate his time to developing and promoting technologies aimed at protect users&apos; rights by design, he announced at the Hope conference in New York city.Speaking on Saturday night, Snowden argued that encryption is an &quot;important first step&quot; in protecting those rights, but doesn&apos;t go far enough.“It doesn’t end at encryption, it starts at encryption,” he said, highlighting the issue of metadata as one example where encryption fails. “Encryption protects the content but we forget about associations.&quot;These programs like [the Patriot Act&apos;s] section 215, and mass surveillance in general, is not about surveilling you, it’s not about surveilling me. It’s about surveilling us collectively. It’s about watching the company. For everybody in the country and on a global scale.&quot;Snowden implored developers to spend more time and effort focusing on helping users maintain their privacy.&quot;You in this room, right now have both the means and the capability to improve the future by encoding our rights into programs and protocols by which we rely every day,&quot; he told the conference, speaking by video link from Moscow, where he has been living in exile since 2013.&quot;That is what a lot of my future work is going to be involved in.&quot;He reserved much of his criticism for software which, while technically strong, offers a poor user experience. He described GPG, a set of tools for public key encryption, as &quot;robust and pretty reliable encryption. Unfortunately it’s damn near unusable.&quot;Snowden has already begun promoting technology that lets users act to protect their own rights. Speakingto the Guardian on Saturday, he recommendedSpiderOak, an end-to-end encrypted filesharing system, as a replacement to software such as DropBox.At the Hope conference, Snowden specifically highlighted the need to beat surveillance techniques such as traffic analysis as an area for development, as well as mixed routing, which protects individual connections from oversight.&quot;We need to have protocols that are resistant to traffic analysis. They need to be padded, basically, even if there’s some level of performance penalty. So you can’t look at differences in for example Skype conversations and tell which phoneme or word was spoken based on packet size and signaling speed and so on and so forth,&quot; he said.&quot;You also need to use some sort of mixed routing, some sort of shared infrastructure, that divorces the individual connection from the individual orgination point. And that’s still a hard problem. We haven’t solved that in a performance respecting manner.”•I, spy: Edward Snowden in exile
The technology that was used to create an online &quot;motion book&quot; of the classic DC comicBatman: Arkham Originshas been opened up to the public, allowing anyone to create and publish their own animated comic using a free, web-based tool.The comic has been re-imagined as a &quot;motion book&quot;, thanks to a new technology that allows comics to be created and animated within a web browser and viewed online or on mobile phones and tablets via an app.TheBatmanmotion comic was one of the most popular on the new Madefire platform, which creates animations that include sound as well as movement.California-based startup Madefire has been experimenting with &quot;motion books&quot; that add “motion, sound and depth to the visual reading experience”. As more and more comics readers shift from printed books to phones and tablets, the race is on to reinvent the medium and create captivating content for the digital generation.Motion books lie somewhere between the small hacks on the physical comic book experience such as Comixology’sGuided View, and more radical plans as proposed recently by the comics legend Alan Moore with hisElectricomicsidea.“These are not motion comics likeWatchmen, which is essentially a video,” clarifies Ben Wolstenholme, CEO and co-founder of Madefire. “We developed Motion Books with reading as the number one priority – where the reader remains in control, and there’s room for their imagination.“All you need is a web browser and an internet connection to build and share your digital comics.&quot;The new tooltries to simplify the creation of digital-first storytelling, encouraging artists to upload their artwork to the cloud, control the pace as the story unfolds, add fades, sounds and dissolve effects, and preview the book – all from the browser itself.The results can then be published directly onDeviantart, the online social community for artists, as well as to the Madefire app for iOS and Windows. The company retains 30% revenues from any sales and the rest goes to the creator.“We’ve found people taking two approaches: those who develop for print first and use the tool to lead the eye and create a jigsaw puzzle of their flat book. Others, who are either breaking down their art in layers or simply writing and drawing for the platform. In crude terms, it’s the difference between shooting a film on 3D or converting to 3D later,” explains Wolstenholme.The real target of the tool is upcoming talent who find it difficult to get their work noticed. “Marvel and DC have a duopoly in comics and it’s very hard to get a new character or property developed,” says Wolstenholme, who trained as a designer and has his own series on Madefire calledMono.DC and most other publishers are on board, except Marvel (which has an exclusive tie-up with Comixology), as are some big ticket writers and artists including Brian Bolland, Bill Sienkiewicz, Mike Carey and Dave Gibbons (who is also an investor in the company).“Having seen motion comics like Watchmen, which seemed to be the worst of everything, I went into Motion Books cautiously,” admits Carey, the writer best known for theLuciferseries. But it didn’t take long for him to see the potential, resulting in his first outing on Madefire,Houses of the Holy.Mike Carey's Houses of the Holy“In traditional comics you have to be aware of the structure of a page around a key panel whereas here each panel is key and you’re aware of the structure only in the background,” says Carey. Use of sound and the iPad’s parallax effect providing a sense of depth also made a difference for him.Digital comics sales are growing but the numbers are still tiny compared to print.Estimates for 2013 released last weekshow just $90m worth of digital comics were sold in north America, the biggest market for comics, compared to $780 million for print. So there’s a lot to gain from experimenting for companies like Madefire.The venture-funded company has raised about $7m so far from people with ties to Apple, Macromedia and Wordpress and the 50-member team has an equal mix of engineering and creative talent.Next steps include extending the presence to Android and signing on more high profile creators, but the company isn’t in a hurry to make money: “We know there’s an orientation towards digital publishing that’s inevitable but digital comics is still a relatively small market size. Fortunately we have very patient investors,” says Wolstenholme.•Comixology removal of in-app purchases sparks user backlash
Oops, sorry, I am in the States and TOTALLY forgot about Chatterbox. It's okay, I've set it up for tomorrow as well, so everything is under control, situation normal. We're fine. We're all fine here now, thank you. How are you?*sound of laser blast*Boring conversation anyway.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSGlow Nurture (Free)US startup Glow’s first app helped women track their fertility cycles when trying to get pregnant. Its new companion app is for people who succeeded: it’s a pregnancy tracker providing daily updates, useful information, the ability to track everything from sleep to Kegel exercises, and the obligatory bump photo-sharing features.iPhoneLingua.ly (Free)Language-learning startup Lingua.ly launched its Android app earlier this year, but now it’s available on iPhone too. It aims to teach you French, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, Hebrew or English by getting you to read news stories, then translating the words you don’t recognise. A clever idea, neatly done.iPhoneOvercast: Podcast Player (Free + IAP)Developer Marco Arment made his name in app circles with read-it-later news app Instapaper and iOS magazine app The Magazine. Now he’s turning his attention to podcasts. This is a stripped-down podcast app that lets you listen offline, create playlists and set push notifications for new episodes among other features. A single £2.99 in-app purchase unlocks all its features.iPhoneShakespeare300 (£1.99)This is a good idea for anyone wanting a fast primer on Shakespeare plays: it analyses each one in a 300-word introduction and synopsis, with charts and info graphics thrown in for good measure. It’s the work of author James Reese: an accessible way in to the master playwright’s works.iPhone / iPadGoogle Analytics (Free)If you run a website and use Google Analytics to track your traffic, some very good news this week: the service’s official app has finally come to iPhone. A clean, simple design gives you access to your key metrics, including real-time stats. Invaluable for going full nerd over your visits.iPhoneHours Time Tracking (£2.99)“Time tracking seems like a simple problem… and it would be, if we were all robots,” suggests the App Store listing for this app. It’s a beautifully-designed time-tracker app, with reminders, a clear daily calendar, and the option to export all your data as CSV or PDF reports if needed for work. Really useful.iPhoneMarvel Origins (Free + IAP)As the name implies, this is all about the origin stories for some of Marvel’s most famous characters: Spider-Man, Iron Man, Hulk and the Avengers at the time of writing. Aimed at children, it has voice narration from Stan Lee, with a mixture of illustrated stories and a mini-game. Iron Man’s tale comes free, the rest are £1.99 in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadDestiny Companion (Free)Destiny is the official companion app for the console game of the same name, released in beta form by developer Bungie for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 recently. You can check on your stats, communicate through forums and private messages, and get news from Bungie on new developments.iPhoneSympler (Free)Sympler is the latest iOS app trying to get people to create their own video mash-ups, using a mixture of photos, videos and music. In this case, the videos can come from your iPhone or from your Vine and/or Instagram accounts, with the creation process involving tapping the screen in time to the music. Fun, but will it catch on?iPhoneWiper Messenger (Free)There are dozens of messaging apps promising greater privacy for their users, in the wake of last year’s NSA revelations. Wiper is the latest, throwing in voice calls for good measure. You can ping text and photos back and forth, with its schtick being a “Wipe” option to erase whatever you’ve sent to a friend from their phone.iPhoneGuinness World Records 2015 – Augmented Reality (Free)It’s that time of year again: a new Guinness World Records book is out, and true to recent tradition, there’s a companion augmented reality app too. It gets you to point your iOS device’s camera at the book, then watch 3D animations, play a game and take a photo of yourself next to the tallest man in the world. Sounds like a novelty, but on past form, it’s good fun.iPhone / iPadGuardians of the Galaxy game for iOS.GAMESGuardians of the Galaxy: The Universal Weapon (£2.99)A sign of mobile gaming in 2014: when a company like Marvel releases a new roleplaying game (RPG) that’s paid rather than freemium, it shouts “NO IN-APP PURCHASES” right at the start of its App Store listing. Quite the selling point, but the game’s really good too: a deep-but-accessible adventure.iPhone / iPadSwords &amp; Poker Adventures (Free + IAP)Swords &amp; Poker isn’t a new game: it was released a long time ago as an indie game on iOS, before being acquired and revamped by publisher Konami – including making it a freemium game. The in-app purchases aren’t too aggressive, while the gameplay – basically making poker hands to deal damage to enemies – remains fun.iPhone / iPadNinja UP! (Free + IAP)Publisher Gameloft’s latest freemium game does exactly what it says in the title: you control a ninja for whom the only way is up. Specifically, up by bouncing as you trace your finger on the screen to create mini-trampolines. It’s colourful, looks to have plenty of challenge, and the pixelly ninja is a loveable hero.iPhone / iPaddaWindci Deluxe (£1.99)Another new old game. The original daWindci was brilliant: released for iOS in 2011, it was an action-puzzler that revolved around you drawing weather onto the screen, from rain to tornadoes. This is an all-new version with spiffier graphics and beefed-up physics, as you guide a hot-air balloon through 50 missions.iPhone / iPadCooking Academy 2: World Cuisine (£1.99)It’s not Cooking Mama, but this game from publisher Big Fish is sliced from the same ingredients as that handheld classic. It sees you cooking 60 different dishes as you travel the world, through simple, made-for-touchscreen mini-games.iPhone / iPadAlphabeats (£1.49 + IAP)Described by developer Rad Dragon as a “mashup of word games and music games”, this sees you constructing words from letters that fall in time to the beat of its soundtrack, scoring as many points as you can before each song ends. A clever idea and a fun game, even if the music is likely to be new to you.iPhone / iPadDefenders of Suntoria (£1.49 + IAP)I can’t resist a decent tower defence game – one of the most popular genres on mobile. Defenders of Suntoria certainly looks that: a fantasy-themed games where you lay traps and set various characters to cut onrushing goblin hordes to pieces, over 40 missions.iPhone / iPadCascade (Free + IAP)If Candy Crush Saga, Bejeweled Blitz and numerous others haven’t sated your desire for shiny match-three puzzling, Cascade may be worth a look. Another Big Fish release, it has you swapping gems and using boosts in familiar fashion, albeit promising “no friend gates, no paywalls, no shenanigans” (the in-app purchases are still included though, for boosts).iPhone / iPadZombie Commando (£1.49)“You have no choice: kill or get killed.” Which sounds a bit stark, but Zombie Commando at least looks like you’ll have fun while figuring out which is your fate. It sees you controlling a team of eight characters, each with their own unique skills, to see off impressively-large waves of the undead.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
Twitter is stepping up competition against the rival WhatsApp by improving its direct message tool to work as a chat application, the company has said.Direct messages (DMs) are tweets privately sent between users who both follow each other, or to verified accounts like those held by journalists and celebrities who enable to option to receive DMs from people they do not follow.“Over the next few weeks, we&apos;re rolling out an update that makes deleting DMs more consistent across web and mobile,” said the companyin a Twitter Support tweet. “We&apos;re also making an update to the Twitter iPhone and Android apps that will allow you to access your entire DM history.”Twitter’s DMs had limited appeal to users looking for a way to privately chat because they have a 140 character limit, and did not synchronise well between the website and the mobile apps.&apos;A real opportunity for us&apos;The success of WhatsApp bought byFacebook for $19bnin February, which now has over 500 million users, has shown the demand for instant messaging private chat apps. Twitter introduced pop-up notifications for DMs on its website in April.Twitter chief executive Dick Costolo insisted that DMs were a key feature for during an earnings call in April.“There&apos;s a real opportunity for us, when we think about our private messaging, to strengthen the core of our Twitter product by making it easier for users to move more fluidly between the public conversation that happens everywhere on Twitter, and the private conversation between you and a friend or you and a few friends,” said Costolo.It is unknown whether Twitter’s new access to DMs will extend to third party apps like Tweetbot or Echofon, although the social network’s recent moves indicate it is trying to diminish the value of third-party clients in favour of its own website, smartphone and tablet apps.•Facebook tests &apos;buy&apos; button to let users shop straight from the social network
There are four animals fighting on screen – except they&apos;re not really animals; they look like drunk men in animal costumes.A drunk man dressed as a cat has a drunk man dressed as a dinosaur pinned down on a factory platform, just feet above a piece of nightmarish industrial machinery. The dinosaur is trying to climb away from the spinning discs of death, but the cat is punching him in the face. Finally, the prehistoric monster slips into the whirring abyss, still flailing uselessly.The players are laughing uncontrollably. Everybody who plays or watches Gang Beasts ends up laughing uncontrollably. It is probably one of the silliest beat-&apos;em-ups ever made – yet despite, or perhaps because of this, it has already appeared in over 1500 YouTube videos made by a growing army of fans. And it&apos;s not even officially out yet.Players enjoying an early version of Gang Beasts shown at the Rezzed games event earlier this yearGang Beasts, if you haven&apos;t figured it out yet, is a multiplayer brawling game. Up to 10 players can take part, entering an array of environments, from amusement parks to skyscraper window cleaning platforms, and then they fight. The last drunken animal standing is the winner.The controls are super simple – left punch, right punch, grab and lift – but married with the hyper-real physics engine, which gives every movement a weird sort of intoxicated naturalism, the fights are enormously varied, clumsy and entertaining. Imagine a cross between Super Smash Bros, It&apos;s a Knockout andthat cat and mouse sketch from Big Trainand you&apos;re there.From fantasy to fightingApparently, the game didn&apos;t start off as a comedic fancy dress pub fight. Brothers Jon, Michael and James Brown were originally working on a fantasy adventure named Grim Beasts, but they got sidetracked.&quot;We wanted to develop a really satisfying punch mechanic,&quot; says James. And in the end, the punch mechanic was so satisfying it took over their development efforts completely.The thing is, the Brown brothers were sort of born to make Gang Beasts. They grew up in the coastal town of Redcar, where, as teens, they pumped coins into classic multplayer brawlers like Gauntlet, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Double Dragon.Most of those cabinets are gone now, replaced by gambling machines and bingo, but Gang Beasts pays homage to those dumb yet compelling artifacts of pixellated violence. It is super knowing about how silly this genre is, but also how compelling the great brawlers were, and how they relied on pinpoint controls and lively environments.Now based in Sheffield, the Browns are working out of their sister&apos;s flat under the studio name Boneloaf. They&apos;ve employed a fourth team member, Jason Pugh, and they&apos;re building Gang Beasts using the popular Unity3D game engine.The characters utilise default physics technology, but the team has constructed its own rigid body animation system to generate all the extremely lifelike interactions. They have had to effectively teach the characters how to move, how to climb and throw – there&apos;s no motion capture, everything is driven by physics. Albeit with a slightly drunked driver.An early version of Gang Beasts, showing off the physics, but not the final character designsRight now, there&apos;s a variety of animals to choose from, but the aim is to make them completely user-customisable in the final release – complete with ridiculous outfits. There are other plans too, including new moves such as kicking, choking and elbowing, and a full story mode featuring rival gangs and end-of-level battles. &quot;We&apos;re going to add genital geometry so you can punch boss characters in the groin&quot; says James with understated relish. &quot;This will bring them down so you can attack them like a pack of hyenas.&quot;The team is also tweaking the environment physics, so for example, in the wrestling ring setting, you&apos;ll be able to slingshot off the ropes to crash into opponents. The final game will also feature environmental escalation so barriers give way after time, or ropes snap, making the world unpredictable for the brawling beasts.But in truth, just watching these lumbering characters attempting to strike and maul each other is already amusing enough to draw a huge online fanbase. After showing the game at a series of festivals and exhibitions this year, it has been picked up by the YouTube community, who are making hundreds of &quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; videos – the slapstick visual humour is a gift to these guys. Even YouTube superstar PewDiePie played an early version of the game.There&apos;s no firm release date yet. The team is currently finishing a new PC build which should make it on to theSteam Early Accesssite by early August. They also have console development kits and would quite frankly be insane not to convert the game to Xbox, PlayStation and perhaps even Nintendo. As Mario Kart 8 has wonderfully shown, there is still space in the market for well-crafted local multiplayer games, and Gang Beasts perfectly replicates that experience of being huddled round an arcade screen playing Golden Axe, laughing.And let&apos;s face it, we will probably never tire of watching what looks like drunken people in animal costumes inexpertly brawling. That&apos;s pretty much timeless.•What are investors looking for in video game studios?•Radius festival of indie games, day one•Radius festival of indie games, day two
Facebook users are being warned not to click on a link that looks like a video of a woman taking her clothes off on a webcam, as it could lead to them downloading a virus that will steal their personal data.Online security firm Bitdefender issued the warning about the malware, which it believes was developed in Albania.The link is designed to look like a YouTube video, but when clicked, leads them to sites that try to install the malicious software under the guise of an update to Adobe&apos;s Flash software.“Scammers have created over 20,000 unique URLs that redirect victims to malicious websites and a fake alluring YouTube video, showing a woman taking her clothes off on a webcam,” said Bitdefender&apos;s chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.“The video seems to actually play for a couple of seconds to entice male users to click. Malware writers faked the number of views so the video seems to have been watched by over a million users.”The hackers are using shortened URLs from internet service bit.ly to mask the malicious website addresses, although Bitdefender says it has notified the company about the issue.Once installed, the Trojan.Agent.BDYV malware can work within browsers including Chrome and Firefox, tagging friends on Facebook and preventing infected users from deleting its posts from their timelines.It&apos;s not the first virus to spread via Facebook. In May 2013,Bitdefender identified a new strain of the existing Dorkbot malwarethat was spreading through Facebook&apos;s chat feature, and capable of spying on victims&apos; web browsing as well as stealing their personal details.In January this year, rivalSymantec warned of &quot;Rest In Peace scams&quot;on Facebook, with links seemingly to videos about a celebrity&apos;s death leading people to survey websites or malicious software downloads.•ScarePakage ransomware pretends to be FBI porn warning
Apple has patents for a sapphire-glass blend screen that could explain why sandpaper can scratch a supposed leaked iPhone 6 screen, the Guardian has established.A new video that apparently shows a 4.7in sapphire screen from an iPhone 6 being scratched by sandpaper could “certainly” be a legitimate blend of sapphire and glass, according to ProfNeil Alfordof thedepartment of materials at Imperial College London, who was consulted by Apple about sapphire screens18 months ago.“Apple has patents for both sapphire lamination – taking two different cuts of sapphire to induce strain and increase its resilience – and for fusing quartz or silica (glass) to sapphire,” Alford explained to the Guardian. “So they could certainly do that.”From lens to screenApple currently uses sapphire crystal for its camera lenses and the cover of the iPhone 5S’s Touch ID fingerprint sensor, but the super-hard material could make excellent screens that are much more scratch resistant than traditional glass and potentially even Corning’s Gorilla Glass, which covers the majority of smartphone and tablet screens.Apple has entered into a joint venture in the US with GT Advanced tobuild plants and furnaces able to produce sapphirein industrial quantities for a “critical component” that it said in trade documents would be shipped abroad for assembly. That could refer to the touch sensors – or to screens.The new video shows Marques Brownlee scratch both an iPhone 5S screen – which uses the third generation of Gorilla Glass – and the alleged iPhone 6 4.7in screen with two different types of sandpaper.A softer garnet sandpaper, which is about six on the Mohs scale, and emery, which is about eight on the Mohs scale, were used on the two screens.“The Mohs scale is a relative scale used by geologists and mineralogists to describe minerals and goes from one, which is super soft, to 10, which is super hard,” explained Alford. “The softest mineral on the scale is talc rising to quartz at number seven and diamond is 10. Corundum, which is sapphire, is number nine.”“The relative hardness of sapphire is 400, compared to quartz which is 100, so it is a lot harder than quartz,” Alford stressed.Quartz is a crystal formed from silicon dioxide, the main component ofglassand sand, and is used in electronic components including digital watches as part of the time keeping mechanism.‘Smash the thing up, stick it under a microscope’In the video, Brownlee manages to scratch both iPhone screens with the sandpaper, with the alleged iPhone 6 screen showing higher resistance to scratching with the garnet and emery sandpapers than the iPhone 5S Gorilla Glass screen. The sapphire home button of the iPhone 5S resisted all scratches from both sandpapers.Brownlee concludes that the leaked iPhone 6 screen could be a blend of sapphire crystal and traditional glass, which Alford agrees is possible.“I would smash the thing up, stick it under a microscope and you’d have your answer as to whether this is aluminium oxide (sapphire) or silicon dioxide (glass),” said Alford. “You can’t truly tell until you get it under a microscope.”Marques Brownlee takes sandpaper to an iPhone 5S and alleged iPhone 6 screens.Sapphire crystals are made from aluminium oxide powder, compared to silicon dioxide in standard glass. Once heated and cooled, it can be cut and formed into glass-like layers – known as sapphire glass. The optically transparent material has long been used for camera lenses as well as the screens of high-end watches because of its combination of scratch resistance and high transparency.Sapphire has many advantages over glass, but has been prohibitively expensive to produce in large areas despite abundant raw materials. Creating artificial sapphire is not a problem in smaller areas for electronics and other uses, much in the same way artificial diamonds are used in manufacturing.•Sapphire crystal – why Apple’s interested in a precious gem
One of the world’s biggest digital rights groups wants to make Wi-Fi networks more secure. But the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) needs developers&apos; help with its Open Wireless Router project.Launched at the Hackers on Planet Earth conference in New York City last weekend, the project is also aiming to help people easily share their routers with others, without snoops being able to access their data.&quot;The software aims to do several things that existing routers don&apos;t do well—or don&apos;t do at all,&quot;explained the EFF in a blog postoutlining ambitions to fight &quot;the growing tide of attacks&quot; against Wi-Fi routers belonging to homes and small businesses alike.For now, the Open Wireless Router software is an &quot;experimental hacker alpha release&quot; that only works on on router, the Netgear WNDR3800 hub. Developers and &quot;people willing to deal with the bleeding edge&quot; are being invited to download the software to test, develop and improbe it.Features will include a secure software auto-update mechanism that uses the Tor anonymising network, which the EFF hopes will make attacks masquerading as software updates considerably less likely to succeed.There will also be a “minimalist, secure, and elegant web user interface to set up and configure the router”, to make it simpler for the average user to alter security settings on the device.The Open Wireless Router will also allow small businesses and home users to let guests and passersby get an internet connection if they need one, while maintaining a secure, password-protected portion of their network.Anti-virus company Sophos is backing the move, with its global head of security research, James Lyne, saying that many home and small business routers still have &quot;basic web application security floors which allow remote control or information exposure&quot;.“These [router] manufacturers need to learn to take security seriously … and more importantly need to design their equipment to be updated given the extended length of service most people tend to subject the equipment too,” Lyne told the Guardian.Individual users could also do a better job of securing their Wi-Fi networks. Recentresearchfrom Sophos, in which Lyne travelled around various UK cities on a bicycle to test router security, found in some some areas more than a third had bad security practices.Between 5% and 9% used the &quot;incredibly ancient&quot; Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) protocol, which was supposed to protect people’s data moving around routers, but has known vulnerabilities and should not be used anywhere, Lyne said.“In addition to the security fixes advocated here we also need to see a fundamentally better way of handling open wireless networks,” Lyne added.The Guardian&apos;s top tips to make home Wi-Fi more secureSwitch on theWi-Fi Protected Access2 (WPA2) protocol instead of WEP or WPA 1. Settings can be changed by visiting the website of the router vendor and following the instructions. The website or its IP address (e.g. 216.27.61.137) might be written on the router itself.Use a strong password, ideally one that is over 14 characters in length and doesn’t use any words from the dictionary. This will prevent attackers logging in to your network using tools that guess at passwords.Change the default name of the Wi-Fi network. Hackers are more likely to target networks running default names as they will believe them to be poorly configured. This can also be done via the manufacturer site.If possible, stop broadcasting that Wi-Fi name to the wider world. This can also be done over the manufacturer’s web terminal. A feature known as Mac Address Filtering can also prevent any unknown, untrusted device from connecting.If your router is hacked, using a Virtual Private Network (VPN) will encrypt all your online activities. This will stop the hacker seeing anything useful as it will all be garbled nonsense passing over the network. VPNs can be easily downloaded but check reviews for the best options.Regularly check for updates of router software, as these will fix vulnerabilities.Make sure the router firewall is switched on as this will prevent users visiting any untrusted, dangerous websites.•How to protect yourself from phishing
New York State has become one of the first jurisdictions in the world to propose explicit licenses for companies wanting to carry out business in bitcoin.The proposal, known as the &quot;BitLicence&quot; would require businesses to keep records of the identities and real-world addresses of their customers, to actively keep an eye out for illegal activity, and to always have in its possession the amount of bitcoin that is owed to its customers.For some members of the bitcoin community, the proposals –available online in draft form– are what they&apos;ve been waiting for, the first step in turning the currency from an unregulated wild-west into a mature, respectable area of commerce.&quot;As a New York City-based company, the BitLicence is an important asset that will allow us to provide US banking and regulatory protection to our target customer group,&quot;Jaron Lukasiewicz, CEO of bitcoin trading exchange Coinsetter, told Bitcoin news site Coindesk.&quot;I’m happy to see the New York Department of Financial Services making tangible progress towards offering the first achievable regulatory bitcoin licence in the country.&quot;But others argue that the requirements are too restrictive, the areas covered by the license are too broad, and that the new rules would even have prevented the creation of bitcoin in the first place.Ryan Selkis, a bitcoin entrepreneur who gained fame as the source of the leaked documents revealing trouble at Mt Gox, argues that the license covers companies which have little to do with the financial industry.&quot;The department overreaches by including under its purview many services that never actually access user funds,&quot;he writes.&quot;These include wallets like Blockchain.info, tipping apps like Changetip, and mixing services like CoinJoin. The inclusion of non-hosted wallets is especially troubling as it essentially outlaws the personal possession of bitcoins for these users.&quot;Since licence holders need to monitor their users for illegal activities, Selkis argues, companies selling bitcoin wallets which they don&apos;t then host are in an impossible position: their product is illegal to sell without a license, but they have no way to monitor their users to fulfil the terms of the licence. The situation looks similar to a government requiring Diesel to comply with money-laundering legislation before they can sell purses.But Selkis reserves much of his ire for the requirement that any party &quot;controlling, administering or issuing a virtual currency&quot; requires a licences.&quot;This provision would have outlawed Satoshi Nakamoto’s original bitcoin invention, and it certainly seems to ban any new alt-currencies and tokens that might be created in the future,&quot; he writes.The measures are currently only in draft form, and still liable to change – something Selkis hopes he can bring about by being &quot;assertive and convincing in our arguments&quot;. Interested parties have 45 days to comment on the proposal, with the consultation beginning on Wednesday 23 July.•Bitcoin dealers seek official regulation for digital tokens
