It's a sad, horrific story. Homeowner returns to find his house demolished. The demolition company was hired legitimately but there was a mistake and itdemolished the wrong house. The demolition company relied on GPS co-ordinates, but requiring street addresses isn't a solution. A typo in the address is just as likely, and it would have demolished the house just as quickly. The problem is less how the demolishers knew which house to knock down, and more how they confirmed that knowledge. They trusted the paperwork, and the paperwork was wrong. Informality works when every­body knows everybody else. When merchants and customers know each other, government officials and citizens know each other, and people know their neighbours, people know what's going on. In that sort of milieu, if something goes wrong, people notice.In our modern anonymous world, paperwork is how things get done. Traditionally, signatures, forms, and watermarks all made paperwork official. Forgeries were possible but difficult. Today, there's still paperwork, but for the most part it only exists until the information makes its way into a computer database. Meanwhile, modern technology – computers, fax machines and desktop publishing software – has made it easy to forge paperwork. Every case of identity theft has, at its core, a paperwork failure. Fake work orders, purchase orders, and other documents are used to steal computers, equipment, and stock. Occasionally,fake faxesresult in people being sprung from prison.Fake boarding passescan get you through airport security. This month hackers officiallychanged the nameof a Swedish man.A reporter evenchanged the ownershipof the Empire State Building. Sure, it was a stunt, but this is agrowing formof crime. Someone pretends to be you – preferably when you're away on holiday – and sells your home to someone else, forging your name on the paperwork. You return to find someone else living in your house, someone who thinks he legitimately bought it. In some senses, this isn't new. Paperwork mistakes and fraud have happened ever since there was paperwork. And the problem hasn't been fixed yet for several reasons.One, our sloppy systems generally work fine, and it's how we get things done with minimum hassle. Most people's houses don't get demolished and most people's names don't get maliciously changed. As common as identity theft is, it doesn't happen to most of us. These stories are news because they are so rare. And in many cases, it's cheaper to pay for the occasional blunder than ensure it never happens.Two, sometimes the incentives aren't in place for paperwork to be properly authenticated. The people who demolished that family home were just trying to get a job done. The same is true for government officials processing title and name changes. Banks get paid when money is transferred from one account to another, not when they find a paperwork problem. We're all irritated by forms stamped 17 times, and other mysterious bureaucratic processes, but these are actually designed to detect problems.And three, there's a psychological mismatch: it is easy to fake paperwork, yet for the most part we act as if it has magical properties of authenticity. What's changed is scale. Fraud can be perpetrated against hundreds of thousands, automatically. Mistakes can affect that many people, too. What we need are laws that penalise people or companies – criminally or civilly – who make paperwork errors. This raises the cost of mistakes, making authenticating paperwork more attractive, which changes the incentives of those on the receiving end of the paperwork. And that will cause the market to devise technologies to verify the providence, accuracy, and integrity of information: telephone verification, addresses and GPS co-ordinates, cryptographic authentication, systems that double- and triple-check, and so on.We can't reduce society's reliance on paperwork, and we can't eliminate errors based on it. But we can put ­economic incentives in place for people and companies to authenticate paperwork more.•Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
You don't hear much about poison pen letters these days. These anonymous letters, full of hatred and insult – and not even, like blackmail, aimed at securing any gain – used to be a staple of crime fiction, such as Agatha Christie's The Moving Finger or PD James' The Black Tower.Though most people saw such letters for what they were – evidence of self-loathing and bitterness in the writer – they could become corrosive to a community. If you don't know which of your neighbours sent the letter, how could you trust any of them?The reason that people don't talk about poison pen letters much anymore is not because the impulse to send anonymous hate-filled messages has gone away – in fact, that impulse is more ubiquitous than ever. We've just found a more efficient delivery mechanism.A little while ago, I read the blog of someone who had lost a parent to suicide. I can't imagine that anyone hearing about such a tragic event would feel anything other than compassion and sadness, even if only for a few moments.Yet someone, after reading the post about the suicide, created a new anonymous account on the blogging site in order to post the sensitive and heartfelt message "LOL!". And then, to prove they weren't a spambot, they sent roughly the same message again. And then again.It's hard to know what to say in response to this. I've tried to imagine what this person was thinking as they read the post about this traumatic event, as they set up an anonymous account, as they wrote their message and hit send, but I find I simply can't.We've all found ourselves wasting time on the internet, but this is more than just Wikipedia sleep-walking. The only explanation I can think of is a rather extreme one, that – and I'm close to invokingGodwin's lawhere – the person who posted this message simply does not appreciate that the people they read about online are actually human, just as they are.There's a view, summed up bythis cartoon from Penny Arcadethat the internet's combination of anonymity and a large audience is, like absolute power, absolutely corrupting. According to this outlook, a normal person faced with the opportunity for anonymous widely viewed cruelty, can't help but take it.I don't buy this. For one thing, thankfully, it's not true that most people become instantly vicious if given the opportunity. The "LOL!" comment was vastly outnumbered by commenters offering love, support and sympathy.For another, I simply don't agree that this is a normal impulse. Writers of poison-pen letters tended to be miserable, bitter individuals; people so filled with self-loathing that they were impelled to direct their hatred to those around them. I don't think it's much different today.Baroness Susan Greenfield made headlinesa couple of months agoby saying that computer use could be "stifling imagination and hampering empathy". She seems to think that modern technology offers some unique discouragement of empathy and fellow-feeling among human beings. This is clearly rubbish. Human beings have been denying each other's humanity for millennia. Modern technology isn't responsible for this mindset, it's just given it a new outlet. Which is not to condone it. Our ability to view other human beings as less-than-human has allowed genocides and enslavements throughout history. It may be common, but it's not OK.So, to anyone who's ever found themselves making a cruel anonymous comment online I'd like to say: you're in trouble, this is leading nowhere good – go and seek some professional help. A poison pen, after all, is likely to end up even more deadly to the wielder than to its victims.
Yesterday's brief flurry of excitement aboutIntel and Nokiaturned out to be less interesting than we -- and Bloomberg -- imagined. The two companies have signed a"strategic partnership"but the main result is that Intel will get a Nokia HSPA/3G modem IP license for use in future products. This will presumably help netbook manufacturers to support 3G comms as well as Intel's Wi-Fi and WiMax comms.However, asBusinessWeek pointed out: "With great fanfare in late 2006, Intel said it would license Nokia's 3G modem technology for use in Centrino notebook computers. It quietly backed out of the deal months later."They will also collaborate to develop "common technologies" for two of the 1,001 versions of Linux: Intel's Moblin and Nokia's Maemo. However, there's no suggestion that they'll be combined into a single platform. After all, what's the point of using Linux if you can't make your version confusingly different from everybody else's?But Nokia failed to announce that it was using Intel Atom chips in a mobile phone, or even in what Intel calls a MID (mobile internet device). Officially, the two companies have entered intoa long-term relationship to develop a new class of Intel Architecture-based mobile computing device and chipset architectures which will combine the performance of powerful computers with high-bandwidth mobile broadband communications and ubiquitous Internet connectivity.This sounds like my suggestion from yesterday: Nokia could develop something like aNokia E90 Communicatorthat also runs Windows XP or (depending on Microsoft's pricing) Windows 7 on an Intel Atom chip. However, we've seen this sort of thing before, and the results were so memorable I've forgotten the names.During the conference call, Nokia's Kai Öistämö said: "We believe that this will allow us to create an entire new category of devices, far beyond today's smart phones, MIDs, notebooks, netbooks, whatever you call them."He's being deliberately vague, of course, but that makes it sound like "we don't have a clue what we're going to do". I hope they do.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Barack Obama's press conference yesterday started much like his previous ones: with the 44th US president turning to field a question from the Associated Press, as is traditional. But then, after some short comments on the situation in Iran, things in the White House briefing room took a surprising turn.President Obama turned to Nico Pitney, a reporter for theHuffington Postwebsite, who had another query - but this time from somebody outside the room."I wanted to use this opportunity to ask you a question directly from an Iranian," Pitney said. "We solicited questions last night from people who are courageous enough to still be communicating online."The enquiry – about the conditions under which the United States might accept an election result favouring Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – was fairly standard, but its source was not. Bringing a voice from the streets of Iran and into Washington was a novel for departure for an administration that still clings to the mantra of change."Under which conditions would you accept the election of Ahmadinejad, and if you do accept it without any significant changes in the conditions there, isn't that a betrayal of the – of what the demonstrators there are working towards?"Obama's answer?Well, look, we didn't have international observers on the ground. We can't say definitively what exactly happened at polling places throughout the country. What we know is that a sizeable percentage of the Iranian people themselves, spanning Iranian society, consider this election illegitimate. It's not an isolated instance - a little grumbling here or there. There is significant questions about the legitimacy of the election.And so ultimately the most important thing for the Iranian government to consider is legitimacy in the eyes of its own people, not in the eyes of the United States. And that's why I've been very clear: Ultimately, this is up to the Iranian people to decide who their leadership is going to be and the structure of their government.What we can do is to say unequivocally that there are sets of international norms and principles about violence, about dealing with peaceful dissent, that spans cultures, spans borders. And what we've been seeing over the Internet and what we've been seeing in news reports violates those norms and violates those principles.I think it is not too late for the Iranian government to recognize that there is a peaceful path that will lead to stability and legitimacy and prosperity for the Iranian people. We hope they take it.It might not have been the answer everyone was hoping for, but it was an answer addressed directly to an Iranian (perhaps the closest Obama has come to direct address in this diplomatic standoff).That wasn't the only social technology used to spread the message, though: in addition, the White House quickly made a version of Obama's remarks on Iran – also streamed on Facebook – that hadsubtitles in Farsiand pushed out the message on Twitter in Farsi too, witha messagereading roughly: "President Obama's remarks in his press conference, with Farsi translation".While, on the surface, the seems natural for a man whose team is well-known for their manipulation and mastery of social media, something deeper was taking place here. As an attempt to talk to several audiences at once, it was audacious. As an exercise in opening up the stuffy clique of White House reporting, it was, as my colleagueMichael Tomasky has said, "a Moment".Given the remarkable volume of stories surrounding the use of technology to spread news of the Iranian protests – through YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and more – it is easy to skim over Obama's choices here and see them as humdrum.The move, however, marks a huge change on a number of fronts – not least of which is the use of communications technology to break down of yet more barriers between the Oval Office and the public.It is also an unprecedented chance for citizens of a country halfway around the world to ask questions of the leader of the most powerful country in the world in one of the most tightly-monitored, carefully monitored situations imaginable.That is something that would have been beyond the ken of most politicos just a few years ago, but now appears so normal in our lives as to seem obvious.Even if it was staged (which it appears not have been,despite the complaints of the press corps) it sends a message. And whether or not centres of power are actually being democratised - or simply shifting from one place to another – is something we cannot truly know.But, hot on the heels of a statement by Gordon Brown -who told the Guardian last weekthat the internet had "changed foreign policy forever" – it's clear that the old boy's club may be opening up… just a little.
&bull; The still-sketchy news aboutSteve Jobsgetting a liver transplant was confirmed last night -by the hospital that did the transplant. With his permission, a statement was released saying he is "now recovering well and has an excellent prognosis".&bull; Chris Anderson, the editor of Wired magazine, has been plugging his new book,Freeeverywhere he can. But some have questioned whether he's taking the title a little too literally, after theVirginia Review Quarterlyfound that he'dlifted large sections from Wikipedia entries. Anderson has responded, saying it the citations were removed in an editing rush.&bull; We've got a new edition of theTech Weeklypodcast for your aural pleasure:Aleks Krotoskihears from Mark Rock, the founder ofAudioBoo, while the latest in our Startup Surgery series - advice for entrepreneurs - focuses on intellectual rights.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
On Friday the Wall Street Journalreported that Steve Jobs had undergone a liver transplant. It was an amazing story, not least because it lifted the lid on the troubles of a well-known and secretive figure, but also because it took the unprecedented step of not referring to the story's source. The Journal staked its credibility on the information, leading to plenty of speculation about where it came from.In an equally unprecedented move just a short while ago, that news has now been confirmed - by the hospital that did the surgery. According to areleasefrom Methodist University Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee that had been approved by the patient:Steve Jobs received a liver transplant at Methodist University Hospital Transplant Institute in partnership with the University of Tennessee in Memphis.Mr. Jobs underwent a complete transplant evaluation and was listed for transplantation for an approved indication in accordance with the Transplant Institute policies and United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) policies.He received a liver transplant because he was the patient with the highest MELD score (Model for End-Stage Liver Disease) of his blood type and, therefore, the sickest patient on the waiting list at the time a donor organ became available. Mr. Jobs is now recovering well and has an excellent prognosis.Let's hope that he continues to mend.A few issues remain, though, which are probably worth examining. Why are we so interested in Jobs's health? Are we gossiping about somebody unfairly? Has his privacy been invaded, or should he have disclosed his condition to investors?First of all, Jobs is clearly an important public figure, and there is great interest in - and hope for - his recovery. He's arguably one of the most influential people in the world, and at the very least a huge force in both technology and entertainment. I can think of lots of other public figures who would be treated in the same way.Yet everybody deserves privacy, particularly at the darkest moments of their life. And there's something inherently distasteful about the way the human story here - a successful man struck down by a life-threatening disease - has been turned into a mixture of scurrilous gossip and mechanical investment advice. I am left a little nonplussed, even though I realise I have contributed in part.Still, I continue to be fascinated by the machinations of this story, not so much in the details - there are so very few of them to tell, after all - but in the reaction to it.We've done plenty on what it means, but there has been no shortage of follow-up stories: some invasive (the chase to find the house in Memphis that Jobs stayed in, for example) some angry (Doug Rushkoff'sDaily Beastappeal for a little humanity, please).Additionally, there has been the scathing: such as when the New York Times decided toattack Apple's cult of secrecy.Apple-centric blogger John Gruber, who has been a beacon of clarity throughout, wassimilarly intriguedby this piece - since, after all, it argues that Apple is beingparticularlysecretive about the health of its chief executive, much to the company's detriment.In fact, Jobs's health has probably been the least secretive thing about Apple in recent months. Starting with responding to early questions about his weight loss by blaming a "common bug"last summer, through to thelack of an appearance at Macworld, the public notice about ahormone imbalanceand then theannouncement that he was taking six months off, there has been more information from Apple on this (and more of it directly from Jobs) than on probably any other substantive issue in the company's recent history.And it's far from unusual for the company to issue blank responses to journalists (I got the same ones, too: I get them all the time from Apple).Whoever leaked the liver transplant story, they were almost certainly a senior Apple insider - and for all we know, it could have been Jobs himself... after all, he even went so far ascalling a New York Times columnistand telling him about his health last summer. It is Apple and Jobs who - in a move no doubt regretted now - let the cat out of the bag.Apple's problem is usually secrecy, but you could argue that it would have been better served being more secret here, not less. On the other hand, the press and the public have shown an insatiable appetite for the details, and yet it's unclear whether anyone is better off knowing what's happening.Talking about somebody's health - whoever they are - remains difficult. And all I know for certain is one thing: that I hope he gets better soon.
This week we hear fromAudioBoofounder Mark Rock. AudioBoo is the latest new media trend to capture the attentions of the digerati – and celebrities – allowing users to record snippets of audio using your iPhone and send it out to the world via the internet. It's taken off in the past few months, from its beginnings as a start-up backed by Channel 4's 4IP fund to being used in high-profile news situations like the G20 riots.  Mark discusses their novel approach to raising cash (crowdsourcing 1% shares for £10,000 each), C4's involvement to date, and what's next for the company.There's also the next installment in ourStartup Surgery, offering advice to new web businesses.Peter Finney, European patent attorney at Gill, Jennings and Every, comes into the studio to talk through some issues listeners sent in around the subject of intellectual property. Find out more about NDAs, how much it costs to register a patent, and what to expect when getting individual advice.There's also fun from the blogs and this week's news too.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
America has confirmed that it will be creating a new Pentagon "cyber command" to bring together the country's various hi-tech military units under one roof.US defence secretary Robert Gates ordered the formation of the group earlier today, following a period of debate over the best way to defend the country from attacks over the internet.The command - which will unite a string of organisations run by the army, navy, air force - plans to tie them together into a single, coherent group that is able to both defend the United States from information warfare and strike out at hostile nations if necessary.The Department of Defence said that the group is set to begin operating later this year, and plans to be fully operation by October 2010.The move comes amid growing concern over the possibility of and the threat of cyber-espionage - including perceived attacks from inside China and Russia.In recent months a series of leaks have revealed security breaches – including the US electricity grid and the theft of documents detailing the $300bn Joint Strike Fighter project. Though it is usually impossible to trace the perpetrators of such actions, US officials have said they suspect that such attacks are sponsored by a foreign state as part of an ongoing espionage campaign.Last week Gates's deputy, William Lynn, said that cyber warfare is now one of the biggest challenges to the US military."Once the province of nations, the ability to destroy via cyber means now also rests in the hands of small groups and individuals: from terrorist groups to organized crime, hackers to industrial spies to foreign intelligence services," he said in a speech to the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington."This is not some future threat. The cyber threat is here today; it is here now."According to reports, the front runner to take control of the new organisation is General Keith Alexander, currently the director of the National Security Agency, which has run an extended campaign to take control of the nation's cyberdefences.Last month President Obama publicly committed to creating anew White House roleto oversee the civil aspect of cyberdefence - treating the country's digital networks as a "strategic national asset" for the first time."Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority," he said at the time. "We will deter, prevent, detect and defend against attacks and recover quickly."
MySpace, the networking site that helped launch the careers of Lily Allen and Arctic Monkeys, said today it would cut two-thirds of its workforce outside the US, in a stark reminder of how quickly internet phenomenons can burn out.The company is cutting 300 jobs from a workforce of 450 and closing at least four offices. The retrenchment also illustrates how media bosses, apart from a fortunate few, are still struggling with the conundrum of how to make money from the internet, even when a site has millions of users. The job losses follow an announcement from MySpace last week that it would cut about 420 jobs inside the US, about 30% of the workforce in its domestic and most successful market.Analysts blamed the decline of MySpace on the inexorable rise of the rival social networking site Facebook, as well as the broader difficulty in attracting advertising online, a situation made worse by the global recession.While MySpace had been successful among younger users, Facebook has proven adept at attracting a wider audience spanning demographic groups.The rise and fall of MySpace delivers a blow to Rupert Murdoch, the News Corporation chief, who bought the business for $580m in 2005 in an apparent Damascene conversion to the internet, buying a clutch of other sites around the time.MySpace has 127 million users around the world and built a reputation for being a showcase for new music and a springboard for careers. But recent data has shown that it has gone into decline. The metrics firm comScore shows that Facebook overtook MySpace in Britain by number of users early last year and has continued to move ahead. According to comScore, MySpace's unique users in this country fell by 18%, from 8.5 million in April 2008 to 7 million just a year later. Facebook during the same period has seen growth of 63% and as of April had 23.5 million unique users in Britain and 200 million worldwide, according to the company. The influential Silicon Valley blog Techcrunch recently said it was "game over" for MySpace.Murdoch's online nemesis, Mark Zuckerberg, is still only 25, and founded Facebook from his Harvard dorm room in 2004. Twitter, the latest online craze, has expanded rapidly from a low base and has around 2.5 million unique users a month in Britain. In April, in a sign that all was not well at MySpace, News Corp replaced the chief executive, Chris DeWolfe, who had been with the site since the beginning.A month later, Facebook overtook MySpace as the leading site in the US.In a statement today News Corp said it was "refining" its international MySpace business, focusing on offices in London, Berlin and Sydney."It was clear that internationally, just as in the US, MySpace's staffing had become too big and cumbersome to be sustainable in current market conditions," said the chief executive, Owen Van Natta, who replaced DeWolfe.MySpace is facing the possibility of a plunge in revenue. Shortly after buying MySpace, Murdoch did a deal with Google to sell advertising on the site that would guarantee $900m in advertising revenue over three and a half years, provided certain targets were met. But that deal comes to an end in June next year and is unlikely to be replaced by anything remotely as generous.MySpace is not the only social networking site to have suffered a decline. Bebo, bought by AOL in March 2008 for $850m, is also suffering. The site, which is more commonly used by school-age children, lost 24% of its unique users in the year to April, falling to 9 million. Friends Re­united, bought by ITV for £120m less than four years ago, was recently valued at just £20m and has 1.8 million users, a decline year-on-year of 24%.
Destructible environments have become a key element of the modern videogame, with the recently released Red Faction: Guerrilla boasting the most advanced implementation of the technology yet seen.But giving the player the ability to destroy buildings and landscape features is fraught with technical and game design difficulties. The indestructible 'locked door' is a standard method of controlling gamer progression through a level - if players can just take it out with a bazooka, how does the designer manage the pacing of the game?Plus, most game levels are designed rather like film sets; everything the player can see from the fixed pathway is filled with graphical detail, but behind it all are blank polygons and nothingness. Now that players can blast through buildings, the whole approach to mission design will have to change. We'll need to see more open-world environments, where the whole landscape is intricately modeled from the outset. Games like Far Cry 2 and Fallout 3 point in this direction.On thing is certain, destruction has become a major selling point, so designers must face up to the issues. How can this burgeoning element be improved and advanced, and how will design need to alter to catch up? That's what our physics panel is considering today...The PanelGeorge Torres, Senior Software Engineer, Fight Night Round FourNadeem Mohammad, NVIDIA PhysX Product ManagerJames Hague, Project Lead Designer for Red Faction: GuerrillaJasen Whiteside, Project Art Director for Red Faction: GuerrillaMike Enoch, Lead Coder, Ruffian GamesDave Gargan, Principal Engineer, HavokChris Hecker, veteran programmer and game physics expertSo destructible environments seem to be hugely popular with developers at the moment - how will forthcoming games improve on the realism of environmental damage, and at what cost to game design?George Torres:I think that we'll see more and more real life application of basic physics characteristics, like structural components (wood, iron, etc) or even aging and weak structural breakage. Until now I haven't seen a mind blowing application of such principles, but it seems inevitable we'll get there.Nadeem Mohammad:With the ability to simulate many tens of thousands of physical objects, game designers can now enable game objects to break in a much more realistic manner; generating dust and fracturing along mortar lines, etc. As games featuringNvidia APEX(a new app that lets artist easily implement physics elements into game designs) start to roll out expect to see destructible environments which have real game impact, perhaps opening up new paths within the game and highly realistic responses to the forces applied by different weapons.Four APEX modules are [being released] enabling scalable Clothing (free-flowing natural clothing that drapes around multiple characters), Vegetation (Trees that bend, break, flutter in the wind...), Destruction (explode, pulverize, reduce to rubble..) and Turbulence (vortices, smoke trails, plumes...). We are also working on several more. All of these should be appearing in games this year and gamers will not be able to return to environments where there are static items, non-interactive clothing, trees, destruction or smoke again. It just won't feel 'real'.Jasen Whiteside:I don't think you will see any significant improvements in the years to come. At least not until the game systems go into the next generation. There will be refinements to systems such as GeoMod 2.0 (the physics engine powering Red Faction: Guerrilla) which allow it to branch out into other areas of games but on the whole, this level of destruction will not change much.Dave Gargan: There are significant parallels between the trends we currently see in physics and the trends we've already seen in graphics. For a long time rendering engines and hardware focused heavily on raw textured polygon throughput. As this number continued to increase we started to see diminishing returns.Game visuals suddenly leaped forward again with the introduction ofpixel shaders- rendering the same or even fewer polygons with higher fidelity, 'per pixel' effects gave a significantly better return. We're seeing a similar paradigm shift with physics. We've reached a point now where our raw rigid body throughput is so high that it makes more sense to start spending CPU cycles on improving the fidelity of each interaction rather than adding more and more bodies.Havok Destructionis built around that vision. Instead of a shotgun blast leaving repetitive decals on static walls it can now rips apart plaster and brick, sending them flying into the environment. Instead of objects having a pre-canned set of visual states, they now break and deform in a consistent and visceral way that rewards the player by providing them with gratifying feedback about their particular choice of weapon...Mike Enoch:We're starting to see a lot more detail in how materials are simulated. Traditionally, it's all been smoke and mirrors, a wooden crate would break up in pre-defined ways depending on how the developer thought it would be smashed. It's now possible to physically simulate the properties of the wood, so the crate would splinter and break up dynamically depending on the force and direction of an impact. It gives much better feedback to the player, empowering them by creating realistic reactions for every situation, whether the developer thought of it or not. Imagine if your whole environment worked like that, with pipes bending, walls smashing, and large structures collapsing when you knock out some of the supports.This idea of simulating interactions and constructing the game world similar to how you would construct the real world generates more emergent gameplay, where the game plays out in a unique way for each player, and the player can come up with solutions to problems that the designer might not have thought of. As processing power increases it will be possible to make more widespread usage of these techniques, but it poses some interesting problems for design in linear games - where the designer might not want the player to be able to simply hack through a locked door!Chris Hecker:I think you'll see a natural progression from the current "rigid body dynamics", where objects are made out of a set of infinitely hard shapes that are connected with joints, to "continuum dynamics", where we model the elastic and plastic characteristics of deformable and breakable objects. Some games are already trying this, likeStar Wars: Force Unleashed, but it's pretty new technology for games, and it's hard to make it fast and stable enough to use everywhere.  On the plus side, it lends itself to multi-core processing quite well!James Hague:Most destruction in games, even in recent years, is faked. Put an explosive charge on a building, and the building sinks down into the ground behind a smokescreen, to be replaced by a pre-destroyed version. The big advance is letting the player actually do the destruction, not just pressing a button and seeing a special effect.This is something that is only just starting to appear, because it's very expensive to do in terms of programming and in terms of creating art for games. Now you don't just build a movie set for a level, you have to build actual buildings with pipes and wires in the walls and sheetrock and so on.  Red Faction: Guerrilla is the only game that's gone down this road so far, so there's a lot of opportunity for making destruction even more realistic and physically correct...
Is it really that long? Yes, Sonic the Hedgehog is 18 years old today. Sega's hedgehog mascot first arrived on a games console on this day in 1991. Some of you may have been too busyshoegazingor watchingFresh Princeor heck, going to primary school, to notice at the time but little did we know how big Sonic was going to be. Yes, his latest games may be a little, well, rubbish, but you can't knock the early games, especially Sonic 2. Anyway, seeing as it his special day and all that, what are your favourite Sonic memories?
E3 seems like an age ago but the show awards were onlyreleased this morning. According to 29 US publications - ranging from IGN to the LA Times - Sony's Uncharted 2 was game of the show. And they are probably right too. Alan Wake and Mass Effect 2 looked mightily impressive behind closed doors but Uncharted 2 certainly deserved the gong. Itlooked amazingfor a start - the graphics an all-too rare glimpse of what the PS3 is really capable of - but was also great fun to play, especially the surprisingly enjoyable multiplayer mode. Fans of the original will lap up the platforming and combat action while the Indiana Jones style storyline may even tempt in more casual gamers.  Talking of casual gamers DS titleScribblenautspicked up the best original game award. Actually forget limiting this to casual, Scribblenauts'revolutionary gameplay- essentially write what object you need to solve the puzzle and then see it appear in-game -  should appeal whatever your level of gaming dedication.Other notable winners included "Project Natal" (best hardware/peripheral) and Mass Effect 2 (best Role-Playing Game). What about absentees? Nintendo may be disappointed at the lack of recognition for New Super Mario Bros. Or maybe not given E3's core gaming remit and Nintendo's increasing focus on the wider, traditionally non-gaming, market. Anyway. the full list of winners is:Best of ShowUncharted 2: Among Thieves(Naughty Dog/Sony Computer Entertainment America for PlayStation 3)Best Original GameScribblenauts(5TH Cell/Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment for Nintendo DS)Best Console GameUncharted 2: Among Thieves(Naughty Dog/Sony Computer Entertainment America for PlayStation 3)Best PC GameStar Wars: The Old Republic(BioWare Austin/LucasArts)Best Handheld GameScribblenauts(5TH Cell/Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment for Nintendo DS)Best Hardware/Peripheral"Project Natal"(Microsoft for Xbox 360)Best Action GameModern Warfare 2(Infinity Ward/Activision for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC)Best Action/Adventure GameUncharted 2: Among Thieves(Naughty Dog/Sony Computer Entertainment America for PlayStation 3)Best Role Playing GameMass Effect 2(BioWare/Electronic Arts for Xbox 360, PC)Best Racing GameSplit/Second(Black Rock/Disney Interactive Studios for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC)Best Sports GameFight Night Round 4(EA Canada/EA Sports for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360)Best Fighting GameTatsunoko vs. Capcom: Ultimate All-Stars(Eighting/Capcom for Nintendo Wii)Best Strategy GameSupreme Commander 2(Gas Powered Games/Square-Enix for Xbox 360, PC)Best Social/Casual/PuzzleDJ Hero(Freestyle/Red Octane/Activision for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii)Best Online MultiplayerLeft 4 Dead 2(Valve/EAP for Xbox 360, PC)What do you think then? Uncharted 2 deserve the awards? Worried about the lack of Nintendo games?
Films have gone gaga for it,broadcast mediaisplaying around itwith it andgames are apparently the driving forcebehind it: 3D content. But do we really need it?Steven Spielberg recently told Guardian Technology podcastTech Weeklythat gaming as we know it will soon die out, replaced by, ahem, virtual reality and 3D. Over the past ten years, the graphics creep has, yes, transformed gaming, but is this the direction you think it should take?What would 3D offer to your gaming experience? Proponents argue that the immersion that 3D will offer to gamers will transform the gaming experience. I'm not convinced; I have yet to see any innovative use of a 3D technology in any other creative medium that doesn't rely on spatter graphics and looming objects. I imagine that 3D games will exploit the same gimmickry and, unless someone has the courage to invest in some really interesting content that does use the extra dimension to its full, will disappear without a trace. Which is a shame, as I can imagine how it would build an incredible atmosphere in stealth and horror titles. But the holodeck and the matrix are a long way off from this reality.Filmmakers are apparently embracing the 3D movement because it ismuch more difficult to pirate. Even if that is the case, andthere's no evidence to say that it is, games piracy would likely continue apace because this movement wouldn't take playing out of the home. In fact, after you've shelled out for all the new kit, you're less likely to have the cash to leave.So convince me. 3D: what would make you go for it?
Intel has scheduled a conference call for this afternoon, so we're all trying to guess what it's going to announce. However, Bloomberg may have got the story yesterday:Intel Said to Win Nokia as Customer for Mobile ChipsThe speculation is that Nokia will use a next-generation Atom chip in some kind of device, possibly even a mobile phone. And as Bloomberg's story says:"Even if they get just a piece of Nokia's business, it's a big deal," said Will Strauss, a Cave Creek, Arizona-based analyst for research firm Forward Concepts. "Nokia is still the biggest cell-phone maker in the world."There are roughly a billion Nokia mobile phones in use round the world, and even where it's weakest -- in smart phones -- it still shipped 61 million units last year for a market share of 43.7%, according to Gartner. The iPhone's market share was 8.2%.Power-efficient ARM-based chip designs dominate the smart phone market, and the presumption has been that ARM can also invade the mobile device and netbook markets (though this idea failed before, even when Microsoft tried it a decade ago).Intel, of course, sold off its ARM-base XScale product line to focus on Atom, which is x86 and therefore Windows-compatible. (See my Sean Maloney interview,Intel drives into ARMy territory.)Getting Nokia to use Atom chips would therefore be a huge psychological win for Intel. If the company can get Atom into a popular phone, rather than a mini-tablet like the Nokia 880, it could also be very profitable.Whether the Atom can really compete in providing decent battery life remains to be seen, because even some ARM-based smart phones struggle in this area -- including the iPhone.Another issue is Nokia's choice of operating system. Its smart phones run Symbian, but Atom might tempt it to try something else, possibly as a twin OS system. ANokia E90 Communicatorthat also included Windows XP might have some (limited) appeal.
If you want to know whether to buy a Palm Pre or an Apple iPhone, where to go on holiday, which TV show to watch, or whether or not to get a tattoo, you could try askingHunch. It's a sort of "decision engine" or, asCaterina Fake told Mercury News, "like a really awesome Magic 8-Ball on steroids".Hunch was only launched last week, so it only answers a couple of thousand questions. However, members can add topics, or improve other people's. In a few years, it could become a repository for the web's collaborative wisdom.If you've done internet quizzes such as "Which superhero/super villain am I?" or "Which Greek god am I?" then you already know how Hunch works – and both of those questions are already on the site. You're taken through a series of screens, each of which has one question and a small set of answers to choose from. At the end of the "decision tree" you are given the best answer.With Hunch, in fact, you are usually given three or four answers, one of which might be a Wild Card. Sometimes the answers are rated, if Hunch thinks you are 79% certain (or whatever) to prefer its first answer.Options at the end include "Why did Hunch pick this?" (which lists your answers), and "Is Hunch wrong about this result? Fix this Hunch". To be allowed to mess around, you must have created at least one topic, and played at least five topics all the way through.Hunchuses personalisation and collaborative filtering. The personalisation is based on Hunch giving you questions to answer, and keeping track of the topics you play. The more it knows about you, the better its answers should be. "Collaborative filtering" means that you will probably like the sorts of things that people like you like. It's how Amazon's recommendation system works. However, Hunch makes it easy for you to delete a stored answer, or all of them, from your profile.Hunch has numerous social aspects, too, including following. You can leave comments, and using Hunch earns you Banjos – a bit like earning stars on eBay. You can earn Impact Badges by creating topics that get positive feedback, and Personality Badges for various actions.Not surprisingly, Hunch was developed by a group of a group of computer scientists fromMIT, which has been working on collaborative filtering and artificial intelligence for more than a decade. An early example was HOMR (Helpful Online Music Recommendations), which led to Ringo, which led toFirefly, which was bought by Microsoft in 1998.Fortunately, the Hunch team, based in New York, metCaterina Fake, the co-founder of Flickr, who lives in San Francisco. She joined as co-founder and took charge of the product design, which is somewhat like Flickr, except people are sharing "decisions" rather than pictures.Fake's participation also ensured that Hunch got a lot of press coverage. It might not be the next Flickr, but if she's involved, it's certainly worth a look.
The success of the Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training games on the Nintendo DS lay, for the most part, in the platform's portability. Why waste time on the bus journey home daydreaming or humming to yourself when you could be furiously exercising your brain?The appeal of the PC version then is hard to fathom. Sure, I can sit and complete psychometric tests when I'm at home. But to be honest I'd rather watch a DVD. Or play a proper game.Brain Exercise with Dr. Kawashima offers little more than the DS original did, failing to make any use of the possibilities of running on an enhanced platform. While there's probably not much point in having 3D graphics or video when you're doing mental arithmetic, it would have been nice to have felt some effort was made, and you weren't playing something that could run on Windows 95.The intensive mouse use required for a great deal of the tests also means that you'll probably get RSI before you see any noticeable increase in the size of any of your lobes.If you like this sort of thing, it won't greatly disappoint. And there is an option to have a talking panda be your assistant, which is always nice. But hopefully even unexercised brains will realise that such tests are available, for free, all over the internet.
MySpace is to cut about two thirds of its 450-strong workforce and close offices in at least four countries as it looks to rationalise its global operation.The News Corporation-owned social networking website,which earlier this month cut 30% of US staff, some 420 employees, said that the international restructuring plans will see its staff outside America reduced from 450 to 150 – a cut of 66%.MySpace is planning to "refocus personnel around a smaller number of territories" and said it would close at least four offices outside the US.London, Berlin and Sydney will become the "primary regional hubs" for the company. This means that offices in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, India, Italy, Mexico, Russia, Sweden and Spain have all been put "under review for possible restructure".MySpace China, a locally-owned and operated company, and the social networking site's joint venture in Japan are not affected.Owen Van Natta, MySpace's chief executive, said its staff had become "too big and cumbersome for the market conditions"."With roughly half of MySpace's total user base coming from outside the US, maintaining productive and efficient operations in our international markets is important to users worldwide and our immediate financial strength," added Van Natta.MySpacehas started to struggle against competitorsand in June 2010 its advertising deal with Google, which accounts for nearly half of its revenue, ends.Rupert Murdoch's News Corp acquired MySpaceby buying parent company Intermix Media in July 2005 for $580m(at the time, about £330m).•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Making a game that ignores the Wii remote's motion-sensing abilities is a bold move, and one that verges on foolhardiness. But that is what Let's Tap does, and it's certainly different.It offers a selection of mini-games, which you negotiate by placing the Wii Remote face down on a flat surface, then ­rhythmically tapping that surface with varying degrees of pressure. Some of Let's Tap's games are fun: they include a running-and-jumping racer, a Guitar Hero-style game and an interesting take on Jenga. But some miss the mark.A collection of curiosities called the Visualiser – which lets you paint, launch fireworks and catch balls in glasses by tapping – highlights Let's Tap's quirky nature, and it lets four people compete against each other. An interesting idea, but its execution is a bit hit-or-miss, and we have concerns about its longevity once the novelty dissipates.
The latest instalment in the Red Faction series switches to a third-person perspective for one reason: carnage.Buildings can now be reduced to rubble using anything from sledgehammers to rocket launchers, and it's this which keeps you hooked when variety deserts you.The vehicles, for instance, are underwhelming, thanks to poor handling and repetitive, lengthy GTA-style drive-bys. The story is a paper-thin excuse for the main objective: to free Mars from its occupiers. It's explosive stuff though, with plenty of missions and side quests, and a strong multiplayer component when the single player campaign is done. Guerrilla is brash, brainless fun for those who thought Transformers 2 was a tad understated.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; China's on-again, off-again plan to introduce a filtering system for every computer in the nation is - it seems -on again. Green Dam, say officials, is still on schedule to become compulsory on July 1.&bull; We've heard a lot how real-time internet searches could be used tospot emerging pandemic diseases- but what if email analysis could predict whether a company was in big trouble?That's the premise of this articlefromNew Scientist, which references research into the pattern of emails sent at Enron (not the content).&bull; There's a really interesting piece in this month'sWiredmagazine aboutthe conflict between Facebook and Google- in particular, how Facebook is using it's walled garden approach to build something that Google can't get access to. Worth a look.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
China has said it will continue with its plans to force every computer in the country to run a controversial filtering program that will further restrict the activities of web surfers.Officials at the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said they would be going ahead with plans to make the software - known as Green Dam - compulsory.Despite claims that it haddecided to shelve Green Dam- which is intended to prevent access to pornographic material - the government "will not back away" on its plans for the software, an official toldChina Daily.The move follows a string of controversies over the plan, and after internet giant Google agreed to filter its search results in China to screen out pornographic or explicit material.Over the weekend the Californian company responded to a series of requests by the China Internet Illegal Information Reporting Centre (CIIRC) to block or filter explicit images, video and vulgar content by agreeing to implement changes."We are undertaking a thorough review of our service and taking all necessary steps to fix any problems with our results," said Google in a statement. "We believe we have addressed a large majority of the problem results."Last week the authorities in Beijing had issued a statement that "strongly condemned" the Californian internet giant for allowing its website, Google.cn to link to pornographic material."Google China's website has not installed filters to block pornography in accordance with the laws and regulations of our nation," said the CIIRC. "A lot of overseas internet pornographic information has spread into our nation by way of this website, seriously violating laws and regulations."The decision by Google will be regarded as another victory for Beijing,three yearsafter the US company launched a version of its search engine that was self-censored in accordance with Chinese law - a decision that campaigners said heralded a "black day" for freedom of expression.Despite that decision, however, Google has yet to secure dominance in the Chinese internet market - with just 27.8% of all searches in China are conducted on its website. That is still a substantial amount of traffic, given the country's number of internet users, but trails local rival Baidu, which has 62.2% of the market.Green Dam is due to be included in all new machines sold after July 1, and experts have published a series of details which show that the software - made by military-backed software company Jinhui - will not only filter out pornography, but also controversial political information about Falun Gong and the Tiananmen Square massacre.In addition, an American software company called Solid Oak hasclaimedthat some of the code used to make Green Dam is stolen from its own cybernanny products."The US government is concerned about Green Dam, both in terms of its potential impact on trade and the serious technical issues raised by use of the software," said a spokesman for the US Embassy in Beijing.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 24 June 2009The article below on the chief executive of Apple referred to memorable TV ads aired in 1984 to promote the Apple Macintosh computer and said these portrayed "mindless conformity in Jobs's supreme rival, Bill Gates of Microsoft". The ads were actually tilting at the industry's giant of the day, IBM. A young Bill Gates is on record praising the Mac.When Steve Jobs rolled out the Apple Macintosh computer in January 1984 he did so, true to form, by commissioning one of the most memorable TV adverts ever created. It bore several classic Jobs hallmarks. It was cool. It was darkly funny. And it seemed to portray a mindless conformity in Jobs's supreme rival, Bill Gates of Microsoft.Modelled on the George Orwell novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, it showed row upon row of grey-suited, grey-faced male automatons (for which read PC users) sitting in front of a huge screen upon which Big Brother pontificates. A blonde woman in white and red running gear - Ms Apple by implication - hurtles towards him and hurls a mallet at the screen, which erupts into a fireball just as Big Brother is saying, "We shall prevail!"Close observers of the ever more mysterious world of Steve Jobs will have remembered that advert this weekend with a wry chuckle. For, in the last few days, the behaviour of Apple's chief executive and his top team has become increasingly erratic, bordering on bizarre, with definite shades of Big Brother.Over the weekend we learned that Jobs had had a liver transplant two months ago. You could almost hear the sharp intake of breath among geeks everywhere, particularly in the west-coast techno-Mecca of Silicon Valley. At last there was an explanation for his gaunt appearance and evident weight loss, for his disappearances and for this year's six-month break from work.But consider the manner in which the news came out. It broke late on Friday night - that witching hour beloved of buriers of bad news - at the end of a day that had also seen Apple launch its latest iPhone. The Wall Street Journal had the exclusive and, unusually for them, ascribed it to no source at all, provoking a mass of blogger speculation that the source could only have been Jobs himself. All that Apple would say on the subject was to repeat parrot-like the phrase that "Steve continues to look forward to returning at the end of June". Big Brother would have been proud.The news of the liver transplant was just the latest of a series of events that saw Jobs and Apple dig themselves deeper and deeper into a pit of secrecy surrounding his health. The first the world knew about his problems was in August 2004, when it was announced he had been treated for a rare form of pancreatic cancer.Later it dribbled out that in fact the diagnosis had been made months earlier, in October 2003, and that he had tried initially to beat it with a peculiar dietary treatment (we're talking about a Buddhist vegetarian approach here).Earlier this year came the baffling claim  that he had a relatively simply treated "hormone imbalance", followed just days later by the announcement that Jobs would be stepping down for six months to focus on his health.The relative news blackout over almost five years has prompted desperate attempts by Jobs's devoted band of followers to reach the truth. Bloggers have tried to confirm that April's liver transplant took place in Memphis, Tennessee, by tracking the movements of Jobs's private plane. They have also pored over records of property transactions near the Memphis hospital that specialises in such treatments, to identify the mansion house they believe he bought while preparing for and recovering from the operation.Why go to such extraordinary lengths to find out information that Jobs clearly prefers to keep private? Why does his health matter so much to anyone other than himself and his close family and friends?Here's a clue to the answer to those questions: Apple share prices. When Jobs took over the company for the second time in 1996 its stock was trading at about $4 a share; now it approaches $140.Or look at more micro movements. When his six-month break was announced in January, share values plummeted to as low as $78.20. Even unfounded rumours about his health can move the markets: last December, Apple stock went up simply on unconfirmed reports that Jobs had been spotted looking well at his favourite frozen yoghurt outlet in Palo Alto. On another occasion, an inaccurate blog report that he had suffered a heart attack depressed shares by more than 5%.Such figures, impressive though they are, are mere symptoms of the peculiar power of Steve Jobs; they do not provide a diagnosis. For that one has to look back into the cluttered garage of Jobs's family home in California where, in 1976, aged just 21, he joined forces with Steve Wozniak to create their first personal computer. They built 25 of the first Apple I prototype, with the help of an order from a local company, and within just four years had exploded from a garage industry into a major international technology giant.Millions of words and a library full of books have been dedicated to trying to understand how Jobs did it. But two characteristics stand out beyond all others. First, Jobs is a man who does not suffer from self-doubt: everything he does is imbued with absolute self-confidence.Second, he is obsessive about Apple and its products, which he engages with at a level of detail virtually unheard of among his fellow CEOs. Rob Enderle, a technology analyst who has been covering Apple for more than two decades, says that Jobs has "redesigned Apple around him. In any product, he's involved from its first design stage to its final presentation."That attention to detail, Enderle says, includes coal-face negotiations with phone carriers and suppliers in which Jobs uses his legendary temper to scare other companies into submission. Enderle tells the story of one firm that supplied a faulty computer chip to Apple. Though the fault was Apple's own, Jobs apparently insisted the supplier rebuilt the chip in an impossible 60 days, threatening never to work with them again if the deadline was missed."That's the kind of thing that scares people to death. They know that if you let him down you can lose your contract, your job or even your company," Enderle says.Jobs has a similar nerve-jangling reputation among Apple's 35,000 employees. Workers at the company's Cupertino headquarters have a phrase - "being Steved", meaning to be at the receiving end of his wrath. "He uses fear more effectively than any CEO I've ever seen," Enderle says.Leander Kahney runs an Apple analysis website,Cultofmac.com, and is author of Inside Steve's Brain, which seeks to understand his creative genius. He believes that since Jobs returned to Apple in 1996, having resigned from his own creation 11 years previously, he has set out to remould it in his own image.The new Apple bears the imprint of Jobs's obsessiveness. "When they take on a problem at Apple they discuss it from every possible angle until they have absolutely mastered it."Kahney points to a telling - and rare - anecdote from Jobs's own private life. A few years ago he needed to replace the family washer-dryer. Where most people might go online and select a model that looked right for them, Jobs embarked on a two-week consultation process with his wife and children. Every night around the dinner table they explored a different aspect of the ideal machine - how much water it used, its ecological footprint, its cleaning ability and how it impacted on clothes. Then he went out and bought one of the most expensive German models.Apple is sticking to that Big Brother mantra that Jobs will return later this month, though it adds that he may come back initially in a part-time capacity. The question, though, is can the culture that he has created in his own image survive him?Other senior executives have been stepping up to the plate since Jobs's enforced absence. Tim Cook is widely tipped as a possible replacement as CEO. He has run the show for the last few months, proving himself to be a diligent and safe pair of hands, but analysts wonder whether he lacks the creative spark that Jobs has had in abundance. Last Friday's launch of the latest iPhone was competent, but where was the magic?The same issue exists in reverse for Jonathan Ive, Apple's legendary designer. As a design artist he is unsurpassed, but he lacks the clout and the fear factor that Jobs uses to generate loyalty and drive results.And then there's that other overwhelming question, which has little bearing on Apple's commercial future but has every bearing on Jobs's personal prospects. Why would someone facing the threat of cancer spreading from his pancreas to other organs want to bother with mere gadgetry any longer? Hasn't he got bigger worries now on his mind than whizzbang phones?There is another clue here provided by a speech he gave in 2005 - just after his surgery for cancer - to a class of graduating students at Stanford. He spent a third of the speech talking directly about death. "Remembering I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart."In a few weeks' time we will know - Big Brother permitting - the choice that Jobs has made this time round. Given his record, it is a safe bet that he will yet again follow his heart. And that his heart will be Apple.Supreme leaders: Other bosses who define their companiesRichard Branson/VirginRichard Branson is less businessman than publicity-seeking missile. His stunts (the boat racing, the balloon flights) may be a way of getting cheap advertising for the Virgin group, but they also express a show-off streak. He appears on TV, he blogs, he tweets - and in his spare time he starts up new businesses. Virgin has begun more than 200 companies, doing everything from planes and trains to selling wine and offering flights into space. Binding all these ventures together is nothing stronger than the company logo, and the always-smiling, ever-bearded Branson.Oprah Winfrey (various)Of all the big egos on this list, Winfrey is surely the only one to have had an academic course created after her, at the University of Illinois: History 298 - Oprah Winfrey, the Tycoon. Winfrey used the knockout ratings for her talk show to set up Harpo, her own production company. She then began O, The Oprah Magazine - perhaps the most successful startup in the history of the magazine industry - and went into making TV films. Winfrey claims to believe in management by instinct, and is so wary of investing in the share market that she once hoarded $50m in cash.Mukesh Ambani/RelianceMukesh Ambani is probably the wealthiest billionaire you've never heard of. He runs India's largest private business, the Reliance conglomerate, which deals in everything from natural gas to Bollywood movies. Mukesh and his younger brother Anil inherited the Reliance conglomerate from their father, but have since fallen out. Easily the highest-profile businessman in India, Ambani is building in Mumbai what is reputed to be the priciest home in the world: 60 storeys high and worth $1bn.Aditya Chakrabortty
A few years ago it was enough for a game world to look realistic. Now, in its every action and reaction, it mustbehaverealistically. Physics is what graphics was ten years ago – a yardstick to judge and compare games.Titles likeMercenaries 2: World In Flames,Battlefield: Bad CompanyandRed Faction: Guerrilla, sell themselves on their destructible environments in which buildings can be reduced to smoking architectural skeletons with a few accurately placed rocket strikes. At the recent E3 event, forthcoming shooters like Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising, Max Payne 3 and Battlefield 1943 sold themselves on authentic environmental annihilation.Meanwhile, driving sims now feature car models built from hundreds of chassis panels, all of which deform with absolute accuracy in the event of a crash. Game characters are rapidly evolving, too – designers merge both traditional motion capture techniquesandphysics-based procedural animation to ensure that feet and hands are able to react in real-time to obstacles, rather than just completing a canned animation cycle and shoving right through nearby objects. The visually stunning action adventureUncharted 2: Among Thieves, promises to make massive headway here with a character who can grip and shimmy along ridges with incredible physical realism. Physics is also helping to provide ever-greater visual detail to human characters, from wind-tussled hair to varying cloth and skin textures.At the other end of the scale are imaginative casual titles likeCrayon Physics,World of GooandLine Rider, which are built entirely around the exploration of various physical principles. There are complex physics engines in iPhone applications and mobile games. Gamers cannot escape physics.Beneath it all there are the companies that specialise in providing developers with cutting edge physics tools. Irish tech companyHavokhas been tweaking its eponymous physics engine for the last eight years, the newHavok ClothandHavok Destructiontoolsets providing licensees with ever more elaborate possibilities. Last year, Ageia, the inventor of the first specialist physics processing chip, was bought by graphics processor giant,Nvidia– like Havok, its technology,PhysX, is now available to developers of PC and console games as an SDK, or software development kit. The two technologies must now battle it out for support from the development community. Game physics is a business in itself.Where is all this going? What are the major headaches for game developers?  And considering the huge advances in graphical performance, can physics really keep up? To find out, I spoke to several industry experts about current trends and emerging techniques in game physics. Over the next five days, I'll run their responses in full, covering everything from super realistic human hair to the physics systems coming to massively multiplayer online titles…The PanelGeorge Torres, Senior Software Engineer, Fight Night Round 4Nadeem Mohammad, NVIDIA PhysX Product ManagerLuke Schneider (Project Design Architect), James Hague (Project Lead Designer), Jasen Whiteside (Project Art Director), Red Faction: GuerrillaDave Gargan, Principal Engineer, HavokRichard Hackett, Technical Director, BlitzChris Hecker, veteran programmer and game physics expertIntroductionWhat have been some of the key issues and discussions around game physics this year?Luke Schneider:A key [concern is] integrating with other game systems. From animation to cloth to AI (pathfinding), physics is beginning to touch everything in games on a fundamental level. When fully enabled, physics advances the state of games by opening up the possibilities of what can happen and giving each player a more unique and realistic gaming experience. I don't think there is one new avenue opening, but instead game developers are beginning to understand that physics can integrate and enhance many areas of games that previously were considered as separate elements.Richard Hackett:A lot of recent effort for many people is the push to make more and more use of multiple processor cores and processing power provided by modern GPUs. From coding techniques for PlayStation 3's SPUs (synergistic processing units), through general purpose GPU shader languages likeOpenCLand Nvidia'sCUDAto Intel's forthcomingLarrabeechip, being able to perform physics calculations in an efficient massively parallel way is key to pushing this technology forward.Another important common topic is something we have found ourselves in recent years which is how to combine physics with the kind of unrealistic behaviour that makes gaming fun, whether that is character animation or physically impossible moves that add to game play or make it seem more consistent. In many ways this is more immediately important to gaming than pushing the next simulation technique.Dave Gargan:This year atGDC, Havok announced a new product,Havok AI. For years now, Havok Physics and more recently, Havok Destruction have provided game developers with a toolset that allows them to build dramatically interactive environments. However as game levels become more dynamic, traditional statically generated AI representations start to break down. Typical solutions may be able to cope with simple scenarios, like the pre-scripted destruction of a wall or a sparse scattering of crates, but are unable to cope when situations become complex or congested - e.g. an upper balcony collapses after repeated machine gun fire showering masonry chunks and metal girders into the narrow alleyway blocking it completely.With Havok AI, programmers [can provide AI characters] with a coherent representation of the dynamic state of the world that lets them reason about alternatives like planning a new route around, clambering over the debris or using explosives to blow a new path through.Chris Hecker:There seem to be two main directions people are pushing right now for physics and graphics. The first is how to utilise multi-core CPUs. Since CPUs ran into a brick wall on the frequency front a few years back (remember when the CPU used to double in MHz every year or so?), now CPU manufacturers are just putting more of the chips (or "cores") in the computers, and it turns out it's pretty hard to use these multiple cores efficiently. So, that's a big area of research.The second area is destructible environments. We had a number of talks on this problem at GDC from the point of view of art, technology, and design, and people are still trying to figure out how to make it into something beyond a gimmick.  It's hard to tune a game level for difficulty and fun when the player can blow holes in walls!This brings up the elephant in the room as far as physics is concerned, which is, how do you use physics in gameplay, as opposed to just as more eye candy. There have been several attempts in this area, but it's still very early. Half-Life 2 pushed the envelope a bit, but it was pretty constrained and controlled.  A game like Little Big Planet is much more open and flexible in how the physics is used, but it is almost more of a toy box than a game.I think the "killer app" for physics affecting gameplay in a compelling and plausible way has yet to be made. Almost all games have physics in them now, getting objects to tumble around, allowing dead bodies to behave like ragdolls, and having some puzzles that need to be solved using physical interactions, but we haven't figured out how to use physics at a deeper level.A lot of indie games are actually taking this farther than commercial games lately, with things like Crayon Physics Deluxe andFantastic Contraptionusing physics at the core of their game loop...Tomorrow: the future of destructible environments
Apple says it has sold a million of its new iPhone 3GS model (and we'll come back to the "3GS" there in a moment) in the first three days since its worldwide launch on Friday.Thepress releaseis also interesting for including a "quote" from Steve Jobs, who you might recall is the company's chief executive, and who in an interesting development was said, by a mysteriously unsourced story in the Wall Street Journal, to have had a liver transplant earlier this year."Customers are voting and the iPhone is winning," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "With over 50,000 applications available from Apple's revolutionary App Store, iPhone momentum is stronger than ever."Certainly no dispute about the momentum. Even the precipitious price for the new model doesn't seem to be putting people off, despite this hefty recession.For those still stuck on the old iPhone 3G, or even the old old iPhone, there's now ahandy table to show you what things you can and can't doon each phone.Notable among these is that no matter how you swing it, the original iPhone can't do MMS (a phone released in 2007 that can't do MMS?). And last year's iPhone 3G can't do video - although one company, GPApps,insists that it could enable video recording on the 3G. Perhaps someone with a jailbroken 3G phone could tell us if it works...Oh, yes, the 3GS thing. Well, when Apple originally released the phone, it was called "iPhone 3G S".Such as the email hawking it last week, which read "Make a call or play a song using just your voice. And discover many more features that make iPhone 3G S the best iPhone yet"But today the press release says "CUPERTINO, California—June 22, 2009—Apple® today announced that it has sold over one million iPhone™ 3GS models through Sunday, June 21..."See? The space has gone, and in an Orwellian touch, the old press releases on the Apple site are being tweaked to remove the space as well. (Though as Chris Hallcommented on Twitter, "I wonder if they'll reprint all the boxes...")Obviously, we've been using the 3GS formulation since its launch. Nice to see them seeing sense over there.
PSP owners rejoice - easily one of the best DS games of the year so far, and arguably the finesty portable rendition of the GTA series, is coming to Sony's machine this autumn. Set to be available via digital download as well as on UMD, the new version will be specifically built for the PSP platform, "with upscaled widescreen graphics, enhanced lighting and animation; and includingall-new story missions." It's being developed by Rockstar Leeds 'in conjunction with' GTA-creator Rockstar North - the same arrangement as the DS original.It's great news for a machine that has lacked truly exceptional game releases of late. Only Resistance: Retribution has really stood out over the last six months with the likes of Patapon 2 and Phantasy Star Portable falling short of high expectations.
There seems to be a never-ending stream of suppliers upset about the way Apple controls their applications, or refuses to add them to its iPhone App Store. The latest is Free Press, which "alleges that Apple crippled SlingPlayer, a TV-streaming application for iPhone, so that it would only work on a Wi-Fi connection,"according to Wired. However, Apple has approved live streaming for a Major League Baseball app."That strikes us as odd and potentially nefarious because it really represents a carrier picking and choosing applications for consumers as opposed to letting consumers decide which videos they want to watch," said Ben Scott, policy director of Free Press. "It's exactly the sort of thing you'd expect in an internet experience that's controlled by the carrier."According to AT&amp;T, the problem is that it doesn't have enough network capacity. Wired reports:"We're certainly not crippling any apps," an AT&amp;T spokesman said. "This is an issue of fairness…. While we would like to support all video services across our network, the reality is that wireless networks simply lack the capacity to support customers streaming hours of cable, satellite or IPTV video programming to individual users."When the network is overloaded, some iPhone users can't get a 3G signal, and some can't make phone calls at all. Obviously this is not a desirable feature if you're selling a device as a mobile phone.And when carriers can charge 15p or more for sending a short SMS text message, any app that enables free TV streaming looks like a financial disaster. If users had to pay a proportionate cost, relatively few of them would do it -- especially since over-the-air broadcast TV is essentially free..But this isn't just a problem for mobile network carriers. Broadband ISP's also tend to imply that users can do things that their networks can't support, hence the usage limits and "fair use" policies.Of course, none of this really justifies Apple's tight but idiosyncratic control over what apps are offered. Nokia (Symbian) and Windows Mobile users, for example, have been able to download and install whatever they like from the thousands of apps available from third party stores such asHandango, without the world coming to an end. This was true long before Apple launched the iPhone.However, it might help if Apple made it absolutely clear that users and app suppliers were buying into a tightly controlled system, not a free and open one. I don't expect it would put many people off, and the rest would have no basis for complaint.
The eyes of the technology industry will be watching Californian giant Apple this morning, following reports over the weekend that chief executive Steve Jobs had undergone a liver transplant.The Wall Street Journal ended months of speculation about Jobs's health late on Friday by reporting that the billionaire technologist had been admitted to a Tennessee hospital two months ago for the procedure.Thereport on his conditionwas not attributed to any source – a highly unusual step for the Journal – but said that Jobs was currently in recovery and would return to the company on a part-time basis. Others have since confirmed the news.Investors and Apple's legion of fans are closely monitoring events ahead of the start of Wall Street trading, to see if Apple will make a public statement in order to quell possible drop in its share price.Until now, the company has refused to address the report directly: a request from the Guardian for further comment was met with the same blanket statement that "Steve continues to look forward to returning at the end of June, and there's nothing further to say".The news once again opens questions about the long term health of the 54-year-old mogul, his right to privacy and the potential impact on the company he helped found 33 years ago.Jobs - who is also the largest shareholder in entertainment giant Disney – has been ferociously secretive about his health problems, which are believed to stem from his battle with pancreatic cancer six years ago.Diagnosed in October 2003 with a rare form of the disease that is less fatal than other strains, Jobs – a strict vegetarian – initially attempted to treat his condition through a special diet. After nine months, when it was clear that he failed to cure the cancer this way, Jobs opted for surgery to remove part of his pancreas: the company announced he had undergone the procedure in August 2004, one month later.Although Jobs was thought to be in remission, a period ofdrastic weight losslast year led to frenzied speculation that the cancer had returned. In January, the notoriously secretive Jobsmade a rare public statementattributing his weight loss to a "hormone imbalance". Just a few days later, however, he was forced to admit that the situation was "more complex" than first thought, beforeannouncing his intentionto step down from day to day activities at Apple for six months.According to doctors, it is not unusual for pancreatic cancer to spread to the liver, the nearest organ – but with few donors available, transplants remain rarely-performed procedures. Datasuggeststhat 83% of adult patients survive the operation in the short term."These tumors can be treated quite well with liver transplants and are able to be managed and have a good outcome," said Dr Waldo Concepcion, a specialist at Stanford University, told the San Jose Mercury News. "In transplants, there are no guarantees, but if it works well, people can lead normal lives."Even if he survives, returning to full-time work as the chief executive of a company of around 35,000 employees could prove difficult. Jobs is known to keep to a punishing schedule, and many expect him to move out of the top role to focus on his chairman's role in the near future.Whether or not that affects in the long term is still unknown, but Jobs has spent the past decade assembling a group of top managers who effectively run the company. Among them is Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer and the man who most expect to take over the chief executive's role – perhaps sooner rather than later, if Jobs steps aside as a result of his health.A quiet and determined Texan who made his career with computer manufacturer Compaq, Cook is regarded as a safe pair of hands and has already taken on Jobs's responsibilities in his absence.However, the news of Jobs's condition – and its provenance – may have other consequences for the company, based in the Silicon Valley city of Cupertino.The Wall Street Journal's report broke shortly after the US stock markets closed, with Apple's share price riding high on the successful launch of the latest model of its iPhone hanset. Conversely, Apple's share price reached its nadir in January - shortly after Jobs revealed he was taking time off from the company.That led to accusations by some investors that the company should have been more forthright about the situation regarding Jobs, who has been critical to the company's success since he returned to Apple in 1996 after an 11-year absence."I'm not saying they need to release X-rays and lab tests, but the board has to show it's up to speed on the issues of his health and the prognosis and that they're prepared for whatever might come next," said Nell Minnow of corporate governance research firm The Corporate Library at the time.The Securities and Exchange Commission had previouslyconsidered accusationsthat the company misled shareholders by failing to disclose important information, deciding against a full blown investigation upon review.But the timing of this weekend's story - and the opaque way in which it has emerged – have led some to reiterate their previous demands for the process to be examined.Technology analyst Joe Wilcox claims the news was a "bombshell – the kind that sends a company's stock free-falling", but that its source raises even more questions."The timing, on day of iPhone 3GS launch, helps protect Apple's share price and de-emphasise an important fact: Steve isn't really coming back this month," hewrote on his blog."There is no SEC rule that requires Apple to reveal this information. I'm repeatedly on record as saying there should be. There are no private health matters at public companies."Asked about the possibility of a fresh investigation, a spokesman for the SEC declined to comment.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The Iranian protests are still in the news, witha crackdown threatening to quash the opposition, but the death ofNeda Agha-Soltana potential rallying point for campaigners. But now people are turning their attention to some of the details about how the Iranian government is suppressing information: a Washington Times story from earlier this year has resurfaced,highlighting the role played by Nokia Siemens Networksin creating the system to censor Iranian citizens.Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN), a joint venture between the Finnish cell-phone giant Nokia and German powerhouse Siemens, delivered what is known as a monitoring center to Irantelecom, Iran's state-owned telephone company.A spokesman for NSN said the servers were sold for "lawful intercept functionality," a technical term used by the cell-phone industry to refer to law enforcement's ability to tap phones, read e-mails and surveil electronic data on communications networks.This has since been picked up by the Wall Street Journal,which quotes a Californian internet security expertwho says Iran's system "looks like a step beyond what any other country is doing, including China".What will the response be?It's certainly helpful to lift the lid on companies that help repressive regimes operate, all justified in the name of increasing shareholder value. And it throws big questions about NSN, which was formed as a joint venture between Nokia and Siemens, provides telecoms technology used by around a fifth of the world's population, and whose chairman isOlli Pekka Kallasvuo, Nokia's chief executive (a lawyer by trade).Yet while it's system is extensive and the way it is used reprehensible, it is worth remembering that this is hardly the first time that this has happened - and barely any major technology company remains entirely free of taint. Yahoo, Microsoft and Google have all beenaccused of complicity in Chinese censorship, while China's "great firewall" is largely the work of US networking giant Cisco Systems (for more on the firewall, thisAtlantic article by James Fallowsis worth reading).Last year it emerged that Cisco had not simply worked for the Chinese government, but had also actively marketed its technology as a way to repress Chinese citizens.This Wired pieceoutlines internal documents showing that in 2002 Cisco had said it would help to "combat 'Falun Gong' evil religion and other hostiles".Elsewhere, every time filtering, censorship or spying takes place in Burma, Madagascar, Syria, Vietnam - oreven closer to home- the chances are that some major company is involved somewhere along the line.The events unfolding in Iran, and the repression of communication systems, are massively important. But they also open up the questions about the role of our major corporations in global politics: perhaps it's about time to make these companies account for their role in suppressing millions of people.
&bull; The bombshell news thatSteve Jobs had a liver transplant- first reported in an unsourced story by theWall Street Journaland sinceconfirmed by CNBC- is still echoing around the technology industry. The smallest details are now being scrutinised: his movements, his alleged mansion in Memphis, his medical prognosis. And if the torrent of attention seems a little overwhelming, it's probably just a recognition of the fact that Jobs is one of the most influential figures in the technology industry - and hence society - over the past 30 years.&bull; Theongoing trial of four Google executives in Italy- accused of complicity in the bullying of a teenager who was ridiculed on YouTube - is set to take another step this week. TheFTreports that privacy chief Peter Fleischer and legal boss David Drummond aredue in court in Milan on Tuesday.&bull; As is traditional for a Monday morning, I've got a few longer reads that are worth digesting for you: first is copyright campaignerLawrence Lessig'srejoinderto a recent essay by Wired'sKevin Kelly, calledThe New Socialism. I'm not sure I agree with either of them, but it's fascinating reading (particularly the comments on Lessig's post). And finally: is Twitter planning to make money through shopping recommendations?ReadWriteWebtraces why not.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Lord Carter has defended plans to levy a £6-a-year tax on every phone line to raise up to £1.5bn to help pay for the next generation of super-fast internet networks, as the most transparent way of investing in a critical part of Britain's infrastructure.The communications minister, in an interview in today's Media Guardian, alsohit back at his critics in the film, music and television industryover his refusal to introduce tough measures immediately to curb illegal peer-to-peer file sharing, which is costing the UK creative industries hundreds of millions of pounds a year.One of the biggest surprises in Lord Carter's final Digital Britain report last week was his plan to raise 50p a month from every home and business with a phone line to pay for the extension of next-generation fibre-optic communications networks to 90% of the population by 2017. The technology would allow people to download music in seconds and movies in a minute.The tax idea comes despite the government's broadband adviser, former Cable &amp; Wireless boss Francesco Caio, reporting a year ago that public money is not needed. Critics, especially the Tories, have attacked the plan as an unfair tax given that it will be levied on all phone users even though one in 10 will receive no benefit.Carter maintains that the world has changed beyond recognition since Caio's report – which came a week before the collapse of investment bank Lehman Brothers saw investment funds dry up around the world – and other countries are already putting public cash into next-generation networks, leaving the UK at the risk of being left behind.Having looked at the investment plans of the two companies putting money into the networks – Virgin Media and BT – he concluded they would reach only 60% of the population. "If we as a country want to have a new-built fixed infrastructure and the market will not pay for it, where is it going to come from? If we don't want it, we don't have to pay for it. If we do want it, then we do have to pay for it."Paying for it out of general taxation would have been money raised from all taxpayers anyway, he notes. "So what are we being accused of? We are being accused of not trying a sleight of hand but being open about it."He adds: "The Conservative position is we want it but we don't want to do anything to make it happen other than liberalise the market. No one is a bigger fan of liberalising markets than me but if you are going to liberalise a market you have got to liberalise a market in a way that delivers what you are trying to make happen. The pure theology of 'we don't need any intervention at all' won't deliver fibre-optic capability to the last 25% or 30% of the country."
I was away most of last week and so missed all the console fun and games. Keith has covered Activision's threats to Sony already - expect a flurry of backtracking and/or PR puff from both parties this week - but Microsoft weren't immune from PR blunders. Steve Ballmerapparently confirmeda new Xbox 360 - with built in Project Natal - for 2010 only for the PR machine tospoil the fun. But let's be honest, if and when Natal launches you would expect a revamped 360 console with the hardware included to be offered alongside the standalone device.Eurogamerlook at thepossibilities for Microsoft to upgrade the Xbox 360, but are clear that Natal is key.It's the Natal hardware itself with all the rich potential it has for creating new gameplay experiences that is the true upgrade here - and the only element that really counts. From speaking with developers, we know that Microsoft's third-party biz team has been touring and showing them the kit in action. So it's not just the word from E3 that is saying that Natal is the real deal, the feedback from the game-makers themselves is that it works.So what do you think then? Expecting a new 360 next year?
Lord Carter is cross. The communications minister believes those who condemned the groundbreaking final report on Digital Britain he unveiled last week have simply not read it. Billed as the most comprehensive review of the country's media and communications landscape for years, the report, which took eight months to compile, was widely dismissed as a lost opportunity resulting merely in a tax on telephone lines and a huge row with the BBC.Rival broadcasters attacked it as a fudge, while political opponents of the unelected minister have criticised the fact that his report will generate yet more consultation on issues that seem to have been debated for years. Sir Michael Lyons, the chairman of the BBC Trust, accused Carter of treating the licence fee as a "slush fund", while the shadow culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, called it "digital dithering". Several newspapers were even harsher."I think 90% of the people that are writing these articles have not read the report," says Carter, as we board a train to Birmingham the day after its launch. "But that does not stop them producing 2,500 pieces of copy, almost all of which are inaccurate. There is a conflation of what we are recommending on broadband, there is a blatant inaccuracy in [reporting] what we are saying on local news, there is no attempt to read what is laid out [on delivery] in complete detail in chapter nine."He says that he is not fighting a pitched battle with Lyons but it is clear what he feels about Lyons's appearance on multiple television channels as opposed to, say, reading the detail of the report. Firstly, he snaps, it is called the TV licence fee "not what the chairman of the BBC Trust called it on the TV news, 'the BBC licence fee'."He is equally incensed by Hunt's view that the umpteen further consultations set in place by the "final" report suggest a lack of clear strategy to strengthen the UK's media and communications infrastructure. "The only material question that we are consulting on is the sharing of the licence fee," he says, pointing out the difference between consultations "required" by law or government guidelines and those on "open questions".Carter's main gripe is that few commentators appear to have grasped the detail of the 238-page report with its 77 outcomes or recommendations. "Yes, it's a complicated subject and it covers a lot of ground, but I would have expected some people to have said 'this is a long and complicated subject and I have not read it all', as opposed to 'here are 700 words that I have cranked out because I have got a deadline'." Yet much of the criticism of the report has been sharpened by the fact that Carter will not see any of the consultations through to fruition as he is leaving Ofcom at the end of July - an announcement that was made the day before the report was unveiled. He refuses to explain the timing of his departure or the reason for it, leaving many to fill the gap with speculation that he is lining up a top job in the private sector, possibly at ITV. Nor does he discuss the issue of whether it would be right for a minister, whose report could redraw the map of British broadcasting, to work for a company so directly involved.So what about the most contentious part of his plan, to top-slice the BBC by taking the excess from the digital switchover fund and using it to help meet the &pound;200m bill for getting broadband to everyone by 2012, and then allotting &pound;130m a year for news in the nations and regions - and possibly kids' programming - from 2013 onwards?A former head of the regulator Ofcom and, briefly, a No 10 adviser, Carter does not suffer those he considers fools gladly and his precise way of speaking gives this away. "We have said the case is made [for alternative funding for local news], we have said there should be funding, we have said it is not coming from the taxpayer through general taxation because we do not think given all the other competing priorities that would be right; so our proposal is that we have a device, which happens to be called the TV licence fee, which is currently being used for a whole range of things."Why are we not simply saying [he clicks his fingers] 'decision'? What would have happened if we did? People would have said: 'it's a unilateral decision by a government to make a major change in the disbursement of the licence fee to other content providers including newspaper groups, online media providers etc without any consultation'. That's what people would have said and do you know what, they would have been right. What we have said is: 'here is what we are very clearly going to do but we are going to take views between now and September'."Switchover fundCarter denies that the cash is being sliced off the BBC to pay for ITV's regional news programming. He reckons it is "highly unlikely" that ITV will produce any regional news from 2013, and the broadcaster could be released from its obligation to provide such programming before then, if his plans for using the switchover fund in a series of regional news pilots over the next three years bear fruit. "That is not the same as saying we are going to transfer money from the BBC to ITV, which is complete nonsense."So what about the "political fudge" over the future of Channel 4? It is not being part-privatised through a deal with Five, nor, under his plans, will it be bounced into an arranged marriage with BBC Worldwide. Instead the government will bankroll any deal that results from C4's lengthy ongoing negotiations with the BBC's commercial arm."What we said on C4 was we do believe having a second public sector broadcaster/content provider is a good idea." The government, he says, has decided there is no case for privatising C4. "I have always taken the strategic view that the minute you privatise C4 and leave the BBC standing on its own as the only public sector service provider, the arguments to reduce the licence fee, that are running around, would accelerate at a rate of knots."His rationale is that allowing C4 to gambol in the field of pure commercial television would make the BBC appear increasingly anachronistic. It is a philosophical objection that lies at the heart of his decision to support C4, though if it were one accepted by a cash-strapped Treasury it's hard not to believe they would have stumped up some funds rather than left C4 to fend for itself.Given the intellectual level of his reasoning - which also explains why he wants to expand C4's remit so that it becomes more of a multimedia player rather than relying so heavily on TV advertising - it's clear that he believes knee-jerk reactions to the report may have missed the finer detail. He tries to outline the case, which has annoyed commercial rivals such as Five, further. Having decided not to give C4 cash nor to privatise it, the options were "either transferring assets from one state-owned entity to another, which seemed to us to be clunky and even more unmanageable" or a commercial solution of some kind."They have been working for months on that. And we have been helping to midwife that process. If there is [a deal to be done] then we will, as owner of both those assets, approve that transaction and facilitate the financing of it."Beyond 2013, Carter also expects C4 to be dipping into the licence fee to pay for programming aimed at kids aged 10 and upwards, which brings us back to his "raid" on the BBC's cash. BBC executives believe it is the thin end of a wedge that will be driven - undoubtedly at a greater speed by a Conservative government - between the corporation and its funding.Cobblers, says Carter. Firstly, he wants to enshrine the size of the so-called "contestable element" of the licence fee within the BBC Charter, setting in concrete - if you like - the maximum size of the wedge. Secondly, "the argument that says the licence fee is indissolubly linked with services provided by the BBC is not true". For the past three years the 3.5% of the licence fee he wants "contested" has been spent on something that has nothing to do with BBC programming, it is being spent on digital switchover. Many commentators believe the BBC, in allowing this hypothecation in the first place, allowed the Trojan Horse in.What of the argument that the licence fee can be eaten away again in future? "My argument would be the same as Lyons's, that [it] would be dangerous. So what do we say? We say 'why don't we take that construct that we currently have got, which already works - the sky has not fallen in, the BBC has not been destroyed and we have not seen a diminution in service, independence or editorial strength or the ability of the BBC to argue its position - and replicate that for independent local news?'Wider scope"So again, if people actually read the document rather than the headlines and the bullshit that is coming out of various institutional positions, what we say is we recognise the argument that the thin end of the wedge is dangerous - so why don't we enshrine it in the Charter so that there is absolute protection and you cannot go any further. If we implement what we are proposing in the document it would have the effect of giving the BBC more protection than they currently have."Other commentators, meanwhile, have seen Carter's refusal to address the wider scope of British broadcasting as evidence that when he leaves he will walk into Michael Grade's job at ITV. Asked this, he ponders for a long, long time. "That is what they say," he says. So what is he going to do in the summer? "Go to France."All he says when pressed is "I will finish this job and then I will go to France." So, has his time as a "temporary minister" following a peerage been enjoyable. "It's been a hoot," he replies wryly. "The truth of the matter is you cannot win, so you do what you think is right."
Catnip cat raveAnother triumph for the internet's ongoing effort to anthropomorphise our feline friends, as video evidence emerges of them partying hard. Reassuringly, it turns out that cats on drugs look even stupider than humans.Obama kills fly like a ninjaThis ninja-flavoured take on Obama's heroic fly-swatting coup mid-interview on CNBC, prevails in the YouTube charts.Homeless in The SimsPrepare to have your tears jerked by two collections of pixels. The misadventures of two homeless Sims characters, Kev and Alice, are chartered in blog form by a student of games design. Oddly heartbreaking.TracksThe Mars Volta - CotopaxiiTunes, 79pThe lead single from their largely acoustic third album, Octahedron, is a trademark assault of big riffs and wailing, delivered in their unique prog-psychedelia.Slow Club - It Doesn't Have To Be BeautifuliTunes, 79pTaken from the debut of the Sheffield girl/boy two-piece, this is a lively dance-floor filler with country-tinged vocal harmonies.Wild Beasts - Hooting &amp; Howlingtinyurl.com/mjcmof, free streamHaunting folk and indie stylings combine to enchanting effect on the latest single from the Kendal four-piece.Anti-Pop Consortium - Apparentlytinyurl.com/nekhqu, free downloadThe glitch-hoppers return with this sneak preview of their forthcoming album, Fluorescent Black. "Apparently" combines their experimental flair with a powerful driving punch.VideoPatrick Wolf - Hard Timestinyurl.com/lebgkw, free video streamA typically theatrical spectacle from the flamboyant songwriter, with futuristic burlesque routines and what look like giant jellyfish playing neon drums.
Citroen C1&pound;7,595Miles per gallon:62.8C02 per km:106 gramsGood for:Big lumpsBad for:Road humpsThere's a classic Peanuts comic strip in which Linus, Schroeder, Sally, Peppermint Patty and friends all pile into Snoopy's kennel while he dozes on the roof. There's a long pause, before Lucy finally reappears at the kennel door and shouts over to Charlie Brown, "The decor in the hall's a little tired, but you should see the size of his recreation room!"Citro&euml;n's C1 does not have a recreation room, but it is great fun and it does give the impression of being much bigger on the inside than you could possibly expect from the outside. The revamped baby of Citro&euml;n's line-up now comes with an improved 68bhp 1-litre petrol engine, which seems to whip you round the city streets like an empty crisp packet in the teeth of a summer storm, but more importantly it has four usable seats and a decent-sized boot. It's so compact that when I first got in, I spent minutes looking for the lever to flip the front seat up so that the kids could get into the back. In the end, I gave up and my daughters climbed over. It was only when we arrived at our destination and they materialised on the pavement that I realised the tiny C1 actually had back doors, too. There is a two-door version, which will save you &pound;500, but the four-door version is worth the extra money if you are going to be using the C1 for the school run. In the back there's legroom, headroom and bag room in the boot. The only complaint over a sunny weekend from the back row was that the rear windows only open on a hinge. Still, kids these days, eh! They think they're entitled to everything, even fresh air.Just how Citro&euml;n has created so much space in its baby boomer is part-science part-conjuring trick. They've pushed the wheels as far into each corner as they can, raised the roofline, and the seats are as upright as kitchen chairs. This means you need less knee-room - and it's great for back-pain sufferers.If you are in the habit of car spotting, you might begin to think you're seeing the C1 in triplicate. It is pretty much identical to Peugeot's 107 and Toyota's Aygo. Take a look next time: you could play spot the difference. Other than the badge, you won't find much to separate them, but the C1 is the cheaper of the three. All three keep costs down with their no-fuss, no-frills interiors. A few years ago, a car with its own stereo would have seemed the height of hedonism - do you remember, we had to pull them out of the dashboard and carry them into the house, or hide them in the glove compartment? Well, the "basic" C1 comes with a decent stereo, MP3 connection, electric windows, air bags and even "cornering stability control". The car felt confident and well-made and if cheap, zippy, eco-friendly motoring is your goal then the C1 is fit for purpose.Meanwhile, at a time when most carmakers are scaling back their products, Citro&euml;n has decided that attack is the best way to make itself recession proof. Over the past year it has launched nine new products, with another six to come, not to mention a full face-lift for the Citro&euml;n brand. As Charlie Brown would say: "Good grief!"martin.love@observer.co.uk
A paediatrician is warning that "net literate" parents are putting their children at risk by buying drugs on the web.Dr Nadeem Afzal, a consultant paediatric gastroenterologist, carried out an investigation of medicines for sale on eBay for common gut complaints such as constipation, diarrhoea, colic and abdominal pain. He found that 53% of the 186 gastrointestinal drugs on offer were advertised for children. One of these, Infacol for colic, was being sold with a broken seal and the description "slightly used".Other sellers did not list side-effects or provide use-by dates, and some suggested double the dosage that would normally be given in the UK.His findings have concerned the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry and the British Medical Association.Afzal said he was particularly worried that 42% of sellers gave no contact or address information so purchasers would have no legal recourse in the event of a problem. Other "dangerous practices" included laxatives being described as slimming pills and as treatments for diarrhoea.Afzal, a consultant at Southampton General hospital, presented his findings to the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health spring meeting to raise awareness and is now calling on eBay to place better guidance on the site.The drugs on offer over a period of a month were mainly over-the-counter remedies, but did include some antacid treatments that are prescription-only for the under-16s. One seller's listing said it was suitable for over-12s.ABPI spokesman Crispin Slee said: "Anyone who buys prescription drugs over the internet is taking a huge risk. It is worrying enough to think that adults are self-prescribing in this way. But to learn that parents are putting their children in harm's way beggars belief. Parents from the Google generation are playing russian roulette with their children's wellbeing."In the study, 42% of sellers did not mention dosages, 93% ignored side-effects and 14% didn't list what the drug was suitable for. Almost a third of sellers were offering drugs alongside household goods such as gardening tools, cosmetics and toys. "I suspect net literate people are tempted to buy online to save money and for convenience's sake," Afzal said. "This is not about the blame game, this is about awareness."He added: "The onus is on the lister, not on eBay. That should change. They should state online: 'Check the MHRA [Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency] guidance on the sale of medicines.' Also, people need to be made aware that just because a seller has got a 99% positive feedback rating, it does not mean that this [product] is not counterfeit."The Royal Pharmaceutical Society estimates that two million people buy drugs regularly over the internet, many from legitimate online pharmacies. But other sellers are offering counterfeit or substandard drugs. In April, GP magazine reported that one in four family doctors has treated patients for adverse reactions to medicines bought online.David Pruce, director of policy and communications at the Royal Pharmaceutical Society, said: "It's horrendous that people would even consider buying medicines with broken seals or from unknown sources. You should never take a prescription medicine without a valid prescription, let alone give these to your children. The medicine could have bad side-effects or worse."A spokesperson for eBay said: "We strongly encourage our users to be entirely accurate in their listings and to ensure that the packaging is intact. We are now looking at new ways of strengthening safeguards in this area."
When President Barack Obama wasn't concerned with swatting flies or wrestling with Congress last week, he had something else on his mind. Despite the political wildfire spreading in Iran, State Department officials were hamstrung by America's difficult relationship with Tehran: they wanted a way to influence events on the ground without getting involved in them. And so they turned to the internet.Their unexpected source, though, was not Iran's vast army of political bloggers or even the web providers blocked by the country's censorious government. Instead, they went to American online messaging service Twitter, the social network that had swiftly become a central source of information with blow-by-blow updates about the post-election protests.Hearing the news that engineers at the Californian company were planning to take the website offline to perform some maintenance, officials in Washington made what perhaps marks the oddest political phone call seen since Dr Strangelove. Their message to Twitter? "Don't stop.""It's humbling to think that our two-year old company could be playing such a globally meaningful role that state officials find their way toward highlighting our significance," said Biz Stone, one of the company's founders the next day.The site undoubtedly played a vital role in spreading the story from inside Iran to the outside world, as thousands of web users and mobile phone addicts passed on messages and pictures documenting events on the ground.It is easy to overestimate Twitter's value inside Iran, where word of mouth, phone calls and text messages were almost certainly more important in helping to organise rallies. But its influence in making the story global was very real.All of this attention marked the latest high point in Twitter's dizzying ascent, a rapid rise that has seen its crew of geeks find themselves at the heart of geopolitics more by accident than design.Three years ago, the company's founders were toiling away on a different internet project, an interesting but ultimately unpromising podcasting company called Odeo. Programmer Jack Dorsey showed his colleagues an idea for a simple website that let people update their activities and whereabouts by mobile phone. They liked it, built a prototype and Twitter was born.Long before it became a high-powered political tool, however, it began simply as a way for geeks to tell each other what they were doing online. It allows each user to send a short update on their current activity to a selected group of friends from a computer or mobile phone. Restrained by text message technology to a limit of just 140 characters, users answered the question: "What are you doing?" in as straightforward or creative a way as they chose.What started off as a side project soon became the main event; the team switched from Odeo and the third co-founder, Evan Williams, used the proceeds from his previous business (Blogger.com, which he sold to Google in 2003 for several million dollars) to fund Twitter's early development. Then, it was known as Twttr, though that name, displaying the disemvowelled grammar that became a hallmark of trendy web companies in recent years, was swiftly ditched in favour of a more mainstream-friendly version.Cheered on by adoring crowds in Silicon Valley, the site  blossomed, turning into a sort of internet chat-room as millions of people swapped messages. Importantly, it was boosted by the presence of celebrities: famous British faces like Stephen Fry, Jonathan Ross and Philip Schofield, as well as American names like Britney Spears, rapper 50 Cent and basketball star Shaquille O'Neal. Because users choose whose messages they want to see on their Twitter home page, these famous names could actually interact with their fans - albeit in a limited way.Politicians, too, have been excited by the new way of connecting with the public, including Obama, whose staff used Twitter during last year's election, and a steady stream of MPs, congressmen, senators and other influential individuals.Unsurprisingly for a trio of archetypal San Francisco geeks, its creators have struggled with their newfound celebrity pull. "The level of attention has been surprising," said Williams, with typical understatement.And yet they court it all the same: Oprah Winfrey invited a bashful Williams on to her show in April for a special segment dedicated to the service, while Stone looked slightly overwhelmed during an appearance on the popular spoof chatshow hosted by comedian Stephen Colbert."My guest tonight is the co-founder of Twitter - I'll ask him about every mundane moment of his life," quipped Colbert.Except it is that mundanity, in part, that has helped push Twitter from a nerdy experiment to a genuine phenomenon: it is easy to use, but vast in its scope.Plenty of detractors have gnashed their teeth along the way: they despise its addictive immediacy, the hype that has accompanied its rise or, more often, they complain that it improperly elevates the inner thoughts of those who trade in banalities and mindlessness. Some attack its inherent unreliability (though since they get to choose precisely whose messages to read, the question seems moot), while others decry its growing power online.Worse still, then, that it has been embraced by the celebrities who often represent the worst strands of our vacuous and fame-seeking modern culture. But for every Britney Spears, Twitter has also shown the surprising ability to inhabit a geopolitical world.Clay Shirky, a professor at New York University renowned for his analysis of the way people interact online, has described the attraction in glowing terms. "These tools don't get socially interesting until they get technologically boring," he said recently. "It isn't when the shiny new tools start permeating society, it's when everyone can take them for granted."Indeed, its impact was so powerful that Shirky has since called Iran "the big one ... the first revolution that has been catapulted on to a global stage and transformed by social media".With lives on the line at Tehran's anti-Ahmadinejad protests, few could mock the inanity of the system, but Iran is just the latest in a series of major events that have been given an extra global witnesses thanks to Twitter.Early last year, the first reports of the earthquake in China's Sichuan province broke on Twitter, while the end of 2008 saw users document the Mumbai attacks for a global audience before the news networks had got on to the story. The first images of the US Airways craft that crash-landed in New York's Hudson River, meanwhile, prompted the BBC to call it "a classic of the new age of citizen journalism".As a result, what started as an experiment between a handful of employees has now found itself reaching a strange crossroads where society, technology and politics interact with each other, sometimes with profound effects. And in doing so, Williams, Stone and Dorsey have become the latest in a parade of US technology geeks who have achieved some form of political influence without ever being actively political.Their predecessors in this include Google's founders, for example, who espouse a "don't be evil" mantra despite the fact that their intentions remain vague and their philanthropy is often tightly linked to the business they started. Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates, meanwhile, has turned his sizable bank account to saving the world, but only after he had spent 20 rapacious years becoming one of the most powerful people in it.The end result is that Twitter is riding a curve of hype that, for the time being, shows no sign of turning back against it. Celebrity allure, political power and technological smarts have all arrived at the same time.That is all nothing compared to its reputation on its home turf, where, despite much-heralded internet startups being 10 a penny, Twitter is regarded largely with reverence. Everyone from Google to Apple has reportedly inquired about buying the company, and earlier this year Twitter rejected a $500m takeover bid from Facebook.By anybody's standards, that is a high price to turn down, but in the face of an almost insatiable appetite from the public, the company's creators believe they have stumbled upon something that is worth substantially more: in prospecting for a way out of the doldrums of their previous business, Williams, Stone and Dorsey instead found gold."I've called it social alchemy," said Stone recently. "Take a tweet that you think is meaningless or valueless - like I'm grabbing a beer at the airport. It's of little value, but if somebody gets it in real time ... and they say, 'I'm in the airport and I'll meet Biz for a beer', we've turned that lead into gold."The Twitter LowdownBorn:21 March 2006 - opened publicly in July of the same year. Founders: Jack Dorsey (4 April 1977), a programmer from St Louis, Missouri; Biz Stone (10 March 1974), social networking expert from Massachusetts; and Evan Williams (31 March 1972), serial entrepreneur from Nebraska.Best of times:Twitter has a recurring role in helping spread news of major events, but it was an appearance on Oprah Winfrey's popular US television show that took it to the masses. The host logged on to the site with a welcome of "HI TWITTERS" - immediately gaining more than 250,000 new fans and sparking a huge growth in the site's user base.Worst of times:The site was so unreliable for a period in 2008 that the so-called "fail whale" - a character who appears whenever the site is overloaded - became a cult figure with its own online fan club.Others say:"It is a magnificent way of cutting out the press. I'm getting new tweets all the time and some of them are very amusing and some of them are rather silly, but most of them are entirely charming."Stephen Fry, one of Twitter's most popular and enthusiastic usersThey say:"It distills a lot of what makes the internet exciting into a really simple form."Evan Williamsin a TV interview.
Apple chief executive Steve Jobs underwent a liver transplant earlier this year, according to a report in theWall Street Journal.Jobs - who survived pancreatic cancer in 2004 - has been on medical leave from Apple since January in an attempt to cope with "complex" but undisclosed health problems. According to the company, he is due to return to day-to-day business at the Californian technology firm by the end of June.But today the Wall Street Journalsuggeststhat Jobs underwent a liver transplant two months ago at an American medical facility, and will most likely only return to part time duty in the short term.Quoting information from unnamed sources, the Journal said the 54-year-old billionaire underwent the surgery in Tennessee and has been advised to scale back his commitments and "work part-time for a month or two". Apple has refused to confirm or deny the claim, saying only that he still intends to return to work by the end of the month.The incessant rumours about Jobs's health have whipped up investors, the press and Apple's legion of fans into a frenzy, beginning last year when he appeared to undergo a dramatic drop in weight.At the start of 2009, speculation over his healthforced the notoriously private businessman into a public statementin which he blamed a "hormone imbalance". Days later, however, he made another public announcement, sayingthat his problems were more complex, and would force him to take temporary leave from the company he helped found 33 years ago.Shortly after Jobs dropped out of the public eye, a series of rumours suggested he waslooking for a liver donorto help overcome the issue - believed to be a result of the surgery he underwent to treat his earlier cancer.
The iPhone is crowded with tower defence games, a genre where you use a series of strategically-arranged fighting emplacements to deflect wave after wave of attackers - variously aliens, monsters or stick men, depending on preference. From pretty but clumsy newcomers like Star Defense to the excellent and still entirely free TapDefense, the iPhone has a vast catalogue at its disposal. The biggest difference Square Enix brings is the extraordinary level of polish and quality control almost unique to professional development studios. Crystal Defenders: Vanguard Storm splices tower defence with Final Fantasy Tactics, making adapting formations between turns vital for survival. It also adds a time limit for each turn, adding a sense of urgency that never jars, but helps keep you on your toes as you learn to deal with various combinations of enemies and your own troops. Vanguard Storm is simple, clever and compelling.• Square Enix, &pound;2.99
This incredible statistical information site has plenty of interesting points to make about gaps in wealth and health, history, inequalities between nations, and the spread of HIV, but the wonderful thing is the playful way it's all presented. With each country in the world illustrated by a colourful blob, users can fool around with timelines and different vertical and horizontal axis to turn factual nuggets into something that's closer to a Jackson Pollock splatter painting. There are also some intriguing videos (presented by the professorially sinister Hans Rosling) and a blog, while the fully techno-adept can upload their own data and create their own bubble graph. Who knew comparing international GDPs could be so much fun?
Rather than settle for Nintendo's already unconventional controller set up, Let's Tap goes one stage further by having you place your Wii remote on a small cardboard box, on which you drum your fingers to play. A light touch is required and any attempt to use whole-hand, bongo-style techniques ends in tragedy. Emphasising competitive play with up to three friends, Let's Tap features five games involving sprinting through obstacle courses; removing blocks from Jenga-esque stacks; a rhythm action game; flying/obstacle-avoiding; and the visualiser, which is less game than brief psychedelic diversion. The box-tapping mechanism works with surprising subtlety, rewarding restraint at times when the game is doing its best to whip you up into a box-destroying frenzy, adding to the multiplayer thrills. For the money, this offers a decent slug of very peculiar entertainment.• SEGA, &pound;24.99
Miriam Linna was in the first lineup of seminal US punk pervs the Cramps for eight months between 1976 and 1977. She joined, aged 19, as their drummer despite never having played drums before. A lifetime passed by, but when Cramps singer Lux Interior died in February the memories came flooding back in "a whirling blur". This blog is an attempt to piece together the past and recall her part in the birth of punk rock in NYC. For anyone interested in this era, her sharp and funny writing and fabulous memorabilia will take you to the heart of the scene.
Set a couple of years after Ghostbusters II, Ghostbusters: The Video Game picks up where the films left off, casting you as a newly recruited Ghostbuster joining Egon Spengler, Ray Stantz, Winston Zeddemore and Peter Venkman (all voiced by the original cast) in helping rid New York of its phantom problem. Its memorable introductory scenes - featuring the destruction of the immaculately prepared Alhambra Ballroom minutes before the beginning of a bar-mitzvah - are as familiar as they are delicious. As is catching ghosts by first weakening them with your pulsing, fizzing proton stream before dragging them scrabbling and shrieking into a trap in precisely the way you might imagine actual ghostbusting would feel - it's deeply satisfying as a result. The variety of ghosts is remarkable, and while you'll see a fair few slimers and standard-issue ghouls, there's always a fresh oddity around the next corner. It plays wonderfully, the voice talent is perfect but after around six hours, the game feels disappointingly truncated.• Atari, &pound;24.99-&pound;49.99
It was rather like trying to do a Google search and getting your answers delivered as a truckload of blacked-out telephone directories. The information age may have arrived but it was clear from yesterday's publication of MPs' expenses that Westminster is so last century.The 700,000 pages of scanned images put online were described by Sir Stuart Bell as a "great achievement" for parliament. And I suppose it would be if you were used to inscribing your words on animal skins.If we truly aim to be an informed electorate then we need quick, direct access to the vast troves of information held not just within parliament but all other public bodies.For information to be useful, it should be dynamic, searchable, and accessible. We book our own holidays not through a travel agent but through search engines where we can compare and find the best-value flights, hotels and car rentals. We no longer call up librarians with our questions but type them into Google or post them on Twitter. We can compare prices between shops and even between countries. We no longer have to rely on traditional media for our news but can graze for it across the entire globe via the internet and millions of citizen journalists.People are used to having great swaths of information at their fingertips, yet parliament still believes it can control both the collection of information and its presentation. Officials want to lock down documents so they can never be altered without specific written consent. You look at most government websites and the information is micromanaged to an appalling degree.There are a few exceptions – the Electoral Commission website springs to mind – but for the most part, bureaucrats and politicians are loath to allow people direct access to the raw data.So we cannot, without a great deal of effort, see how many MPs are funnelling expenses into certain companies or overall food bills. This is why the Guardian set up its own crowd-sourcing operation so the data could be unlocked and made useful. What that means is more taxpayers spending more of their own time and money to fix a system built badly under the instruction of the Commons officials. A better solution would have been to throw open the data from the very beginning and elicit volunteers to help in the publication.There are no shortage of interested and skilled volunteers. Just look at the number who have helped on the Guardian's expenses website and whattheyclaimed.com. Tom Steinberg and the developers at MySociety have been banging on parliament's door for a long time. They built the websites TheyWorkForYou and PublicWhip among others. But it's always a struggle to get the public sector to release information. I can vouch for that.It shouldn't be like this. This is our data. It belongs to us. We paid for it and it was collected in our name. Isn't it time we had access to it?Heather Brooke is a freelance investigative journalist who fought the freedom of information campaign to have MPs' expenses made public.
You may have seen the controversy today surrounding Activision chairman Bobby Kotick, whotold The Timesthat his company may have to cease supporting the PS3 if Sony doesn't cut the price of the console. From the article:"I'm getting concerned about Sony; the PlayStation 3 is losing a bit of momentum and they don't make it easy for me to support the platform. It's expensive to develop for the console, and the Wii and the Xbox are just selling better. Games generate a better return on invested capital on the Xbox than on the PlayStation."Kotick posits that a price cut to the machine will be the only way to improve attach rates (the number of games each console owner purchases): i.e. if people pay less for the machine, they'll buy more games to go with it.Gamasutra posteda response from Sony, attributed to SCEA's senior director of corporate communications and social media, Patrick Seybold, but seemingly written by a PR word master:"PlayStation has tremendous momentum coming out of E3, and we are seeing positive growth with more than 350 titles slated to hit across all our platforms, including many anticipated games from our publishing partners.""We enjoy healthy business relationships with and greatly value our publishing partners and are working closely with them to deliver the best entertainment experience."Which in no way addresses Kotick's point. But then, of course, even if Sonyisplanning a price drop for later this year, they're certainly not going to say that now - sales will plummet.It's an interesting situation, though, and I'm having trouble thinking of a precedent in the games industry. Publishers have often grumbled about hardware manufacturers, but they've rarely attempted to hold them to ransom. This is, after all, a complex relationship of mutual dependence, in which the developer relies on the manufacturer for dev kits, graphics libraries, middleware, tech support and so on, while the console maker needs a strong base of productive studios. It surely takes a major imbalance in the power structure for one party to attempt to effectively bully another.
Microsoft will start the public beta-test of its free antivirus software, codenamed Morro, next week athttp://www.microsoft.com/security_essentials. However, you may not get the chance to try it then, if you even want to. According toZD Net's Ed Bott: "The public beta will be limited to 75,000 downloads."Morro is not as comprehensive as the paid-for OneCare (which included a Managed Firewall, PC Performance Tuning, Data Backup and Restore, Multi-PC Management, and Printer Sharing) but offers more protection than the free Windows Defender.Bott has been testing what we can now call Microsoft Security Essentials, and says that:Contrary to some recent reports, this isn't a cloud-based service. Instead, it offers a dynamic signature service that pushes signatures on a daily basis, but adds the ability to query the signature service when need to reduce the window of exposure to new malware. By monitoring for suspicious behavior,  the service can query for a sample when necessary. Rootkit detection features target kernel-mode malware and can detect the sort of tampering in the kernel that is typical of rootkits.The service is similar to the antivirus part of the discontinued One Care, which tested well in May 2009, when "the independent AV-Comparatives group" gave it its highest (Advanced+) rating. Bott says:Only 3 of the 16 products in the test earned that rating. Microsoft's technology scored second in the accuracy ratings, behind AVIRA but ahead of AVG, Symantec, McAfee, and a dozen other products. And on the crucial measure of delivering the fewest false positives, Microsoft stood far ahead of the pack, delivering the fewest false positives of any program tested.Sadly, the better it works then the more bananas Symantec and McAfee are going to get, and Symantec is taking an early lead. In a press release, Lee Sharrocks, Symantec's Vice President Consumer Sales EMEA says:Microsoft isn't going to change the dynamics of the consumer security industry.  The reality is that shareware and freeware vendors have been in the market for 20-plus years.  The freeware space is crowded and Microsoft is just joining the fray.  In addition, early reviews of the beta are showing that it underperforms when compared to existing freeware products, and well below paid solutions such as Norton AntiVirus.In that case, Mr Sharrocks, we can assume that Symantec (which pays PC manufacturers to install its own suite as crapware) won't need to go bleating to its friends in the European Commission. It's a pretty good bet that that's exactly what Symantec will do. But if not, damage is already being done.There was an interesting paragraph inArs Technica's report:One last thing Ars discussed with Burch was the "Essentials" branding. We've seen it before with Windows Live Essentials, but Burch says MSE will not be included in this suite, even though non-Windows Live applications like Silverlight are included. Microsoft is likely aiming to release MSE in time for Windows 7, but unlike Windows Live Essentials, Burch says there will be no download link for MSE included in the final version.Ars describes this as "a curious decision" because it doesn't make any sense. "Nevertheless, it can be quite easily explained: Microsoft wants to avoid antitrust issues."In fact, what's really happening is that Microsoft is doing its best to keep away from the European Commission's idiot clutches even though this means not doing what would be best for users. It's an example of the fear of irrational EC action damaging the interests not just of European consumers, but of the rest of the world's, too.
iFixit.com, the site that likes taking gadgets apart, has got to work on the iPhone 3GS (photo: iFixit.com)Those wacky folks from iFixit, who can't see a gadget without unpacking their set of screwdrivers and small suction cups (useful for removing touch screens, apparently) have done a teardown of the iPhone 3GS.Clearly they've never seen the instructions that come with the fabulous (and sadly discontinued) software VisualHub, whose tweakable settings included the warning: "Don't!! You'll screw it all up!" (Actually,ifixitis a very useful resource for DIY repairs on all sorts of Mac kit. Obviously, at your own risk..)But iFixit isn't deterred by those sorts of fears, and in adetailed teardownit goes at the new iPhone with everything it's got.The processor is, it seems, still a Samsung ARM. Outwardly, it's almost indistinguishable from the iPhone 3g, exceptthe 3G is model A1241, while the 3G S is model A1303.Among notable points:Apple promises improved battery life with the 3G S. The battery is listed as 3.7V and 4.51 Whr. This comes out to 1219 mAh, compared to 1150 mAh on the 3G. That's only a 6% increase.Wonder how the battery life will go. We're testing it on the iPhone 3GS we have in the office.And:The 3G S offers Voice Control. We're not sure yet why this feature couldn't be added via software to earlier iPhones. Perhaps the voice recognition requires a better microphone than in earlier iPhones or a lot of processing power, or maybe Apple just wanted to differentiate the 3G S.According to Richard Lei, the "Chinese (Cantonese) voice control works, but took a while to work out the magic words as there is no guide released yet (not out in Hong Kong until early July)"And finally,On the iPhone 3G, we see a lot more cracked digitizers than cracked LCDs. Replacing the digitizer is a little more work, and requires breaking out a heat gun or hair dryer.Once you've deployed the correct set of screwdrivers, suction cups and gentle udging, you'll get the following:OK? Now do steps 1-16 in reverse. Any parts you have left over were probably surplus anyway. Good luck!
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Without a doubt the iPod. It's a genius invention – imagine fitting your entire record collection on a small device that fits in your top pocket.My second (if I'm allowed!) is the Blu-ray player – I feel like I've been blind for years, watching standard definition DVDs. For a director it's such a buzz to see that your film is being seen in the best quality imaginable, as you always intended it to be. I think the technology can still be pushed and we are still at the early stages of this, but it's a good start.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm on it right now typing this up. I keep my entire film score collection on it. I think I've got weeks worth of music on it, I constantly listen to film soundtracks for inspiration.What additional features would you add if you could?Longer battery time and a built-in radio.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No chance, it can only become more advanced.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I love gadgets and anything to do with technology, without a doubt I'm an addict. The most frustrating thing, which I find most annoying, is that they keep releasing new generations and models – this forces me to keep on upgrading each year! I guess that's why it's called technology.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Never buy first-generation models – iPods/iPhones, Blu-ray players, TVs – always wait until the next model is released.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think it's fair to say a nerd. But I do still work with a pencil a lot. You decide.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Canon HD video camera. I love it. I use it to film moving storyboards while I prepare for a film. I usually go to the location with the camera and film the shot with my camera, this helps me see how the scene will be filmed before stepping onto set. It's a bit like a pre-viz tool but at the actual locations.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – no question. I love anything Apple have produced. Personally I've found PCs too unreliable, plus I love the look of the Macs – call me shallow.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I always buy physical media (CDs and DVDs/Blu-rays), I need to know that somewhere in my home or office I still have the original source of music available – I'm always paranoid about losing or erasing anything which contains data. I do occasionally download music, it's usually singles or if I'm impatient and want it straight away, I'll download an album. With regards to DVDs and Blu-rays, it's all still physical – I haven't yet started to download movies; besides, I love all the extra features that come with disks.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I've already pre-ordered one. Look, technology's here to make our lives easier and we've become lazy, so you may as well do it properly with an electronic butler. I'd get it to charge my iPods and turn on my TV.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Something that lets me direct my films even while I'm asleep.•Johnny Kevorkian's latest film,The Disappeared, is now showing
