Reality checkChris Moss (War on the web, December 6)dismisses the G8 digital opportunity task force as "utopian fantasies".OneWorld, an online partnership of more than 1000 non-governmental organisations using the internet to promote human rights and sustainable development, is the UK civil society representative on this G8 "dotforce".We want a better world. And we want to harness the democratic potential of the net to help get us there. OneWorld has just launched the first non-profit world news syndication to a major corporate portal,Yahoo! News. Stories from partner organisations such as the World Development Movement, Amnesty International and aid agencies in Afghanistan appear next to those of media giants such as CNN and ABC. OneWorld contributes to the very diversity of news on the web that your article champions.Glen TarmanOneWorld.netmedia@oneworld.netBurn CD, burnSchofield's comment: "The best option is to buy a CD... copying vinyl to CD is tedious at best and quite difficult", (Ask Jack, December 6) suggests he has never spent hours compiling compilations from vinyl to cassette which is also "difficult and    tedious" to people who would rather buy "the greatest album in the world!" for &#163;16.99 than craft 90 minutes of pop perfection in real time. I recently boughtMusicmatch jukeboxsoftware off the net for $20 which includes a user-friendly interface and will rip vinyl or CDs to any audio file format (MP3, Wav etc.) Once you have hooked up your turntable and amp and set your recording input correctly, you simply "tape" and save to your hard drive, create a playlist of tracks and then choose the ones you want to burn. You can go back to this list and burn a new selection as the mood takes you. Difficult? - not really. Tedious? - to some, maybe. The best party CD? - you betcha.Richard Bondbondage001@hotmail.comAll changeI take it that all this stuff about high speed connections is satirical? I gave up when my connection dropped to 470 bytes per second. The ISP? BT Internet. Or Openworld. Or Surftime. Or something. Changing it every fortnight is their idea of customer service. Or progress. Or something.David Cawleydcawley@btinternet.comGPRS failureI agree with What's New: Mobiles of the Year (Dec 6)    that the Ericsson T39 is "a marvel of miniaturisation". Unfortunately, after four weeks' subscribing to BT's GPRS service, I have failed to connect every time I try.James RichardsJNRichards@bigfoot.comMemory laneAt the risk of fuelling an ongoing debate on the "mainframe with the smallest amount of memory" (Feedback, Dr Harper, November 29, Dr Vines, December 6), I too remember the old ICL 1900 Series. I wrote my first program in April 1969 in Plan, a neat programming language just one step removed from machine code. It ran on a room-sized ICL 1901 with 16K words of memory, 4K words of which were taken up by the operating system (one word = 24 bits = four characters). We had just 12K words in which to write and run whole suites of programs, Sales Ledger, Payroll etc.For speed, all peripheral input and output was "double buffered". Any programs exceeding the 12K limit had to be written with segmented overlays which, at run time, were loaded into memory from magnetic tape as required. If the software development on modern PCs had been as memory efficient as the programs on those old mainframes then Windows and its associated Microsoft applications would probably run 10 times faster and in less than    1MB - though how long it would take to write the applications is anybody's guess.John Percyjasper@jasp.demon.co.ukMoot pointWhat we are we going to call mmO2? How about "mote"?Ken Leekenlee@netcentral.co.ukPast revisitedOne of the spookier effects of this week's Goner virus seems to be that it flushed out lost emails sent on February 21. Two from that date suddenly appeared in my inbox - including a press release from a now-bankrupt company.Alan Burkitt-Grayalan@burkitt-gray.com
After three years of rancour, lawsuits, ego-wars and secretive preparations, the first two of what could become half a dozen industry-backed commercial online music sites were launched last week. Their arrival was met by underwhelming applause from consumers and technology analysts alike.After the David and Goliath drama of Napster, it was perhaps inevitable that any industry-backed offering would seem meek after the free-for-all that Napster encouraged before it was effectively gutted by the courts earlier this year.The two subscription services launched were RealOne and Rhapsody. Real Networks' RealOne, based on MusicNet, is a partnership with three major record labels   - Bertelsmann, AOL Time Warner, EMI - and Zoomba, the boy-band independent label. Rhapsody is an independent subscription service with licensing deals with the big five record companies (the three major labels mentioned plus Sony and Universal) from Listen.com.By the end of the year, RealOne and Rhapsody will be followed by Pressplay, a subscription service backed by Universal Music and Sony Music, which will also include the EMI library. Next year others will become available, including a newly-legitimised Napster, and services from AmericaOnline and MTVi.In the UK, BT Openworld is trialling a classical music service for &#163;7.99 per month.As these services roll out - heralding the eventual transformation of the music industry into an all-  digital, online consumer service - many questions remain unanswered. Fundamentally, will consumers buy or rent what they have, or continue to enjoy it free?"The jury is out," says Aram Sinnreich of Jupiter Media Metrix. "There's not much to compare it to, and consumers are trying to figure out what it is and why they need it."As much as a billion dollars in revenue is forecast over the coming years, but few expect online music distribution to take the place of the CD or any succeeding format in the next decade. "We're in the nascent stages of the market and none of the products are quite fully connected," says Ryan Jones of the analyst firm The Yankee Group.Of the two new services, the most instructive to the record industry's intentions is the RealOne/ MusicNet service. Launched with a catalogue of about 75,000 songs, the service costs $9.95 a month, which entitles subscribers to download 100 songs and stream 100 more.But the service is full of restrictions. RealOne will not take subscribers from outside the US because American and rest-of-the-world music rights and publishing contracts have yet to be renegotiated.The number of contracts between artists (or their estates), record companies and publishers that must be renegotiated is vast. After all, until five years ago, no contract even mentioned digital rights."We have to renegotiate all new content and licensing agreements," says MusicNet's Anne Garrett. "It's taken us a year to do that in America." Moreover, Garrett says, there are technology compatibility issues.But artists have already begun complaining that they have not been consulted on whether they want their songs included. Lawyers for dozens of artists have sent cease-and-desist notices that would bar the use of their songs and have accused the labels of failing to inform artists how they will be compensated when their songs are downloaded or played."Artist managers are very alarmed," said Simon Renshaw, a manager at the Firm, which represents such acts as the Dixie Chicks, Korn and Limp Bizkit.Jim Guerinot, manager of Offspring and No Doubt, told the Los Angeles Times he has never been contacted about internet usage. "We have never had a single discussion with a label about how they intend to compensate artists or in what manner the service will work. The contracts require labels to ask &#91;our&#93; permission before posting songs."Should enterprising European computer users get   around RealNetworks' automatic DNS checking system, they will find a series of restrictions. Songs downloaded from RealOne will stop working after 30 days, though they can be reactivated at the cost of one credit. MusicNet's music stored on a subscriber's hard drive cannot be burned on to a CD or played on a portable MP3 player.Considering that about 1.4m portable MP3 players have been sold in the US alone, and that mobility is considered the key requirement by consumers, the attraction of music that can only be played by the computer on which it was downloaded is a severe disincentive."The two most important things a music service can offer are variety and portability," says Jones. "Unfortunately, none of the services right now do a very good job of it. MusicNet/RealOne player does a fairly good job of content providing but they are still lacking in portability."Rhapsody users will also not be able to download music to portable devices or create their own CDs. The service costs $10 a month, for which subscribers have unlimited monthly access but, to prevent piracy, they will be able to listen to the music only while they are logged on to the internet.The technology behind the Listen.com service allows   users to permanently download and store 99% of each song on their hard drives. Each time they want to play the songs, they must log on to Listen.com and download the remaining bits. But the main obstacle for Rhapsody is content: so far, Listen.com only has licensing deals with 37 independent labels.Using Microsoft's Windows Media Audio format, Pressplay will offer a slightly different subscription model, with different levels of service at different prices. Songs downloaded in any one month can be played in the future without incurring the cost of a credit. However, songs in the library will not   play if the subscription lapses."You can build a collection of songs," says Pressplay's Seth Oster. "Capping the number of songs you have on your system is not the way people collect music. The only requirement is that you keep your service active."Similarly, Pressplay, which will be available via third-party platforms such as Yahoo, does not offer CD burning or portability. "Portability is extremely important to music fans, and it is crucial to establishing a successful service," says Oster. "Initially, we will offer streaming and downloading, but we will offer burning as soon as we can."One singularly problematic   feature is that a fan of both Bob Dylan and Neil Young will have to subscribe to both RealOne and Pressplay, since Dylan is on Columbia Records and thus part of the Universal-Sony consortium, while Young is on Warner-Reprise, part of the Bertelsmann-AOL Time Warner-EMI system. Only EMI has so far licensed music to both systems.For commercial reasons, the services have promised to exchange proprietory content, an idea given impetus because US anti-trust investigators are looking into allegations that the music labels have been slow to make content available to third party operations such as   Launch.com's Rhapsody and Rioport's PulseOne.Legislation before US law- makers aims at preventing the five largest music companies from licensing songs to each other at favourable rates, while charging higher fees to other companies. Between them, the five giants control 80% of the world's most popular music.In a turn of the tables, the presiding judge in the record labels' two-year-old lawsuit against Napster, recently questioned whether they had violated anti-trust laws by allegedly trying to use their copyrights to deprive the public of fair competition and alternative means to hear   music. Napster's lawyers argued that even if the company contributed to copyright violations, the law prevents an enforcement action if the labels are mis-using their own copyrights.It is in the interests of the music industry to sort out issues of content, if not portability, quickly. The record industry has had a terrible year, with sales declining by at least 10%, and it is arguable that the illegal Napster boosted record sales. "Napster's users were 45% more likely to buy music than non-Napster users," says Aram Sinnreich of Jupiter.And what of Napster itself? The revolutionary music swapping service has been offline since July, but is planning to relaunch in the new year with legitimate content from the big five labels as well as music from independent British labels. But while Napster, which now has a close relationship with Bertelsmann, may be going legit, there is still plenty of illegal music swapping going on.Recent figures show the number of people exchanging music simultaneously on the Amsterdam-based network Fast Track, available using programs such as Morpheus, KaZaA and Grokster, now exceeds Napster at its peak.So what, ultimately, is the benefit of subscribing to either RealOne, Pressplay or any of the other services? They are user friendly, they offer links to radio stations around the world, as well as information on the bands, video streaming and - of course - links to buy records.But most web surfers still find online music too complex to use regularly, and those that do are probably ingenious enough to do it illegally."The only thing that will encourage people to go to these sites is not wanting to be a criminal," says Jones. "The quality &#91;of the legitimate online sites&#93; is more reliable, but it is hard to beat something that is free. At the moment, the downside of illegal music is almost none. The flaws of today's legitimate music services will get smoothed out and the legal pressures against the illegal services will get more intense."Eventually we will reach a place in the middle where there is a comprehensive, legitimate online music distribution," says Jones. "But you won't see the internet replacing the physically recorded medium like the CD in the foreseeable future."RealOne: a needle in a haystackRealOne's catalogue of 75,000 songs sounds a lot but consider the millions of recordings released over the past 40 years. RealOne is probably better for young fans keen to get their hands on the new Backstreet Boys single than it is for anyone with a longer and more selective memory.For the middle-aged subscriber, service can be frustrating: the songs one might want to collect are often absent. Take Aretha Franklin. The 36 tracks avail able are from her late 80s recordings, but none from the Jerry Wexler-produced classics of the late 60s.Search REM's listings, or Iggy Pop, or the Ramones, and what is on offer tends to be from periods either forgotten or best forgotten, or from "best of" compilations.However, the quality and compression of the recording is more reliable than Napster, and downloading is reliable: you get few aborted or transmission error messages. RealOne is a promising start.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Better picsMy digital camera has a resolution of 1 megapixels. I print to an HP Officejet at 300dpi. Would buying a new camera at around 3.3 to 4 megapixels improve my printed results?Chris Cookchris@cook50.freeserve.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Suppose your camera has a resolution of 1280 by 960 pixels: that comes to 1,228,800 pixels or 1.2 megapixels. Printing at 300 pixels per inch, you could make a good quality print that is 1280/300 or 4.3    inches long. A 3 megapixel camera would have a resolution of 2048 by 1536 pixels. Again, printing at 300ppi, you could make a good print 2048/300 pr 6.8 inches long. In other words, you will be able to make a bigger print with the same image quality.Less fussy people will be able to produce 11 by 14 inch prints (or cropped 10 x 8s) with a 3 megapixel camera by using software that resamples the image. There seems little point buying a camera offering more than 3.34 megapixels for general use - and check the real CCD size in cameras that claim to offer more. Bear in mind that the quality of the lens also makes a difference to image quality. A Box Brownie doesn't produce sharper pictures than a Leica even though it records the image on a much larger piece of film.More picsSince getting a digital camera last year, I have nearly filled my hard disk. But if I save pictures to Zip disks, I can't run them on my Olympus program which shows them nicely.Susan Premrususantalbot@premru.freeserve.co.ukJS:The usual answer to running out of hard disk space is to buy a new hard drive. PC    IDE connections support two drives, so if you only have one (C:), it is fairly easy to fit another (D:). A more time-consuming option is to reduce the size of your picture files using a program such as Paint Shop Pro. Your camera images may be 250K to a megabyte each. For viewing, email and web use, however, 50-150K is usually enough. (Be sure to keep the originals for printing.) Olympus Camedia Master can be used to show thumbnails of files on Zip disks. Just use the browse window in the top left to select the Zip drive.However, there are better programs available such asIrfanview, free for home use, andPhotoPrint.ScanningI have 200 black and white post-card sized negatives that my grandfather took in China, Palestine and Egypt in 1911-18. Is there a scanner that will enable me to scan and print them?John ScuttSCUTTJOHN@cs.comJS:Most negative and film scanners handle 35mm film and your grandfather's negatives will not fit. The affordable alternative is a standard flatbed scanner, designed for prints, with a transparency    adapter. The quality will not be as good but will probably be good enough. On paper, the &#163;329CanoScan D2400UFlooks the best bet. TheEpson Perfection 1240 SEis a cheaper alternative.Virus updateMy free update period for Norton Antivirus has expired, and now the Symantec website automatically goes to their shop. It tells me that it is better to purchase a new version of their AntiVirus program than update the version on my machine. Is this true?G Divechadivecha@onetel.net.ukJS:There are two parts to anti-virus software: the list of virus definitions or signatures, and the program engine that uses those definitions to search for viruses. The virus definitions need to be updated regularly because    new strains appear every day. The engine should not need to be updated at all, unless the supplier releases an improved version. If you are using an out-of-date engine, as seems to be the case, it is probably better to buy the latest version.Backchat&#183;Last week, I suggested turning off the Preview Pane in Outlook Express to delete obvious spam and viruses.Steve Mayerpoints out that it is tedious to keep doing this unless you put the Preview button on the Toolbar. This is done using View|Layout| Customize Toolbar. For a comprehensive guide, seehttp://students.bpc.ac.uk/~lstmay_s/attach.htm&#183;Janet Gyford wanted to back up more than 5 gigabytes of data easily and I suggested a Travan tape drive. Bill Blackledge (seewww.2bconsultancy.co.uk) points out that installing a second hard drive is cheaper, works quicker and offers easier access. Usually, back-ups must be kept separately - in case the PC is stolen or your house burns down. But Bill says: "If you want the extra security of being able to remove the backup drive from the PC, install it in a removable caddy (&#163;20-&#163;30). Excellent free backup software isBaskor the &#163;10 shareware,Copy To.&#183;Two readers asked for an external Burnproof CD writer.Jose Vizcainopoints out that Freecom offers a cheap range with high speed connections, including Fireware. There are user reviews at stockists such asJungle.
Never mind the quality, feel the speed! Headline Alert, which is distributed by e-mail, tracked how quickly sites posted the story about lay-offs at what used to be Old Labour's computer company, ICL. The newsletter has the order like this:09.50 Femail.co.uk 12.06 Headline Alert 12.14 Ananova (PA) 12.24 The Register 12.30 ThisisLondon 13.00 Guardian Unlimited 14.17 Bloomberg 14.51 ZDnet.co.uk 15.18 BBC Online 15.25 Silicon.com 16.43 VNUnet.com 17.03 AFXpress
Police arrested eight men last night as part of an investigation into a global software piracy ring that distributes illegal copies of music, software and games on underground internet sites.The men, all in their 20s and 30s, were being questioned over alleged conspiracy to defraud, the national crime squad said. They are thought to be part of a multi-million pound piracy group called Drink or Die, which is, in turn, believed to be part of an international piracy network known as Warez.Several of those arrested were believed to have been employed in IT management or consultancy. Six of the men are British and two are Ukrainian, police said. Their arrests follow police searches yesterday of addresses in Staffordshire, Kent, south London, and Merseyside.The series of police raids mirrored similar operations in the US, Australia, Canada, Finland and Norway. FBI and customs officials in the US carried out over 100 raids yesterday, questioning students and seizing computer equipment at some of the country's most prestigious universities.US officials raided campuses including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of California at Los Angeles, Duke University and the University of Oregon.The raids have targeted the so-called Warez group, a network of about 1,500 people that the US customs officers believe are responsible for 95% of all pirated software available online. The Warez group is accused of distributing pirated copies of games, music and digital videos through underground web sites worldwide.The national hi-tech crime unit (NHTCU) said it believes that Drink or Die is one of the illegal network's largest and most sophisticated groups.The arrests followed a transatlantic joint operation between the NHTCU and US Customs Service cyber smuggling team.The Drink or Die organisation is allegedly responsible for pirating millions of pounds worth of copyrighted software, games, music and digital videos through underground internet sites world wide.Officials in the US said they found copies of pirated business software, code for Sony Playstation and Nintendo games, and digitised versions of movies such as Monsters Inc and Harry Potter, amongst other pirated material.Detective Superintendent Mick Deats, the deputy head of the NHTCU, said: "This was a painstaking investigation which involved my officers working in partnership with other law enforcement agencies in using the very latest technology to combat this type of crime."The NHTCU is sending out a powerful message to people who may wish to commit these types of crime that policing is matching them every step of the way, to ensure we protect individuals, business and industry and government from all forms of hi-tech crime," he said.
Thousands of payphones are to be replaced with kiosks offering internet access and email facilities in the street, BT announced today.The e-payphones - to be built by troubled telecoms firm Marconi - will charge 50p for the first five minutes online and 10p a minute thereafter. A one-off email will cost 20p.A dozen will be installed in Newcastle and Sunderland next month before BT begins a rollout of 3,000 in April.By 2007 a total of 28,000 are expected to be in place, with 20,000 in train stations and airports.BT said the terminals were "robust enough" to allow them to be installed in high street phone boxes as well.Britain has 130,000 call boxes, more per head of population than many other European countries.The head of BT Retail, Pierre Danon, added: "This will be the world's largest public network of multimedia terminals, and put the payphone at the heart of e-Britain."The company, which has seen a decline in the use of its payphones as mobiles become more popular, hopes to raise £50m by 2004-05.BT still incurs the significant cost of maintaining the phone boxes. But last month it was given the go ahead from the telecoms regulator, Oftel, to remove underused telephone boxes from thousands of locations - as long as it kept them in deprived, busy and rural areas.Multiple call boxes in railway stations and town centres are expected to go.Marconi - BT's partner - expects to make £100m over the next eight years. Earlier this year it ousted its chairman, chief executive and finance director and is striving to reduce its debt to £2.7bn-£3.2bn.But the history of internet booths is not littered with success. Photo-Me International abandoned a similar project this year after it suffered a lack of demand.Cities already earmarked for the new phones include Cardiff, Swansea, Bristol, Sheffield, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Liverpool.
Hackers and crackers are having fun with Microsoft's Xbox, according to aZD Netarticle. There's a quick way into the scene via theXbox HackerWeb site.
Our favourite search engine,Google, came up with the goods again yesterday. It made available20 yearsof Usenet discussions, stretching back to May 1981. Best of all, they've even provided a helpfultimelineto some of the most significant postings. All certainly one in the eye for the doom merchants who said Google had ruined the Usenet archive it bought from the now dead deja.com. This is much better than anything that's come before.
3Com has launched aWireless Bluetooth USB Adapter(166 euros) which plugs in to desktop or notebook PCs to provide Bluetooth connectivity. It comes with Bluetooth Connection Manager software, said to make it easy to move files around, and print them using HP's Bluetooth-enabled Deskjet 995c printer. Yes, there are not too many products around. Maybe Bluetooth will finally deliver on the hype, but clearly not as soon as we thought.
Webhead Zaid Hassan writes inNew Media Knowledge: "Our industry is not global, it is excruciatingly provisional and regional. The new media industry is global - it just isn't as global as it likes to pretend it is. Behind the glitz and the cosmopolitan glamour of London and New York the new media industry is itself painfully insular and as small as any 18th century backwater village."
Grand Theft Auto 3, one of the best games to appear on the Sony PlayStation 2, has been taken off the shelves in Australia.The West Australiannewspaper says: "the Office of Film and Literature Classification [has] refused to classify the game" because of its "too intense" sexual violence. And without a classification, it cannot legally be sold.
Microsoft says in apress releasethat it shipped more than a million Xbox games consoles to American retailers in the system's first three weeks on sale. It says: "The most popular games to date include Halo, Project Gotham Racing and NFL Fever 2002 from Microsoft, as well as Dead or Alive 3 from Tecmo, Electronic Arts' Madden NFL 2002 and Activision's Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2x." US systems are made byFlextronicsin Mexico, and will be built in Hungary for the European market.
Ten years agothis week the first US web page was set up. Europe, of course, had its own web pages already.
Tony Blair today launched a £50m scheme to help teachers in England bring internet materials into the classroom and motivate pupils.Curriculum Online is billed as the world's first partnership between government, leading public/private broadcasters and software producers to provide materials for every curriculum subject.Teachers will be able to download model lessons from the internet, then tailor them for the individual needs of their classes. They will also be able to create their own study materials to share with other schools and update as understanding of their subject develops.Big screens known as "whiteboards" will provide video and digital information displays at the front of classrooms. The scheme, aimed at 11 to 14-year-olds, will also encourage children to use laptop and desktop computers to work at their own speed, with brighter children free to tackle more challenging problems without leaving the less academic out of their depth.The BBC is understood to be investing more than £150m to develop content for the new scheme Other organisations signed up include Granada and Pearson."It will allow teachers to swap their blackboards for digital whiteboards and bring digital technology to the classroom," said a Downing Street spokesman.Estelle Morris, the education and skills secretary, who visited Greensward College in Essex with the prime minister today, said the new service, to be made available to schools from September 2002, would help teachers to spend more time teaching and motivating pupils by providing quick, safe access to lesson materials through the internet."An international report last week showed that we already have some of the highest performing secondary school pupils in the world. There is creativity and innovation in our schools, but we must build on that success even further. Curriculum Online unlocks the potential for all pupils to learn in exciting ways," she said.Ms Morris added it would also enable schools to move towards greater individualised learning, with each pupil learning more flexibly and according to their own needs.Ministers are convinced schools that have good IT resources perform better in national tests at ages 11 and 14, as claimed in a report by Becta, the national body for educational technology.Curriculum Online will be accessible to parents as well as teachers. Schools will go through a web "shop window" for online curriculum resources, including a library of e-learning materials. They will have access to commercial products and there will be a guide to the best resources by teachers for teachers. The money to buy these online resources will come to schools in the form of e-Learning credits. These new resources will build on pilots for 11 to 14-year-olds in maths, Latin and Japanese, and the Bafta award-winning Gridclub for 7 to 11-year-olds.Ms Morris said the rapid development of digital technologies and the wider scope of Curriculum Online meant the department would draw a line under the educational broadcasting services competition. "The government has always recognised the potential for digital broadcasting to support educational services, particularly for independent learners and in the home. But since the launch of the competition in 1998, the rapid development of technology and the recent development of Curriculum Online has led us to conclude that it is not right for us to proceed with the competition."
Working parents too busy to visit their children's school should be able to contact their teachers by email to raise concerns, ministers will say today.The recommendation is included in a government report on women's views of public services, based on a consultation involving more than 2,000 women.The study suggests that women remain frustrated at the lack of accessibility and flexibility of Britain's health and education services, which do not allow for the fact that many women work.The report, Better Services, Better Working Lives, con cludes that, though women are the main users of services and are employed in large numbers in schools and hospitals, the services are still designed around the model of women at home with their children.Almost three-quarters of women aged 25 to 45, the group targeted by the study, work, and 2.5m working women have a child under five.One option proposed by many women in the consultation, which included focus groups and a Mori poll, was the use of new technology to improve access to services.Ministers are keen to see take-up of a scheme by which parents wanting to raise a problem or concern with teachers, but unable because of work commitments to attend a meeting during school hours, could use email to discuss the issue instead.Teachers may be wary of the proposal, fearing that a mass of emails could add to their already extensive workload, and cut down on valuable personal contact.But Barbara Roche, minister for women, said: "It is flexibility that women want. This is about making new technology work for us."Email could also be used to allow patients to obtain repeat prescriptions,rather than having to take up doctors' time, the report recommends.In a further proposal aimed at addressing the wide difference between the working and school day, which is exacerbated by Britain's record on childcare provision, the study calls for more breakfast clubs and after-school clubs for children."Mothers trust schools and perceive them as safe environments," Ms Roche said. "They want to see school buildings open longer hours and fulfilling more functions."The report also highlights good practice among public service employers who recognise the needs of working women, who make up three quarters of NHS staff and two thirds of teachers.It calls for more "self-rostering" for nurses, allowing them to agree the division of shifts among themselves to try to ob tain the most suitable hours for each employee."All these things are not huge in themselves, but they can really make quality of life differences," Ms Roche said.While the government will publicly conclude that women agree its policies are on the right track, its consultation was launched this autumn to get at the roots of why delivery on health and education is perceived to be slow and examine what can be done to speed things up.Women voters turned to Labour in large numbers at the 1997 election, but evidence during the last parliament suggested their patience with the government's performance, and particularly with the slow pace of public service reform, is waning significantly faster than men's.The consultation project was originated by Lady Morgan, formerly a senior aide to Tony Blair, who has returned to Downing Street following the departure of Anji Hunter.Mr Blair has made public service delivery the key test of Labour's second term.But the survey findings, which will be passed to the health and education departments for development, will be viewed by some critics as tinkering with the edges of problems with health and education, while - in the NHS in particular - major strategy issues remain only partly resolved.
The BBC is wheeling Del Boy out of retirement again, the nation's high streets are full to bursting and Sir Cliff has got a particularly grating record out. It must be Christmas, so it's also time for all the ailing shopping sites to wheel out their statistics about how this festive season is going to be the biggest shopping bonanza ever on the web.With just a hint of desperation, the big e-commerce players are slapping on a smile and telling anyone who'll listen how great it is to shop on the web. Witness, too, the bizarre Royal Mail advert doing the rounds featuring the queen of shopping, Elton John. Apparently, if you order anything off the internet then you'll need a postal service to deliver it - erm, thanks for pointing that out, Elton.The simple truth is that shopping on the internet has not taken off in the way that many predicted, and hoped, it would. There are a host of reasons for this, many of which have been well documented, but it's worth examining just why the idea of buying on the web, which was supposed to herald a revolution in our retailing habits, has instead merely led to much more subtle shifts in the way we consume.Early experiences didn't help. Those trying to buy through the web in the days when hype was all and the bigger your marketing budget the bigger your share price, found that e-commerce sites cared little for the customer. It was all about traffic and whether or not people actually got what they ordered was an almost incidental concern. Anyone who dabbled with ordering anything other than a CD or a book around that time probably recalls the pain of trying to get through to a human being on the phone whenever things went wrong. Which was frequently.Things are better now, of course, and those shopping sites still standing have, by and large, learnt the lessons of those early days. The problem being that, having being bitten, many people are now shy of going back to the web. Despite the fact that the number of people online has continued to rise, the number buying on it has remained fairly stable.Clearly, there are certain things that it makes sense to buy on the internet, such as travel tickets, books, CDs and DVDs, and others, such as toys, fridge freezers,   spades and clothes, which it doesn't. This should have been common sense from day one, but it didn't stop scores of sites springing up flogging everything from lawnmowers to lampshades. And as the dot.com downturn kicked, desperate sites slashed prices but were unable to cope with the subsequent rush. Last Christmas, more than half of orders submitted to E-Toys ended up being delivered after the big day.Another concern remains security, or rather people's perceptions of it. Despite the industry's best efforts - as well as a government sponsored campaign in the run up to Christmas to convince us that shopping on the web is safe - many are still reluctant to hand over their credit card details. Web- based solutions, allowing surfers to pay money into online wallets such as Splash Plastic and PayPal, have also proved unpopular.Possible innovations such as mobile payment methods, which effectively allow you to use your phone as a credit card, and "internet safe" credit cards that come complete with an attached reader that plugs into your computer, may go some way towards providing the answer.Perhaps, though, it's time to face up to the fact that online shopping is nothing more than just another sales channel - one that isn't going to change the world or revolutionise the way we shop. For the majority, the high street, or more likely the mall, will remain the place to spend their wages. And just as some people will always prefer to shop from a brick-sized catalogue, a minority will choose the convenience of the web.The picture isn't altogether bleak, simply more realistic. The industry is maturing and, as such, the success stories are more modest, yet more significant in the long term. Tesco.com is one such example, quietly bringing in a significant number of customers online - particularly those who can't make it to a shop during the working day. The reasons it is succeeding are easy to identify but difficult to replicate - a user-friendly site, plenty of secure payment options and flexible delivery times. As one of the last pure plays standing, Amazon has also shown the value of good customer service, while a smattering of small independent record and book stores have also found a new lease of life thanks to the web.In the current environment, everyone, online and off, is finding it tough, but for the consumer it's the best thing that could possibly have happened to e-commerce. For the one thing, most of those left standing have in common is decent customer service and a sense of what will sell on the web and what won't. Price no longer matters as much, but convenience and the ability to deliver do.
The Register has added a bit more beef to the flat panel iMac story with the help of the United Daily News, a Chinese language newspaper. ApparentlyQuanta, a Taiwanese company, has been signed up to manufacture the machines. It's not altogether clear why anyone should care, apart from a small minority of Mac fans, who have not previously been able to buy a "kitchen computer" running their proprietary operating system. But given Apple's penchant for novelty styling tricks, the PC industry will want to see if the industrial design offers anything worth ripping off.
Sun Microsystem'sStar Officesoftware has long been seen as something of a hair-shirt alternative to Microsoft's omnipresent Office suite. Rather than being adopted for its features, it won users simply because it was free, and not made by Microsoft. Could that be about to change? Werevieweda new beta version back in October, and said it was worth a look on features alone. Now ZD Net in Australia has caused a few heads to turn bysuggestingfolk download it and give it a go as well. The only downside? There's no version out for MacOS yet.
The award-winningOmniskyservice, which delivers information and e-mail to palmtop computers, is putting itself into Chapter 11 and selling out to Earthlink, which will take over the 32,000 subscriber base. Details are in apress releaseon Omnisky's Web site. I tried Omnisky early this year when it was setting up a UK operation, and it showed promise. The main problems were the use of GSM instead of GPRS, which Omnisky said wasn't ready for serious use, and the Handspring Visorphone supplied. This had the usual low-resolution Palm-style colour screen, which meant Web sites that used italics were virtually unreadable. This was a major let-down for someone used to a PocketPC and ClearType. At the time, Omnisky felt it was important to get on to the market as soon as possible. It might have done better to get the service right first.
Last week, I mentioned that BT Openworld planned to offer a broadband service for the Sony PlayStation 2, when a broadband version comes on to the market. Tom Cotter, head of games at Telewest Broadband, says Telewest is also "investing heavily" in a service for the PS2, and it is now undergoing "closed trials". Details will be unveiled early next year.
The European Union is to banspam. Good for us. But it would be even more interesting to read a story about how the ban will be enforced....
The health secretary, Alan Milburn, has moved to protect NHS investment in computer technology and the internet after it emerged that hospitals diverted most of last year's extra IT cash into cutting waiting lists.Mr Milburn yesterday announced an extra £85m for IT for 2002-03, and said that for the first time it will be ringfenced to prevent it being spent on other health priorities."I should have earmarked it last year, and on reflection that was probably a mistake," he told a conference sponsored by software giant Microsoft.Earlier, Richard Gibbs, chief executive of Kingston and Richmond health authority, said that three-quarters of last year's £50m extra for information management and technology (IM&amp;T) had been diverted into cutting waiting lists. "I'm as guilty as the rest of you in raiding IM&amp;T budgets," he told chief executives.The new £85m, on top of an existing £800m a year, is one element of a six-point plan announced by Mr Milburn. The plan includes one new target: a networked computer for every hospital consultant by September 2002.Mr Milburn also revealed that the Department of Health is discussing with IT companies deals for supplying electronic health records through public-private partnerships.He told the conference: "If we are going to get the service we want, we're going to have to have an NHS that's a lot more IT-driven that it has been in the past."Mr Milburn's enthusiasm for computers follows the publication of the Wanless report last month, which criticised the NHS for under-investing in IT.
What would your seven wonders of the web include? For our end of year edition, each member of the Online team has been coming up with a list of the seven, coolest, most amazing or simply most useful websites out there. We'll have a fierce argument - sorry, reasoned debate - and pick out the seven winners over the next week or two. Old favourites likeGoogleandBloggerare likely to feature in a few, along with more esoteric suggestions... theNASAwebsite orSlashdot, for instance. What would you include? Add your suggestions by clicking on the comment link below...
"At some point reality sets in and one has to be realistic about how much of an uphill climb this is going to be," he said, "I have been wrong so far — I have been overoptimistic from the beginning, so at a certain point you have to question whether your logic is sound." Guess what AOL's Laurence Kirshbaum is talking about in thisNew York Timesarticle. Wap? Micropayments? Electronic books? Videophones? A usable interface for Linux? No cigars....
Four Chinese PC manufacturers have decided to standardise on Microsoft Windows XP for home machines, according to aReutersstory. Eventually this could spoil the old joke where Steve Ballmer goes to Bill Gates and sys: "Bill, I've got some good news and some bad news. The good news is that China has decided to standardise on Windows. The bad news is that they've only bought one copy...."
In a Christmas that ecommerce sites are hoping will prove lucrative despite the poor economic outlook, many sites are hanging, leaving users waiting for pages to download. Keynote Systems, a company that monitors internet performance, tested a selection of popular online shopping sites to see how quickly pages loaded for eager shoppers.The results - listed below - were obtained by researchers who checked the sites once an hour for one week, then calculated the average download time in seconds. Only three sites, Virgin, BHS and John Lewis, took one second or less to download. Toys R Us and Sainsbury's kept their customers waiting for more than 10 seconds each.Keynote plans to release fresh information each week in the run up to Christmas.Department stores, general gifts and cards(All times listed in seconds)&#183;BHS, 0.71&#183;John Lewis, 1.00&#183;E-garden, 2.13&#183;Homebase, 2.34&#183;Clinton Cards, 2.92&#183;DIY.com, 3.19&#183;Argos, 3.28&#183;Homebase, 4.88&#183;Debenhams, 5.45Books and CDs&#183;Virgin, 0.69&#183;Borders, 2.10&#183;HMV, 3.10&#183;Amazon.co.uk, 3.56Children&#183;Hamleys, 6.69&#183;ELC, 6.85&#183;Toys R Us, 10.79Supermarkets&#183;Asda, 7.13&#183;Sainsbury's, 11.02Electronics&#183;PC World, 2.24&#183;Comet, 5.50Source: Keynote Systems
Queen dismisses Linux. Not much of a story but who could resist that headline?
SSX TrickyPlayStation 2	&#163;44.99 Electronic Arts 	*****Think of SSX Tricky as a brilliant combination of WipEout and Tony Hawk's. It   has the thrilling speed of the PSX's hover-racing game, and even more impossible aerial athleticism than Hawk's skateboarding title. The music isn't bad, either.SSX Tricky is the sequel to last year's smash hit snowboarding racer, and improved enough to be worth buying again. There are new characters with new outfits, celebrity voices (Lucy Liu, Oliver Platt, Macy Gray, etc), new tracks, and some amazing new &#252;ber-tricks for scoring vast numbers of style points.The new game is both easier and harder. Control is easier, taking this version close to the pick-up-and-play level of WipEout. However, the tracks have become much trickier. Some are more like obstacle courses. You can spend a lot of time bouncing off guardrails,   crashing through trees and landing on your head. But no real harm is done. This is not a simulation, and the action is wonderfully cartoony.I made SSX one of my top   five games last year, for its sheer playability. As a sequel, SSX Tricky doesn't make the same impact, but it is an even better game.Shenmue 2Sega	&#163;29.99 Dreamcast 	***It has only been on the market for two years but Sega's Dreamcast is on its last legs. Even by the rapid standards of the videogame world, its premature demise is notable. The reasons are many, ranging from misplaced and inadequate marketing, to the strength of the PlayStation brand. But the games were never the problem, with the machine blessed with such titles as Soul Calibur and Jet Set Radio. The ambitious, yet flawed, Shenmue was another   popular title and the sequel is now available as one of the last Dreamcast releases.Set in mid-80s Hong Kong, the aim is to interact with your surroundings by talking to numerous characters and generally unravelling the epic plot. The slow pace makes    playing Shenmue 2 more akin to reading a novel, with only some simplistic action elements raising adrenaline levels. Yes, there is a lot to be said for entering a coherent gaming world with numerous individual characters, but with the likes of Grand Theft   Auto 3 highlighting real freedoms, Shenmue 2 feels a bit restricted.It looks stunning though, with visuals better than anything on PlayStation 2. And Sega have rectified the more yawn-inducing elements of the original. Players can now speed up time, ending the infuriating waits for something to happen. Also, the woeful vocal soundtrack of the original has been replaced by subtitles.Shenmue 2 will strongly appeal to fans of the original and there are hours of play here, but the lethargic proceedings make this an acquired taste. With Sega concentrating solely on their strengths, namely software, it is a shame that one of their last Dreamcast games is strictly for fans only.  (GH)James Bond 007 in Agent Under FirePS2	&#163;39.99 EA 	**Ever since Rare's 1997 masterpiece GoldenEye, wannabe secret agents have been on the lookout for another Bond game worthy of the licence.  Could EA's much-anticipated next-generation spyfest finally be it?It is mostly a first-person shooter affair, with added driving missions, in which you pilot a BMW or Aston Martin festooned with missiles, and "on-rails" shooting episodes - machine-gunning enemies on the sunroof of a car, or operating the turret of a tank. The spanking jazz swagger of the James Bond theme music blares out everywhere; there are hosts of gadgets and atmospheric briefings. The visuals are smooth and prettily detailed. Every ingredient appears to be present and correct.Did I say every ingredient? I almost forgot: the gameplay sucks. This is a perversely brilliant simulation of 007 as moron. Your spymasters are in constant radio contact, and tell you exactly what to do at every step. There is none of the strategic excitement essential to a good FPS, because you never have to think for yourself.The weaponry is behaviourally weedy, and the gadgetry is a bizarre hotch-potch (the Q-claw is straight out of Ocarina of Time). The controls are woolly, with none of the precision of action that marked GoldenEye.The driving missions play like Spyhunter on downers, and the on-rails sections are flashy but superficial. The saving grace is a solid four-way multiplayer mode, but yes: GoldenEye did that better, too.Agent Under Fire's 12 missions can be beaten in a few hours. You can play through them again to unlock various secrets, but why would anyone want to?  Nearly the most entertaining thing is that they appear to have modelled the Bond character on George Lazenby.  (SP)
Today's issue ofGuardian Onlineis now online with live links.
You probably don't want to spend your lunch hour reading about the desktop metaphor and user interfaces, but MIT's Technology Review has just publisheda long articleon the current state of the art and where it might be going. It includes a picture of the very interesting author of Mirror Worlds,David Gelernter.
1 Nokia 9210Choosing a phone from the numerous fine ones released this year is a trade-off between price, weight, functions and time (there will always be a better one if you wait six months). At 240g, the Nokia 9210 is a heavyweight. It will not fit easily in your pocket and if you wait a while you ought to be able to get a fast GPRS (always-on to the internet) version rather than the current HSCD (only available on the Orange network). That said, it is very impressive with colour access to the web on a decent-sized screen, keys you can, most of the time, type with, Symbian operating system - as used in the Psion series - plus Wap, email, fax, Word, Excel and even Power Point facilities. It also makes telephone calls. This is the phone for grown-ups wanting a mobile office.&#163;3992 Nokia 5510For youngsters, Nokia's new 5510 is also on the heavy side (155g) but that is because in addition to a phone it packs in an MP3 player (compressed digital music), an impressive-sounding FM radio as well as texting, multiple chat, Wap email and games facilities. It comes with a "querty" keyboard split either side of the screen to encourage two-thumb texting (but definitely not serious typing). You can record up to two hours of music in the 64MB memory and can record direct from the radio as well. You would not want to carry a separate radio, phone and MP3 player around - but when they are bundled together like this, it makes for a bundle of fun.&#163;100 with contract3 Nokia 8310If you want something light, yet versatile, then the Nokia 8310 also comes with FM radio and, unlike the 5510, has GPRS (but not MP3) and weighs a featherweight 84g.&#163;150-&#163;200 with contract4 The Trium EclipseIt has a colour screen with GPRS and a very impressive 12 to 13 lines of text. It is quite light for what it does (110g)   and is a phone rather than a personal digital assistant. Good for reading email and doing searches on Google.&#163;149 with contract5 Siemens SL45Siemens is starting to make a big impact with phones such as the SL45. It is one of the first with an MP3 player (with high-capacity removable memory) yet weighs only 88g and has impressed critics. If you do not fancy MP3, the Siemens S35 is a workmanlike alternative.&#163;1506 Sendo D800The Sendo D800 is a lovely-looking lightweight (only 68g) phone from this Birmingham-based firm. It augurs well for the company's future. Its bigger sister (S200) packs in more features but weighs 98g.&#163;80-&#163;1007 Ericsson T39A marvel of miniaturisation, the T39 has one of the first Bluetooth applications (enabling you to take and receive calls from a wireless headset while your phone stays in your bag) plus GPRS connectivity, infrared, triband (so it can be used in the US), email, texting and enhanced messaging (text and pictures). And all squeezed into 83g. The heavier Ericsson R520m (105g) is similar, but has more talk time and a five-line screen for reading email.&#163;708 Ericsson R380Since the R380's release many months ago, it has been overshadowed by the Nokia 9210, but the R380 (164g) is lighter (though monochrome). It looks like a mobile phone but is also an impressive pocketable organiser with support for Microsoft Outlook Exchange and LotusNotes.&#163;100 with contract9 Sony J7Sony's new J7 (sold through Virgin) doesn't have the cutting edge features of some rivals. But it is smart, lithe and lightish (92g), combining entertainment features (such as SMS with sound and pictures) with a six-inch screen and 700 name phone book.&#163;120 with contract10 Orange VideophoneIf you are an early adopter for whom money is no object, try Orange's pioneering videophone. But you may need to buy extra ones for friends to make sure there is someone else able to receive your calls.    &#163;1,500 with contract
Off discI am looking for a program to enable me to transfer music from audio tape/vinyl to CD. Any     advice will be greatly appreciated.Michael Moohanmmoohan@lineone.netJack Schofield replies:By     far the best option is to buy a CD of whatever you want, if it is available. Copying vinyl to CD is     tedious at best, and quite difficult. However, to start, turn everything off and connect your     analogue source - probably the Tape Out sockets on your amplifier - to your PC, using the Line In     port on your sound card. Double click the loudspeaker in the System Tray to adjust the volume.     Also, on the Master Volume panel, select Options|Properties, click the radio button for Recording,     and put a tick in the Line box. This will open the Recording Control panel with an Advanced button     that lets you adjust Base and Treble. You can then play a record and save it as a file on your hard     drive using a program such as Cool Edit 2000 or CD Spin Doctor. Finally, you can record the files on     an audio CD-R (not CD-RW) disc using Easy CD Creator or a similar program. You will need at least 10     megabytes of free hard disk space per minute of audio. When you run into problems, have a look atwww.cdrfaq.org. CD Spin Doctor is provided with Easy CD Creator 4 Deluxe and Easy CD Creator 5     Platinum. For a list of "vinyl rippers", see the Record Collectors' Guild site atwww.recordcollectorsguild.org/rippers.htmlBadtransMy PC was infected by the Badtrans B virus, which arrived in an     email attachment - but I never opened it! The virus kicked off when I entered the Outlook Express     inbox, which automatically selected the email (the most recent one received) to which it was     attached.Ruari MacDonaldruari56@btinternet.comJS:This is a problem with Outlook Express.     However, if you go to View|Layout and untick the box marked Show Preview Pane, you should be able     to delete most spam and some obviously infected email without undue risk. Otherwise, Badtrans     should not have been a problem because it exploited a bug that Microsoft fixed in March. See:www.microsoft.com/technet/treeview/default.asp?url=/technet/security/bulletin/MS01-020.aspOn to tapeI have a lot of information on my hard drive which I am always adding to and amending     (it's about local history). My Documents already takes up 5GB. Keeping it backed up is very fiddly. It     has been suggested I should get a "tape drive" but do you have any other suggestions?Janet Gyfordwww.gyford.com/janetJS:A Travan tape drive is a good back-up solution and there are lots of     options with capacities from about 4GB to 240GB. A Travan TR-5 drive that stores 10-20GB and     attaches via a USB port could cost about £250-£300. You can get cheaper ones that fit inside the     PC case. If you can wait, DVD Rewriters and DVD-RAM drives should be affordable soon, storing     4.7GB per disc. At the moment they are too expensive just for back-ups. Seehttp://www.cdmediaworld.com/hardware/cdrom/dvd_dvd- writer_tech.shtmlBackchat&#183;My stock answer     to Michael PattenMichael.Patten@btinternet.com, who wondered why computers cannot sort files     correctly, has become obsolete. As several readers pointed out, both Microsoft Windows XP and Mac     OS X will sort files in order instead of by the leftmost digit (1, 10, 2, 3, etc).&#183;Steve Woods,Ian Scottand other readers     suggested that the way to open websites from Hotmail was to right-click and select Open in New     Window. That was the first thing I tried, but sites are still opened in a Hotmail frame.&#183;Nigel     Greenwood recommended the WSendTo utility to launch Pegasus Mail in response to an Internet     Explorer "mailto" hyperlink (November 8).Paul Craigadds: "a similar     utility called Nsproto gives same linking to Netscape browsers." Nsproto is written by John Navas     and can be found at:http://navasgrp.home.att.net/winpmail/index.htm#NsProto
Money is transferred, documents cleared and designs reviewed with growing ease all across the
   world.This growing abundance of global interaction empowers people both in good and bad ways.
   While it should be easier to provide for global well-being, it has also become easier to create
   economic monopolies or distribute physical destruction.Faceless people have learned how to hide
   behind anonymity. Yet it is trust between citizens and their organisations that counts in any
   complex networked economy.In Scandinavia, where governance is more transparent, and
   corporations cannot abuse personal information, anonymity is not so highly valued. Reciprocity in
   the form of the golden rule is found in all major religions. Without accountability there cannot be
   reciprocity and our belief in justice is shattered.Perhaps the only way to retain both our societal
   trust and freedom may be a transparent society where we would have to give up much of our
   privacy. In order to have a balance of power and trust simultaneously, our organisations should be
   even more transparent than individuals and restricted in their power to utilise our information so
   they would not dominate us.Perhaps privacy is a hedonistic value, and hiding not necessary either
   for economic success or societal stability. Sadly, the internet helps both concealment and
   openness.A crucial issue here is the potential rise of electronic cash. If someone can send me a
   blackmailing letter, and fulfill the threat anonymously on the internet, and also anonymously collect
   the money over the internet, it could not be controlled without massive global National Security
   Agency-type spying organisations - especially if the net does not support tracing.We may need
   global clearing of all electronic cash to avoid these problems. We can develop systems so that
   crimes can be effectively detected without any need for spying.This is the route a free and open
   society should take. If we instead are too afraid of the risks in an open society, we easily give away
   our freedom and voluntarily yield power to such organisations whose actions we cannot control.Hopefully this does not happen and privacy is not dearer to us than freedom. When Karl Popper
   wrote his Open Society, there were very few really global networks. Even so, he maintained that no
   one should have hierarchical power over all issues.As more and more issues become global, citizens
   feel too detached from power bases. Perhaps the world should not be divided just geographically.
   Perhaps we could be citizens of several states simultaneously - one physical and several virtual,
   based on our needs and inter ests.Currently the physical state has all responsibilities and global
   matters are governed by organisations getting their mandate from local governments. One of the
   few exceptions is the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), the body that
   manages internet domain names.If we want people to feel they really can influence global issues
   within their interest, we should perhaps consider virtual localities and some sort of
   semi-independent democracy within these.Another issue is our growing capability through networks
   and automated production lines to manufacture copies of just about anything. Value is in bits, and
   the one who gets them copyrighted or patented first gets all the profit.One could argue that the
   first to get something patented has created the added value but this is mostly not true. More and
   more often, this leads only to greater profits for economically developed countries and poverty for
   the countries who could have invented the same things later.There is no added value when an
   organisation patents or copyrights ideas that would be apparent to almost everybody else within a
   few years. The current global system for handling intellectual property rights severely limits free
   flow of ideas and consequently gives unfair advantage to developed countries. Our world is being
   redefined. Old structures and beliefs try to defend themselves.Much of the current digital divide
   could be cured with such egalitarian practices that respect freedom of people and ideas in the spirit
   of the golden rule. If all the positive benefits of networking could be harnessed, developing nations
   could prosper and sustainable growth could be reached, as much of the material production can be
   replaced by virtual systems with decreasing energy consumption. Hopefully this is not only a dream.
WebbiesThe call for entries has just been sent out for the 6th annual Webby Awards. There is a reduced entry fee for entries received before December 21. The Webbies are also known for limiting winners' acceptance speeches to five words - an idea that should catch on. As the BBC World Service said last year: "Thanks, gracias, spasibo, shukran, xiexie."www.webbyawards.com/main/submitRoboticsThe robots are coming, and although the reality is still far short of the science fiction dream, there is evidently enough happening to support a populist newsletter such as Netsurfer Robotics. The first issue went online on Novem ber 1, and by the time you read this, there may be a second.  submitwww.netsurf.com/nsrOdd ToddBeing "let go" does not usually lead to fame and fortune, or even a hit website, but Odd Todd may be an exception. The site has been built by Todd Rosenberg, a New Yorker who used to work for Atom Films. The main attraction is an animated cartoon called Laid Off: A Day in the Life, but there is also the Daily Fact I Learned From TV, and a tip jar where you can leave $1. Don't miss the kittens.  submitwww.oddtodd.comClone aloneThere was a lot of activity last week with New Labour rushing through a ban on human cloning, and the European parliament voting heavily against just such a ban. How Stuff Works has an excellent step-by-step guide to cloning, and Yahoo has assembled a useful set of links to web    resources about the issue.www.guardian.co.uk/geneswww.spiked-online.com/Articles/00000002D311.htmwww.howstuffworks.com/cloning.htmhttp://dailynews.yahoo.com/fc/Science/CloningPro-OsamaAzzam Publications is back online with an address in the new .sh (St Helena) domain, its original German-registered site having been taken down. It includes a farewell   message in anticipation of being taken down again. Sometimes an American university will host an attacked site on freedom-of-speech grounds, but Azzam is pro-Taliban.www.azzam.shwww.nic.shBag oneA British company, eTogs, is now offering an online service for people who want T-shirts, jackets, caps and bags embroidered with their own name and/or logo. There is a wide selection of stock logos or you can e-mail the company a photo or design. The site says goods are usually shipped within 48 hours of being ordered, and there is a phone number to call if you want a volume discount.www.etogs.comSilly newsCathie Walker has not only found a new lease of life at Sillygirl.com, she has also found Waldo - the geeky tourist apparently photographed on top of the World Trade Centre just before a plane hit. The same character has been "Photoshopped" into many other disaster scenes,   though in real life he is an IT worker in Hungary. Sillygirls.com and its companion site Sillydude. com should be instantly recognisable to people who enjoyed Walker's much earlier site, Centre for the Easily Amused, which is sadly missed.www.sillygirl.com/pictures.php?PSerial=164www.sillygirl.com/pictures.php?PSerial=164New &amp; noted&#183;Meet Ginger the scooter, the new Sinclair C5:www.theitquestion.com&#183;Well-mannered mobiles:www.cellmanners.com&#183;American charity site:www.networkforgood.org&#183;Ask Nostradamus:www.amsiriano.com/nostradamus&#183;Another load of Guff:www.dangerhere.comSix of the bestGeorgeSolowww.allthingsmustpass.comIn memoriamhttp://abbeyrd.best.vwh.net/news/709georgenewcancer.htmlLiverpool scenehttp://members.aol.com/Allthingsbeatle/George.htmlKrishna news networkwww.krishna.orgThe lyricshttp://web.mit.edu/scholvin/www/harrison/harrison.htmlWebringwww.geocities.com/SoHo/9871/georing.htm
It takes a finger on an electroshock weapon to torture a victim. It could, according to Mark Neuman of Amnesty International, take just the click of a mouse on a computer to end it.The websitewww.stoptorture.orgis a lesson in the use of the internet. Neuman, director of Amnesty's anti-torture campaign, says cybertechnology cannot replace old-fashioned protests and pamphlets. Nor can it win a campaign. "That depends on brave people doing dangerous things," he says. But it does exploit one feature of the web world - that people who throw letters in the bin may not be able to resist email.So the Amnesty team, with help from the web developers Moonfish, gave their torture campaign an extra edge. In October last year they set up a website listing cases at risk. It sends out messages to anyone, anywhere in the world who cares to subscribe. And at a click of a button, any subscriber can then despatch an appeal to the right authorities on behalf of someone at risk from what is sometimes called "physical interroga tion". To a certain degree, Neuman says, it works."It has elicited responses from governments, regional governors, governors of prisons where Amnesty International has always found it very difficult to get any sort of answer. We have found something acccessible, immediate, most of all, fast. It doesn't subsitute for all of our traditional methods, but it is a powerful additional tool," he says.Ecuadorian police arrested a student leader who had taken part in protests against government economic policies. On February 7, Amnesty put him on the website. "Thankfully, 7,363 people decided they could carry out that click of a button," Neuman said. "Probably 3,500 people sent longer personal messages and on February 12 he was released. We are not saying his release was exclusively because of Amnesty's work or exclusively because of the web. But we are pretty much convinced that without that additional impact, there is a good chance he would not have come out that day, in those circumstances."The site has been visited by people from 146 countries: one in three had had no deal ings with, or awareness of, Amnesty beforehand. The web does not alter reality, Neuman says, it reflects it. But campaigners cannot afford to ignore it, because it is a powerful tool. They targeted a presidential palace home address in the Lebanon."The webmaster wrote back saying 'Please stop sending us all these emails,' so we wrote back saying 'That is not quite the point, please pass on our concerns to all those responsible.' A little bit later, from a Hotmail address, we got a message from someone who told us they were the minister, but could not divulge their official address. But they would do something to look into it. So we know that it is having an impact."Amnesty International won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977, which is why Neuman happened to be in Paris telling these stories to a press briefing organised by Cisco Systems of San Jose, which   had surveyed Nobel laureates to canvass their views on the future of the internet.Most laureates, not surprisingly, think the internet has a role in a brighter, better future. Amnesty International gives it a role in the dark battle against present torture. But the site itself may not have a future. Moonfish took it on pro bono: that is, for nothing. If it is to continue, it will need backers.Stuart Johnson of Moonfish says it is there to fight those small battles taken up by individuals all over the world, every day, on which liberty and decency depend. Torture depends on secrecy. Scrutiny threatens it."And people know they cannot afford that. That is why governments don't shut the boxes down, because if they just shut the email box and ignore public opinion, they have already lost the big part of the battle. That is what we found: nobody actually closes down the internet box. It would be easy to reject these emails. But they do not, they have to enter into the dialogue."&#183;Tim Radford travelled to Paris as a guest of Cisco Systems, which is expanding the Nobel websitewww.nobelprize.org. Amnesty's website:www.amnesty.org.Moonfish:www.moonfish.com.The Nobel survey findings: www. cisco.com/nobel. Confront torture:www.stoptorture.org
The mainstream coverage's war on terrorism seems to know no saturation point, as we thirst for more and more information on the fate of Taliban prisoners at Qala-i-Jhangi or the roundtable talks in Germany. But if the first casualty of war is the truth, is diversity the first casualty in news provision? Not on the web. Unlike during the Gulf War, the last international conflict on this scale, salvoes of news coverage are now launched at users with pinpoint accuracy on the web - for better or worse.Many office workers first saw the twin towers in flames on their PC screens and while traditional media have taken over at peak times, the pace of change in events in Central Asia is such that websites are updated in much the same way as local evening newspapers were printed every hour.Email and the internet have also figured for the first time as "agents" of war - even the elusive Osama bin Laden is imagined safe, and sinister, in cyberspace. And as part of a general clampdown, the CIA and FBI are screening messages and data on some sites.When the web first turned to news, its promise - tagged "Internet liberation theology" by one Salon.com writer - was that a combination of low technical overheads and   interactiveness would allow new ways of reporting and presenting information. The internet's ability to offer angles from all over the world would challenge parochialism and mega-corporation hegemonies.Mainstream websites are fairly keen on self-censorship, and include the likes of Barbara Streisand removing anti-Bush remarks in the interests of "national unity". To date, theElectronic Freedom Forum'ssite reports that no site has been shut down by the US government, though there are new firewalls on some official sites related to chemical weapons, chemical warfare defences, energy data, some Nasa pages and sites dedicated to road maps and pipelines.Meanwhile, British authorities have pulled the plug on sites such asSakina Securities, thought to be too candid on military matters.For actual news, small, independent sites cannot afford to compete with the corporations when it comes to original reporting. TheIndyMediagroup of sites, affiliated to the anti-corporate movement, offer a whole load of opinions on the war, on the US and on the humanitarian crisis, all written for a faithful audience.Marcus Sky Covell, the Indy Media UK reporter who   was hospitalised in the Genoa streetfights, sees the warring countries and mainstream media as co-conspirators. "They've over-hyped the war. Every day, you get up to 15 pages of newsprint and the bottom line is it sells newspapers. They get all these opinions and whether the writers are for or against the war, it's still hype. They have not remained objective. Also, while we print people's views directly, they take other people's opinions, combine them with their own, then print it."Indymedia and other independent sites such asMediachannelare also useful monitors of the distortions on mainstream news providers. "Far too many of the news sites function only as ways to extend and promote major media brands," argues Danny Schechter, ex-CNN staffer and now executive editor at Mediachannel. He adds that "much of the web reporting, at least in the US, suffers from the limits of media machines that too often march in lockstep with the government."The internet is also, via its chatrooms, the medium for public expression about major events. While most folk might be happy to read the columns of self-appointed experts, sites such as the London-basedwww.outtherenews.comprovide a diary   for the public to enter into debate, dialogue or plain rant about the current crisis.Sites run by Muslims such asIslam OnlineorIslamicityprovide, as a matter of course, all the background non-Muslim media have had to suddenly catch up with. Islamicity's chief executive, Mohammed Abdul Aleem, stresses the usefulness of internet for genuine debate and dissent. "One can get a sense of a significant disconnection between points of view by reading the comment section for one of our articles we promoted called American Muslims call for peaceful efforts to end the conflict in Afghanistan. I think about 90% of the non-Muslim comments are upset with this statement and the majority of Muslim comments are supportive."The internet, which could be the chaotic counterpoint to the editing, polishing, soundbiting and "making" of wars and victories (and the one thing no one is doubting about the Afghan crisis is the anarchy and mayhem across the country), has still room to improve and show it is above recycling mainstream TV and printed news by simply uploading it on to a screen.For all the utopian fantasies of technologists and non-governmental organisations such as the digital opportunity task force, the G8 consortium of technology firms that regards the internet as the great economic equaliser, the war is still in many ways offline - the web can keep up with cameramen and news reports, and even missiles, but horses are still too fast and caves too secret.
How did you get into computer animation?I was a graphic designer in the 70s and worked in traditional design for print. A colleague was using a computer called anExidy Sorceror. I became fascinated. I found a book onBasic programmingbut didn't have a computer so I had to pretend to be the computer and cut out bits of paper that were the computer registers and fill in the memory locations! After a night school programming course, I met someone who was working on post-production edit suites who offered me a job to drive one of the early graphics systems, which had 284 pixels across and 16 on-screen colours!What techniques/hardware are you using in the new series?We were all onSilicon Graphics IRIX boxesfor animating and PCs for rendering. At the end of Beasts we switched to PCs. They are brilliant workstations but Windows NT as an operating system is pants! We are running the projects in Unix but will switch toLinuxas soon as it is robust enough. We runSoft Imagefor the animation,Photoshopfor texture painting,Mayafor styling the fur andMental Rayfor rendering.Will computer-generated images replace film-making?If you said: "Would it replace stunt work?" I would say yes! I don't think it will replace actors close up as we have too much circuitry built into the brain for nuances of emotion.What computer do you use?I started with aBBC Micro. I now have four - aniMac, a Dell 1.5Ghz, an oldOctaneand aSony Vaio laptop.What are you working on next?Three two-hour movies for ABC in America called Dinotopia. We are putting the finishing touches to the Conan Doyle story Lost World, which comes out on Christmas Day on the BBC. We are also doing the next worldwide Levi's commercial, some dinosaur specials and helping out on the next Harry Potter movie.What is the next advance for computer animation?I want a completely new system for animating and rendering bodies. Something that has a built-in knowledge of muscles and skeletal structures, as well as dynamics and gravity.Favourite gadgets?My telescope! There is a library that enables you to dial in any star cluster and it swings round to let you see it. I want theMeade ETX125EC.Favourite sites?www.imdb.com. We have also got our Walking With Beasts section up live on our own site.Visit:www.framestore.co.ukWalking With Beasts is on BBC1 at 8.30pm every Thursday.
Clive kickingI think Clive Sinclair undersells the Z88, which had cult status for a time and in some ways has never been bettered. I use mine daily for taking notes in meetings, and often get positive feedback from people who haven't seen one before. Despite its antiquity, the Z88 is more useful than ever because of new software for file transfers, a wide variety of games you can now play on it, and flash EPROMs for non-volatile file storage. I don't care about the eight-line screen!Graeme Lyallgraeme.lyall@ntlworld.comMagic tricksWere I your correspondent Owen Fenn (Feedback, November 11), I would also feel cheated by the Harry Potter game had I spent &#163;30 and completed it in a mere five hours. I am still attempting to complete some of my stock of games more than two years after their purchase. Isn't there something premeditated in the way the Harry Potter game magically appears just before Christmas?Steve Woods (aged 46)woodsy@nonstop.freeserve.co.ukPrivate eyesFurther to SA Mathieson's article on mobile phone tracking information I wondered if the mobile companies keep records of SMS messages and if so, for how long? Is one able to ask for a copy of one's messages? If this data is kept, who owns it?Chris KenyonChris.Kenyon@gp-k84016.nhs.ukCell matesCellular base station location information can be found atwww.sitefinder.radio.gov.uk, a site run by the Radiocommunications Agency.Jonathan Doddsjonniedodds@hotmail.comPC gone madI bought a new PC in October, and with 256 MB on offer for &#163;25, upgrading to 512 MB seemed a good idea. About two weeks later, Jack Schofield's information about Windows Me's poor memory management appeared (Ask Jack, November 22). I have experienced the problem only once, when I left the PC switched on for a couple of hours. I assume that with all that memory sitting there, the system grabs more and more of it as time goes by.Last week, Dr Harper commented that he had used    mainframe computers with less than 384MB (Feedback, November 29) So have I. My first was an ICL 1900 series at Exeter University in the early 1970s. The whole of the university's computing service was run on this machine, with 256KB memory, presumably of magnetic core store. A colleague wrote a program that exceeded the computer's memory capacity and computing people descended on the department to help him find a way round the limitation.Dr KJ VinesKVines@plymouth.ac.ukJack's backCan you restore the Ask Jack column to its former half page format. I find it helpful and like to save it for reference and the current long strip makes it very difficult to file!John Daviesjohndavies@onetel.net.ukHard sellKathy Foley offers sage advice to those buying - or selling - on the net. Our own website typifies many on the net in that it offers genuinely low prices and rapid, reliable delivery. But more importantly, arguably, it also sells a far wider range of goods than any high street retailer. Any branch of The Link can sell you a hands-free for a Nokia 3210 or other recent mobile, but if you want a battery for your five-year-old Sagem or Mitsubishi, forget it.In a    similar vein,Bol.comhave more than once sent me books within 48 hours that my local bookseller could probably get for me in a week to 10 days. My overall experience, having bought everything from CDs, to pet accessories to hi-fis on the web, is that most online businesses, established with a view to potential rather than current sales volumes, are in a very real sense over-resourced and so offer far higher levels of service and responsiveness than you get on the high street. Only once have I been let down and even they sent me a refund within 48 hours and a bottle of champagne to say sorry.Alan Patersonwww.axex.co.uk
Just when many people are starting to think about getting broadband access to the internet, about 10 times faster than using a modem, manufacturers are planning to introduce technologies that are a hundred times faster. And these new phone-based and wireless systems, working together, could ruin the chances of success for third-generation (3G) mobile phone networks - in which telecoms suppliers invested &#163;22.5bn - and put increasing pressure on cable TV networks.For the past year, British Telecom has been offering   consumers broadband net access using ADSL (Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line), with a download speed of 512 kilobits per second (kbps) - enough to smoothly download music and play games online. By the end of next year, it expects to offer VDSL (Very high bit-rate DSL) with download speeds of up to 14 megabits per second - 28 times faster - and more than 50mbps is achievable. In the US, Qwest Communications is already installing VDSL in some areas, though it is only offering 1mbps.Also during the past year, a growing number of people have installed   wireless home networks with a nominal speed of 10mbps, and real throughput of about half that. Again, new versions of the same technology will work about five times faster, with a theoretical throughput of 54mbps. Goodness knows what Guglielmo Marconi would have thought of this - the first radio signal (in morse code) crossed the Atlantic a hundred years ago next week.At these speeds, phone lines and wireless networks should be capable of delivering good quality video for videoconferencing, movies and television.The new systems may also be bad news for the mobile phone industry, which has invested heavily in 3G networks as a way of delivering high-speed data (See page 5). Just as today's mobile phones are horribly slow compared with ordinary modems, tomorrow's 3G phones may seem horribly slow compared with VDSL and wireless networks.VDSL is the latest in a long line of technologies designed to make better use of the copper wires installed to carry voice calls over the past 100 years. Using the same lines saves digging up the streets to install broadband cables, as the cable TV networks have done in some areas, or fibre optic cables, which would actually remove the communications bottleneck in what the industry calls "the last mile" - the connection to a home or office.With ADSL, the last mile is a fraction over two miles, or in BT terms, 3.5km. The problem with ADSL is that the performance deteriorates with distance and factors such as the number of connections in the cable. BT and other telcos will not supply ADSL if you live too far from the exchange, or if they test the line and find the line quality too low. Also, ADSL is incompatible with fibre, so people with the most high-tech connections cannot have the most popular broadband service.VDSL looks even more limited: it only covers about a quarter of the distance of ADSL. However, this need not be a problem. Instead of installing ADSL in the exchange, BT can install VDSL in the green cabinets used as distribution points for the phone network, and connect the cabinets to the exchanges using fibre optic lines.Don Clarke, who is responsible for VDSL at BT Exact, BT's research company in Martlesham in Suffolk, envisages a "VDSL brick in a completely sealed, waterproof box. Drop it down a manhole and you can pass 600 homes," he says.But how many of BT's tens of thousands of cabinets and connection points have or will get fibre optic lines is another matter. Clarke says it is up to operators such as BT Wholesale to make the commercial case. That will depend on delivering new forms of content, such as TV and video, leading to what Clarke calls "the telcos' war on cable".Last week, BT signalled its intentions by announcing two subscription services for music and games. The classical music service, using Windows Media Audio and Microsoft's digital rights management system, will cost &#163;7.99 per month. The games channel, based on the purchase of Games Domain, will cost &#163;9.99 per month.Ben Andradi, president and chief operating officer of BT Openworld, said it was "the start of a series of announcements in this area. We want to be the leading internet access provider, but also we want to be known for our content".Andradi said the strategy was to be cross-platform; to appeal to everyone, not just BT internet subscribers; and to target "narrowband" as well as broadband users. Next year, he added, the cross-platform strategy would involve launching a self-installation   broadband gaming service in partnership with Sony, for users of new PlayStation 2 consoles with communications capabilities.However, he refused to be drawn on VDSL, though he said he was watching US developments with interest. It seems BT Openworld is just another BT Wholesale customer. "We don't get any special favours, even though we're part of the BT group," Andradi said.One of the effects of the installation of broadband internet connections - both ADSL and cable modems - has been to drive the adoption of wireless networks. It is possible to restrict an ordinary phone line to one computer, but once you get always-on broadband, you want to share the connection. You could do this by rewiring your home or office, but this can be tricky and expensive. Install a wireless hub, however, and any desktop or notebook PC within range can share the   internet connection.The other thing that helped wireless take-off was the arrival of a high-speed Ethernet networking standard and an industry group committed to making the various implementations work together. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' standard is IEEE 802.11b, and the compatibility logo to look for is Wi-Fi. As is common in the computer industry, standardisation and compatibility accelerated Wi-Fi's acceptance, and rapid growth has driven down prices.But as is also common, 802.11b is not the end of the story. Some companies are already launching wireless equipment based on a related standard, 802.11a, which is about five times faster than 802.11b, with a theoretical throughput of 54mbps. The drawbacks are that 802.11a is incompatible with 802.11b, and it is currently illegal in the UK, because it uses 5GHz frequencies instead of the unlicensed 2.4GHz in 802.11b. This has led to the proposal of a third standard, 802.11g, which is intended to deliver the extra speed while using 2.4GHz to stay compatible with the current standard. The IEEE tentatively agreed to this last month.Microsoft has added sup port for Wi-Fi to Windows XP and its PocketPC 2002 software for handhelds, and a growing number of manufacturers are adding wireless capabilities to their notebook PCs. This should encourage the growth of public access wireless networks, particularly at airports, conference centres and other places with a high proportion of business travellers. There is also a growing "free-net" movement of people who want to share wireless networks on a community basis (Online, October 12, 2000).Further, Wi-Fi lets you make phone calls over the net using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). This had led some commentators to suggest that "802.11b is the real 3G". It is fast, cheap, and could become ubiquitous: what more do you need?Ross Pow is bullish about wireless local area networks, having just written a report - Public Wireless LAN Access: Market Forecasts - at Analysys, a telecoms market research company based in Cambridge. He reckons that, today, there are between 10,000 and 20,000 active users of public wireless Lans (local area networks), mostly in the US, but by 2006, there will be more than 20m users in Europe alone. Also, more   than 100,000 companies are using the technology in corporate networks.However, he is not that bullish. He thinks public access wireless networks will be a marginal business, though it could affect 3G by taking up to 10% of the mobile operators' data revenue."By its very nature, you're not going to get wireless access everywhere," says Pow, "and we don't all spend our lives in hotels and airports. I think VoIP will happen, but the number of people who will go into a wireless caf&#233;, connect their laptop, then get out their headset to make a phone call is fairly small. I think most people will continue to use their mobiles."Also, although some outlets are offering free wireless access, Pow says most are charging. Users will want a reliable connection, they will want support, and roaming, and "the only way to provide a proper service is if people make money out of it."Finally, there's the view that rather than extending the life of what is basically a 100-year-old telephone network, we should just build a fibre optic network that will both stimulate the economy and last for the next 100 years. The case was made in the 1980s by people such as   Ian Mackintosh in Sunrise Europe (Blackwell, 1986) and it has not gone away.The telecoms companies have already built fibre optic backbone networks to carry voice and data, and we are starting to see "fibre to the kerb" or cabinet and to big businesses. However, fibre to the home remains a distant dream except for those lucky householders in pilot schemes.Guy Powell, European vice president of the US-based optical access technology supplier Quantum Bridge, says: "If people had spent the same amount of money on fibre as they've spent on 3G licences, we'd have 'broadband Britain' already."&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If you have noticed a curious shortage of updates in the weblog world, particularly this bit, it is because (a) Blogger has stopped publishing them; or (b) all UK visitors are served from a cache that hasn't been updated for more than 36 hours; or (c) aliens have placed me in suspended animation. Of course, if you are reading this, (a) and (b) have ceased to be true. The answer must be (c).
Until recently, a laptop was merely a convenient way of doing a bit of work on the train - an excuse for workaholics to keep going wherever they were. Now they're impressive machines with beefed-up memories and fast processor speeds that can easily challenge all but the very best desktop PCs. Great for games playing, word processing and surfing the net, laptops are no longer restricted to mobile computing: they are worth considering as an alternative to a full-size desktop PC.One thing that hasn't changed much is the price you pay for portability. You can now easily pick up a decent desktop for under &#163;1,000, but the equivalent laptop will set you back at least another couple of hundred pounds.Any laptop can be plugged into the mains, but the whole point is mobility, so the length of time it will run on its rechargeable battery is crucial. All the models tested run for between two and three hours, which should cover you for most meetings and rail journeys (if the trains are running on time). It's well worth buying a second battery, however, although it will of course add to the weight you have to carry around.With family and home office use in mind, The Good Housekeeping Institute compared six mid-priced models. Battery life, weight, size, hard-disk drive capacity, memory size, processor speed, display and sound quality, software and features were all assessed, along with warranty, ease of use and instructions, to give an overall score out of 100.All the laptops on test have an AC power adapter/battery charger and battery pack, and all but the Sharp have stereo speakers. All are internet-ready with a 56k modem. Size is given as height x width x depth, closed. Battery life is based on manufacturers' estimates of average use. Weight includes supplied disk drives and battery, and price includes VAT.Updated modelsManufacturers are constantly updating their models, so some details may have changed since we went to press. Apple, Dell, Packard Bell, Hewlett Packard and Toshiba were all in the process of updating their models at the time of testing, so they were unable to get a current sample to us in time.Advent 6419XP £1,099 Score: 84/1001.1GHz Intel Celeron processor; 384Mb RAM, upgradable to 640Mb; 20Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition; 14.1in screen; 3.6kg; 42x315x260mm; combined DVD-rom and CD-RW drive; floppy-disk drive; one-year collect and return warranty with hardware and software support.This beats some of the more expensive models with an impressive amount of memory, a big hard-disk drive and a powerful processor. Easy to set up and logical to use. Comes with a good range of office software. Good-sized keyboard with soft-touch keys and a wrist-support area. Keyboard has useful shortcut key for quick internet access. Clear battery level indicators. Comprehensive instructions with useful on-board help and tour guides.On/off button could be clearer and touch pad needs to be more responsive. Bulky and very heavy to carry. Slow to recharge (2-3hrs) and battery life is a bit on the short side (2hrs).Incredible value for money, this is PC World's own brand.Stockists: 08705 464464.www.pcworld.co.ukSony Vaio PCG-GR214MP £1,602.70 Score: 80/1001GHz Intel Mobile Pentium III processor; 256Mb RAM, upgradable to 512Mb; 20Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows XP Professional; 14.1in screen; 2.9kg; 38x314x262mm; interchangeable bay with combined DVD-rom and CD-RW drive; Jog Dial; one-year collect and return warranty with hardware and software support.Aimed at the movie/digital camera and music buff, with an extensive range of related software and a handy connector to link directly to a camcorder. Logical to use, with Jog Dial, which brings up an on-screen menu for navigating around the laptop quickly. Image is sharp and clear. Long battery life (3hrs) with battery-life indicator. Pop-up feet for more comfortable typing. Good size and weight. Comprehensive instructions.The screen is too dark when running on the battery, so you can't always read what's on it (it's much brighter when plugged into the mains). No office software. Sound quality is tinny. Very slow to recharge battery (4hrs).A good choice for the movie/digital camera and music buff.Stockists: 08705 424424.www.vaio.sony-europe.comAcer Travelmate 612 TXCi £1,761.33 Score: 80/100900MHz Intel Mobile Pentium III processor; 128Mb RAM, upgradable to 512Mb; 20Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional; 14.1in screen; 2.4kg; 32x360x256mm; interchangeable bay with combined DVD-rom and CD-RW drive; SmartCard security; one-year collect and return service warranty on hardware and 90 days' software support.Quick recharge (1 hrs), reasonable battery life (2 hrs) and useful battery life indicator. SmartCard protects against theft - the laptop won't work unless it is inserted. Soft-touch keyboard with quick connection buttons for internet and email plus shortcut keys you can customise to open favourite programs. Comes with a good range of office software and is compact and lightweight. Good instructions, with useful pocket guide to function keys.Limited basic memory for the price. Can't cope with some games software - image quality is poor and animation is jerky. Sound is muffled and quiet even on the highest setting.A good choice for the home office or small business.Stockists: 0870 9002237.www.acer.co.ukSharp Muramasa PC-UM10 £1,875 Score: 67/100600MHz Intel Mobile Pentium III processor; 128Mb RAM, not upgradable; 20Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional; 12.1in screen; 1.3kg; 19x283x234mm; no built-in disk drives; one-year collect and return warranty with hardware and software support.Wafer slim and very lightweight - small enough to slip into a briefcase or handbag. Battery quick to charge (1 hrs), long battery life (3hrs) and useful battery-life indicators. Good instructions.Slow processor speed, memory that can't be upgraded and no office software. No built-in CD-rom or floppy-disk drive - you have to buy optional external drives, which adds to the cost (CD-rom drive &#163;179, floppy-disk drive &#163;83; there is no DVD option) and the weight. Can't cope with some games software - image quality is poor and animation is jerky. Sound quality is muffled and quiet. Small 12in screen and cramped keyboard.Very expensive for what you get.Stockists: 0800 1388879.www.sharp.co.uk/muramasaCompaq Presario 2700EA £1,799 Score: 86/1001GHz Intel Mobile Pentium III processor; 256Mb RAM, upgradable to 1Gb; 20Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition; 15.1in screen; 3.7kg; 42x327x273mm; interchangeable bay with separate CD-RW drive and a floppy-disk drive; DVD-rom drive; one-year collect and return warranty with hardware support only.Separate CD-RW and DVD-rom drives mean you can copy CDs more quickly. Very easy to set up and use. Good range of office, music and movie software. Battery life indicator. Excellent image and sound quality. Soft-touch keyboard with good wrist-support area and buttons for help and quick internet access. Very responsive touch pad. Pop-up feet for more comfortable typing. Smart design. Excellent on-board instructions.Release catch on the interchangeable bay is stiff and fiddly. Very bulky and heavy to carry. Slow to recharge (3hrs), and battery life is a bit on the short side (2hrs).High specification that rivals a desktop computer.Stockists: 0845 2704000.www.compaq.co.ukIBM ThinkPad A30 £2,103.25 Score: 85/1001GHz Intel Mobile Pentium III processor; 128Mb RAM, upgradable to 1Gb; 30Gb hard-disk drive; Microsoft Windows 98; 15.1in screen; 3.2kg; 52x328x272mm; interchangeable bay with DVD-rom drive; keyboard light; one-year customer carry-in warranty with hardware and software support.Easy to set up and use. Powerful processor and big hard-disk drive. Quick-to-charge battery (2 hrs) with long life (just over 3hrs) and battery-life indicator. Excellent image and sound quality. Full-size keyboard with help button, internet navigation keys and an effective keyboard light for working in dim lighting. Left and right "mouse" control buttons have a positive click and have a useful scrolling feature for quickly moving around the screen. Solid build quality. Excellent on-board instructions with useful video clips.At this price it should have some office software, more memory and a more up-to-date operating system. You need to buy a combined DVD-rom and CD-RW drive (&#163;522) or a floppy-disk drive (&#163;45) if you want to save data to be transferred to another machine. Stiffness makes screen hard to adjust and the laptop is unevenly balanced, making it uncomfortable to use on your lap. Bulky and heavy to carry.Excellent on-board instructions, but no facility supplied for saving data to be used on another machine.Stockists: 0800 0965287.www.ibm.com/pc/ukThe questions people askAs well as publishing test reports, the Good Housekeeping Institute answers readers' queries. Here are the three questions most often asked about laptops.1. I'm confused by all these different disk drives available. Which ones do I really need?If you want to play games or music and load extra software from CD, you will need a CD-rom drive. To play DVD movies and games you will need a DVD-rom drive. If you want to be able to save data for use on another computer you will need either a CD-RW, which stands for compact disc-rewriteable, or the somewhat outdated floppy-disk drive.Many laptops have a combined drive - either DVD-rom and CD-rom or DVD-rom and CD-RW - which may fit into an "interchangeable bay". This is a multi-purpose slot built into the laptop that allows you to insert different disk drives, and to add either extra hard-disk space or a second battery to boost the laptop's battery life.2. What features should I look for?Get the highest specification you can afford. You should look for at least: 850MHz processor speed; 128Mb of memory; 20Gb hard-disk drive; built-in modem (56K); DVD/CD-rom drive; 14in screen and stereo speakers if you want to play games.Check that there's plenty of room for upgrading the memory, especially if you want to play games or install lots of software. Check what types of disk drive are included (see question 1).3. I'm confused by all the different types of warranties. What is the difference?All laptops come with a standard one-year warranty, which you can usually pay to extend. The warranty covers parts and labour, and includes a helpline service. The main types are:&#183;Collect-and-return (or pick-up and return) - the manufacturer will pay for a courier to collect and return your laptop if you can't sort out the problem over the phone.&#183;Customer carry-in - the customer is responsible for getting the laptop to the manufacturer. The manufacturer will pay to return it.For the less technically minded, a good after-sales back-up service is crucial. All warranties cover the computer hardware for one year, but not all offer software support for the full warranty period, if at all.&#183;Next month's product test, to be published on January 9, will be men's shavers. Subscribe to Good Housekeeping and save &#163;5. Call 01858 438844 and quote ref: 2595/6.www.goodhousekeeping.co.uk
Another virulent worm is doing the rounds "in a harry". This one is called Goner after the name of the file attachment, GONE.SCR Otherwise it is easy to spot. Mail has the Subject: Hi and text that reads: "How are you ? When I saw this screen saver, I immediately thought about you. I am in a harry, I promise you will love it!" What has been less well publicised is that this is not just the usual e-mail virus. It also tries to spread itself via the ICQ instant messaging system, and it attacks the #pentagonex IRC-channel by creating new users with random names. You can find out more about Goner at the usual sites includingMcAfeeandSymantec.
After battling through the Badtrans worm last week, computer users are being hit today by yet another email virus, this one called Goner.Experts described Goner as one of the fastest-spreading viruses they had seen to date. It is, however, simple to spot and if users delete the email their computers will not be infected.The infected email has the word "Hi" as its subject line and the body text reads, "How are you? When I saw this screen saver, I immediately thought about you. I am in a harry (sic), I promise you will love it." Its attachment poses as a screensaver and is labelled "gone.scr".Unlike more complex worms, such as last week's Badtrans which is still doing the rounds, the subject line, attachment and message of Goner do not vary. When users double click on the attachment, the infected email spreads itself to all contacts in a Microsoft Outlook address book.Anti-virus companies have issued updates to block Goner, though users can also protect themselves simply by hitting the delete button.Alex Shipp, spokesman for anti-virus service MessageLabs, said: "It's spreading with tremendous speed and thousands of users in Britain have already been sent it. The virus mass mails itself out through email and attempts to destroy anti-virus software on computers, which could prove extremely problematic for those unfortunate enough to receive it."Goner was first detected yesterday morning, and experts believe it was created in Europe. The US, the UK and France are the worst hit of the 17 countries affected so far.Mr Shipp said: "We had a handful of reports this morning but at mid-afternoon in the UK it went mad. We have had about 30,000 reports and the figure is rising."Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos Anti-Virus, said: "This worm highlights the importance of being suspicious about anything that arrives unexpectedly in your inbox ... Even if the email appears to have come from a friend it still should not be automatically trusted."A criminal investigation has now been launched in an effort to track down the person responsible for the virus.
The mobile phone spin-off from BT, mmO2, has been forced to delay the rollout of its crucial third generation wireless service by six months due to concerns about the availability of handsets able to use the new technology.The company, which demerged from BT last month, had hoped to launch the new wireless internet service next autumn. Yesterday the chief executive, Peter Erskine, admitted that the lack of so-called dual-mode handsets, which can access the new services and still receive voice calls where a 3G signal is not available, means the service will not be widely available until the first half of 2003."What we are looking at is potentially a slip of six months but we will be out there," he said yesterday at the launch of the UK's first big public demonstration of 3G services on the Isle of Man. "But what I do not want is networks lying idle."Despite the delay, mmO2 still expects to spend &#163;4bn on 3G networks in its four regions - UK, Germany, Holland and Ireland - over the next five years. However as 3G coverage will not immediately be available throughout the UK, dual-mode handsets are a crucial first step in the introduction of the new service.Mr Erskine added that mmO2 intends to have a small scale service up and running in some of the UK's leading cities later next year but does not want to launch a full-scale service until he is sure that the company can get hold of enough handsets to satisfy demand.Yesterday mmO2 began Europe's first significant public trial of the technology through its subsidiary Manx Telecom. Business customers and consumers will be able to trial 3G services such as web-browsing and video streaming using handsets made by NEC of Japan.
A flat-screen Apple iMac is expected in January... though it must be admitted, it was expected last January as well. (PC manufacturers have had similar products for years.) ApparentlyMorgan Stanelythinks Apple could sell 500,000 flat-screen iMacs next year, which would give it roughly 0.4% of the PC market. More details arehere.
1. Today, music fans can get the first glimpse of the corporate vision for the future of online music.RealNetworkshas launched a subscription-based online music service called RealOne, based on music licensed fromMusicNet.2.RealOnesubscribers will pay $10 (£7) each month for 100 downloads and 100 streams, although the service is only available in the US.3. MusicNet is a joint venture betweenWarner,BMG,EMIand RealNetworks. RealOne is the first MusicNet service to be up and running, although AOL and Napster are expected to follow shortly.4. MusicNet provides music only in protected Real Audio files. Artists signed up to MusicNet includeBjork,Madonnaand, as if you've not already heard enough of him,Robbie Williams.5. The launch of the MusicNet service has edged out its main competitor,Pressplay, a partnership ofSonyandUniversal, which is expected to launch later this month. The company says it will start slow and offer music streams and downloads from its website strictly for the desktop in Microsoft's secure Windows Media audio format.6. Pressplay will also offer weekly music chart info fromBillboard, dating back to 1955.  It is the first time Billboard has licensed its archived chart data for use online.7. Many users have already complained that the music companies' subscription services will not allow them to burn music onto a CD or download it onto aportable digital music player. That means for the price of a subscription, you can only listen to the music within earshot of your PC.8. So now we'll have to pay for a service thatNapster- the pioneering company that the music behemoths litigated nearly out of business - used to provide free of charge through file sharing. Sadly that system made no provision for a song's copyright holders, who protested loud and long and eventually won Napster's temporary removal from the scene.9. There are, of course, alternatives to Napster, some of which are being sued by the major labels and some of which are not.Gnutellawas also created with the idea of copying copyrighted music - sorry, "promoting the sharing of information" - and uses similar software to share files.  To adopt web jargon, this sort of sharing is popularly known asP2P, or peer-to-peer file sharing.  Indeed, asthosewho have a long memory like to point out, the internet itself was originally a P2P application.10. Morpheus andMusiccity.comfast became hugely popular when Napster closed its file-sharing doors. TheMorpheussoftware that powers Musiccity had clocked an impressive 33.7m downloads at last count. So RealOne may be the first of the music label's forays into online music, but it is hardly lacking in competition.
The Automobile Association yesterday signalled a shake-up in the &#163;72bn retail motor market by announcing a joint venture with Inchcape to sell cars over the internet. It is the first foray into car selling for Britain's biggest motoring organisation and breakdown recovery company and follows a similar move by Virgin.Through a &#163;4m tie-up,   BMW and Ferrari dealerships firm Inchcape will source, service and deliver the vehicles while the AA, which is owned by energy and services group Centrica, will sell the cars and financial products to its 12m members through its web site.The move pre-empts anticipated relaxation of the car dealership market next year when the European Commission is expected to revise the block exemption law under which   manufacturers give dealers exclusive distribution rights, making it difficult for new players to enter the market."Today's deal fits in with our broader AA strategy of providing more and more services to motorists and of becoming a one-stop shop," said AA managing director of the joint venture, Richard Williams. "There is huge mistrust in the used car market but there is huge trust of the AA brand. We will   stand behind the customer." Motor industry observers, however, say that car selling over the internet has a chequered history with a number of web-based car importers going bust, leaving customers stranded. Car sales on the internet amount to only 50,000 to 70,000 a year compared with 2.3m car sales through dealerships, said the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.
After a year of frenzied speculation and media hype, US inventor Dean Kamen has unveiled his long-awaited project - a high tech scooter codenamed Ginger - on a morning television show in New York.The battery-powered scooter, now called the Segway Human Transporter, had its first public outing today on Good Morning America. The device displays a human-like sense of balance and moves at a top speed of 12mph. Segway has no brakes, but it senses small movements in its riders to determine if it should stop, go, reverse or spin around.Mr Kamen told Good Morning America that Segway is "the world's first self-balancing human transporter. You stand on this Segway Human Transporter and you think forward and then you go forward. If you think backward, you go backward."He added: "All of the knowledge that went into knowing how to walk is transferred to this machine. When you stand on this machine, it kind of walks for you. It just does it smoothly and gracefully."Mr Kamen has predicted that Segway will replace cars for short journeys, particularly in traffic-ridden urban areas, thus changing the urban landscape by introducing a smaller and more environmentally friendly alternative. Segway runs on electricity, with Mr Kamen claiming that six hours of charging time from a wall socket will power the scooter for 15 miles.He told Time magazine: "Cars are great for going long distances, but it makes no sense at all for people in cities to use a 4,000-pound piece of metal to haul their 150-pound asses around town."Most of us will not be able to put a Segway under the Christmas tree, however, as widespread commercial production will is not scheduled for another year. It is expected to retail for approximately $3,000 (£2,100). In the meantime, the US postal service and the national park service will field test the scooters.As low-tech scooters caught on last year, and bicycles have remained a perennially favoured car substitute, Mr Kamen could be onto something big. His backers certainly think so: venture capitalist John Doerr, a financier closely linked to the dot.com boom, has predicted that Segway will make quick work of $1bn in sales.
The government today launched a £1.5m advertising campaign to help parents explain the potential dangers of internet chat rooms to their children.Home Office minister Beverley Hughes unveiled the adverts, to appear in national newspapers and magazines, which explain that "Paedophiles are dangerous - not internet chat rooms". There have been numerous cases of paedophiles "grooming" young people for abuse by chatting to them on the web, often by pretending to be teenagers themselves.Ms Hughes said: "Internet chat rooms have given young people in particular a virtual playground, an international school and a place to meet and make friends."But she said the medium was also subject to criminal abuse and that parents need to teach the approximately 5m young people using the internet in the UK to take care.She added: "We all need to ensure that taking sensible precautions to protect ourselves and our children online should become as commonplace as it is to lock our doors or not talk to strangers in the off-line world."Ms Hughes said the campaign will help parents "wise up" to the web and help their children use the technology for fun while avoiding sexual threats.The government has also produced a booklet to educate parents about the potential dangers of adults preying on children via the internet. It is available on the government's Wise up to the net site.
And the answer is... it's a scooter. AP has the story, which you can read atSiliconValley.com(AP was one of the news organisations that did not get a preview by agreeing to a non-disclosure agreement.) For more information on Dean Kamen, see hisDeka ResearchWeb site. For more on IT, go to theITsite.
