Two retro themed stories this morning. First, Capcom has released some screens of its forthcoming Xbox Live title, Street Fighter II' Hyper Fighting. The game seeks to simulate the excitement of a packed amusement arcade by offering an online spectator feature and a 'Quarter Mode' in which players can use virtual quarters to butt into Street Fighter tournaments.I love the way Microsoft is really trying to embrace the whole 'Arcade' side of its online service, not just offering a multiplayer gaming portal, but also an approximation of what it's like to compete against strangers who are in the same space as you. And look at those lovely Street Fighter visuals - it's a perfect approximation of the arcade original, later ported to the SNES and Mega Drive. The controls are apparently mapped accurately to the SNES pad, but I've not tried it yet.Also, IGN hasre-launched its dedicated Dreamcast siteand the team is promising to re-evaluate all of the console's games. It is a recognition, perhaps, of the machine's forward-thinking agenda (built-in modem, amazing multi-faceted controller, downloadable content, etc) and also of its great games. Soul Calibur is still a top five beat-'em-up, Shenmue remains a singular experience, ChuChu Rocket brought puzzle games to a new level and I still maintain that Midway's NBA Showtime has the best in-game commentaryever.
Technology Guardian: How did you get into environmentalism and climate change?Bruce Sterling:Science-fiction writers are not effective activists. But if I'm aware of some trend as a futurist and a trend-spotter, and if it actually shows up on my doorstep as an immediate crisis, then I will try to do something pragmatic. Science-fiction writers are best as fantasists. But if there is mayhem on your doorstep, it's morally obligatory to take some action.TG:So, what did you decide to do?BS:To go public with my unease about climate change, to attack it as a design problem, from an industrial and engineering standpoint. I announced I was starting an internet mailing list, because the internet is the only global tech phenomenon of the global scope of climate change. My key insight there was that one huge phenomenon could be harnessed to attack the other.I still run my list, but I soon got sucked into the world of design. I recently wrote a little book for MIT Press, which is an academic precis on the problem, a little manifesto. One thing led to another. Now there's a raft of top-end, designery green retail outfits - treehugger.com, worldchanging.com - there are meetings of designer groups, and so on. That's what I was hoping to provoke. I wasn't the only one doing this, but I was one of the first to say: "Yeah, this can be done." We could have a new kind of designer green, cyber-green, or as my colleague Alex Steffen puts it, "bright green".TG:You called your email list Viridian, a very bright cyber-green. It's also a website,www.viridiandesign.org.BS:It's something between a diary, a squabble, an archive and a manifesto. I'm one guy. This is my hobby. But a likely, plausible step is a designer-green non-governmental organisation, with a board of directors and revenue, a magazine maybe. Big players are entering the green design space. Fighting the greenhouse effect is going to be a universal effort. Everyone will have to do it pretty much all the time.TG: In your book Shaping Things, you describe climate change as the result of technology pioneers like Edison and Ford. Yet you say the only solution is to press forward with technology and shift to a new type of society.BS:Not many science-fiction writers write industrial design manifestoes, but I was commissioned by Peter Lunenfeld of Arts Centre College of Design in California, where I was visionary in residence. Why do you want a sci-fi writer in a design school? You want someone who'll think outside the box. The book talks about a new tech phenomenon with six or seven terms attached: the Internet of Things, Ubiquitous Computation, Everyware, Ambient Findability, Spimes (my term).My own theory, which has gone into Shaping Things, is the key element is the identity for objects. It's putting tags on things that allow them to interact with digital networks. That is the key concept around which other things accrue. My goal in this is sustainability. I want us to invent a better way to put our toys away. We are emitting too much junk. Google is good at sorting garbage. We could do something similar if we tagged our garbage, basically, everything we make.Ideally, we need to tag an object before it exists. We need to tag the blueprints and then the manufactured object. Then, when it's junk, we need to read it, know where it goes, have it ripped apart and recycled.TG: Where does the concept of Spimes come from?BS:Spimes was one of those spontaneous neologisms I came up with at a conference, a contraction of "space" and "time." The idea is you no longer look at an object as an artefact, but as a process. A modern bottle of wine in one sense does exactly the same as the clay jug and stopper that the ancient Greeks used. On the other hand, it is now mass produced industrial glass, with a machine-applied label containing a barcode and a host of other information, even an associated web page. These invite you to do more than just drink the wine. These innovations link this product into a wider relationship.Yet the moment the bottle is empty, we make a subtle semantic reclassification and designate it "trash". The logistics of manufacture and distribution will already have tracked the bottle from factory, to warehouse, to store. But the relationship is not a closed loop. The moment you buy the wine, it's your responsibility. The onus is on you to recycle it, or it'll spend eternity in landfill. We really should be thinking about the trajectory all this stuff follows. We are in trouble as a culture because we don't have a strong idea of where we are in time, and what we might need to do to deserve a future.Amazon.com, for instance, allows you to study lots of information about physical products (books) without needing to consider the physical artefact itself. Or bookcrossing.com, a site where you can track physical books from reader to reader. Wheresgeorge.com does the same with dollar bills. Spimes are both the physical object and the metadata related to that object. Then, as with Amazon's reviews, we can start adding correspondence on the nature of objects, creating a forum to discuss all our stuff and what to do with it.TG: So how do RFID (radio frequency identification) chips relate to this?BS:To study spimes we need to be able to track them. RFID chips are the next evolutionary step from bar codes. They allow objects to have an identity that can be easily read. They were invented by the Pentagon's shipping, tracking and logistics agency, and Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, inspired by some work at MIT. Unlike the barcode, which needs to be scanned up-close, you can just ping a whole warehouse, or delivery truck or cargo container, and an RFID scanner will simultaneously detect and log everything in there. You also see them in swipe cards. These tags make it extremely easy to assign identities to objects and connect them to databases.TG: Opponents of RFID see it as malign and unwanted technology.BS:The opposition should thoroughly understand the scope of RFID technology, otherwise they'll be baling seawater with a fork. RFID is for grocery clerks. It's not as mysterious or arcane a technology as space shuttles, nuclear triggers or Echelon.&#183;Bruce Sterling's book Shaping Things is published by MIT Press.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Safe to gamble? Don't bet on itDelayed government regulation is leaving consumers exposed to the scams of online criminals looking to cash in on the electronic gambling boom. Sean Hargrave reports.Stormy weatherThe Met Office caught a cold over WeatherXchange but remains optimistic about future ventures.Vista visionsMicrosoft has been through a bad patch, but with its Windows Vista finally nearing roll-out, there is light at the end of the tunnel.Cyberpunk pioneer has designs on a better worldBruce Sterling, the author of seminal science-fiction works, is taking a very pragmatic approach to the world's environmental challenges. Interview by Anthony Alexander.Newly Asked QuestionsDo you suffer from Ringxiety?If you don't, you probably know somebody who does. With Britain stuffed full of more mobile phones than people, connected members of the public are developing an increasing number of ways to fret about their handsets.Why is eBay partnering with Yahoo?Because both are scared of Google, which not only dominates search, but is launching a payments system and plans to take over the world's classified advertising.Should I trademark Web 3.0?You could try, but you're probably at the back of the queue. Have you thought of going for Web 5.0 or Web 6.0?Games of the weekThe Da Vinci Code | Sensible Soccer 2006 | Table TennisShould gamers get to grips with Columbine?Aleks Krotoski: A controversial downloadable game has sparked enormous controversy in the US. Super Columbine Massacre RPG takes its inspiration from the violent events which made a small-town high school in Colorado international news in April 1999.No escape - virtual reality is here to stayVictor Keegan: It used to be said spending too much time on your computer was an escape from reality. Nowadays it is the other way round. If youngsters do not spend enough time online they may be missing out on life, as lived by their peers.Government must resist temptation for a quick fixMichael Cross: When we buy things, we generally make a trade-off between cost, quality and speed. In the popular slogan: "Cheap, fast, good: Pick any two." One of government's more worrying habits in managing IT programmes is trying to get all three.TechnobileWendy Grossman: Online surveys are designed to elicit the responses they are interested in, not the things you want to tell them.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesSolid stated | Top shops | Free PodScrolls | Time waster | Show offs | Skype takes off | Get Lost! | Kids clips | Hackers' delight | Happy helperLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your full name and post town.
The number of comments here has declined dramatically since we were obliged to introduce registration and, basically, use the comments system from our new group blog,Comment is free. Sorry, there's nothing we can do about that at the moment. However, the hurdles are not as big as you might think. First, once you register and log in, a cookie will probably keep that log-in alive. I've only ever had to log in once on this PC. Second, you can open a separate browser window (or tab) to comment, eg by hitting Ctrl-N or right-clicking Comments and selecting Open in New Window. That way you can still see the blog entries while commenting in a separate window. It's not ideal, but it's not an insuperable problem for anyone with a useful and interesting point to put across.
Legally Windows?A message appears at boot-up saying my copy of Windows is counterfeit and asking me to buy a genuine licence. I have a legitimate copy of Windows - it came with the PC and a sticker with a serial number.Gerry CordonJack Schofield replies:It may have to do with a quirk in a recent Windows update, but if you have a COA (Certificate of Authenticity) and valid serial number, it should not be a problem. Microsoft provides details of its COAs at (www.microsoft.com/resources/howtotell/en/coa.mspx). You can check your product key with a program downloaded fromhttp://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=52012, and if this does not match your COA, you can change the key with Microsoft's KeyUpdate.exe tool fromhttp://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=50346&clcid;=0x409.This information comes from Microsoft's Phil Liu, who posts in the official Windows forum devoted to WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage) Validation Problems. If your key is genuine and matches your COA but you still get the message, Liu suggests going to Start|Run, typing WgaTray /b in the box, and clicking OK. Then you "log on and off a couple times". If that doesn't work, ask athttp://forums.microsoft.com/Genuine/default.aspx?SiteID=25, where you might get a direct response from Microsoft.Another way outI installed Windows from a legitimate copy (upgrading from Windows 98) but 18 months ago the hard drive failed and a local company set up a new disk for me. Can I install my copy of XP over what I have now without damaging the applications and data I have installed?Cathy HarveyJS:This can be a problem because your system is probably past the SP2 level of updates whereas your upgrade CD may be XP or, at best, XP SP1. Many programs will balk at replacing new files with old ones. Use the new KeyUpdate.exe tool cited above or do an "in-place upgrade" (www.michaelstevenstech.com/xp_in_place_upgrade.htm) or the riskier "XP repair install" (www.michaelstevenstech.com/XPrepairinstall.htm).SpyFalconIn spite of having Norton, Spybot and Adware, I somehow installed SpyFalcon. I followed Symantec's instructions for removing SpyFalcon to no avail.Tony WilliamsJS:SpyFalcon (formerly SpyAxe) is a nasty piece of work. To remove manually, follow the instructions atwww.spyware-removal-guideline.com/spyfalcon-removal. Bleeping Computer has manual instructions and also an automated removal system that depends on having an internet connection. Seewww.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/topic43659.html#automatedeBay phishingA message allegedly from Safeharbor Department, eBay Inc, advised me my eBay account was suspended because "your account is associated with the following suspended account: cwpvt10070in" (a suspended user). As I have never visited eBay, I am puzzled.George KatritzkyJS:eBay and its payment subsidiary, PayPal, are commonly used in "phishing" attacks: the use of faked emails to lure users to faked eBay or PayPal pages. You can download a free anti-phishing toolbar from Netcraft (http://toolbar.netcraft.com/), which works with Internet Explorer on Windows 2000/XP, or with Firefox.End of 98Is it true Microsoft will be offering no updates after June for Windows 98?John PalmerJS:Support for Windows Me was supposed to end on December 31 2003 and for the Windows 98 family on January 16 2004. I suspect it won't be extended again. Anyone still on the net with these aged operating systems should ensure they connect via a NAT (network address translation) router or a router with a good built-in firewall. Seewww.homenethelp.com/web/explain/about-NAT.asp.Backchat&middot;Tom Croker was trying to recover photos from his camera's SD memory card. John Cartlidge suggests Digital Photo Recover from Art Plus (www.artplus.hr). Colin Leeds points to PhotoRec (www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec). Raymond Dalgleish says: "PC Inspector Smart Recovery (www.pcinspector.de/smart_ media_recovery/uk/welcome.htm) costs whatever you wish to donate via PayPal. Earlier versions were excellent, even recovering parts of corrupted image files."
Last December, a gambling information site called Checkraised.com made some software available: a "rake calculator", which measures the varying cut, or rake, that online casinos take from bets to pay for their operations. But some users had problems with the program and when security companies started investigating, they discovered the calculator silently dropped keylogging software - watching what keys were pressed - on the computer. It also used a "rootkit" to hide itself from searches. When the user logged in to several gambling sites (whether or not the calculator was running), it logged the user name and password and sent them to an unknown site. 
Why? So the keyloggers' controllers could later log back into the site as the user, and play against themselves - and lose. On the user's account.How many people lost out in this way? How much did they lose in all? We don't know. Checkraised.com did not respond to the Guardian's questions. But it has said it commissioned an outside programmer to write the calculator: "He would send updates by way of email, we would virus scan it (what good that did!), and then we would upload it to our website," the site says (seehttp://tinyurl.com/pk3pd).It is the first known case of casino and poker-room players being rootkitted but won't be the last, according to David Sancho, senior antivirus engineer at Trend Micro, the first company to release a patch for the malware."It's a really worrying development but although it's the first, it's not that surprising," he says. "It's almost certainly the start of a new trend because criminals will always go where the money is, and there's a lot of money in gambling. It's just so easy to steal money by losing it to yourself. Plus the criminals have the protection of knowing the victim has nobody to complain to. How's a site to know whether or not a person is a bad loser or really has been the victim of fraud?"While the antivirus community fears this is the start of a worrying trend as online criminals shift their sights to gambling, a company called ScanSafe, which develops web filtering software, is sure of it. The American company normally provides managed services for corporations but last week made its scanning software available to the public for free via Scandoo.com.In effect, it is Google with filtering for spyware, viruses and adware. Type in a search term and the results come back with a green tick for safety, a cross for potentially offensive material, a question mark if it is unsure, and a spider if it detects adware, spyware or a virus. Results vary but early tests with gambling-related terms threw up several sites with spiders, question marks and crosses."It's important people have the ability to see if they go beyond the big, familiar sites they are used to, there are some out there that have spyware and adware they almost certainly don't want to let on their machine," says ScanSafe's vice president of product strategy Dan Nadir.Not playing fairSo Scandoo might tell you about adware or spyware risks but what about the risk that a site isn't playing fair - that the program behind the roulette wheel is random, that the virtual cards are truly well-shuffled? While criminals move in on even third-party software like rake calculators, consumers have varying levels of protection through regulation that is patchy at best.That's quite something when there are an estimated 4 million Britons taking part in the pounds 5.25bn online gambling business. For while there are betting sites based in the UK, none offer casino or poker because they will only become legal when the Gambling Act 2005 comes into effect in September 2007 - providing what the minister responsible for gambling, Richard Caborn, calls "a model for gambling regulation around the world in the years to come".That might be optimistic. The problem for the UK's new regulator, the Gambling Commission, is that it can only regulate those sites granted a UK licence after applications are invited from January 2007. How will they be vetted? It's not clear. More importantly, how will they be taxed? The Treasury has yet to give details.The answers matter because the poker and casino sites initially set up offshore to avoid regulation and taxation, and have enjoyed booming business. How to attract them back? Most now expect a Treasury announcement at the last possible moment, in the spring 2007 budget.Gordon Brown, if he is still Chancellor, will either have to tax the sites like any other gambling company - which will attract very few back to the UK - or offer tax breaks that will risk outraging public opinion. Neither is attractive.The only stick (and carrot) the government has to beat the operators with is an advertising ban on offshore sites: they are not allowed to advertise in the UK media. (The internet position isn't clear.) However, the ban cannot be used against Gibraltar and Malta - where many sites are based - because they are defined as part of the European Economic Area. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport is also working on a whitelist of areas it believes are regulated well enough to be allowed to advertise in the UK. The two main remaining European offshore bases, the Isle of Man and Alderney, are expected to be the first on the list.Bill Mummery, head of e-gaming on the Isle of Man, is frustrated. He believes that while the government fine-tunes its online gambling plans, the whitelist could at least be used to inform web users where they can gamble with confidence."It's unlikely we won't be on the white-list so why not make an announcement now? Then, while we wait for the Gambling Act to become law in 18 months' time, at least online gamblers will have been reassured in the meantime," he says. "Although our operators have to state they are regulated by the Isle of Man, some consumers may not know whether that's a good or a bad thing. The UK government could provide some really clear, welcome guidance on where consumers can gamble and be well protected."Helen O'Kane, policy development manager at the Gambling Commission, insists, however, it would not be sensible to rush. "We need to ensure that UK sites are fair, free of crime and offer protection for vulnerable gamblers," she says. "To do that well, it obviously needs time to add the fine detail to the 2005 Act."But Andrew Beveridge, the chief executive of the online gambling self-regulating body, E-Commerce Online Gambling Regulation and Assurance (eCogra), believes few if any sites might relocate to the UK. That would imperil the consumer protection the DCMS has always maintained is at the heart of the 2005 Act."You do start to get a vision of Richard Caborn throwing a party next year to launch online gambling and he's standing there in a big room with his party hat on all on his own," Beveridge says.Within the online gambling industry, eCogra is well regarded. It aims to bolster consumer confidence by providing sites it has approved with a 'Play it Safe' badge, which can be earned only by sites that are audited by PriceWaterhouseCoopers and whose software is regularly tested to ensure it is constantly random. In fact, the badge is so well-regarded, Beveridge admits two sites have copied the graphic without bothering with being audited, and despite legal letters are not taking it down. Would-be gamblers should check the ecogra.org site to make sure a site displaying the seal has the right to do so.Such roguish behaviour is no surprise to Bryan Bailey, a gambling consultant who also runs CasinoMeister.com, through which he takes on casinos that have swindled his readers. Some of these routinely copy safety scheme badges they are not entitled to or pretend to belong to non-existent consumer protection schemes.Rogue sites"The rogues are a minority but that doesn't help you if you've won a lot of money and they're not paying out," Bailey says. "People have to come to me because a lot of the time there's no real regulator to speak of, so the sites are unchecked. In Costa Rica, for example, anyone can buy an everyday business licence, not even a specific gambling licence and set up a site for $10,000. There are some very reputable sites coming out of Costa Rica but if we set one up tomorrow there would be nobody for people to complain to if we didn't pay them. That's why I publish my rogue's gallery online, so users can be informed."While consumer confidence appears to be in the hands of self-regulating industry bodies and a campaigning consultant ready to name and shame the rogues, the UK's laws actually force consumers to take unnecessary risk, says Paul Court, director of operations at the web host Globix."Not a lot of people realise this but we host 15 gambling sites right here in the UK," Court says. "Normally, nearly everything is done on the London servers other than the physical transfer of money which constitutes gambling. The irony is, we are rare in offering full payment-card industry protection standards, but I can't say the same about wherever the transactions are fired off to." That happens on servers in other countries - where, he doesn't know."It strikes me as crazy the government allows everything to be done on a server in the UK, other than the one actual thing that needs really good consumer protection. Where's the sense in that?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It used to be said spending too much time on your computer was an escape from reality. Nowadays it is the other way round. If youngsters do not spend enough time online they may be missing out on life, as lived by their peers. The runaway success of communities that exist only online - of which MySpace's 70 million to 80 million members is the most spectacular example - suggests virtual really is the new reality. Younger people are moving into gated communities online (you need to put your age and college before being allowed in) that become the forums for communications, from dating to sharing homework or launching a band.Much of the action during the recent National Union of Students elections, apparently, took place not through public meetings but on MySpace. If politicians want to recapture the interest of politically disaffected youth they will have to hitch a ride on the revolution passing them by. Where all this is leading can only be guessed at. The digital money guru Dave Birch has calculated that Chinese gaming enthusiasts who mine gold in online games such as World of Warcraft (in order to sell it to Western players who want to surreptitiously advance their own positions in the game) earn up to 10 times as much as actual gold miners in China who work in a highly dangerous industry. Discuss.MySpace gets most of the publicity thanks to the hype created when Rupert Murdoch acquired it, but most of the activity has been below the radar of mainstream media on sites such as Bebo and Facebook, that claims 7.5m users spending 20 minutes a day online and which was "discovered" by the New Yorker last month. This isn't just an American thing, either. The UK-orientated Faceparty, started six years ago, predates MySpace but until recently was largely unreported in the serious press. According to Hitwise, it has more than 6m subscribers (rising by 35,000 a week) and was the number one community site in the UK in the first quarter.Last week I chatted to Dave Ames, aged 29, who launched Face-pic in 2000 from a bedroom in Stevenage with a friend. Aimed at 16- to 24-year-olds, it is about to reach 2.5m registered users with virtually no publicity, and it claims to be making a profit. The numbers are not big compared to MySpace but there are a lot of UK newspapers that would die to have them. Dave claims its special feature is that users really feel they have ownership of the site because it responds to their concerns. Community sites such as these are developing their own languages that adults have yet to catch up on.It has become uncool to say something is "cool" rather than it is "book" (it derives from what happens when you type "cool" into your phone using predictive text). The meaning of "sick" has been inverted to "very good" in much the same way as wicked became good years ago.Another site that started in a UK bedroom (in Whitechapel) four years ago is also starting to make international waves, having quadrupled its size since a relaunch in August. In March 2003, Ben Hammersley wrote in this section about Audioscrobbler, created by Richard Jones when he was a computer science student at Southampton university.Sitting on top of iTunes or other music services, it monitors what you are listening to and makes recommendations about similar music played by others. When Martin Stiksel and a friend, the founders of Last.fm, which provides personalised online radio, read this article they thought it would be a natural fit, rushed down to Southampton and soon came on board. Last.fm is coy about members (somewhere between 2m and 3m), doubtless fearful of comparisons with MySpace, but it handles 10m songs a day and is more popular in the US than here. There are not many sites you can say that about.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
You could try, but you're probably at the back of the queue. Have you thought of going for Web 5.0 or Web 6.0? It sounds silly, but the US-based computer book publisher and conference organiser O'Reilly Media claims it owns the Web 2.0 moniker when applied to conferences, and other conferences must get its permission to call themselves Web 2.0.While the company founder Tim O'Reilly was on holiday last week, CMP's lawyers sent a cease-and-desist letter to IT@Cork, demanding they not use "Web 2.0" in the title of their conference, CMP being the co-organiser of O'Reilly's own popular series of Web 2.0 conferences.Had Tim been around, he might have suggested talking to the guys first. However, what was done and the way it was done created a bit of a storm in the blogosphere - especially because of O'Reilly's long history as a geek-friendly and open source-oriented organisation.O'Reilly Media does have a point. As recorded in this section, it was an O'Reilly staff member, Dale Dougherty, who coined the term Web 2.0, and it was Tim O'Reilly who talked it up. But it's both foolish and counterproductive to try to hang on to it. There's much more value in everybody using the Web 2.0 term, given O'Reilly will often be cited as the company that coined it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The moving train wreck that is Windows Vista finally began to approach its destination last week with the release of another major test version: beta 2. This should mean it is "feature complete", with only bug fixes, performance tuning and a final polish before it reaches businesses at the end of this year, and consumers at the start of next year.Looked at objectively, from a suitable distance, through half-closed eyes, it looks good. In particular, the graphics are often stunning when running the new Aero Glass user interface.The white unpainted areas and jaggedy lines often visible in Windows XP seem to be a thing of the past. In fact, you get something closer to the graphics performance of a good game, and for the same reason - the graphics card is doing most of the work, instead of leaving it to the main processor. As a result, Microsoft says going back to a "lower" version of Windows can mean it slows down instead of speeding up, because the load is thrown back on to the CPU.The new transparency - the Glass that has been added to the Aero interface - looks nice but may not last. At least it's controlled from a sliding scale, so you can set how much transparency you want.But there is still a lot to do, and beta 2 desperately needs the computer equivalent of the house doctor Ann Maurice - a function Steve Jobs performs at Apple - to get the dozens of programming teams to throw out the crap, or at least get their corners, rules and spaces reasonably consistent.Still, Microsoft hauled more than one hundred journalists and analysts from 15 countries to a Vista reviewers' workshop in Seattle, so we could get our copies of the new beta from the fair hands of Jim Allchin, who has run Windows development for more than a decade. He duly appeared on stage with the first box of beta 2's, so we got them before the PC makers at WinHEC, the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference. Not that they were any use until an access code appeared in our mailboxes later.Allchin then gave a memorable goodbye speech, using words such as "naive", "hugely painful" and "humbled" because once Vista ships, he's being replaced by Steve Sinofsky, the current head of Microsoft Office.Having taken Microsoft from zero market share to a market-leading position in the server operating system market, Allchin has earned his crust. But, as he admitted, "I was naive about how big a deal the attacks [on Windows XP] were going to be". Being handed a PC that was so infested with malware, even he could not clean it up, was "a humbling experience", he confessed.A lot of the work that has gone into Vista is invisible because it has been devoted to cleaning out insecurities, hardening services and sandboxing applications such as Internet Explorer 7+. Vista now seems much better than XP SP2, which was dramatically better than XP. Whether it's enough, only time and the attentions of thousands of criminal, commercial malware writers will tell.A lot more work is equally invisible, because it caters for the needs of Vista's biggest and most important market: businesses. For example, Vista now installs as a single image, which is simply copied across, rather than as a sequence of separate files. Big companies like to construct and deploy their own operating system image - typically including Windows and their main applications - but Microsoft's system is novel in that it can install an image on an existing hard drive without destroying applications and data. These can be picked up later.This also explains why all the versions of Vista, from Home Basic to the Ultimate kitchen sink version, appear to take up the same 15GB of hard drive space. You get the whole thing, and can upgrade from one version to another just by entering a code, without doing another installation or a long download.It's clever, but risky. Decisions have not been taken, but I was given to understand Microsoft was unlikely to ship the full image in countries with a high incidence of software piracy.Vista also uses Windows PE (pre-installation environment) and, according to Windows' client group product manager Stella Chernyak, it can self-repair an otherwise unbootable system about 80% of the time. Since the main costs of an enterprise operating system are installation and support, Chernyak argued, Vista could save companies money.And from a corporate point of view, it is extremely important Microsoft is launching new versions of Windows and Office at the same time, then a new version of Windows Server. After years without a significant upgrade in functionality, companies will be able to make one great leap forward. This will obviously be very convenient, and money could pour into Microsoft's already overflowing coffers.For those of us who have been following this particular development from the storage principles that appeared in the 1990s (Cairo) through to the Longhorn ideas that Microsoft showed even before the release of Windows XP, Vista looks a bit of a disaster. If Microsoft had delivered what it promised in, say, 2004, it would have led the market. Instead, it's offering much less, and delivering it much later - probably after three or even more versions of, say, Mac OS X.But, of course, we're an insignificant number of people with little money and even less influence. Vista is probably going to ship about 500m copies in 2007-08, with more than 10,000 PC manufacturers pre-installing it on almost every machine they make, across the four corners of the earth. And paying Microsoft about $25bn in cash.I suspect most of these naive users will find a lot to like in Vista. They will like the clean interface and the speed of Windows Media Player 11, the extra security and enhanced features of Internet Explorer 7+ (quick tabs, RSS feed detection, page zooming, print-to-fit), and the vastly improved Start menu. They will love the way little screen images pop up from the taskbar, and the way they can mouse-wheel rapidly through screens in Flip 3D mode - with videos still running. Some less jaded users will enjoy the gadgets - clock, slide show, weather information etc - that show in the Vista Sidebar, as per Konfabulator, or on accessory screens.At least the geekier ones may discover other little features, such as the ability to link two PCs via Wi-Fi, in Vista's MeetingSpace, the ability to use plug-in USB thumb drives to add to their PC's memory (ReadyBoost), hard drives with built in Flash memory (ReadyDrives), and support for things like 802.11i networking and Internet Protocol IPv6.Vista will not get people dancing in the streets - except maybe Allchin - but it will probably keep the Windows market rolling for a few more years. Microsoft has certainly been through a bad patch, but the worst may be over.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Solid statedSamsung plans to launch the first PCs with built-in 32GB SSD (solid state drives). The Q1-SSD ultramobile (Origami) will be about $2,430 (&pound;1,300) and the Q30-SSD notebook $3,700. Both have built in DMB TV receivers.Top shopsAccording to the IMRG/Hitwise index, the UK's top five online shops in April were Amazon UK, Dell, Argos, Tesco.com and Play.com. IMRG says 10% of retail sales are online, and sales have grown 2000% in six years.Free PodScrollsFree eating and drinking guides to 10 of the world's great cities in "PodScroll" format for all colour-screen iPods are atwww.roughguides.com/podscrolls.Time wasterReed Personnel Services has put an office football game (in Flash) online.www.binballwizard.comShow offsMitsubishi Electric has launched two ultra-portable projectors, the SL6U and XL6U. Each weighs 2.7kg.Skype takes offSkype has taken off since it announced a VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) deal with Bebo, the social networking site. Hitwise UK said last week, "58% of visits to Skype came from Bebo."Get Lost!Channel 4 has bought the exclusive UK video-on-demand rights to the first two seasons of Lost and Desperate Housewives. Episodes cost 99p each.www.channel4.com/lostKids clipsThe BBC's Open Schools Archive makes about 100 clips available to classrooms.www.bbc.co.uk/opennewsarchive/Hackers' delightMoscow-based Kaspersky Lab says 49% of Wi-Fi networks in London are open to attack as they don't use data encryption.www.viruslist.com/en/analysis?pubid=187008611Happy helperUseWho.com, a UK search engine, has launched the Happy2Help toolbar. Each search results in a donation to a charity.www.usewho.com/charity/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dancing to a brand new beatIt's no surprise to the media, the web is still better for adding a good story to a conventionally promoted rock/pop act than for actually finding new sounds (Making a song and dance, May 25). The internet is not a clearly defined form of media as radio, TV and magazines are - it's just a form of transmission. Playgrounds like Myspace.com still hold the potential for something completely new, and add-on stories as described in the article can be seen as an indication of the ongoing change.Paul LohbergerVienna, Austria&middot;Interesting article but in your list of formats you left out reel-to-reel, which in the early/mid 1970s was considered the ultimate in hi-fi.Tim BirdOsloBug bearsEric Sink's article on buggy software (Why we all sell code with bugs, May 25) was OK as far as it went, but it missed the biggest reason why so much software is sold with serious bugs: first to market generally wins.If you bring a product to market after a competitor, then you can say goodbye to a significant chunk of your market because most of your potential customers have already bought the competing product. Even if that competitor is full of bugs and your product is perfect, most people will stay with what they have rather than shell out even more money for a product that, for all they know, might be just as bad. There is huge pressure on project managers to ship their product fast, even with serious known bugs, because losing 25% of your market will make the difference between a solid profit and a serious loss. The solution is to make a rule never to buy Version 1 of anything. Wait until it has been on the market a while and the bugs shaken out.Paul JohnsonLee-on-Solent&middot;The reason software ships with bugs is simple. It's the old 80/20 rule - 80% of the bugs can be spotted and fixed easily before release. The remainder will take much more time to track down. That means higher costs, which means you either lose money or put the sale price up to a level no-one will pay. It also means your software will be out of date by the time it hits the market, leapfrogged by rivals who are less fussy about the odd bug.Back in the old days, most software was bought by large corporations who were prepared to pay hundreds of thousands of pounds to get thoroughly tested, efficiently supported products. Today, we all want it cheap and we want it now. In return we'll put up with a few glitches. There's a point at which you have to say, "Well, it'll do." That point is reached when it does the job with no more than minor hassles.What we shouldn't accept is something that isn't fit for its purpose. If it's broken so badly it doesn't do what it says on the box, it shouldn't be released.Andy KeyWinchester, HampshireData solutionLaudable as the principle of increasing access to data is, in practice I doubt the quality of the data will be maintained if left to any government to pay for (One small step on a long-haul journey, May 25). Witness the parlous state of topographic survey mapping in the United States where free access has meant there is no public finance to maintain a current comprehensive survey.We are fortunate in the Ordnance Survey to have an unrivalled quality database which is also attempting to stay in tune with the real market demands of users. Not perfect, but perhaps the least bad solution - like the BBC compared to TV in the rest of the world.Douglas SchatzManaging director, Stanfords, LondonNumber crunchingContrary to Ashley Norris's review (Sky's HD TV system, May 25), the box has a 300GB hard drive - not 160GB as stated - but 140GB is partitioned for Sky broadband. You can group all HD channels just by pressing red on the TV guide page.Adam VaughanStuff Magazine, London
A controversial downloadable game has sparked enormous controversy in the US, after news of its release hit the syndicated wires. Super Columbine Massacre RPG takes its inspiration from the violent events which made a small-town high school in Colorado international news in April 1999.SCMRPG was created in 2005 by Danny Ledonne, a 24-year-old from Alamosa, about 400 miles south of the scene of the massacre. He was a Colorado high-school student at the same time as Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, the two boys who shot dead 12 students and teachers and wounded 24 others at Columbine High School, and then killed themselves at the scene.Evidence suggests the boys were maligned and bullied and, of particular interest to anti-games campaigners, played the first-person-shooter Doom. The event has become a focal point for both sides of US campaigns dedicated to gun control, free speech and media violence, and has been the subject of many documentaries and dramas. Until now, however, no one had dared recreate the tragedy as a videogame.It is with bleak irony a game based upon the poster child of the anti-games movement has been created. Indeed, SCMRPG has provided evidence for those vocal in American politics who wish to ban games or classify them as pornography.It may indeed be in poor taste to use personal tragedy as raw material in a medium that is conceived of as entertainment; yet according to Ledonne and other serious games advocates, the content of computer products need not always be fun and games. Nor do they need to be to everybody's taste.In many ways, the game plays more like Pokemon than Doom II, the 3-D first-person-shooter that Harris played before the incident. SCMRPG is viewed from a third-person perspective with colourful retro cartoon graphics. There are no demons jumping out from around corners; instead, players must confront their victims in the 2-D cafeteria, school playground and classrooms, choosing whether or not to use the weapons in an arsenal matched to public police records.How many people are eventually killed is entirely up to the person behind the keyboard. Ledonne is keen to point out there is nothing in the game mechanics that forces players to re-enact the killings, but they have the choice to do so if they wish.He argues the dimension which sets this apart from many other games on the market is the explicit call for players to choose whether to recreate the crime. Just as with other simulated interactive experiences, SCMRPG challenges users to understand the choices that were made and the consequences of those actions.The movement embracing games with an agenda is growing, yet titles such as SCMRPG often count as negative publicity for this genre, which aims to make points beyond those listed on high score tables.Other forms of media allow an avenue for social commentary and in some cases, like Bowling for Columbine, Michael Moore's Oscar-winning film on the same subject, reward it. Yet the maturing interactive medium is castigated for addressing political agendas.Games are increasingly becoming part of the fabric of formal learning, and are celebrated in this sphere for their ability to stimulate deep knowledge in compelling simulated atmospheres.A product such as SCMRPG exists to situate the consumer in an experience of a real event, and to learn from it. It may be tasteless to many. Yet it can also be regarded as a tool that has stimulated discussion in a tragic chapter of recent American history. Guardian Unlimited&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because both are scared of Google, which not only dominates search, but is launching a payments system and plans to take over the world's classified advertising. At the moment, however, Yahoo has the web's most trafficked portal, and eBay is the major power in e-commerce, so each has something the other values. Better still, there are hardly any areas where the two compete, so no divisions have to be sacrificed for the greater good.In the "strategic partnership" announced last week, Yahoo and eBay say the four major components are: search and graphical advertising; online payments; a co-branded toolbar; and the opportunity to explore "click-to-call" functionality using eBay's Skype internet-based voice telephony service.But the core of the deal is eBay will allow Yahoo to sell banner ads and contextual search ads on eBay pages in the US (and share the money), while Yahoo will adopt eBay's PayPal system for making payments.The advertising will have to be done carefully, or eBay sellers will go bananas. John Donahoe, president of eBay Marketplaces, told the San Francisco Chronicle the ads will be for complementary products so as not to compete with sellers. If you search for compost, for example, you might get ads for plants, spades or wheelbarrows etc.In its last financial quarter, only $36.6m of eBay's $1.39bn revenue came from advertising as opposed to auction-related fees, so there would seem to be a large financial opportunity. Presumably this explains why other elements of the deal - PayPal and Skype - seem to favour eBay.However, the partnership falls short of eBay's real desires, in that Yahoo's auctions site will continue to compete with eBay. And because of the traffic Yahoo gets, eBay has always seen this as a serious threat. Of course, if all goes well, eBay could simply take over Yahoo's auction business.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you don't, you probably know somebody who does. With Britain stuffed full of more mobile phones than people, connected members of the public are developing an increasing number of ways to fret about their handsets.The result, say experts, is the telecommunications equivalent of phantom limb syndrome, where amputees still feel the sensations of a limb that isn't there any more.Many of us will be familiar with the basest form of ringxiety - when one phone rings and everyone in the vicinity suddenly starts checking their pockets or handbags with frantic abandon. But some cases become far more complex: individuals have reported hearing their phone ring at concerts, or while driving.The neologism was coined by David Laramie, who is studying for his doctorate at California's School of Professional Psychology in Los Angeles. Laramie says he is a sufferer himself, and thinks similar sounds or sequences of notes can trigger the false perception his phone is ringing.Laramie's own ringxiety can be sparked by simple things such as TV advertisements or tunes on the radio. "Another place I hear it is running water, so I sometimes hear it while I'm shaving," he told the New York Times last month.Even turning your phone's ring off doesn't help - vibrations seem just as likely to cause false positives as audible triggers.Although it might sound like quackery, the science behind it is fairly straightforward. Certain sound registers - about 1,000 and 6,000 Hertz - are more easily caught by the human ear, and therefore more likely to stimulate a response.But ultimately it is more likely driven by a psychological need to be always connected, the same thing that encourages people to sit in the pub with their phone on the table. If that's got you in a panic, then you can always calm yourself down by remembering that ringxiety - like many maladies caused by modern life - isn't a real, recognised condition ... yet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Da Vinci CodePC, PS2, Xbox, &pound;34.99/&pound;29.99The Collective/2K2 starsA point-and-click adventure was never in doubt for Dan Brown's blockbuster and, given the book's many puzzles, it works well enough. Run round the Louvre (and elsewhere), click on hotspots, follow clues - you know the drill. Da Vinci fans will know most of the twists but the 3D engine beats most examples of the genre and it's easy to get sucked in. Then the mistakes start to pile up - crude fight-or-flight interludes where you must follow detailed on-screen instructions, reducing gameplay to an irritating reflex test; the awful camera, often refusing to let you click or look where you want; and Tom Hanks and co are nowhere in sight (replaced by bad actors, drably animated), leading me to suspect a 'game of the movie' license is in the pipeline. After a lacklustre film and a mediocre game, all the clues point to Opus Dei having the last laugh.MASensible Soccer 2006PS2, Xbox, PC, &pound;29.99, Kuju/CodemastersRockstar Games5 starsTake That's mid-90s split may have devastated teenage girls, but it was Sensible Soccer's similarly timed demise that upset their brothers. Sensi's fast and furious top-down action appeared anachronistic compared to the 3D footy games appearing on the PlayStation. Fast forward a decade and things have gone full circle. Take That have reformed and Sensible Soccer is back. Thankfully the developers have resisted the urge to tinker with the basic formula and Sensible Soccer 2006 retains the anarchic action of the original. Sliding tackles, after-touch and incredible pace are still key elements, instant replays and a sprint bar welcome additions. The simple controls allow anyone to play, though the pace and manual control over shots will come as a shock to FIFA and PES fans. The lack of online play grates, but Sensible Soccer is the greatest comeback of 2006.GHTable TennisNintendo DS, Xbox 360, &pound;29.99, Rockstar Games5 starsIf ever there was a Ronseal game, this is it. Table Tennis uses the Xbox 360's power to provide a startlingly life-like depiction of the eponymous game - surprising, given it was created by those perennial fomenters of controversy, Rockstar. It uses the standard Xbox 360 controller. When mastered, the control system lets you apply all the spin, power and trickery you could ever crave. Table Tennis is simple, cheap and obvious, and all the better for that. Its one departure from utter realism is the occasional ability to slow down time and focus on pulling off an outrageous shot. A repetitive, although monstrously addictive, single-player game takes a back seat to the multiplayer game - Table Tennis will take Xbox Live by storm.SB&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You're an online company. You want to know what I think about you. You could just send me a little email that says, "We want to know what you think. What could we be doing better? Hit reply and tell us!" But you don't. You send me email from addresses that bounce mail sent back to them. You hide your actual email addresses behind forms on your web site. You do everything in your power to ensure no customer will ever successfully contact a human within your company.And then you send me an invitation to take an online survey.PayPal did this the other week, though it's far from the only one. I had fought my way through PayPal's online form to ask why I had to set up direct payment out of a bank account when all I wanted to do was pay by credit card. The response told me how to set up a bank account. I knew how. What I wanted to know was why.The survey asked: did we answer your question? I could have answered that in a second: No. I could have answered it in a minute: "If this is your policy, I disagree with it and here's why." Instead, they sent me a survey saying, "It will take only a minute." To do the survey, you have to click on a link, which takes you to a page that tells you immediately they lied in the email. "This survey should only take two to three minutes to complete." Another lie.All these surveys are designed to elicit the responses they're interested in, not necessarily the things you want to tell them. At that, PayPal's was better than most, as it began with a list of problems you might have had with the email and invited you to make multiple choices. It even gives you 2,000 characters of free text in which to state what it was you didn't like. Then you get pages and pages of radio buttons ...These surveys drive me mad. The worst is that you can't skip a page of questions on the grounds they're irrelevant, stupid, or just plain annoying (if you try, it carps and demands you go back). You can't hit a button that says, "Get me out of here!"You get no feedback to tell you whether the system knows who you are (is the survey anonymous? Named? Will my credit rating suffer if I call them bozos?) and if you bail you have no idea whether your responses to date will be logged and noted. This is no way to run a survey. But it is a great way to make what I think about you unprintable.
Yahoo News has recentlypostedone of those revelatory, 'hey, women like games too!' articles. Apparently, there's now, 'a core of female gamers who are increasing women's visibility and influence'. Incredible!"For this industry to mature and move on, it has to grow beyond just that 13- to 35-year-old male demographic," said Anthony Borquez, a professor who teaches video game production at the University of Southern California.He later confirmed that large early twentieth century cruise ships should avoid icebergs and that man could reach the moon if propelled through the earth's atmosphere in a rocket.The article goes on to discuss the impact all-female gaming clans have had on the world of the multplayer online game:Clan members compete with each other and band together in professional tournaments. They also challenge the online harassment doled out by male gamers. PMS Clan rules prohibit "belittling or attacking others in any way, even in retaliation," according to its 30-page member manual.Although I enjoy the idea of incredibly polite gamers, gently applauding each other's frags, I can't help but feel this behaviour is far from representative, and that such articles are as counter-productive as the sexist insults apparently chucked at women players by atavistic, cosily anonymous males.If there's a story here, this isn't it.
Wired has justreportedon theNintendo Amusement Parkan interesting attempt by three New York University students to build a real-life version of Super Mario Brothers."...the project consists of a 40-foot-high motorized truss, bungee cords and a military harness to enhance players' jumping power. Once outfitted with a Mario or Luigi costume, players can pop yellow balloon "coins," punch a power-up box 15 feet above their head or avoid a Bob-omb that is chasing them. Meanwhile, sound effects sync up with their movements to add to the Super Mario Bros. feel."Apparently, the experience is rather basic - and tinged with danger - at the moment, but the students, who are currently studying on the exciting-sounding'Big Games'course at the university's Tisch School of Arts, hope to produce a more sophisticated version of the harness complete with forward movement and featuring actual videogame physics. And to think, I wasted three years at university studying English Literature without once getting the opportunity to convert one of Shakespeare's plays into an augmented reality obstacle course. What a waste.Of course, this certainly isn't the first attempt to transform a videogame into a real-life experience. Last year, for example, Technology Blogpostedabout a group of Ohio school girls who were arrested after trying to turn their small town into a live action version of Super Mario bros.It's interesting that both of these experiments have been inspired by Mario titles. Is this simply down to the mainstream profile of the character, or is there something about Mushroom Kingdom that makes people want to live there? We know that Shigeru Miyamoto based the Mario universe around his experiences as a child, exploring the fields and woods near his home collecting insects and, presumably, battling goombas. So perhaps his loving rendition of a child-like fantasy realm has somehow struck a universal chord.This all leads to the obvious question: which videogame environment wouldyoumost like to live in? Here are five candidates...GTA: Vice CityApart from the constant threat of being capped in the ass, the Vice City lifestyle is a seductive one. Dressed in wide-lapelled white suits, surrounded by fawning lackeys and trashy women, and able to dish out gratuitous violence at the drop of a gangland cliche, every day would be whirl of sex, excitement and irresponsible motoring. Admittedly, however, it would be difficult to simulate all this with just a motorized truss and a bungee chord. Although having said that...Deus ExA futuristic world populated almost entirely by homicidal cyberpunk gangs, corrupt government agencies and sci-fi religious cults? A world where nano-augmentation could give you all the abilities you've ever desired, including lock-picking, computer hacking and properly configuring a HD TV with your DVD player? What's not to like?EliteBack in the eighties, it was impossible to play Elite without pretending it was all real. Just imagine: cruising the galaxy, battling pirates, selling the odd slave on the side to make ends meet, perhaps occasionally taking on a juicy secret mission. What a life.Final FantasyPretty much any of the rich mythological kingdoms conjured up by Square would be eminently inhabitable. Taking to the skies in incredible airships, surrounded by brave adventurers and glamorous royals, learning magical spells, hanging about in taverns starting fights with monsters and ninjas... paradise.DOA Beach VolleyballI don't know how this one got on the list.
Apologies folks. So much work to do. Here's a chat space.
Queued downloads, booting straight to dashboard, improved marketplace access - the upcoming changes to the Xbox360 dashboard appear to be worth the wait. If you can ignore the overexcited host - awesome! two for two! - then it's worth checking outthis videofrom Microsoft bloggerMajor Nelsonwhich runs throughthe updates. Current Live players look set to benefit - although some of the new features, such as fast forwarding through trailers, should have been in from the start - but if you are an offline 360 owner will these changes be enough to tempt you to try Live?
Jaron Lanier, who more or less invented virtual reality in the 1980s (making me a lifelong Lanier fan), has published a fascinating Edge essay onDigital Maosim: The Hazards of the New Online Collectivism.The opening gambit is: "The hive mind is for the most part stupid and boring. Why pay attention to it?" What he is pointing to is the collective output exemplified by Wikipedia etc, meta-sources of informaiton such as Google, and meta-meta-meta sources such as (in increasing order of meta-ness), Boing Boing, Digg and Popurls.It's not hard to see why the fallacy of collectivism has become so popular in big organizations: If the principle is correct, then individuals should not be required to take on risks or responsibilities. We live in times of tremendous uncertainties coupled with infinite liability phobia, and we must function within institutions that are loyal to no executive, much less to any lower level member. Every individual who is afraid to say the wrong thing within his or her organization is safer when hiding behind a wiki or some other Meta aggregation ritual.I've participated in a number of elite, well-paid wikis and Meta-surveys lately and have had a chance to observe the results. I have even been part of a wiki about wikis. What I've seen is a loss of insight and subtlety, a disregard for the nuances of considered opinions, and an increased tendency to enshrine the official or normative beliefs of an organization. Why isn't everyone screaming about the recent epidemic of inappropriate uses of the collective? It seems to me the reason is that bad old ideas look confusingly fresh when they are packaged as technology.Why do we do it? As Lanier points out later:It's safer to be the aggregator of the collective. You get to include all sorts of material without committing to anything. You can be superficially interesting without having to worry about the possibility of being wrong.Comment:Edgeis based on the idea of accumulating the knowledge of a very small number of the world's smartest people -- more or less the opposite of Google or Wikipedia.
Worldwide mobile phone sales totaled 224 million units in the first quarter of 2006, a 23.8% increase from the same period last year, according to Gartner, Inc. These strong results for the quarter have resulted in Gartner increasing its mobile phone sales forecast to 960 million units."As mobile phone replacements in mature markets such as Western Europe and North America gave little sign of slowing down, strong sales in regions such as Asia/Pacific and Japan contributed to such a positive start in 2006," said Carolina Milanesi, principal analyst for mobile terminals research at Gartner, based in Egham, UK. "This strong start to 2006 is indicative of another strong year."The top two vendors, Nokia and Motorola, accounted for 54.3% of worldwide mobile phone sales in the first quarter of 2006. Nokia was the favored brand in Western Europe, Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa combined and Asia whilst second preferred brand in the Americas.In Western Europe, sales in the first quarter of 2006 reached 41.1 million units, a 12% increase from the same period in 2005. "While consumers continued to be drawn into shops by new models and New Year's bargains, mobile operators were still able to sign up new subscribers to their networks," Ms Milanesi said.More information is available in the Gartner report "Market Share: Mobile Terminals, Worldwide, 1Q06". The report is available on Gartner's Website atwww.gartner.com.Source: Gartner press releaseNote: BenQ Mobile includes Siemens.Comment: It looks as though the ratio of mobile phone to PC sales will be around 4:1.
Model:Citro&euml;n C6 2.7 HDiPrice:&pound;31,545Top speed:143mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 8.9 secsConsumption:32.5 mpg (combined)CO2 emissions:230g/km (road tax band G)At the wheel:Jean-Paul SartreOn the stereo:Erik SatieEn route for:NiceThey'd rather walk:J&uuml;rgen KlinsmannCharismatic, witheringly superior and confidently eccentric, the new Citro&euml;n C6 couldn't be more French if it wore a beret and was G&eacute;rard Depardieu. The corrugated, boomerang-shaped rear lights sit astride the short but sharp rear wings. The rear window is concave, just for the hell of it. The front overhang is vast, the rear overhang minimal.We are clearly meant to be reminded of the legendary Citro&euml;n DS. Remember that from the 1950s and 60s? The DS was one of the few vehicles in which smoking and wearing a black polo neck were obligatory. It was the car that radical French intellectuals either drove or set fire to, depending what mood they were in. If the C6's rear wheels were half-concealed by the body panels, the illusion would nearly be complete.We are clearly in the presence of a character piece, designed to cast a haughty look across the road at the slightly chilly, Teutonic luxury wagons made by Audi and Mercedes, and determined not to be out-luxuried. The interior of my C6 boasted more cream leather than a porn baron's sitting room. The seats were so absurdly cosseting that they seemed to have been handcrafted by a team of Thai masseuses equipped with all my personal measurements.In the top-spec models, even the rear seats tilt back, TGV-style, and a person in the back can adjust their own leg room with a button that moves the front passenger seat forwards. On the grounds that children are likely to find this button deeply amusing, given the opportunities it provides for forcing a helpless front passenger into the dashboard, the system can be deactivated by the driver, using the appropriately named Child Safety button.Citro&euml;n has always spoiled us with mechanical oddities. The self-levelling suspension system was always a big charisma point in Citro&euml;ns of old (Look! The car is going up and down! On its own!) and it duly appears, in sparkling modern form, in the C6. In addition, you can bump the suspension up or down a notch with buttons on the dash, for those longer periods when smooth Tarmac gives way to craggy, pot-holed impenetrability - eg in the suburbs of Chelmsford.Pushing the mechanical fiendishness still further, Citro&euml;n has fitted the C6 with a speed-sensitive rear spoiler. This cunning and perhaps not entirely necessary accessory spends most of its life disguised as part of the boot lid, but get above 50mph on a motorway or dual carriageway and the spoiler automatically rises out of the body to offer you better windflow and improved braking stability. Of course, I never saw this happen, being rather busy at the front end of the car at the time, but I bet it looked good.My C6 also had Citro&euml;n's rightly revered "lane departure warning system". If the car reckons you are straying off line at speed, in the manner of someone who might be nodding off, the driver's seat literally jabs you in the thighs a couple of times. One appreciates the vital contribution to road safety made by this device, although its implications are worrying. How long before cars start poking us in the ribs for all manner of minor infringements, such as accelerating through an amber light, deliberately entering an obstructed box at a junction, or even going once too often to the wine-gum packet?Still, some extra incentive to stay awake might not be a bad thing in this case. The C6 is extravagantly upholstered and insulated. Almost no noise whatsoever gets through to you, from the engine, the road or the world in general. The urge to sleep, therefore, though not strictly recommended, is unignorable. Indeed, this is probably as close as motoring comes to hibernation. To set off on a long journey in a C6 is to know how a wintering hamster feels, tucked up in all that Kleenex.Drivers in search of a white-knuckle ride had better search elsewhere. Not even Citro&euml;n believes that anyone under 40 is going to even consider buying this car. Indeed, the company reckons a significant part of its target market will be a good 20 years older than that, making the C6, in some regard, a mobile retirement home - the kind of investment that could reasonably be sold with access to a golf course.In Britain, however, they don't care if it only sells in hundreds rather than thousands. All the better for preserving its rarity and superiority. Did I mention that the Citro&euml;n C6 was French?
Aeropausehas picked up a couple of pictures from a Japanese* site, which show the sizes of popular games consoles. As it turns out, Sony's PlayStation 3 is slightly bigger than the original Microsoft Xbox.But all those Japanese games gurus who argued the Xbox was far too big for Japanese homes will not, of course, mention this when they reverse their opinions and welcome the world-beating PS3....The original pictures arehereandhere.* .gs is South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Some people think graphics are the key to the future of gaming. Others think networked communities of gamers will inherit the gaming world. There are also those who think emotional gameplay will lead the way. Still others think it will be user-generated content. Can't we all just get along?To review the cases:Videogame Aestheticsbelieves photo-realism is the way forward, (although I don't agreehere).2Old2Playsimilarly says, "Pah!" to the graphics argument and raises its vote for networked capabilities. Iconcur.We'vebangedonabout emotion in games, with a little help from a research group andindustryinsiders.The BBC makes a strong case for user-generated contenthere. They've also got an interview with designer Will Wright who goes into depth with his new game Spore.What, pray tell, is the future of gaming?
When I was at school in Manchester* during the eighties, casuals meant lads dressed in Pringle and Farah listening to the Style Council and asking hairdressers for a flick - but now it's a lucrative sector of the videogame market.Hence Nintendo's decision to create a new label - Touch Generations - for its mainstream DS titles. "We remain committed to turning video games into an inclusive mass medium that everyone can enjoy," says George Harrison, Nintendo of America's (deep breath) senior vice president of marketing and corporate communications. "Touch Generations will help novices and newcomers identify the fun and uniquely engaging experiences that are available only on Nintendo DS."This is, of course, a pointless piece of product re-positioning, symptomatic of modern business's obsession with branding above and beyond the call of sense. More importantly though, it's about Nintendo revelling in its E3 success. It is about a company that has effectively spent the last decade in its own self-made ghetto, turning to the industry and saying, 'I told you so'.Indeed, Nintendo understands that the rota Fortunae has turned, and that its time may have come again. For ten years, it has stuck with its recipe of cute, suitable-for-all experiences, holding out forlornly against the prevelant youth-centric, male-centric PlayStation philosophy. But subtle shifts in mass media entertainment are now harmonising with the Nintendo way. Interactive TV, community casual gaming sites run by big-name ISPs, quick and easy games embedded in phones...The wider world is coming back to videogames - and Nintendo is speaking its language.Anyway, the first three new releases in the Touch Generations line-up will be Big Brain Academy, the second title in the brain-training series, Magnetica, a marble-based puzzler, and Sudoku Gridmaster, a Sodoku game with over 400 puzzles. They're out this summer.*Well, Cheadle Hulme to be more precise
You must have seen the advert. It's everywhere at the moment - it fills billboards twice on my short trip to work. This is the Ford ad for a new car called the S-MAX. Which looks like some kind of people carrier, but it's hard to tell because the photo of the four-wheeled vehicle is dwarfed by a picture of a powerful-looking cyclist in a skinsuit riding a virtual bike whose wheels are, in fact, Ford-branded alloys.The slogan is "S-MAX your life", while a strap elaborates: "The new Ford S-MAX. Feel the difference." It strikes me as interesting that a major motor manufacturer is using the image of a cyclist to market its car. At one level, I've no objection if a company wants to devote several million pounds to making cycling look sporty, sexy and glamorous. As an index of changing attitudes, it does suggest an encouraging shift in the image of cycling.But the old-fashioned lefty bit of me, the cynic on my shoulder, is muttering darkly about exploitation and hypocrisy. There is something perverse, after all, about using bikes to sell cars.Ford is a company that likes to boast about its green credentials - using renewable energy technologies at its plants and recyclable materials in its manufacturing. And it makes much of its "citizen responsibility", with a community football initiative aimed at disadvantaged youngsters.But how green and responsible is this, from its own recruitment literature? "One of our most popular perks is the Privilege Car Scheme which means that you can purchase up to three Ford cars (plus one Volvo, Jaguar or Land Rover) at a discounted rate every nine months." A new car every three months: that's really going to save the planet. But since Ford seems so keen on cycling's healthy, athletic image, I have a few suggestions for improving its public relations.Instead of discounts on cars, they could offer employees a tax-free bike under the Cycle to Work scheme - a lease-purchase arrangement that enables staff to save as much as 50% on the price of a new bike and accessories. Then they could adopt a travel plan to encourage more people to bike to work. By installing new bike-parking spaces and changing facilities, and offering a cash-for-miles incentive, GlaxoSmithKline - on the other side of London from Ford's Dagenham plant - almost doubled the number of employees it predicted would cycle to work.When it comes to sport, the choice is huge. Ford could do anything from sponsoring a racing squad (as Persil used to do), to linking up with local clubs to promote cycle sport at grassroots level. So come on, Ford: S-MAX your corporate responsibility. We'll all feel the difference.
Illumio may sound like a Harry Potter spell, but it "allows the user to mine the data on the computers of friends, business associates and others with shared interests on any subjects". It sounds like one of the dreams of AI (artificial intelligence) in the 1960s finally starting to become real. According to The New York Times:The system works by transparently distributing a request for information on questions like "Who knows John Smith?" and "Are Nikon digital cameras better than Olympus?" to the computers in a network of users. The questions can then be answered locally based on a novel reverse auction system that Illumio uses to determine who the experts are.And later:The Illumio software uses a reverse auction model to restrict the answer to the best expert. In a reverse auction, sellers compete for the right to provide goods or services. For example, in response to the question, "Who knows John Smith?" each Illumio local system would independently determine who had the best relationship in the network based on parameters such as who had recently exchanged the most e-mail with John Smith.Comment: Come back in another decade when more people have taken up life-caching.
"CNET very quietly launched a simple new photo uploading site calledAllYouCanUploadlast week. At first glance it doesn't appear to be very special or disruptive. But it is," reportsTechCrunch."By launching AllYouCanUpload, CNET just pulled the rug out from under at least two startups (photobucket and imageshack) that focus on providing image hosting for users who want to display those images on other websites, like Myspace, eBay and others. This is a big business - a lot of traffic flows through photobucket today, and it is a profitable and well funded company."Comment: I'm not sure it's disruptive, but it may well drive traffic to Webshots.....
Graeme Ferguson, Head of Content at Vodafone UK, has launched a blistering attack on the quality of mobile phone games. Writing in the industry newsletter,Monty's Gaming and Wireless Outlook, the outspoken exec rages:"I've seen some dire games (surprisingly most with good, great or at least recognisable licences) that really insult the customer... our customer. But whose fault is it that mobile games could go the way of WAP games, where delivery has not matched expectation?The market will not grow and customers will not repeat-buy if the basic quality of mobile-games does not improve. Quicker access to a crap game or greater revenue share for a crap game, or fewer handsets and lower QA costs on a crap game and guess what? It's still a crap game."Ferguson also berates publishers for producing far too many games for any portal to adequately feature. He wants producers to concentrate resources on fewer, better titles. "Heres my advice... Don't pay a fortune for irrelevant licences. Don't re-skin old engines with even older movie brands or socially irrelevant brands and expect operators to get behind them. What next? Monkey Tennis? Inner-city Sumo? Cooking in Prison?" Ironically, I could imagine any of those three attracting interest - from the gaming press at least - but that's probably not the point here.Of course, Vodafone, as a key mobile network operator, is in a unique position to protect consumers. If the company doesn't want to feature crap licensed games on the front page of its Vodafone Live! portal, it doesn't have to.However, when a massive blockbuster movie comes along with a mobile game conversion limping behind it, the temptation must be enormous to shove that game - however good or bad it is - to the top of the 'This week's new downloads' list. After all, that's how the traditional console and PC games industry has worked for years - and no one has stopped buying aggressively marketed PS2 movie conversions just because 90% of them are mediocre or worse.Yet, there does seem to be evidence that poor games are affecting the mobile entertainment industry. As Ferguson points out, "According to industry analysts M:Metrics, the market for mobile games has peaked at around 5% of mobile users and only 20-30% of first-time mobile gamers go back again." That is a quite terrifying churn rate for a form of entertainment that's cheap and ostensibly easy to get hold of.Clearly, the answer is not only to make better games, but also to provide an environment in which those games can prosper, even if they don't have a licence. Partly, this is going to involve making the transaction less economically risky for the consumer - billing options like rental, subscriptions and 'play before you pay' can help here. But also, mobile game aggregators are going to have to bite the bullet and apply a little QA to their catalogue of titles.It is going to be risky, but ultimately liberating. The mobile games industry is not and has never been a sort of reduced reflection of the console games industry. It is a different beast altogether and everybody involved must understand that. The old tricks aren't working here.They never will.
I've checked the date, and it definitely isn't April, so this new press release must be true. Yes, theUK's first ever bible gameis released this summer. The imaginatively titled "Bible Game" is a, "non-denominational, family-oriented multiplayer Bible quiz game." The fictional show is called "Do Unto Others" and points can be lost by falling foul of the "Wrath of God" panel. Erm, perhaps I'll just let the release carry on from here."The multiplayer mini-games include challenges based on Jonah and the whale, the Tower of Babel, David and Goliath, Parting of the Red Sea and Creation. They can also be played as a fun game in their own right, minus the game show element if players want a more action-packed experience. Accompanying the frantic action in these challenges are music tracks from some of the hottest Christian rock artists of the moment."Ned Flanders will be pleased, but what about the UK's 6million plus PS2 owners? Are they ready for religious gaming? Or is the PS2 so integrated in the mainstream that it can support niche product such as this?
We'vewrittenaboutthe implications for race in online worlds in the past, and for those interested in more of the topic I must point you to two discussions on virtual worlds blog Terra Nova and a superb reference list generated on Gameology.From the first Terra Nova post,The Horde is Evil:When a real person chooses an evil avatar, he or she should be conscious of the evil inherent in the role. There are good reasons for playing evil characters - to give others an opportunity to be good, to help tell a story, to explore the nature of evil. But when the avatar is a considered an expression of self, in a social environment, then deliberately choosing a wicked character is itself a (modestly) wicked act.Then when we look at WoW, it seems to me obvious that the Horde races are on the whole evil. One element of this is the fact that the words 'troll' and 'orc' and 'undead' have implied evil creatures for as long as those words have been in use in the English language (since the 9th century in the case of 'orc'). No one, not even mighty Blizzard, can un-do the meaning of a word in a matter of a few years. But more importantly, all you have to do is look at the values expressed by the cultures, and it should be apparent which sets of values are worthy of praise. The human race is the only one with children, and charitable giving, for example. Orcs, on the other hand, value warfare and power. In terms of public ethics, this is a no-brainer to me, really.The second TN post,Cultural borrowing in WoW, I find more distressing, as I believe that the choices of the developers to personify "evil" characters as representatives from a particular culture contributes to a perpetuation of stereotypes in the real world. Greg Lastowka doesn't rest on this element as much as I would hope, but he does approach the idea from the perspective of how the represented cultures and objectives may go critically unquestioned by users. From the post:I guess what I'm curious about is how people feel about cultural borrowing in WoW, and more broadly, about the appropriate limits (if any) of this kind of thing. Is there a point where crypto-cultural references become offensive? Can they be offensive if they are not perceived by the players? Jar-Jar Binks seemed to create a little bit of controversy a while back, so much that Lucas himself reportedly commented that the way Binks talked was "definitely not Jamaican and if you were to say those lines in Jamaican they wouldn't be anything like the way Jar Jar Binks says them."Finally, if this still piques your interest,this reference listis pretty hefty and should satiate any race-related queries you may have.
Just inflate and use.What road warrior could want more?{Thanks toCNetfor the link.]
Joystiq appreciates that people only have a limited amount of cash to spend on games, and given the very high price of the PlayStation 3, it's inviting readers tovoteon how they will spend their money on next-gen machines.So far, Xbox 360 plus Nintendo Wii is winning with 45% of the vote, while PS3 plus Wii only has 8%, with 18,709 votes cast.
Volvo C70Proce:&pound;26,200Top speed:137mphMiles per gallon:31Good for:stargazingBad for:trailblazingMy work friend Ursula has a terrible cold. Her eyes are streaming, she's had a tissue held under her nose for most of the day. She's so ill, in fact, she seems to be swaying slightly as if at any moment she might sink slowly beneath her desk. So when I offer her a lift home, she leaps at the chance to be swished away in the leathery embrace of a new Volvo. And yet here I am, half an hour later, making her stand in the road, a cold wind clutching at her thin coat, just so she can watch the incredible feat of a car peeling back its own roof, slicing it neatly in three and then stacking the steel sections in its own boot. It's a 30-second show which ends with the gentlest beep as the car reports that all is safely stowed and it's ready for duty again.It's an astounding performance and even Ursula, who has as much interest in cars as Tony Blair has in turn taking, is impressed. 'It's as if Frank Gehry and Paul Daniels have collaborated with an origami expert to create the "Amazing Folding Car",' I gabble. Ursula blows her nose and glazes over. I've crossed the line from endearing enthusiasm to weirdo fanaticism. Still, you get the picture...The C70 is the first three-section folding roof to make it into production. We've grown used to two sections, but the benefit of three is that it needs less space behind the seats so the car can be shorter and that, when closed, the roof can be rounder. Having said that, I think the car looks curiously short and could do with a bit more length. And, while we're at it, there's nothing wrong with a flat roof, just look at the Mini. It's as if the entire design has been geared solely towards accommodating the highly technical rear end, rather than incorporating it in a more organic manner. The tail is wagging the dog.As usual, there's been a bit of a clamour about the lack of boot space caused by folding back the roof. How can four passengers travel with their luggage and the roof down, ask the moaners of the motoring press? Well, how about not putting down the roof until you've unpacked at your Tuscan farmhouse. Either way, roof open or shut, heated seats gently toasting your buttocks, the C70 is a truly lovely car to drive. It's actually been built on to a V50 chassis, which was launched last year, and it shares the same purposeful grille and athletic lines. The protruding nose with its slightly recessed headlamps, now referenced by all Volvos, reminds me of a shark, a bull terrier or Janet Street-Porter, depending on my mood. But all seem unnecessarily aggressive. Volvo, which trades on the tagline 'For Life', could really have done with taking its inspiration from something more cuddly.Internally, the C70/V50 is just as you'd expect. Clean, open and spacious. What the Swedes have managed to do to our homes they seem equally adept at doing to our cars. It's almost a surprise to find the dashboard isn't hewn from blond wood. The carpets are beige, though, the leather is sand-coloured and the car's revolutionary 'floating' console, which houses all the controls, is the motoring equivalent of an Ikea kitchen island unit.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Applying traditional First Amendment protections to the exploding universe of online journalism, a state appeals court on Friday rejected Apple Computer's bid to unearth the identities of individuals who leaked inside information on a new company product to bloggers," reports theMercury News."In a 69-page ruling, the San Jose-based 6th District Court of Appeal broke new ground by concluding that bloggers and Web masters enjoy the same protections against divulging confidential sources as established media organizations. Civil liberties groups and journalism organizations have argued that online journalists need to protect the confidentiality of sources just as much as traditional media, such as the New York Times and CNN."There's another interesting point near the end of the story:The 6th District also ruled that a 20-year-old federal law designed to protect the privacy of electronic communications prohibits Apple from going through Internet service providers to obtain the bloggers' sources.
The Mysociety team (they brought youtheyworkforyou.com, the site that shows what your MP has been up to) has done another mashup, this time showinghow long it takes to travel to various parts of the country by train or car, and generated maps with "isochrones" - lines of the same (travel) time - from them.It's fascinating stuff - London turns out to be organised (accidentally) along a NE-SW axis, "a result of good rail links to Surbiton and Twickenham". There's plenty more, in great detail. Of course, it doesn't help on those "last mile" calculations: getting to a train station and getting to your actual destination on a journey are two different things.Among the credits, you'll find this:This work was funded by the Department for Transport, who also made it possible for us to use Ordnance Survey maps and data through their licence; without this assistance we would have had to pay expensive fees to use the underlying mapping data or to produce maps with no landmarks, which would be almost incomprehensible...Although the journey planning services and software we used were publicly accessibly, almost none of the other data is available unless you pay for it, or your work falls under an existing licencing agreement. So while we set out to demonstrate how easily we could make travel-time maps from public data, very little of this work could be cheaply reproduced or extended without assistance from a government department.That's unfortunate, because it means that innovative work by outsiders in this area can only go ahead if it's explicitly sponsored by government. If all the data we've used had been available for free, somebody else might well have done what we've done years ago, with no cost to the taxpayer. We'd love it if others extend the work that we've done, but realistically there aren't very many people in a position to do this cheaply.It sounds to us very like a call toFree Our Data- then we could all benefit from this, rather than having to rely what the Mysociety people (trailblazers that they are) have been able to produce. Imagine if you could get data feeds for free for journeys between any two places in the UK.. it would make planning a commute a lot easier, for a start.
The website video of a cantankerous Hong Kong man insulting a fellow bus passenger has been so popular it has spawned catchphrases and a rap song. The identity of the man known as Bus Uncle is unknown. Only a grainy film of his tirade gives a clue. But the fact that his antics have been so much appreciated reveals the popularity of a new internet phenomenon: online galleries, and in particularyoutube.com.Youtube.com is a website dedicated to video postings. The repository contains hundreds of thousands of videos that have been uploaded by amateur film-makers. These offerings range from the You've Been Framed stock of embarrassing bungles and gaffes to professional-looking feature film shorts and even footage of various concerts and performances. The site also includes a selection of amateur karaoke renditions.The popularity of youtube.com is now recognised around the world and across the media industry, and broadcasters have started to use the site as a promotional tool. Last month 35,000 videos a day were being added to the site, with an estimated 30 million clips being viewed daily.
"As we put together our list of World Class winners for 2006, we decided also to spotlight the 25 worst tech products that have been released since PC World began publishing nearly a quarter-century ago," saysPC World.The magazine readily admits that these aren't really the worst 25. It adds: "Of course, most truly awful ideas never make it out of somebody's garage. Our bottom 25 designees are all relatively well-known items, and many had multimillion-dollar marketing campaigns behind them. In other words, they were made by people who should have known better."There's a complete listhere, and it starts as follows:1. America Online (1989-2006) 2. RealNetworks RealPlayer (1999) 3. Syncronys SoftRAM (1995) 4. Microsoft Windows Millennium (2000) 5. Sony BMG Music CDs (2005)AOL? Really? Was AOL worse than CompuServe or Prodigy or, especially, Prestel? PC World's writers and contributors are clearly too young and too US-centric to have seen enough of the world's worst tech products.But can we do better? Some obvious clunkers are the IBM PC Convertible, Apple's Lisa, the Sinclair QL, the Commodore 1541 disk drive, Sun's 386i workstation, Philips CD-i, Amiga CDTV, Nintendo Virtual Boy, Nintendo Powerglove, etc. (The Sinclair Black Watch is too old for PC World -- 1975.) What about the Nokia NGage?The worst software includes Lotus Notes, of course, IBM's TopView, WordStar 2000, Netscape 4-6, Word Perfect for Windows, Star Office, and all versions of Microsoft Windows before 3.0. (Windows Me was fine -- as long as it started with a clean installation.)Any more suggestions?
You can read all of last week's posts on one page by clickinghereHighlights include:Set phasers to 'tumble dry low'Office 2007 beta up for downloadWikipedia is dead, says Nick Carrand, as they say, more.
Every year in Los Angeles the global games industry gathers to play next year's games, and thoroughly humiliate itself on the dancefloor afterwards: it's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). Big-budget press conferences, stupidly lavish parties and shouted PR pitches couldn't disguise a notable absence of big game announcements - this year was about hardware, with Sony and Nintendo touting PS3 and Wii respectively.SonyAside from being bigger and more powerful than PlayStation 2, PS3 was starting to sound a lot like more of the same. Perhaps in response to this, Sony's hurriedly assembled revelation about its new baby was that you'll be able to control games by tilting its joypad, something cynical observers were quick to point out sounded a little bit like a certain new Nintendo console. Talk of PS3's beefed-up online service failed to raise many eyebrows, although its price did - &#163;400 in Europe, or less for the slimmed-down version sans wireless capability and with a smaller hard drive, due for release here on November 17. Lacking a launch title that could be called "killer", PS3's biggest games were Gran Turismo HD and Metal Gear Solid 4, two sequels that, while welcome, contained few surprises. More interesting was Alan Wake, a promisingly open-ended horror title about the effect of sleep deprivation on the mind of an author in a story copyright-infringingly similar to some of Stephen King's.NintendoEasily the most talked-about item at the show, Nintendo's Wii differentiates itself from any gaming device ever, with its control method. As well as with a fairly standard-looking "nunchuk" joypad, games are piloted with what looks like a TV remote, used to point, swing or stab, with characters onscreen mimicking your movements. Those with the patience and bladder control to make it to the front of the monumental queue were rewarded with a reportedly highly tactile experience quite unlike playing more conventional games, although it was widely reckoned that prolonged play could actually constitute physical exercise - something many gamers enthusiastically avoid. With no release date or price point to talk about (except that it would be this year and "cheap"), Nintendo demonstrated Super Mario Galaxy, the latest iteration of its Mario Brothers franchise, and an instant digital Mecca for the Nintendo faithful.MicrosoftAs well as the distinction of being currently available in shops, Xbox 360 has the luxury of looking forward to its second generation of games. The twin stars of Microsoft's E3 lineup were Halo 3, sequel to the game responsible for a frighteningly large proportion of the original Xbox's sales, and Gears Of War. The latter, while exhibiting precisely the heavily armed science fiction body-builders we've come to expect in video games, was also one of the most staggering graphical spectacles anyone had ever seen, drawing actual gasps from the collected ranks of the sceptical, near-clinically depressed pessimists who tend to report on games culture. Microsoft's other innovation for E3 2006 was that you could join in at home -360 owners with access to Xbox Live can download demos from the show, including Atari's wonderfully promising Hawaii-set mass online drive-'em-up Test Drive Unlimited and Capcom's new shooter Lost Planet, both of which are available free.
Windows Live for the UKhas improved its satellite maps of the UK - zooming in gives much greater detail than previously, and much better than on Google Maps.Why better? Because Microsoft has licensed (or bought) the pictures fromgetmapping.Thanks for Ed Parsons (chief technology officer of Ordnance Survey) whopointed it out on his blog. He asks there:The imagery seems to leapfrog the imagery in google earth/maps seeming to be more recent at least in the area I looked at and appears to be around the same resolution 15-20cm.Remember Microsoft have adopted a more conventional business model with virtual earth, and are selling it as a service to commercial users, in contrast to googles surposed "non-commercial" only approachWe suspect he might be trying to make a hint about the 'Free Our Data' campaign, but have to say - commercial organisations selling data to other commercial organisations doesn't really fall into the campaign remit.
MondayPervasive gaming brought to you by MicrosoftNintendo DS Lite handheld released 23 JuneXMen 3 in virtuality - win stuff!TuesdayWoW - a movie?!Ubisoft gets lostEnergy for gamersWednesdayNext-gen SingStar video concerns"Mobile games should address vulnerability," says HawkinsSim Simpsons?ChuChu rockets onto mobileSuper Monkey surgeonsThursdayMMObileEA prizes Jeep license into Medal of HonorKorea limits game time to 3 hoursWii are comingPhysics is funFridaySingStar goes anthemicAmerica's casualitiesVirtual worlds, visiting rights and restraining ordersKidd play
"Lots of small organisations are counting pennies, and if you've found a low-cost, innovation solution, I think you should share it," says Simone Baker, vice chair of the Disabled Parents Network (DPN).The DPN is a small UK charity that has set up an online inquiry system to enable about a dozen of its volunteers, all disabled parents themselves, to access details of callers to the organisation's helpline from their home PCs. Information about callers is held in a central database and accessed via the internet. "It has been really low cost and has been well worth the money, because it enables our volunteers to work much more effectively," says Baker.The DPN also uses a virtual call centre, so it has a single, central number and calls are then directed to whichever of its volunteers are staffing the helpline, all working from their own homes.This is typical of a new breed of technology-savvy charity organisation. The voluntary sector, long thought of as the Cinderella of the IT world, is now coming up with innovative approaches from which SMEs can learn a lot about how to do things effectively on very little money."It's all about creative swiping: about reinventing, mashing up what's been done by others, to match your audience and your budget," says Jen Topping, now head of Channel Four's Video on Demand project. Until recently, Topping was head of new media at the Media Trust, which provides professional communications skills to the voluntary sector.There are three key ways SMEs can keep costs down, according to Topping:&#183;Follow in the wake of larger organisations that can afford to test new technologies: see what works for them and adapt it&#183;Use free or low-cost software creatively&#183;Use blogs and podcasts - cheap to set up and run - to reach out to new audiences.Topping believes organisations need to understand and get into new media techniques in order to widen their appeal and reach new audiences, particularly younger people. Charities need to reach out to new volunteers and donors; small businesses need to reach out to new potential buyers."These younger audiences cannot be reached using traditional media," she points out.Will Howells, sales and marketing director for consultancy Interesource, which has helped the RNID redesign its website, agrees that using new technology is vital for smaller organisations. "I think charities take the web very seriously, because they can make an awful lot of money that way," he says. The RNID redesign resulted in a 50% jump in sales for the organisation's online shop in the first three months following the redesign. "No new products, no additional promotion, just a newly designed site," says Howells.A lively approach doesn't have to cost a lot. UK charity Tearfund developed a game on its website last year, to raise awareness of issues about aid money from EU countries for water and sanitation projects.The game cost &#163;2,000 to develop and generated 10,000 letters to the Department for International Development DFID. "Our policy team was very happy with the result. We learned that online campaigns and multimedia can be used effectively and intelligently to convey complex policy issues," says Nick Harris, Tearfund's website editor.Small businesses wanting to cut costs could take heed from Compass which has cut its IT budget by an estimated &#163;10,000. "The charity has a number of different sites and the traditional way of communicating would be installing a server at each site, but that is expensive to buy and maintain," explains James White, service delivery manager at consultancy appiChar, which has installed Compass's new system, with a central database and server at head office and terminal servers linked to all the charity's other sites.This approach is cheaper to maintain, and rolling out new applications is also cheaper, says White. An extra bonus comes from not having to constantly upgrade PCs at the remote offices. "You don't need big, beefy computers and you aren't locked into upgrading PCs the whole time," he points out. "You can run the clients on anything you can switch on."Free softwareUsing free or low-cost software, including open source software, which can be downloaded free, can also help SMEs cut costs dramatically. London charity Alone in London, for instance, has set up an office network for 30 staff for under &#163;2,000, using open source software running on donated PCs.Dover-based charity Migrant Helpline, which has 170 users, reckons it has saved a substantial amount by switching over from using Microsoft applications to running OpenOffice, an open source administrative application, mainly through savings on software licences.You do need knowledgeable IT staff and generous helpings of sensitivity to implement open source software. People who are used to Microsoft software can find it a challenge to switch to a different system. James Dayborn, IT manager at Migrant Helpline, acknowledges that he and his team didn't handle the move over to OpenOffice particularly well. "We went blundering in without a great amount of consultation," he says. User training helped to ensure the organisation is now "more happily" using OpenOffice.SMEs can also learn from the voluntary sector about motivation and enthusiasm, particularly in the world of new media, where it pays dividends to have staff who are keen and willing to get into new media technologies such as blogs and podcasting - making audio files available to download. Some of the earliest converts to podcasting have been religious groups: "Godcasting" is now a major activity, via websites such as the GodCast network. But other bodies also see the potential, such as UK charity Practical Action, which podcasts information twice a month to Peruvian farmers.Major charities with blogs include Greenpeace and Oxfam, but smaller organisations and even individuals find that blogs give them a big impact, such as the blog from homeless person Jamie McCoy."Compared to a website put together by your wife's cousin, blogs convey authority," points out Topping. "Blogs are extremely cheap to set up and run and will enable you to collect your organisation's knowledge, as well as that of your audience. It's a great way to find out what is coming up, in terms of habits and trends."Weblinks&#183;Disabled Parents Network:disabledparentsnetwork.org.uk&#183;Royal National Institute for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing:RNID.org.uk&#183;Tearfund water game:youth.tearfund.org/make+poverty+history/water+game.htm&#183;Alone in London:als.org.uk&#183;Migrant Helpline:migranthelpline.org.uk&#183;GodCast network:godcast.org&#183;Practical Action:practicalaction.org&#183;Jamie McCoy's blog:jamiesbigvoice.blogspot.com
Yahoo and eBay have formed a strategic partnership that, says thepress release, "consists of four major components in the areas of search and graphical advertising, online payments, a co-branded toolbar, and the opportunity to explore "click-to-call" functionality."Yahoo will improve its eBay searches and will standardise on PayPal for payments, both of which seem to be good for eBay. On the other side: "Yahoo! will become the exclusive third-party provider of all graphical advertisements throughout the eBay.com site, and sponsored search for complementary products on some eBay.com search results pages in the US."This sounds as though Yahoo will sell banner ads that will appear on eBay pages, which is certainly good for Yahoo. However, I can't imagine many eBay users will be pleased to have the site slowed by banner ads, and eBay sellers might also have problems with the idea. If you are selling, say, CDs, will your auctions appear under a banner selling the same CDs at a Web-based store?The "old" eBay community would no doubt have had a lot to say about these issues. However, I've looked on eBay's US discussion boards without finding a public outcry. Did I miss it, or does nobody care any more?The partnership also falls short in that Yahoo's auctions site will continue to compete with eBay, and Yahoo doesn't charge listing fees. This is potentially scary for eBay since Yahoo is the world's biggest Web portal, in terms of unique visitors. If only Yahoo could exploit its traffic in Yahoo auctions, it could still be a serious threat.Yahoo and eBay look like natural partners in the war against Google, but I can't understand why eBay has done a deal that doesn't make eBay Yahoo's preferred auction site, or ideally itsonlyauction site outside Japan. Is that the next step?* Guardian news storyhere.
I think Microsoft'sgame with famething - where gamers get the chance to compete on Xbox 360 games with Embrace, The Strokes etc - is a good idea. While playing the bass player from Kasabian at FIFA may stretch the concept of "fame", it certainly helps bring some much needed glamour to the world of online gaming. This is especially true with the latest competitor, modelJodie Kidd. She'll be playing Project Gotham 3 on Tuesday 30th May (5.30 - 7pm GMT) and Xbox Live gamers will have a chance to race and, get this, chat with her. What on earth are an Xbox Live gamer and Jodie Kidd going to talk about? And how will she react if she is called a "fag"? I'd love to eavesdrop.
Dell PCs are already somewhat famous for the amount of software that companies pay to have installed with Windows, and this typically includes anti-virus and graphics programs, plus several ISP connections. Now, according toThe New York Times, Dell will also include Google software -- presumably Google Desktop and perhaps the Firefox browser.The software, Dell said, would be put only on machines sold to consumers and to small and medium-size businesses. While the consumer market accounted for roughly 14 percent of Dell's revenue last quarter, the deal would nonetheless involve millions of new computers over time.Comment: You can download a Dell Decrapifier to remove most of this junk (seeAsk Jack) but presumably most people don't, or Dell wouldn't be able to charge for it. The drawback is that pre-installation does create an adverse reaction among many users, regardless of the quality of the software -- and this even applies to Microsoft software. Google is very naive if it doesn't realise this is going to damage its brand.
Microsoft saysthat: "MSN Spaces is the most widely used blogging service worldwide with more than 100 million unique visitors, according to data released today by comScore Networks Inc. of Reston, Va., an independent Internet audience measurement and consulting company."Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates first used the 100m number in hiskeynote speech at WinHEC, and it was easy to think he meant 100m blogs, rather than unique visitors per month. But I'd guess MSN Spaces only has 50m to 60m blogs/spaces, whereas MySpace has more than 70m.MSN Spaces doesn't have anything like the profile of MySpace, but key the difference is that Microsoft's system is "now available in 30 markets and 16 languages". Many, perhaps most, MSN Spaces users are in Asia, whereas MySpace is mainly an American phenomenon.I'd also guess that a large number of MSN Spaces are either splogs (spam blogs) or have been opened for someone to have a look at the system then never updated again. Whether MSN Spaces is better or worse than rivals in this respect is a moot point: we don't have the numbers. It would be nice if we did.Microsoft probably doesn't care, at the moment. MSN Spaces is going to change into a Windows Live service, and that's going to boost Microsoft's Live portal in competition with Google and Yahoo.But if MySpace turns into a rival portal complete with email, instant messaging, news, maps, classifieds, auctions etc -- and that's what I'd do with it, if I owned News International -- then it could upstage the whole Web 2.0 industry.
It's a special Bank Holiday weekend edition of Chatterbox!
Theft, murder, custody battles over virtual goods; I admit I've become terribly blas about all of them. I barely blinked an eye whenanother battlewent to court recently over the relative real-world value of virtual goods or when I was alerted to one in whichlosses are counted but property is notin a court in Shanghai.But more recently I started thinking beyond the property angle. Spurred on by a passing conversation with Ben Sawyer from Digital Mill and theSerious Games Initiative, I began thinking about the importance of shared experience in virtual spaces like Massively Multiplayer Games, and how these may breach offline legal boundaries in ways that I am in no way trained to tackle or even to pontificate. But I'll try.Before I explain what Ben proposed, I'll give a bit of background on what I view to be the importance of shared experience in virtual worlds for offline life.I gave atalklast week about one of the reasons I think virtual trade exists: trust. Researchers argue that the existence of established (and utilised) economic systems in online games demonstrates the trust that users/players have in one another: to deliver, to be honest and to reciprocate (if necessary). But it also has repercussions beyond economic motivations. The design of goal-oriented game virtual worlds, from EverQuest to Star Wars Galaxies to World of Warcraft, explicitly ensures that people socially interact. It encourages repeated interaction and ultimately the formation of close groups of often very tight friendships. In some cases, the friendships that emerge are reportedly more significant than offline relationships (see, for example, the work ofBa,Ducheneaut, Moore &amp; Nickell,Yee; and for a great typographical distinction between game worlds and social virtual worlds, see Raph Koster's recent posthere).I propose that one of the reasons for this is shared experience. The goals of online games are tied in with drama and tension. People are jointly active in the defeat of enemies; they work together towards success and they share their spoils - sometimeseven in joint stores. When they're done with a successful raid, members of the party might ask people when others around to do it again. And if they turn up and everyone works for the common goal (whether you win or not), it's more likely to happen again. And so on. And thus, a bond based upon shared experience is born - which can extend to different spheres, from playing together in different worlds or to networking in the real one. There's a reason the digital elite call World of Warcraft "the new golf". It's because you've chosen to spend your free time with a group of people in a way which demonstrates your commitment to that person or to the team. You get to know them in a deep kind of way.I'd argue that this is a different kind of bond than one based upon chatting in a chat room. It's task-oriented. It's based upondoing. It's not, "So, what bands did you see lately?"; it's, "Hey, do you remember that time when we did...". The former can lead to shared experience (and sometimes retrospectively offer examples of it). Another important layer in group formation for the WoW set is that the group is united against an enemy. There are clear distinctions between "us" and "them".A final reason which I believe contributes to the strength of bonds developed in online worlds is that the interaction takes place on the internet. According to quite a lot of internet research, which is perhaps far too much to explain here, the anonymity of internet interaction has implications for the openness and honesty with which people talk about themselves with other people (see for examples the work ofMcKenna,Bargh&amp;Green- oh and so many others...). The quick bonds which are formulated between people because of the shared successes are enhanced by the unhindered ways which they talk about themselves, and believe others are too.OK, now that I've covered the reasons hanging out with people in WoW may be more significant than hanging out in person, I'll get to my point.What happens when parents get divorced? Say Parent A is given custody of Child and Parent B has visiting rights at weekends or holidays. Parent A doesn't play Online Game X but Parent B does, and plays for a couple of hours every night with Child. Does that undermine the judge's custody decision? Child isn't spending time with Parent A when s/he is hanging in Norrath with Parent B, so if Parent A losing out on important time with Child while Parent B and Child are experiencing enhanced shared experience, what implications does this have for future custody rulings?Taking a more clear-cut (and probably less-emotional) example, what about virtual stalking? Or virtual restraining orders? As identities in cyberspace are mutable, real selves can be hidden by virtual selves. It isnotthe role of commercial companies to ensure that Account A is allowed to speak with/be within 10 miles of Account B, surely Account A playing with Account B under different cover is in breach of the court's judgement? When will we see restraining orders including time spent in a virtual world?I don't have the answers. I'm just posing the questions. If anyone can help, please do let us know.
