While you're busy voting on thebest games of 2004, spare a thought for their less fortunate cousins. What was your worst game of the 2004? The one that disappointed you most, the one that failed to deliver. No fancy polling or PC giveaway here, this is just a chance to warn others. Unsurprisingly my stink3r award of 2004 goes to the truly shockingDriv3r, which was unfinished, unplayable and an utter disgrace. But what was yours?
It seems the Lycos screensaver mentioned in today's Online (Inside IT news) is proving a bit too successful.BBC Newsreports that "monitoring firm Netcraft has analysed response times for three of the sites the screensaver targets and has found that the campaign is being too successful. Some sites are being knocked out by the anti-spam campaign Two of the sites being bombarded by data have been completely knocked offline. One other site has been responding to requests only intermittently as it struggles to cope with the traffic the screensaver is pointing its way."
A few years ago, industry analysts predicted the next big thing in consumer electronics was going to be wireless gadgets. The theory ran that once users had installed Wi-Fi in their home, they would want to add other devices to the network.It hasn't happened, largely because the number of installed wireless systems isn't as great as the seers imagined and the gadgets haven't captured the imagination of consumers. There are, however, signs the market is starting to mature.Last summer saw the debut of the $140 SoniqCast Element Aireo, which is a fairly standard MP3 player with a 1.5GB hard disk. But its unique feature is that it can connect to a Wi-Fi system to enable owners to port tracks on to its hard disk from any PC in the system. It's a bit of a gimmick but it won't be the last music player to boast this feature.There is now a growing range of security cameras that also work on wireless networks. Arguably the best is the &#163;160 Linksys WVC54G. A camera with its own web server latches on to an 802.11b/g network to send video to its own website. Set-up is virtually instantaneous and the camera can be configured to send an email alert if it detects any movement. The D-Link DCS-2100 performs a similar role but costs around &#163;230.If you have a wireless laptop and regularly use it to print out documents, it is worth considering a wireless adapter for your printer.Belkin's &#163;60 FUP0001 acts as a mini print server enabling you to add a pair of USB printers to your wireless network. Alternatively, there are a handful of printers with 802.11b/g compatibility built in, including the HP PSC 2510. However, at around &#163;250, you pay a hefty premium for the convenience.Of the wireless home entertainment devices that stream music, video and image files from a PC to a TV or a hi-fi, the best of the recent batch is the &#163;200 Philips SL300i, at &#163;200. It is a device that connects a home entertainment system/TV to a wireless system that can also directly stream media from the net. Creative is also set to launch a wireless adapter. A set of wireless LCD TVs from Philips and Sony will also debut next year.Finally, if you have a wireless laptop and find yourself searching for hot spots, you can now buy pocketable gadgets that will tell you where you can log on. Generally held to be the best is the Smart ID WFS-1, which retails for around &#163;25.www.soniqcast.comwww.linksys.com/ukwww.belkin.co.ukwww.hp.co.ukwww.philips.co.ukhttp://smartid.com.sg
&#183;Camera phonesMega battleThe battle to produce the most advanced camera phone continues, with Korean company LG announcing a new handset with a six or seven megapixel camera in the pipeline. The module for the camera will be supplied by Canon. Samsung holds the record for the most advanced camera phone with its five megapixel SCH-S250 and it has unveiled a portable sound system to accompany its mobile phones. Only avail able in Korea, the Anycall Theater has a pair of speakers and a dock for a phone, enabling users to hear music files or listen to TV/video while on the move.&lt;A HREF="http://www.lge.co.uk""&gt;www.lge.co.uk&#183;Music/video playersSony warms to MP3Sony has unveiled the NW-HD3, its second 20 gigabyte hard disk-based music player, and its first to be fully compatible with MP3s. Users can transfer MP3 files directly to the NW-HD3 via the SonicStage 2.3 software without having to convert them to Sony's proprietary Atrac format as was the case with the NW-HD1. The NW-HD3, right, will also be available in a range of colours, Otherwise, the players are virtually identical. This means the NW-HD3 is smaller and lighter than its equivalent, the iPod, can run for up to 30 hours before batteries need recharging and features a 1.5in LCD screen. It is expected to go on sale imminently for around &#163;250.www.sony.co.ukPersonal playerGoodmans has become the latest company to unveil a hard disk-based personal video/audio player. Set to go on sale next month, the GPDR40 boasts a 40GB hard disk, 3.6in TFT screen and play back of MP3, MPeg4 and JPeg files. The player also has an Outlook-compatible calendar and features an SD/MMC memory card slot for transferring files. The GPDR40 can be connected directly to a TV to record programmes, with Goodmans claiming it can store up to 200 hours of footage. The device, which can also be used as voice recorder, is accompanied by cables, earphones and a carry case.www.albaplc.comMillion tunesNapster is claiming to be the first online music store in the UK to offer more than a million tracks to customers. The service, which began earlier this year and uses the Windows Media Audio (WMA) format for downloads, is way ahead of Sony's Connect service and Tesco in terms of available tracks. Apple's iTunes, which debuted in June, a month after Napster, is rumoured to offer around a million tracks, though the company hasn't confirmed this. Napster has also announced a deal to sell vouchers - via newsagents and convenience stores - for its download service. This would help target those who don't own credit cards. A variety of cards are available from TM Retail group, whose stores include Forbouys, RS McColl and Dillons.www.napster.co.uk
The new version of Nokia's Communicator, the 9500, won't create the same waves as the original in 1996 because there are now so many rivals competing in its space. It can't beat the BlackBerry for receiving emails on the move but it does have a camera, music player and voice recorder in addition to a word processor spreadsheet, good calendar, Wi-Fi, GPRS and an improved Qwerty keyboard. All this should endear it to corporate users and may even remove the need for a laptop on the move, especially if it is linked to corporate software.It has single key access to the web, telephone, calendar or contacts from the keyboard. Communication with the web via GPRS was quick and took me straight to Google's search entry line. It was also speedy in getting to the web from a local Wi-Fi hotspot and in sending a fax. But when I tried to send emails from home, it failed to pick up my wireless connection, while not offering a GPRS alternative. When I went back to the hot spot, it had similar problems emailing. This may have been my error, or faulty settings, but it was not   an easy problem to solve.Though much reduced in weight (222g), it is still a bit heavy and clunky to fit in the pocket. That won't matter if you are using it as a laptop substitute, but if you just want to receive emails and use it as a phone, then the new slinky BlackBerry 7100v (120g) is more attractive, especially as it has one of the best mobile browsers around (but no camera).As always, it is a case of horses for courses. If it is important to type longish emails and have a camera, multimedia services and an audio player, then the Communicator wins. If you want a pocketable phone to read secure corporate emails, it is the Blackberry. Nokia has been working hard to integrate the Communicator with corporate back-end software provided by the likes of IBM, but with the corporate market becoming increasingly crowded - with lots of PDAs and a family of successful BlackBerrys offering alternatives - the going will not be easy, even for Nokia.
Nostalgia flowsThe Legend of Zelda: The Minish CapGame Boy Advance SP, PC, &#163;29.99, Capcom/Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The Zelda series of videogames are renowned for being at the peak of gaming excellence. For many, 1998's Ocarina of Time was a masterpiece, mixing adventuring, action and puzzle solving in an irresistible whole.The Minish Cap is the first original GBA Zelda game and it doesn't disappoint. The familiar template works well. Players guide the hero, Link, around a game world, chatting to inhabitants, fending off assailants and solving puzzles to gain new items. These tools unlock previously impassable sections of the map, allowing you to continue your quest to rescue the eternally careless Princess Zelda. Previous games had time travel and light/dark elements; Minish Cap lets you shrink size to access different parts of the same world. New items keep the puzzles fresh, while the familiar tunes will bring a nostalgic glow for fans.However, The Minish Cap is a little short, even when all the hidden goodies are discovered. Quality always wins out over quantity, though, and for GBA owners, The Minish Cap is an essential buy.Greg HowsonTop tier goreVampire: The Masquerade - BloodlinesPC, &#163;39.99 Troika/Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;This game shouldn't be judged on the first impressions, which reveal shaky,   sometimes amateurish animation and a total absence of gore. Panic not: all that arrives in good time (and by the bucket-load!).First, you have to choose the sex and class of your vamp from seven types. These are not throwaway choices: they influence your behaviour, how others react to you and the way you approach the dozens of quests you will receive. Then it is off to your first safe house in Los Angeles, which is divided into five regions dripping with local atmosphere (and blood). Being a vamp, you have to feed, find allies and build up your strength and darker powers for the impending rumble.It is a game that rewards perseverance but tries your patience. Fighting with guns, for instance, seems superfluous and poorly implemented - understandable given the problem role-playing games usually have with balancing different classes of weapon, but especially here where you would assume vampires were above such worldly considerations.Likewise, the first-person view needed to shoot becomes unnecessary once you dispense with guns, leaving a third-person mode that plays better anyway.As your quest unfolds, prepare to be taken through battles galore, intricate quests and some of the best-looking locations, including those in Half-Life 2. By the end, the cumulative effect of ropey animation and glitchiness detracts from what is arguably the deeper and more varied   experience. However, on the strength of this, Troika has entered the top tier of RPG developers.Mike AnderieszCavalier approachMedal Of Honor: Pacific AssaultPC, &#163;29.99 Electronic Arts, &#42;&#42;Electronic Arts has taken a surprisingly cavalier approach to its second world war product, Medal Of Honor.Apart from the excruciating American spelling (reproduced worldwide), most of the team that made the much-loved original game decamped to make the excellent Call Of Duty for Activision, and last year's series instalments were distinctly lacklustre.Pacific Assault, however, would seem to mark a return to core values: available only for the PC, it aims to provide the most realistic second world war sim, and documents an American assault on Tarawa island in 1943. The game is realistic - it looks fantastic and sounds amazing, and visual trickery abounds.But, while it feels authentic and provides a psychologically scarring view of the horrors of war, it is horrific to play. Machine-hungriness does not help, nor do the interminable cut-scenes. But the main problem is that it is so difficult it frustrates.Anyone other than the militarily obsessed would be advised to save their money for the next Call Of Duty.Steve BoxerTop 5 games, all formats1.Need For Speed: Underground 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.Fifa Football 20054.Pro Evolution Soccer 45.Halo 2&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Last Friday, the Ministry of Defence received two proposals for spending &#163;4bn. The money is not going on aircraft or tanks, but on IT. The proposals were bids for the Defence Information Infrastructure (DII), the world's largest single IT contract. The ministry will announce the winner in March.At a time when government IT projects and the Ministry of Defence's ability to control the costs of major procurements are under criticism, the MoD's &#163;4bn shopping spree will face intense scrutiny.The MoD says it needs the DII because it is ill-equipped to deal with current wars. The three armed services have separate command and control networks, set up to reflect their cold war roles - the Royal Navy's to protect the western approaches, the British army's to fend off Soviet tanks in Germany and the Royal Air Force to scramble from concrete runways in Britain.Nowadays, the three services work much more closely together, often at short notice in unexpected places. Communications between services and headquarters in the UK is "a very laborious process", says General Sir Roger Wheeler, a former chief of the general staff. Wheeler recalls that in Bosnia in the late 1990s, "we had to bring in 150 sailors and airmen and their equipment to make sure we could all communicate". The Bosnia operation succeeded "mainly because of the efforts of the people, not the systems", he says.Wheeler, now retired from the army, is a non-executive director of defence contractor Thales, one of the firms hoping to provide the DII.The project, conceived in 1997, aims to create a single command and control network with up to 300,000 users, capable of being deployed wherever the armed forces are sent. It will ensure supplies are delivered on time - at the moment, forces in the field often have to order ammunition by telephone - and allow doctors in the field to ask experts in Britain for help in treating the wounded.Two consortia last week delivered their "best and final offers" to the Defence Communication Services Agency, which is running the project. They are Atlas, led by Electronic Data Systems (EDS), with Fujitsu and General Dynamics. Graham Lay, managing director EDS Defence, describes it as "a team that contains a breadth and depth of understanding of the MoD as a business". EDS already runs an intranet for the US Navy and Marine Corps that is comparable in size to the DII.Lay puts a brave face on the bid coinciding with a hugely publicised crash at EDS-run systems at the Department for Work and Pensions. The DII offering has "no single point of failure", he says. EDS is also stressing the role of small companies in the consortium: it has deliberately sought small partners with specialisms such as security.Radii is the second consortium. Headed by IT services firm Computer   Sciences Corporation (CSC), it includes BT and Thales. It also stresses its experience and knowledge of defence. BT runs a fixed telecommunications network for the armed forces, which will be absorbed into the DII along with other legacy systems. "We learn by success, not by failure," says Gary Mellor, the consortium's chief executive.Both consortia include Microsoft technology in their offerings.Apart from creating a secure and rugged network, the winning consortium will face another challenge. The DII is supposed to save &#163;170m by rationalising IT.If the contract is placed on schedule, the formal procurement will   have run for two years. The pace contrasts with the approach taken by the NHS National Programme for IT, which last year awarded a string of billion-pound contracts following procurements measured in months. Unlike the MoD, the NHS avoided identifying a "preferred bidder", keeping competition open until contracts were signed. Government IT experts are watching closely to see whether the NHS's or the MoD's approach to multi-billion pound deals brings better results.On the surface, the DII is cause for concern. Defence technology projects often run late and exceed their budgets. The MoD's record may be the Nimrod patrol aircraft programme, which ran 77 months late (six months longer than the second world war). Last month, the National Audit Office found that the MoD's biggest projects slipped a further three months behind schedule and clocked up &#163;1.7bn in extra costs last year. The MoD protested that the citicism is unfair, saying its performance is improving.Predictably, both consortia in the running for the DII praise the MoD. They say it has learned from past procurements, in particular by breaking down the project into manageable chunks. "This has been a very well-run and negotiated procurement," says Mellor. Lay says that, unlike previous overruns such as Nimrod, DII does not require the development of new technology. "The risks are known and they know what challenges lie ahead."
Wicked questions have no right answer, only the best option. The multi-billion pound programme to computerise the NHS's IT abounds in them. Which data should automatically be uploaded from a GP's desktop to the national system? Who should get to view one doctor's suspicion that his patient's stepfather drinks too much? When is it right for a social worker to see what drugs her client is prescribed?In the paper age - in which much of the NHS still operates - such questions are usually dealt with informally, case by case, among groups of professionals who know each other personally.Electronic records being created through the National Programme for IT are supposed to allow data sharing to happen more quickly and more securely. But unlike human beings, electronic information systems need hard and fast rules. Codifying professional behaviour electronically is a fearsome task. Make the rules too rigid and patients die because their data was not available in the right place. Too lax, and people die because they are afraid to seek treatment from a profession they can no longer trust.The NHS seems to have realised it cannot leave these rules to be formulated by IT experts or small cliques of tame doctors. Last week, the new Care Records Development Board held its first stakeholder conference, attracting 350 people with an interest in healthcare information, whether as clinicians, patients or lobbyists. Most came because they think   electronic records are a good thing, but would like some input into how they are designed.NHS chiefs at the event were adamant that public voices would be heard. There were two caveats. First, we don't have time to mess around: if the national programme is to meet targets for such services as e-booking, decisions need to be made now. Second, when aiming for some gold standard of security and accessibility, we should remember the state of affairs today. Richard Granger, the programme's director general, summed it up: "We have a crisis at the moment where people regularly get treated in a sub-optimal manner because information isn't available."So far so good. The stakeholder conference was an important step in moving the debate about electronic records out from groups of   specialists and into the real world. Whether the NHS can deal with the consequences remains to be seen.Wicked questions about electronic records won't be answered at stakeholder meetings but at sessions of the Care Records Development Board. It's a worthy body, but chaired by a Department of Health insider. And, typically - but none the less scandalously - it meets in private. It is hard to imagine the board coming up with anything that could threaten a prime ministerial target such as the forthcoming "choose and book" service.Ideally, of course, it would have been better to have started work on records policy before we spent &#163;6bn on IT systems. Granger acknowledged as much, but said "those were not the cards that were dealt to me". In other words, it's a wicked world.
In less than a decade, the Universal Serial Bus (USB) port has become the principal method of connecting peripheral devices, such as printers, keyboards and mice, to computers. It is becoming a standard for storage, and now you should soon be able to carry your whole systems software and applications on a tiny USB disk or "thumb drive".Although often referred to as a USB disk, the name is misleading because it uses chip-based Flash memory: it has more in common with memory cards than disk technologies. Within a space just larger than the average USB connector, these drives can pack in up to two gigabytes of memory, plus a processor to handle the data transfer process.When they first appeared, USB disks were relatively simple devices that could replace floppy drives by providing higher capacity portable removable storage. This made them ideal for shuttling data between PCs. However, the technology is evolving to offer more interesting features.Data security is becoming a major issue as legislation forces companies to focus on storage strategies. These are becoming more complex as mobile workforces push the corporate network perimeter beyond the protective firewall. Mobile devices are also exposed to risks such as machine theft and physical damage, which makes it critical to back up data.The capacity, reliability and resilience of the USB drive is making it a useful solution. It can be used as a mirror drive for documents, email and data files. It can also store copies of vital settings for personalising PCs, encryption keys and the system registry, which can help users recover from system crashes, virus attacks and corruption caused by dubious internet downloads.Though it is possible to use standard back-up applications, JumpVault Backup, produced by QuickVault, is designed to automate the process specifically for USB Flash drives. JumpVault uses compression and encryption and password-protection to secure the stored data.Adding a processor to a USB drive opens up wider possibilities, allowing them to become application disks. These are self-contained, encrypted application cells that use the host computer as the execution engine but otherwise work independently.When the drive is plugged into the PC, its application runs as though it were native to the host device, but when it is removed, there is no trace that it was ever present.USB disk suppliers are waking up to these possibilities and the need for specialist applications to drive them.Clever-Stuff, an Irish company, sells the Disgo brand of USB storage devices and is introducing a 2GB drive. The company co-developed a back-up application, called Desktop DNA, with Computer Associates. This is preconfigured to back up the key settings for Windows and around 80 applications.Paul de Lacy, brand and product manager for Clever-Stuff, says Disgo   drives are designed to be among the fastest on the market because they incorporate 32-bit processors rather than the 8-bit chips originally specified for USB drives. This power is enabling the company to investigate additional uses for its products, and it has recently launched Xkey, which provides a secure Microsoft Exchange email client.Xkey contains a full Exchange-compatible email program, database, synchronisation engine, and Virtual Private Network (VPN) security. When plugged into a PC, it converts the machine into a secure terminal for accessing the corporate email system remotely. This means mobile workers only need to carry their USB drive, and they can download their email from an internet cafe rather than toting a laptop everywhere. When the application is closed, the drive ensures that any related data on the host computer is erased.In the US, Stealth Ideas is also looking at USB application disks. StealthSurfer, a secure web browsing utility, has been available for some time. The product is built around the Netscape Navigator browser and   stores cookies, history items and downloaded cache files on the Flash drive. This leaves no record of any web surfing activity on the host PC.StealthSurfer encrypts files to protect the USB disk in case it is lost or stolen. The drive is formatted into two partitions, one of which is visible only after entering a password.Brad Weber, vice president of Stealth Ideas, says the company is looking to expand its product line. "Web access is just the beginning. We have a beta out that incorporates the OpenOffice suite on a USB drive. This will allow a user to work on documents, spreadsheets or presentations from any available workstation without worrying about security."Disgo will also be extending the range of capabilities available under the Xkey banner. De Lacy says that ERP (enterprise resource planning) and CRM (customer relationship management) applications are ideal candidates for USB products.Storage capacity does not seem to be a problem. Today's technology will allow expansion up to a maximum capacity of 16GB, claims de Lacy. "The current size is limited by the   on-board processor and the speed. By upgrading to a 64-bit processor, these larger capacities will be achievable."The possibilities are intriguing. Microsoft and other software vendors would be able to enforce their licensing requirements by providing personalised copies of their software to each user. This could also benefit the licensee, because the software would be licensed, and not the machine it runs on. Users could simply plug their USB software into whatever hardware comes to hand.Why not go the whole hog and put the operating system and applications on a USB drive? This could provide the equivalent of a Linux "live CD" (See:www.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,,1347661,00.html). This approach takes advantage of the modern PC's ability to boot from USB drives. Rather than using the native operating system, the USB drive can boot the machine into whatever operating system you choose.Already, two developers, Rob Cook and Eric Newport, claim they have put the Slax Linux distribution of the operating system on to a 256MB drive (arstechnica.com/columns/linux/linux-20041109.ars).The main drawback is the speed of the USB port and Flash memory, but that could change. A company could then reduce its PCs to bare-bones systems and provide users with USB drives, or an array of drives, which could be protected by fingerprint recognition or other biometrics. By plugging in their USB drive, users would make any available PC into their own familiar system.And instead of lugging around a heap of hardware bits and pieces, the mobile worker of the future may only have to carry a pocketful of USB keys.Perhaps this will also get the industry to standardise on a smaller number of external designs, at least for professional use. Today, USB drives are not easy to store because they all have different shapes. Using a lanyard is not always the best solution, and how many keyfobs or fake pens can one person handle?There are wallets designed to carry around all sorts of storage devices from floppies and CDs to Game Boy games. When we have wallets for our essential collection of USB drives, we will know the idea has really arrived.www.stealthsurfer.bizwww.mydisgo.com
Withdraw supportIn response to Martin Burnell (Feedback, November 25), the answer to banks that do not support browsers such as Firefox and Opera is simple: abandon them. I will plug Nationwide as it has supported non-Microsoft browsers for more years than I care to remember.Chris BirdPenzanceOutfoxing the filterFirefox has an extension that enables browser spoofing and so overcomes website lock-outs - ie where sites fail to load correctly because they want visitors to view the site with a particular browser, usually Internet Explorer. With this component, Firefox informs the webserver that it is in fact IE6, or Netscape 4.8 etc and so bypasses the filter to freely view the site. With this installed I have no problem navigating the Halifax's site. The extension is called User Agent Switcher, downloadable from:masl.to/?Y4DC324E9.Andy GilmourMobile bankingStephen Morris might like to know the Nationwide has a PDA/mobile-friendly banking site attinyurl.com/3tz8s.I use my Psion Revo here using Opera for Epoc v3.62 release 1.01, so more recent versions should be fine on either a PDA or desktop computer.Regarding the worries concerning virus attacks on Symbian products, a hard reset of any machine using them should remove the problem   since the operating system sits in Rom and cannot be infected.A P DunnMansfieldMozilla accessI was surprised to read Stephen Morris's letter (November 25) about NatWest and Mozilla. I changed to Mozilla a few weeks ago and have used it regularly to access NatWest online banking, without any problem.Stephen HarveyHantsNagging victoryRoyal Bank of Scotland's online banking works fine via Firefox on both Mac OS X and a PC. I claim it as a success from my years of nagging.Suzanne KeeneLondonFirefox friendlyBarclays, Abbey National, Nationwide, Egg and ING, all have online services that work with Firefox. Abbey National warns you that Firefox may not be secure, but allows you to use it anyway.Keith MacDonaldLongridgeiBook advantageA colleague was horrified to hear me say the Online section was the last place I'd look for useful computer information, but Jack Schofield's Horses for courses (November 25) on the best notebooks proves the point.Schofield catalogues a range of Windows portables and fails to mention Apple's iBook range, which starts at &#163;749 (discounted to &#163;704 for anyone with a school or college connection). iBooks are more than "much cheaper", as he dismisses them while discussing 17in portables, they are immune to the effects of malicious emails and inherently protected from Trojans and SpyWare. iBooks do work straight out of the box.Harry MellorTowcesterAbuse by designBobbie Johnson reports (From an alt point of view, November 25): "Many &#91;website&#93; designers feel that complying with the W3C &#91;accessibility&#93; guidelines ruins the look and feel of their sites." How could that be? Designing a site I cannot read looks lazy and feels abusive. Good designers will use the guidelines creatively or challenge them by outperforming their recommendations.The provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act relating to goods and services (a website is - or should be - a service) came into force in 1999, but the law was enacted in 1995 and web designers have had plenty of time to think about the implications. Perhaps it is time for the commission to hang a few, "pour encourager les autres".Roger CrosskeyLondonSign of the timesFor many deaf people, making initial contact with a company over the phone is difficult and the web has great potential to overcome some of the barriers people with disabilities face in the real world.An estimated 50,000 people in the UK are British Sign Language (BSL) users and for many, it is their first and preferred language. To overcome some of the logistical barriers that prevent sites from delivering BSL video clips, RNID is involved in research to develop avatars, or virtual humans, which could provide more signed content. We believe this will help organisations meet their obligations under the Disability Discrimination Act to make websites fully inclusive.In the meantime, RNID invites businesses to contact us for advice on making online services more inclusive, while remaining engaging, efficient and cost-effective.Guido GybelsDirector of new technologies, RNID, London
Cut to the fareYahoo! has just unveiled a beta version of its travel search engine, FareChase. Like services such as Travelocity and Lastminute.com, the site allows you to compare prices of airlines, car rental companies and hoteliers, rather than hunting around different sites for a low fare.Although the prototype publishes its prices in dollars, it is possible to find fares from destinations outside the US, and a currency converter is built into every page. FareChase is not an online travel agent, so when you are ready to book, you must still access the original provider's website.Because it is a specialised search engine, Yahoo! says that FareChase will eventually include a greater range of travel operators. It won't rely on partnership deals and commissions, it says, but it will deploy an advertisement policy similar to Google and charge companies a click-through rate.yahoo.farechase.comwww.skyscanner.netTalking headDavid Byrne, the former frontman with Talking Heads, began writing a daily web journal last month. Like much of his music, it celebrates the banal bits of life in an original and illuminating way. One day he's talking about a trip to the barbers, the next he is critiquing Stasiland by Anna Funder. There are also some brilliant photos. Just don't call it a blog.masl.to/?F5A1235E9Life of CleeseOne of Britain's most famous comedians, John Cleese, might have emigrated to a ranch in California, but fans of his fine comic wit can now enjoy his own website. It was launched last week, apparently to   stop himself doing "the bloody boring things I've been doing over the past few years". Cleese charges subscribers an annual fee of $49.97 (&#163;26), but there is a fair chunk of content, including Monty Python's ingenious Cheese Shop sketch. Those who pay are promised a site "full of really silly things, almost every day". Cleese will have to work hard if he is to catch his erstwhile colleague Michael Palin, who has just released a 16 disc DVD. The former Python's site is so full of content from his travels, that you need a compass to find your way.www.thejohncleese.comwww.palinstravels.co.ukwww.pythononline.comScrawls of warArofish is a London-based stencil and graffiti artist who recently spent three months travelling through Iraq and Palestine, "painting on the walls and generally making a right mess, to the occasional annoyance of the occupying forces". His work is on show in London, sometimes even in a gallery, and now there is a selection of his work being shown on the anarchist website Enrager. Elsewhere, students at the University of Huddersfield have just launched a new site dedicated to the wider world of street art. It features a well-written e-zine and is open to street artists to upload and discuss this controversial art form.www.enrager.net/arofishwww.streetgraphic.comMagical libraryIt looks like a dream sequence Dali might have created for a Hitchcock movie. The Adobe bookshop in San Francisco - no relation to the famous software company - recently invited artist Chris Cobb to reclassify more than 20,000 of its books according to the colour of their spines. Doubtless Rob Gordon, the protagonist from Nick Hornby's High Fidelity, would approve of the attention to detail. After just a week, normal service has been resumed, but the intriguing project lives on in the great online library in the sky.www.pushby.com/tomas/2004/11/15/masl.to/?B261135E9masl.to/?F5A1235E9Recycle guideDry newspapers: good. Rubber bands: bad. Find out why on the "world's shortest comprehensive recycle guide".masl.to/?N391225E9Six of the bestThe Incredibles official sitewww.theincredibles.comWho's whofilm.guardian.co.uk/gall/0,8544,1347855,00.htmlPixarwww.pixar.comThe gamethq.com/theincrediblesThe T-shirtwww.DisneyInkShop.comGet over itwww.superherohype.com
OEM for youI have received an email from Softuniverse.biz offering OEM versions of popular software - including Microsoft Office 2003 and Windows XP - for greatly reduced prices. Is there a catch?Ian JakewaysJack Schofield replies:OEM copies of programs are intended for "original equipment manufacturers" such as Dell, but are often sold with new hard drives or motherboards to users who are building, or at least upgrading, their PCs. The obvious catch is that usually all you get is a CD: the low price does not include a retail package, a manual, or any support. It may or may not include updates. Less obviously, an OEM installation may be tied to a specific PC - the one it is sold with. If you buy a retail copy of Microsoft Office, for example, you can install it on your desktop and your notebook PC, and when you upgrade your system, uninstall it from the old PC and reinstall it on a new one. By contrast, an OEM version may only be licensed for use on the PC on which you activate it, and you can't transfer it to another PC later. You should check the particular conditions for any product you buy.Many UK suppliers sell OEM versions of programs. However, if you buy from an overseas website, you may be charged import duty, VAT and customs clearance fees that may make the final price less attractive than expected. Also, some software suppliers refuse to give refunds on programs.Softuniverse.biz(which does offer refunds and an unconditional guarantee) prices its programs   in US dollars and ships from Europe, so it is worth checking what extra costs might be involved.One last point: I would never buy anything fromSoftuniverse.biz- even if its products are cheap and Alice A Walker is delightful - as a result of receiving an unsolicited commercial email, ie spam. It seems to me that a fundamental part of the fight against spam is never to buy anything from spammers.IM to goIn the US, AT&amp;T Wireless (now Cingular) is selling a small PDA called the Ogo, with a small Qwerty keyboard that allows you to connect to various instant messaging systems (http://masl.to/?P286127E9). Will this be available in the UK? I want to use both MSN and Yahoo Messenger on the move.Mandip GilJS:It is early days for instant messaging on mobiles, partly because the various IM services are incompatible with one another, and few, if any, devices support all of them. It is not clear if the Ogo will appear in the UK, but the Danger Hiptop - a similar product sold by T-Mobile in the US as the Sidekick - does not seem to have made it. T-Mobile's MDA III and similar Microsoft-powered smartphones should work with MSN Messenger, but getting anything else running is your problem. On the whole, I think your best bet at the moment is a Palm Treo 600 with VeriChat software (www.verichat.com/verichat/). This will work with AIM, ICQ, MSN and Yahoo. The forthcoming Treo 650 has a slightly better keyboard.DSO revisitedEvery time I run SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy, there are five or six entries for the DSO Exploit. I use the "Fix problems" button, but it re-appears on the next check.Patrick Ford, Ian Lowe, Hamish Davidson, Brian Storey et alJS:It is extremely unlikely that your PC has DSO Exploit. However, there is a bug in SpyBot, which means it can find it repeatedly and apparently fail to fix it. For details of how to enter the correct value into the Windows registry, see the SpyBot forum atmasl.to/?E1CB21BB8. This repeats the answer I gave on July 8.Saving HotmailI want to save hundreds of Hotmail emails, some of which have small attachments, on a CD or removable media. Is there a software solution?Iftikhar AliJS:The best solution is probably to download your Hotmail to your PC's hard drive using a standard POP3 email client such as Outlook Express or Thunderbird. However, POP3 access is now part of the Hotmail Plus package, which you have to pay for. Another option would be to use Oneseek's $20 WebMail Assistant program (oneseek.com/webmail.htm) for Windows only. "WebMail Assistant lets you easily save any message into a folder on your local drive," says the website. It also works with Yahoo email. Since Hotmail will delete all your email if you forget to log on every 30 days, it is important to save copies.Backchat&#183;Last week, Carolyn George asked about finding an ISP that would provide an internet connection with a static IP address. Readers pointed out there are a number of Dynamic DNS services that will associate a website address with whatever IP address your ISP assigns to your connection. David Parker says: "No-IP (www.no-ip.com) works excellently for me, and the basic version is free." Kieren Diment uses Dynamic DNS (www.dyndns.org/services/dyndns/), which also lets you link a dynamic IP address to a static host name.
Simpler SempronEuropean PC manufacturers Packard Bell NEC and Gericom will launch laptops based on the latest AMD Mobile Sempron chip by Christmas. The Sempron 3000+ is a cut-down version of the Mobile Athlon 64: it lacks the 64-bit extensions and has a smaller cache memory. However, it will allow suppliers to produce cheaper Athlon notebooks than the models currently available. The Mobile Sempron is aimed at undercutting the price of Intel's Pentium M chips, but it still consumes 35 Watts of power compared to the M chip's 21 Watts.http://masl.to/?O25D327E9Common parlanceThe government is introducing a new electronic system to improve communications between parliament and Whitehall. The Parliamentary Community (ePC) will be a pilot scheme marking the first phase of plans to create a data flow between the two departments of government. Initially, it will deliver parliamentary questions and answers from the House of Commons to government departments and written ministerial statements to Hansard and the Table Office. Peter Hain, the leader of the House of Commons, is also introducing extensions to his office's web site to publicise details on forthcoming legislative programmes and offering an email alert service.masl.to/?Z67D127E9Generation gainThe Georgia Institute of Technology claims that a tiny generator it has produced will one day power portable computers. Its prototype micro-engine high-speed generator measures a centimetre across by three millimetres high, and is powered by compressed air. It can already produce just over a Watt of electricity - enough power to run a mobile phone - and promises to produce more power and last 10 times longer than current batteries. The generator comprises a magnet spinning at 100,000 revolutions per minute over coils created on a silicon chip. The finished product is expected to measure two or three centimetres across and will generate between 20 and 50 Watts.masl.to/?R28D317E9Workers uniteIBM Lotus says it has signed up 100 software producers to support its Workplace product, part of the WebSphere Portal initiative. Workplace provides basic email, instant messaging and scheduling services but adds a collaborative framework on top. This   allows users to create and manage shared documents, produce video training courses and to hold web conferences. Companies already signed to the project include Adobe, Hyperion and Bowstreet.masl.to/?Q41E267E9Free XPMicrosoft UK is offering free copies of its Windows XP operating system ("subject to terms and conditions") to users who have inadvertently bought counterfeit copies pre-installed on PCs. The offer follows the discovery of high-quality counterfeits in the UK, and is aimed at gathering information to track down the counterfeiters. UK residents can, at their own expense, send in suspect packages for checking, along with a witness statement. The offer ends on December 31.www.microsoft.com/uk/piracy/Picture of healthGeneral Electric and EMC are to install an electronic image archiving system in 70 hospitals in the south of England. The &#163;100m contract will combine GE's picture archiving and communication system (Pacs) technology with four EMC storage systems. Pacs allows X-rays, magnetic resonance images and other medical scans to be digitised, stored and transmitted electronically. This reduces the time taken using current methods, where film has to be processed, duplicated and delivered to doctors and technicians by hand or through the mail. Each hospital will have two Clariion storage arrays for current images. Ten datacentres will hold archives of medical images two years old or older.masl.to/?C6AD217E9Spam attackLycos Europe has announced a controversial screensaver that will help users mount distributed attacks on spammers' websites. The idea is to automatically generate enough traffic to slow the sites down. Malte Pollman, from Lycos Europe, says: "We cannot use this software to bring the spammers' sites down entirely as that would be illegal, but we can send a strong signal that spam is unacceptable." Target sites will be selected from blacklists, but users can suggest addresses via the screensaver's Make Love, Not Spam page.www.makelovenotspam.com
Interviewing some anonymous workplace bloggers recently, I  was struck by their reluctance  to see their sites as some sort  of political protest. A few  agreed that, by washing their  employers' dirty linen online, they  were acting as whistleblowers. But  for most, their blogs were personal  things, therapeutic tools for  dealing with stress and stupidity.Initially, the simple act of writing  - turning the irritations of the  daily grind into a witty/angry blog  post - helps them let off steam.  But blogging's public side adds an  extra dimension. By putting  personal frustrations "out there",  workplace bloggers can share  them with others, who might then  draw links to their own jobs and  send back their own stories, along  with appreciative comments.After filing the story, I began to wonder whether this ad hoc networking  might eventually lead to  something bigger. The latest job  blog to hit the headlines -  ea_spouse (www.livejournal.com/users/ea_spouse/) shows just what  can happen when you share your  grievances online.Strictly speaking, ea_spouse isn't  an anonymous workplace blog.  It's written by someone at home  waiting for her partner to return  from the office. The fiance of a developer  at games giant Electronic  Arts, ea_spouse uses her blog to  describe the outrageous working  hours her partner and his co-workers  endure on a regular basis and  the effects it has on his health and  their life. During a serious "crunch  time", claims ea_spouse, they put  in 85 hours a week, on average, for  months on end. Worse, they are  not paid overtime, are not giventime off in lieu of the extra hours  they put in and, increasingly, are  not given a few weeks off between  projects to de-stress.Since ea_spouse's blog post went  online three weeks ago, it has  drawn thousands of comments.  Some say developers are well paid  for a job they love, so they should  shut up. But most comments come  from others in the industry, sharing  similar stories. Working hours has  long been an issue for the games  industry. The International Game  Developers Association released  a survey earlier this year which  found that many were not paid  for overtime and were working an  average of 65-80 hours a week.However, thanks to ea_spouse,  this is now a story for the mainstream  media - everyone from  CNet and the New York Times.  Attention is focusing on a classaction suit filed by former EA employees  this summer, alleging the  company failed to pay overtime.In the meantime, comments on  the ea_spouse blog talk about  bringing unions into the games  business, standing up to the culture  of fear in the industry (many  think that if they protest, they will  never work again) and tackling  developers' macho attitudes to  long hours. Ea_spouse herself is  planning to set up a watchdog  website to track workplace abuses  in the games business.Individuals "life sharing" via  blogs and building networks of like  minds might seem a long way from  the demos and strikes organised by  old-style unions. But could it be the  way people in modern information  businesses rediscover traditional  ideas of worker solidarity and even  reinvent workplace politics?
They are the must-have accessory for the fashionable gadget enthusiast, according to the mobile phone companies which are pushing 3G handsets hard this Christmas.Anyone who's anyone ought to have an all-singing, all-dancing "third generation" phone which can be used to watch pop videos, view sporting highlights, play games - and make the odd phone call.But yesterday the consumer magazine Which? counselled shoppers to ignore the hype and bide their time before jumping on the 3G bandwagon.To the dismay of 3, the first company to launch a 3G service, and Vodafone, which has launched its range in time for the festive season, Which? expressed concern at the coverage the new phones offer and in some cases criticised their style.It recommended that phone-users stick with conventional 2G for now. The report concluded: "We're not sold on 3G yet. The handsets are still fairly bulky and the network coverage is limited which means that, for some time still to come, there are likely to be problems accessing 3G services successfully and consistently."Malcolm Coles, editor of Which? added: "There are teething problems with 3G phones and coverage so we recommend sticking with a 2G phone for the time being."The report in Which? was particularly hard on 3, which launched its 3G service in March last year. It has more than 1.2 million subscribers though many commentators believe a large number of these have been attracted by offers of cheap phone calls rather than the many extras 3 offers.Which? claimed 3 had been "dogged by coverage problems and fairly poor handsets".A spokesman for 3 expressed "bemusement" at the conclusions in Which? He said 80% of the population was covered by its 3G service. Rather than being "clunky", its latest 3G handset, the NEC 338, was one of the slimmest and lightest anywhere in the world.The spokesman said: "We feel Which? is providing out-of-date information and ill-informed comment."
Over the past year, the mobile phone has started to develop into the all-singing, all-dancing uber-gadget that makers and networks promised it would become years ago.Yet some commentators still query how much consumers want the features being offered. The one area where extra features are earning their keep is in the smartphone market. These have significantly improved during the past year, with the latest models offering all the required features, from email and full web access to Outlook-friendly personal information management systems, yet they are now smaller and sport more attractive form factors.While the Nokia-backed Symbian platform had a huge lead in the smartphone market, Microsoft and its Windows Mobile 2003 for Smartphone platform are catching up.In the SPV C500, available exclusively through Orange, Microsoft boasted possibly the best smartphone. The handset's manufacturers, Taiwanese company HTC, had pulled off what seemed impossible, delivering a small-ish pocket-friendly handset that wasn't only packed with facilities, but was incredibly intuitive and had excellent battery life.For non-Orange customers, it is available in the guise of the i-Mate SP3 from retailers such as Expansys (www.expansys.co.uk). Another excellent Windows-based smartphone is the Sagem MY S7, which has similar facilities to the C500 in a slightly larger and bulkier frame.Those looking for a connected PDA should take a peek at the newly launched MDA III, from T-Mobile,   which runs Windows Mobile 2003 for Pocket PC platform. The device feels bulkier than its predecessor (sold in the UK as the O2 XDA II), largely because HTC added integrated Wi-Fi facilities and a small, but not very effective, Qwerty keyboard. When a BlackBerry push email client is added in the new year, the MDA III will become a powerful corporate tool. Vodafone, Orange and O2 will be offering the phone shortly.Sony Ericsson delivered the P910, an upgrade of the P900 that featured a not entirely successful integration of a Qwerty keyboard. This left room for British maker Sendo to make its mark with the X, a superbly executed Symbian smartphone withunique touches, such as the Now interface that enables users to customise the phone to easily access favourite applications.If you fancy a 3G smartphone, you might have to wait. Although 3 is offering Motorola's Symbian-based A1000, but without full websurfing, it is debatable whether it can be classed as a smartphone. Similarly, Vodafone is offering Nokia's excellent 6630, but users pay extra for each   website they visit, making it prohibitively expensive.Easily the most influential 3G phone of the year was the LG 8110, arguably the first to come in a compact form more akin to GPRS models. It now has serious competition in the shape of the Sony Ericsson V800 from Vodafone, which, in addition to 3G trappings such as video calling, downloads and music players, features a striking black case and comes with possible the best camera seen on a UK phone .Both 3 and Vodafone have also signed up the Motorola E1000, a youth-oriented handset with a superb pair of speakers.The year's best all-rounder has to be the Nokia 7610, a smartphone that uses the Symbian Series 60 interface, sports a stunning design and features an excellent screen and one of the best megapixel cameras on a phone. Its only weakness is the slightly fiddly keys.Finally, if your concept of the ultimate phone is a handset that is short on bells and whistles but is easy to use and ultra-stylish, Motorola's iconic half an inch thick RAZR V3 more than fits the bill. Besides, how many other phones use aircraft grade aluminum?Top 10 mobiles1Nokia 76102Orange SPV C5003Sendo X4T-Mobile MDA III5Motorola RAZR V36Sony Ericsson V8007LG 8110/81208Motorola E10009Sagem My S710Nokia 6630
My bitches have a thing for the journalist James Naughtie. This presents a problem. We live in Italy, and although their mornings are spent reclining on the sofa dreaming of his mellifluous voice, they are never awake in time for, nor could they get reception of, the Today programme.So to keep them soothed before their morning walk, I've rigged up a podcast. Podcasting is the name for a new combination of technologies that automatically downloads audio files to your MP3 player via your computer. Instead of ripping CDs, or manually downloading files, you can now use a special application to subscribe to a website's "feed", which directs your machine to the location of the new audio. By checking these feeds regularly, your podcasting application can keep you stocked with fresh audio goodies.In the case of my dogs and me, it is the first hour of the Today programme, ripped from the BBC's live stream and converted to MP3 by something I hacked together in an afternoon. For others, however, podcasting is the beginning of a revolution in homegrown media: a system by which anyone can create radio-style programming and deliver it directly to their audience, in a way that makes it painless and convenient to consume.Hundreds of feeds have been made available since podcasting's first appearance earlier this summer.PodcastAlley.com, a site dedicated to listing and reviewing all the available podcasts, has collected more than 450 feeds in the three weeks it has been running. This is a new idea, but it has caught on in a big way."It was too hard to find podcasts," says PodcastAlley's Chris McIntyre, "so I built a directory."The available feeds range from Skinny Bones on Air, a podcast featuring "the experiences gained from writing, directing and editing an independent feature film", to the increasingly infamous Dawn and Drew show, "a husband and wife podcasting duo coming to you from the town of Wayne, Wisconsin".Although there are some professionally produced podcasts - the BBC is running an experimental feed for Melvyn Bragg's Radio 4 show In Our Time - the vast majority are created a few times a week by amateurs."There's a good variety of really good shows," says McIntyre, "but also some really poor ones."The technologies and ideas behind podcasting are not new, at least in internet terms: people have been recording themselves talking and uploading the resultant file - audioblogging, as it is known - for many years. But podcasting has come from an unforeseen combination of commonplace technologies.Earlier this year, Adam Curry, a London-based weblogger, wrote a small application to automatically retrieve the audio files and add them to his machine's music program, from where they would be added to his iPod. This package, called iPodder, led to a rash of copycat programs, and a whole community of developers and programme creators, built up around it. Today, the popular podcasters talk of 5,000 downloads per individual show, growing rapidly.There are problems, of course. Podcasts, being audio, aren't searchable. You can't find the contents of a podcast within Google, or track down a particularly fine bon mot or in sightful point without remembering where it was from, and listening to the whole thing again. They are also expensive: although modern broadband connections are fast enough to make the large audio files practical to download, they don't do anything to make it any cheaper to host. The cost of bandwidth is already giving many popular webloggers pause, and podcast files are hundreds of times bigger than an average weblog entry.A case in point is ITConversations.com, which hosts MP3s of interviews with the IT world's luminaries, recordings of speeches from important IT conferences, and its own talk show programming. Its publisher, Doug Kaye, says he is serving 140 gigabytes a day from the site. That's the same traffic as this article would make if its page on guardian.co.uk was requested 10m times. In the general spirit of the internet, he is asking his audience to suggest how he can raise the money to support this. The introduction of podcasting, he says, doubled the traffic almost overnight. Now 80% of IT Conversation's traffic is caused by people subscribed to the feed.As usual for a new medium, podcasts vary greatly in quality, both in terms of production values and the content. Some, like those from IT Conversations or the BBC, are professionally created with expensive equipment in sound-proofed studios to the directions of a well-written script, but the majority are ad-libbed into cheap microphones connected to ordinary computers, with the inevitable background chatter, wind noise, lip smacks, mindless ramblings and the umms and ahhs of the amateur. It is much harder to give a good impression with your voice than it is in print, and many of the pioneers of the medium just aren't very good at it. This isn't a big problem with weblogs, as it is quick and easy to dip into a new one and scan it to see if you might like to read more. With podcasts, however, you need to   invest much more time and energy to try out new things. Currently, what you might find is - odds on - less interesting and less listenable than your nearest professional talk radio station.Doug Kaye again: "My feeling is that all of us only have a limited amount of time and a lot of these unprofessional shows will fall by the wayside."Chris McIntyre concurs, saying that many podcasters may not have the knowledge to develop a full radio show "but it's possible that there will be people who start out as a nobody and become a somebody" through a slow build-up of an audience for their podcast.So why has the podcasting meme spread so far, so quickly? The reasons are simple. Like weblogs, the dismal content really isn't the point. It is a combination of the ease of creating content, and the way it can be consumed. Until recent years, audio programming has been   technically demanding to produce. Now even the cheapest personal computer can run free or inexpensive recording, editing and mixing software.Software such as Apple's Garageband can give the average hobbyist a selection of music production tools previously reserved for the seriously equipped. When weblogging software first appeared five years ago, it greatly simplified the act of putting writing online, and so caused an explosion of online content, both good and bad. Podcasting has arrived just as similar tools have appeared for audio, and new content is looking for distribution methods. The timing is impeccable.This timing, along with the popularity of iPods and the rest of the necessary ingredients, also comes as the idea of timeshifting hits the mainstream. TiVo units in America and Sky Plus in the UK, have shown that the idea that programming has to be consumed in the order and time that the broadcaster assigns it, is nonsense. An ordinary radio is an automated content delivery device, but you can't pause it, or rewind it, or adapt it to your own schedule."The value of streaming content has gone down," says Kaye, "while the value of downloading has gone way up because of it."Nor can you, with an ordinary radio, mix and match your programming to meet your own tastes and interests. Podcasting applications live for such a function. "With podcasting, you can select your own genre," says McIntyre.For years, technologists have talked about newspapers that are unique to the reader's interests - personalisation; about applications that allow anyone to create previously specialist media - mass amateurisation; about systems that allow content producers to connect directly to their audience - disintermediation; and for systems that allow their owners to dictate the order and time they listen to things - timeshifting. Podcasting is a perfect combination of all of these things. Expect to hear a lot more, in both senses of the phrase.Prepare to podFirst off, it is not necessary to have an MP3 player. The systems available are optimised for use with Apple's iTunes and iPod combination, on either Windows or Mac OS X, but if you are happy just listening to things while sitting at your machine, the shiny white device is optional.You will need a Podcasting application. I use both iPodderX on a Mac, and Blogmatrix Jaeger, which works on Mac, Windows and Linux.Once you have the application downloaded and installed, choose the podcast feeds to subscribe to.www.PodcastAlley.comhas many to choose from. Your machine will connect to the feed, download it, check it for new material and, if it finds any, download that. Once it has new content to give you, it will add it to your music program, and update your MP3 player.www.ipodder.orgpodcastalley.comwww.itconversations.com&lt;A HREF="http://jaeger.blogmatrix.com""&gt;jaeger.blogmatrix.com
"People using computers can now choose to have Windows XP and Office 2003 in Welsh, reportsBBC News."Welsh is one of 40 new languages being added, in response to complaints from around the world that youngsters were losing their native tongues."The press release ishere.Comment:Windows XP now supports 136 locales. Welsh was one of the 24 new ones added with Service Pack 2. The full list:Bengali  India Bosnian  Bosnia and Herzegovina Croatian  Bosnia and Herzegovina Malayalam  India Maori  New Zealand Maltese  Malta Quechua  Bolivia Quechua  Ecuador Quechua  Peru Sami, Inari  Finland Sami, Lule  Norway Sami, Lule  Sweden Sami, Northern  Finland Sami, Northern  Norway Sami, Northern  Sweden Sami, Skolt  Finland Sami, Southern  Norway Sami, Southern  Sweden Serbian Latin  Bosnia and Herzegovina Serbian Cyrillic  Bosnia and Herzegovina Tswana (Setsuana)  South Africa Xhosa (isiZhosa)  South Africa Welsh  United Kingdom Zulu  South Africa
After dabbling with several different bloging systems, Microsoft is finally getting serious withMSN Spaces. This is blogging software for MSN users, and will sit alongside Hotmail, MSN Messenger, MSN Groups and other services. Bloggers who set up lists of their favourite songs will find they can get automatic links to the tracks in the MSN Music store, for example. It will be available in 14 languages in 26 countries.The Seattle Timeshas the story, as doAPandReuters.
Yesterday, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), founded by Tim Berners-Lee, marked its 10th anniversary with a day-long symposium at the Fairmont Copley Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts. There's a report atInternetnews.com.
My name's Neil and - yes - I am addicted, to football management simulations. I have been hooked on Championship Manager for years, and this autumn - when my dealer told me there was something harder, better, even more immersive on the market - I took the plunge and bought Football Manager (FM). They took &#163;30, but they could have had my soul.They could, that is, had they done their jobs properly. But my FM has quickly proved an extremely bad trip - crashing lows provided not by my footballers' lack of form but by... well, crashing. Lots of it. My computer's falling over more times than El Hadji Diouf in the penalty box.Worse, the fatal flaw exposes itself only after days of play, at the end of the first season, when you have survived the dreaded axe and have dreams of glory in the next term. And the problems have been more unexpected than a win for Rotherham - an apparently adoring computer games press has handed the game glowing reviews, with not a whisper of "unexpected errors" after nights of eye-numbing play.It looks like I am not the only person wondering how hard the reviewers tested the game. FM was only launched this month. But at the start of this week, its support forum was showing 12,769 posts, on 2,638 topics. Those are just the topics its maker, Sports Interactive, hasn't deleted because they have graduated to being "known issues" to be addressed in a forthcoming downloadable patch.A single post detailing those "issues" has been viewed 31,500 times, and lists 55 problems with the new game. Some - an overabundance of diving, for instance - seem trivial (or, perhaps, realistic). Others - like crashes during simple copy-and-paste functions, look worse. Still more, like the serious bug interrupting my FM fix, go unacknowledged in the official list of problems.Customers have been frustrated by the company's lack of communication. Sports Interactive staff issue only teasing promises as to when a fix might become available. "When it's ready" is a common response. In answer to one plea, one user was jokily told the vital fix would be out before Championship Manager 5 - FM's big rival, which has seen its release date slip into the second half of next year.We managed to draw a little more comment from SI Games this week. Via email, Miles Jacobson, its chief executive, said: "We are talking about days &#91;...&#93; rather than weeks."Despite it all, Jacobson says he is happy with the quality of the first release of the game, claiming fewer bugs than previous versions of Championship Manager (which Sports Interactive developed before splitting with the publisher after the last version was released) or other new releases. "There are a few issues that are only affecting a very small amount of users," he says, adding that "the vast majority" are not troubled. It has already sold more than 100,000 copies in the UK alone, the company says."We are a victim of our own success, honesty and determination to get all issues fixed, even if they are found after the game has come out."And although FM and Championship Manager will be slugging it out next year, Jacobson remains confident his game's brand will not suffer from such extensive discussion of its flaws."In every respect - quality of product, critical reaction, sales, you name it - FM 2005 has been a great debut for what is going to be an ongoing success story."Some of his customers might see that as just the kind of defiance any manager worth his salt would come out with, faced with an early reverse.
Health workers might join gay internet chatrooms to promote safe sex messages after government-backed research suggested that half of gay men go online in search of sex.A two-year study of more than 4,000 gay men also found that those using the internet were more likely to report high-risk behaviour or a sexually-transmitted infection than others. Only a small proportion of gay men used the internet alone to find partners, said Jonathan Elford, of City University, London, who conducted the study."Gay internet sites have provided new meeting grounds ... that did not exist in the early 1990s," said Professor Elford who will report the findings tonight.The research, funded by the Medical Research Council, might help find new ways to encourage safe sex. Gay men were questioned at HIV clinics, gyms and via internet sites. Three-quarters backed some form of online health advice.
Well this is it, the shortlist for The Guardian's console game of the year. The competition has been tough, and the titles hotly debated, but below is a run-down of what we consider to be the Numero Uno's of 2004. It's not about us, though.Voteto have your say and, more importantly, to win booty - a fabulous Alienware gaming PC with the heart of a lion and the power of a nuclear blast. Perhaps an exaggeration. In fact, in our own words:At the machine's heart is an AMD Athlon 64 FX processor. Featuring innovative AMD64 technology, enhanced virus protection (enabled by Microsoft SP2) and HyperTransport technology, it is able to deliver a completely immersive, cinematic computing experience.Don't just sit there, get clicking!There's a plethora of Xbox titles on the list, suggesting that they've found their groove, and a dearth of Gamecube entries, suggesting that they've lost theirs. PlayStation 2 only has one game that enters on its own. Have they lost the plot?Deus Ex: Invisible War(Xbox)Halo 2(Xbox)GTA: San Andreas(PS2)Pro Evo 4(Xbox, PS2)Star Wars Battlefront(Xbox, PS2)Metroid Prime 2(Gamecube)Fable(Xbox)Full Spectrum Warrior(Xbox)Pikmin 2(Gamecube)Burnout 3(Xbox, PS2)What do you think? Where have we gone wrong? Where have we gone right? Make your case for one of the games on the list and don't forget tovote!Results will be announced in 9 December'sOnline, but until then, keep voting for your topconsolegame of 2004. You can check out the competition forPCandmobile or handheldgames too.
The Isle of Man announced this week that, as part of its joined-up government strategy, it was moving everything to Microsoft Windows. No doubt this cheered up a company implicated, along with EDS, in the biggest computer crash in British government history. In technology terms, however, it represents the island's belated move into the mainstream rather than a cutting-edge development.Allan Paterson, the Isle of Man's government's IT director, is the man responsible. I met him soon after he got the job. He reckoned it was an exciting place to be, because it was positioning itself as an e-island receptive to e-commerce, including online gambling.It was also a huge challenge, trying to provide the same range of   national services as the UK government, plus some local government services, with an IT department that would be small by corporate standards - about 100 people.He found the usual problems that result from semi-autonomous departments buying their own IT solutions: lots of fragmentation, and some suppliers getting high margins. "We had too many products, too few skills and too few people," he says.The network had about 200 servers in 140 locations, many running different versions of Unix or Novell Netware, plus a Unisys mainframe. It also had lots of desktop PCs, some of which were still being upgraded to Windows 95. Individual applications might be OK, but the whole thing was hard to manage, especially from the point of view of delivering Jupiter,   the island's strategic Joined Up Information for the Electronic Resident programme.Paterson decided to do what everyone does in this situation: consolidate. He started to move everything into two data centres using a single software system. For a variety of reasons, he opted for Windows Server 2003 with desktop PCs running Windows XP SP2.Other options were considered, including Oracle's eBusiness Suite and open source. However, Paterson thought the "cost of ownership" was too high for the Oracle solution, and integration was too difficult. He rejected open source because, at the time, he could not get everything he wanted from a single supplier, and, he says, because he found too much emphasis on the technology and not enough on delivering manageable solutions."I'm working with finite resources and challenging deadlines," Patterson explains. "The &#91;business&#93; skills don't exist in the mindset of the open source software world to the level we need."There were other factors, too. The Isle of Man was already using a lot of Microsoft software, and had numerous Access databases nobody wanted to mess with. Paterson also felt that taking the Microsoft route would make it easier to integrate home users (many staff and residents use XP at home), and to connect with UK government, which is also a heavy Microsoft user.None of this is trendy, which is precisely the point. Like a lot of people, Paterson is much more interested in getting something that does what he wants at a price he can afford. That's not newsworthy, is it?
Net activists have got the democratic process in their sights and, remarkably, the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, has coughed up &#163;250,000 to aid the cause. The sum is a pittance when compared to the &#163;7.4bn the government has spent to get all its services online by the end of 2005. But the returns promise to be great.MySociety, in partnership with West Sussex County Council, won the money earlier this year from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister's local government e-innovations fund. MySociety stands out from the usual crowd of e-democracy wonks. It emerged from the same stable of volunteers who conceived FaxYourMP, PublicWhip and TheyWorkForYou, and the organisation promises to make the donation stretch a long way. A series of cheap, high-impact websites are in the pipeline, developed using a mix of paid staff and volunteers. The first website is expected to be released this month.Tom Steinberg, director of mySociety and a former adviser to No 10, wants the project to show off the success of the people he calls "civic coders". Their grassroots projects typically run queries on data already published by the state, returning relevant information which is fed onto elegant, minimalist websites. Simple social software tools - email, blogs, message boards, wikis - add the crucial layer of interactivity, and in one swift hack, citizen is brought closer to state.FaxYourMP is the canonical example. Stefan Magdalinski, one of the site's volunteers, says the site came about because, "we don't see why people should have to jump through hoops to contact their elected MP".   The site runs a postcode query to establish who your MP is, then presents you with a simple email form that quickly becomes a fax appearing in the MP's office. Run completely by volunteers, the site won the 2004 Future UK Internet Hero award and recently sent its 100,000th fax.FaxYourMP and the websites that followed it picked up tricks the government had missed. The sites have seen ways to recycle data the government already publishes, increasing the usefulness of that data, without incurring much further cost.What can mySociety teach government? The 2005 deadline for getting government services online has, Steinberg reckons, "lead to a mechanistic idea of what e-government is about". Although Steinberg admits that tasks such as the nationwide linking of computers in GP surgeries is a job for big business, he argues that on the conceptual side, in seeing new ways to use and present data,   "the grassroots community has a good record". Referring to DirectGov, the government's own portal, he says that in this respect, "a number of people I know would say that it was misconceived".Each project had to deliver tangible benefits to civil society at very low cost per user. Of some 250 ideas mooted during the consultation, 100 matched the raw criteria. Picking which projects to run, Steinberg asserts, "was neither as difficult nor as controversial as you might think". MySociety has borrowed faithfully from techniques of the open source and grassroots movements, although throwing central funding into the mix has had its effects.According to Roland Mezulis, project director at West Sussex County Council "we shared a common view &#91;with mySociety&#93; on how the technology should be developed, especially regarding open source software". The source code for each project will be released, and feedback solicited from volunteer coders who, Steinberg believes, "do all those useful things that money just can't buy".One modestly-paid core developer will work full-time on each project. "This way there's no question of the project getting stranded for two months because the developer's 'real' job got busy," says Steinberg.Nevertheless, the decision to get involved with funding did cause some soul-searching. "I think everybody was wary - we had to make sure that it didn't dilute what we were about." says Steinberg. "Remarkably, it hasn't. What is surprising is how little &#91;the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister&#93; have tried to change what we're planning to build. I believe we will repay them in spades."www.theyworkforyou.comwww.publicwhip.org.ukwww.localegov.gov.ukhttp://laws-project.org.ukmySociety projectsFaxYourRepresentativeQuick, easy contact with MPswww.faxyourmp.comLaunch projects:PledgeBankPool your efforts with those of others to help a causeNotApatheticTell the government why you don't voteGiveItAwayFind a recipient for unwanted stuffYourConstituencyMailingListHelping MPs set up mailing lists with constituentsmysociety.org
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukPlease include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Clicking a banner advertisement could be dangerous to your PC's health, if the click takes you to a website that attempts to download malicious code. This happened last week, when some European websites were victims of an attack that turned their banner advertising into hyperlinks to sites run by cyber criminals. The attack affected sites in the UK, Sweden and the Netherlands, including The Register computer news site. All were customers of Falk AG, a German ad serving company, .This particular attack is known as the Bofra/IFrame exploit, and it takes advantage of a weakness in Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6.0 browser. The result was that for around six hours - until the problem was detected - users of the affected sites were in danger of being redirected to sites that tried to install malicious software such as "porn diallers" and spyware on their PCs.The exploit does not affect users running alternative browsers, such as   Firefox, or Windows XP users who have installed Service Pack 2 (SP2).Falk AG issued a statement saying: "The cause was a hacker attack on one of our load balancers. This attack made use of a weak point on this specific type of load balancer."The function of a load balancer is to evenly distribute requests to the multiple servers behind it. This particular system was only used to handle a specific request type to its ad server. Once it became aware of the problem, Falk AG shut down the affected load balancer and removed it. It also carried out checks to ensure all other load balancers were secure.One of the UK sites affected, The Register, informed readers of the problem and suspended ad serving from Falk for three days. Drew Cullen, the editor of The Register, said: "This is a cause for concern because we remain unsure whether the cause of the problem has been clearly identified. We are also concerned that many sites affected have just kept quiet. When something like this happens, it is imperative that sites   make a full disclosure."Asserta.com, another of Falk's UK customers, would not comment. It remains unclear how many sites were affected, but The Register estimates it could be as high as 30.On its site, The Register said it had 11,660 unique visitors using Windows and IE6 during the period it was being served malicious ads. But the impact was likely to be limited, because Falk estimates that only one in 30 requests for a banner ad would have been redirected to the site containing the Bofra worm.Danny Meadows-Klue, the chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, said the problem was being closely monitored: "Every community has its vandals and we have to warn users to ensure they are protected with anti-virus software and firewalls. Unfortunately, this industry does suffer periodically from this kind of thing." He agreed that such attacks could increase, but did not think it was likely.However, analyst firm Gartner is predicting that Bofra/IFrame attacks   will increase, especially around systems with what it calls sloppy patching. In an email, it said: "Attacks of this type will become increasingly common, especially around transition points - systems where multiple versions of software (such as Windows 2000 and XP) are in use without full patches across both platforms."And Mark Murtagh, European technical director at web filtering firm Websense, believes it is bad news for the online advertising industry: "This will and is having a serious effect for ad serving companies. Some websites using the Falk ad service receive in excess of 500,000 unique visitors each month, meaning a high distribution potential for the malicious code. But in the medium to long term, this will subside as Microsoft will release a patch for the vulnerability in IE."Meanwhile, Microsoft issued a statement saying it is investigating the attack and confirmed that the vulnerability only exists for IE6. It is encouraging customers to upgrade to SP2. "Microsoft is working to forensically analyse the malicious code in   Bofra and will work with international law enforcement to identify and bring to justice those responsible for this malicious activity," it said. "An update to correct the vulnerability is currently in development."Microsoft also attacked independent researchers who made public the flaw in Internet Explorer, after which hackers soon created an exploit for the vulnerability. It wants researchers not to announce security holes until it has developed patches for them.Sites running ads are getting used to malicious attacks. Earlier this year, a vulnerability in Macromedia Flash ads was exploited. This allowed hackers to run malicious code on a remote website, which could be used to capture session details and possibly other sensitive information.Whatever the result, there is no doubt that many sites running online ads will be taking security more eriously in the wake of the latest attack. If users become wary of clicking banner ads, this could have a devastating effect on their income.
The new Nintendo DS handheld has sold 500,000 units in the US since its launch last week. Nintendo expects to sell 1 million by the end of 2004. Not bad when you consider the iPod took 19 months to do that. However, the US is one thing, Europe is entirely different. It will be interesting to see how sales go on this side of the pond, especially if Nintendo's marketing and PR is as invisible as ever..
"The offices of Gawker Media offer precious little sign that any work ever gets done here: three collapsed leather sofas, two laptops, a table piled with books, some dried flowers and several dozen champagne flutes appear to be the only physical attributes of Nick Denton's weblog empire," writes Edward Helmore inThe Independent."Yet the nine internet sites that comprise Denton's Gawker Media company are among the most original and influential of their kind. Collectively and individually, they have become daily reading for New York media types [Gawker], LA film people [Defamer], Washington political junkies [Wonkette], computer gamers [Kotaku], gear-heads [Jalopnik] and gadget freaks [Gizmodo] as well as "enthusiasts" of pornography" [Fleshbot]."Update:links added by popular request.
7 people want to "fuck Britney Spears". 12 people want to "spend more time underwater". 19 people want to "write a science fiction novel". 29 people want to "get a life". 210 people want to "get a girl friend". 633 people want to "stop wasting time". 1121 people want to "be happy".SeeTwinkler
"A four-letter term that came to symbolize the difference between old and new media during this year's presidential campaign tops US dictionary publisher Merriam-Webster's list of the 10 words of the year," reportsReuters.The Top 10 words were:1. blog 2. incumbent 3. electoral 4. insurgent 5. hurricane 6. cicada 7. peloton 8. partisan 9. sovereignty 10. defenestration
Emails apparently exposing a premium rate phone scam were yesterday dismissed by a consumer watchdog as false.The Independent Committee for the Supervision of Telephone Information Services (Icstis) said it had received a number of enquiries relating to emails outlining two different schemes.One is about a phone scam where an individual receives a recorded message telling them they have won an all-expenses-paid holiday and asking them to dial nine for further details. According to the email, if the person does so they will be put through to a premium rate number costing 20 a minute. The email warns that if you listen to the whole message you will be billed 260.In the second case, an email arriving in inboxes across the country describes a scam where people receive a missed call from a number beginning 0709. It is then claimed that, if callers dial this number, they are connected to a 50 a minute premium rate line.Icstis said yesterday that these stories are not true. In a statement, the watchdog said: "20  and 50 a minute premium rate tariffs do not exist - the highest premium rate tariff available is 1.50 a minute.Despite the dozens of enquiries received by Icstis about these 'scams' (and most people appear to have heard about them second or third-hand), not one person who claims that it has actually happened to them has been able to produce a phone bill to support their story."The body urged anyone who receives either of these emails to delete them, and not to forward them on to others.
Yes, you read correctly.Ain't It Cool Newshas word from the rumour mill that Ridley Scott - who has rejected the project once before - may be swayed to pick up the mantle of a Halo film because of the phenomenal sales that Halo 2 generated when it was released early in November .There's something perpetually optimistic about the gaming community. It's heartening to think that even though the past relationship between interactive products and the film-makers in Hollywood has been bleak at best, we're still awfully excited that Halo may make its way to the silver screen. Consider us totally tickled if the rumours are true and Scott signs up to direct it. Gadzooks! Whatcouldbe better?Well, anything.It may not be a popular opinion but really, what does the games industry gain from collaborations with Hollywood? Let's break it down:Respect?At the moment Hollywood is cherry-picking those titles which are making the most dough and are making "inspired-by" films. Respect for games by the general public would come from movies that aren't ritually derided. Will we ever see a film that conveys the joy of playing Ico? Or offers the sense of consequence that playing Fable generates? Or one that stretches our minds like Prince of Persia?New audiences?Does anyone have figures for the people who ran out to buy the Super Mario Bros., Mortal Kombat or Tomb Raider games after they went to see the films?Proof that gaming has gone "mainstream"?Unfortunately, I expect that being adopted and adapted badly by Hollywood has probably resulted in the mainstream rejecting games as "rubbish" or "something not for them".More revenue for future game products?The cash goes to the Hollywood bigwigs, the thousands of people in the scrolling credits at the end of the film and the creators of the original game product who appear to reduce much of their output to future film-fodder. But that's business.An alternative and much more exciting prospect is for game and film makers to collaborate in order to generate new film or game products. What wouldShigeru Miyamoto(creator of Mario and Zelda),American McGee(creator of the warped Alice and, according to The Hollywood Reporter viaEEG, in talks with Jerry Bruckheimer to bring his version of The Wizard of Oz to the big - and small - screens),Richard "Lord British" Garriott(creator of the Ultima series) andPeter Molyneux(creator of theGod-gamegenre) bring to the content and experience of cinema? What will John Woo bring to his forthcominggamesthat's unique to his movie background? And how good would aTim Burton-created game be?As food for thought, here's a list of some films that bring the excitement of interactive games to the passive big cinema screen, without adapting a particular product for the purpose:The Matrix: Perhaps the most successful of the five, the Wachowski Brothers explicitly took computer games and comic books as their inspiration for their future-shock view of alternative worlds.Run Lola Run: The oft-referenced German art flick jam-packed with action and multiple endings. High-octane and thought-provoking. An excellent watch.Cube: A Canadian low-budget original which locks viewers into their seats as the trapped characters figure out how to escape a never-ending, interlocking maze of booby-trapped rooms.Slacker: Richard Linklater's 1991 stream of consciousness rambling piece of cinema shares more with adventure games than other movies, particularly in the inanity of some of the conversations with secondary characters.The Tingler: Schlock film directorWilliam Castle's most famous movie gimmick was to electrically-charge the seats in hundreds of cinemas, literally shocking movie-goers into immersion.There are others. What are they?
And now, somewhere to plant that discarded mobile phone - in the garden.Scientists at the University of Warwick have designed a hi-tech solution to an old-technology problem: a cellphone case made of biodegradable polymer. It looks smart, it feels cool, and it breaks down on the compost heap into a pile of soil nutrients.And then the final touch: it flowers. That is because engineers have planted a tiny transparent window in the case or cover, in which they can embed a seed.This would lie dormant in its plastic sheath until the phone cover gets tipped out with the tea leaves and lawn clippings, or dug directly into the herbaceous border. Once nature begins its work, the seed germinates. The prototype phone case contains a dwarf sunflower seed.Kerry Kirwan of Warwick worked with PVAXX Research and Development and Motorola to find a way to turn the last word in high technology into something down to earth.Cellphone science is in its third generation in little more than a decade, and worldwide, mobile phones outnumber landlines. In Europe alone, more than 100m old phones are thrown away each year.Dr Kirwan's phone is a demonstration model. There are sophisticated systems to recover precious metals inside phones but the composite cases remain a problem. Soon, shops will sell disposable mobile phones the way they now sell disposable cameras.
Within the next 18 months more than 20 million mobile telephone users in Britain, Germany and Ireland will finally gain access to a high-speed internet service which has revolutionised mobile communications for tens of millions of Japanese since its launch five years ago.NTT DoCoMo's i-mode service, which under an agreement announced yesterday will be licensed in the three countries in partnership with the British mobile phone operator mmO2, offers a range of services such as sending email, browsing the internet, chatting and downloading games and ringtones.More than 90% of Japanese DoCoMo users - 42.6 million people - subscribe to i-mode, lured by promises of high-speed access to more than 70,000 compatible sites.With more than three million additional subscribers globally, i-mode has fast become the most popular mobile internet platform in the world.Compatible websites can be accessed without having to type in the URL and subscribers are spared the inconvenience of applying to providers for email addresses as they are automatically allocated one as soon as they purchase an i-mode telephone. Mail can be sent to up to 12 people simultaneously.DoCoMo's move into the British, German and Irish markets follows a recent drive into other parts of Europe, including Spain, France, Italy and Greece.A generation of Japanese mobile phone users has been brought up on i-mode.The service also provides access to 3D games, online shopping, video clips of films and sports events - as well as online banking and ticket reservations.The i-mode service is permanently hooked up to the internet, meaning that subscribers do not have to dial up every time they want to browse or exchange emails.Emails can be sent to other i-mode users or anybody with an internet account. The system can send messages of up to 200 full-size characters at any time and receive messages containing as many as 2,000 characters. A messaging service sends information on new products and services to users' telephones.Rates are considered low by Japanese standards - emails typically cost just over four yen each to send and about two yen to receive - as they are calculated based on the volume of data transmitted, not time.The service will not be available in the UK and Ireland until the end of next year, and German users will have to wait until spring 2006.The licensing agreement with mmO2 - DoCoMo's eleventh globally - is the culmination of years of interest in the UK market among DoCoMo executives.The expansion is set to continue with plans to enable the i-mode-equipped FOMA 3G service to retrieve business and personal information from anywhere in the world in several years' time.
Spammers may be about to get a taste of their own medicine. A British company is today launching software that it claims will allow computer users to hit back at the mass mailers who clog up our inboxes with sales pitches for pornography, get-rich-quick schemes and cheap medication.Lycos UK is offering free screensavers designed to counter-attack the junk emailers by turning their own techniques against them.Entitled, somewhat confusingly, Make Love, Not Spam, the campaign aims to harness the coordinated power of under-occupied computers and   bombard blacklisted sites with streams of email requests which will slow down targeted addresses and interfere with their business.Similar methods have been used for scientific challenges which require enormous computing capacity, such as finding a cure for cancer or sifting through the data gathered by Seti, the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence.This is believed to be the first time the principle of distributed computing, which harnesses the power of computers while they are idle, has been employed against antisocial behaviour online.The modern internet increasingly reverberates to the electronic squelch of dud emails hitting inboxes. Lycos estimates that there will soon be 35 spam emails sent to each inbox every day.MessageLabs, which scans 100m emails a day for 9,000 corporate clients worldwide, reckons that as many as 70m of those are junk. Many of the pornographic and dubious financial sites operate from addresses in eastern Europe, the US or South America.Lycos's proposal has divided opinion. Some professionals warn it will invite retaliation. Others welcome the initiative as a chance to strike back."We have upped the ante," said Wessel Van Rensburg of Lycos. "We are serious about combating spam. There's a risk we will receive some denial of   service attacks in the next few days but we are ready."Mr Van Rensburg said the plan was not to target the sites that send out spam, which are often hijacked computers, but to hit the sites that the spam benefits, many of them pornographic and based in eastern Europe. "If you want to call it vigilante action, so be it."But Matt Sergeant, the chief anti-spam technologist at MessageLabs, said he did not approve of fighting network abuse with further network abuse. "It's too difficult to get it exactly right," he said. "The safeguards now in place are not too bad."The Make Love, Not Spam screensaver can be downloaded fromwww.lycos.co.uk
What were you initially hoping to achieve with the blog?I didn't really have any aims when I set out, other than to make people laugh. I suppose at the start I was always looking for stories that had a huge significance for the trust and that people would be able to relate to. But more recently I have become focused on the tiny details of my office environment - like answering the phone, the canteen toast run, and ordering the water-cooler water.What has reaction to it been like so far?The most popular entry I have written was about the &#91;NHS&#93; star rating system. We are in a situation where we need money to invest in one area to get our stars, while the primary care trust needs us to invest in another area so they can get their stars. I also seem to get a good reaction to posts that focus around meetings and my observations on them. I suppose this is because these are universal to any workplace and the same stupid things happen everywhere.You blog anonymously. If you used your real name, how would your blog be different?Without this veil of anonymity, I don't think I would tell half the stories I do. Or at least I would have to edit them to the point where they become unfunny. It would become more about me and what I am experiencing, rather than about the trust as a whole and the characters in my team. Without anonymity, it wouldn't exist.Does anyone from your work read your blog? If so, has anyone guessed you're behind the blog?I don't think anyone at my work reads my blog, which is probably a good thing. In a very quiet week, I wrote a story about something that had happened in my previous job. One of the comments I got was from a former colleague, who left their work email address. What they didn't realise was that the person I was blogging about was sitting in an office on the floor above them. I often wonder what people's reactions would be if they found it. I think and hope the individuals involved would see it for what it is: a   joke. Although I'm not sure what the organisation would think. This is the issue that keeps most work bloggers awake at night.Do you see your blog as a purely personal thing - a way of dealing with the everyday frustrations at work? Or does it have a more general, possibly political purpose - a kind of low-level whistleblowing function, letting people know the reality of certain modern jobs?I really didn't start my blog for any reason other than to make people laugh. If in that process I can make some statements about the modern workplace, or some quasi-political postings about the NHS, then that is purely a side issue. I happen to write about the NHS because I work in it. I suppose in some way my blog does whistleblow, but on the office environment in general and what it is like to work in the 21st century.Are workplace blogs a kind of rebellion against modern 'overwork' culture?I think the majority of work blogs are more of a rebellion against the stupid initiatives that people come up with. Rather than the overwork culture, it's more of a rebellion against idiocy. Why spend thousands of pounds getting a new logo when there are wards where eight nurses have to share one PC, which is locked in the sister's office?Why do you think people read your blog?If people are coming for a cheap laugh, I hope they get it. If they are coming to know more about the NHS, then I hope they find that too. I'm sure at some level there is some snooping going on, but I hope my readers don't expect an insightful and intelligent deconstruction of the modern NHS workplace, because they won't get that from me.Is what you write on your blog 'the truth' about your job, or do you sometimes find yourself embellishing?I often joke with the one person who knows about me and the blog that it is probably 95% truthful. The vast majority of postings don't happen as they are written. They are either a   mish-mash of things that have happened to me in this job and some from my previous jobs, or the actual action finishes before the punchline and I embellish slightly to get the story to a funnier conclusion. I have yet to manipulate a workplace situation into something that could be bloggable, but on a quiet week soon I know I won't be able to resist.What do you hope to achieve with your blog?I really don't aim to achieve anything. I love my current job and wouldn't swap it for any other job. My main aim is to keep it funny and keep it light-hearted. I have really never considered a publishing deal and I don't think I would want one. I am a public sector IT worker, and will be for life. If I did get offered one, my old English teacher   would probably have a heart attack. It was never my strongest subject.Is doing your blog still fun? Do you foresee a time when it might feel like another (unpaid) job?Blogging is still fun but it is stressful. Keeping my ears open for small titbits of information that would make an amusing posting can be time-consuming and distracting. For someone like me who has never been a good writer, finalising the post before publishing is one of the hardest things. This does take some of the fun out of it. I'm sure that my blog has a finite lifespan. I just hope I realise when it's the right moment to call time on it. I hope that when it does become a chore, or when I become unfunny or just steal jokes from the Simpsons, that I am gracious enough to walk away.Do you feel a sense of responsibility to your readers?I really don't feel too much responsibility to be truthful to my readers. I think the majority of them can identify that my blog is not 100% accurate because some of the things that happen are just too outrageous to be true. I don't really feel any journalistic integrity. As Wrapstar, who writes Call Centre Confidential, once put it, if you get a choice between printing the legend or the truth, print whichever is funnier. Maybe if someone reads one of my posts then they may be misled into thinking that the entire NHS is like that, but if they stick around and read more I hope they will realise that I use a certain amount of artistic licence.&#183;A version of this article first appeared on the Guardian Onlineblog. More blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/online&#183;Read Dr Dre's blog atwww.anytownnhstrust.blogspot.com
GTA may havesold 677,000in its opening few days on sale in the UK but that's relatively little compared toDragon Quest VIIIin Japan. The latest in the RPG series has sold 2.2 million copies in two days and proves once again the Japanese love of role-playing games. The game should be out in the US in 2005, but is unlikely to replicate its Far Eastern success in the West. Is that fair? Do we not appreciate Japanese RPGs? The Final Fantasy series, post VII, has done well, but do we love our spikey-haired heroes enough? Or are those random-battles too much? Comments on a Monster Heart to...
Gamespothas reported that Sony Computer Entertainment America have announced their apologies to those poor souls who've lost their memory card content due to a faulty pre-release demo disc.Viewtiful Joe 2, the stunning follow up to the cell-shaded beat-em-up is featured on the Holiday 2004 demo disc to be publicly released in the States on 7 December. Sony says the game is still playable but gamers must remove their memory cards if they wish to keep their files.
Having barely been allowed to put a finger on the controller since GTA: SA entered the premises, I have noticed in my second-hand observations that in between the mindless catharsis of flying 4-Wheel Drives and samurai swords there is a level of morality that doesn't often enter into gangsta games. It seems strange that a vilified title like this one would preach anti-drug messages and extol the importance of community (not to mention addressingbody image issues), but in amongst the bloodshed and epithets are some powerful thoughts that could slip un-noticed into anafter-school special.Anti-Drug Propaganda: Although protagonist Carl "CJ" Johnson is surrounded by vice and narcotics, he repeatedly turns down offers to do any drugs and rejects people who are blatantly on them. Sympathetic characters also are drug-free, whereas bad guys and turncoats are all on weed, crack (also known as "yay" and "base" in the game), and a new form of PCP called "wet" (did they get it fromTarget?). The only first-hand experience CJ has with drugs is through secondary smoke, which turns the visuals woozy and makes him feel nauseous. This isn't the first anti-drug game in the series; earlier iterations also denounced gangs who earned their keep by trafficking narcotics.Pro-Community: Not quite the televised image of pep-rallies and cheerleaders, however GTA: SA does promote its own street version of community spirit. Chuck D, in his role as DJ of the Play Back classic hip hop station, calls out to the listeners to remember the importance of community, to recognise that not all messages need to be gangsta, and to band together in love and charity. I feel a group hug coming on. Drugs are spun as the cause for the ruination of the Black community, and those who do take the more serious narcotics are the perpetrators of dishonesty and disloyalty, which usually leads to theirs and others' ruin, and the degradation of the in-game society.Treating your woman right: While the majority of the game is rather, shall we say, un-politically correct when it comes to female representations, CJ must still woo his girl with flowers and gifts while keeping up appearances. OK, the result isn't exactly on par with the "True Love Waits" mantra, but in keeping with the after school special motif, he appears to be monogamous...Where else does the game stand on moral high ground?Thanks to Max for his additions to earlier versions of this blog
The company behind the internet song-swapping service Kazaa today claimed it was merely the musical equivalent of a video recorder as it began its defence in a landmark court case in Australia.Tony Meagher, lawyer for Kazaa, began his defence by arguing that the company could not be held responsible for the actions of the network's estimated 100 million users, who between them trade up to 3 billion songs or movies at any one time.He cited a 1984 US supreme court ruling that found electronics giant Sony was not liable when people used its Betamax videocassette recorder to copy movies illegally because the technology had significant uses that did not violate copyrights.Mr Meagher is also expected to cite a similar UK case from the 80s when a court ruled that Amstrad was allowed to sell hi-fis with high-speed tape-to-tape copying."It is plain &#91;Kazaa&#93; has lawful uses," Mr Meagher told federal court judge Murray Wilcox.The Australian civil case is being seen as a crucial test of whether record labels stand a chance of stamping out peer-to-peer file-sharing networks such as Kazaa in their fight against music piracy.The 10 defendants include Kazaa's owners, Sharman Networks Ltd, Sharman License Holdings and Sharman's Sydney-based chief executive officer, Nikki Hemming.The US case cited by Kazaa was also invoked in August when the ninth US circuit court of appeals in San Francisco ruled that two other leading file-swapping networks, Grokster and StreamCast Networks, were not legally liable for the songs, movies and other copyright works their users swap online.In another key element of the defendants' defence in the three-week trial, Mr Meagher said that even though the peer-to-peer software that underpins Kazaa allows users to breach copyright, the site's owners did not authorise piracy and cannot stop it.A licence agreement to which all Kazaa users have to submit before downloading the service's software tells them they must not use the network to distribute copyrighted material, but the record industry says Kazaa makes no effort to enforce the agreement.Earlier, record industry lawyer Tony Bannon told the court that Kazaa had a policy banning child pornography files from its network and pledges to eject from the network any person caught distributing such files.Mr Bannon said  if Kazaa could kick users off its network for child porn distribution then it should be able to do the same to those who share copyrighted material."Either that is true or that is false.  Either they are saying to the community, the world community, that we do have a no tolerance policy on child pornography and we have set up a system which permits an extraordinary proliferation of material around the world but children of this world should rest easy that we have the ability to terminate Kazaa users, our users of our system which we set up, if they breach that no tolerance policy. Either that is true or that is false," he said.No decision is expected in the case before next year. If the 10 companies and individuals behind Kazaa and its software are ruled liable for copyright infringements, a separate hearing will be held to decide the level of damages.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The majority of UK internet users now have broadband connections at home, according to figures released today.The number of people surfing the internet using high-speed broadband internet connections has more than doubled in the past year to more than 11 million.That means that more than half of the UK's online population of 22.8 million are now accessing the internet at high speed, according to figures from ACNielsen NetRatings.The dramatic rise in the number of people subscribing to high-speed broadband services, allowing them to access video, music and games online, is likely to provide broadcasters and record labels with a host of new opportunities."Twelve months ago high-speed internet users made up less than one quarter of the audience. Now they are more than 50% and we expect this number to keep growing," said ACNielsen's European internet analyst, Gabrielle Prior."As the number of high-speed surfers grows in the UK, websites will need to adapt, update and enhance their content to retain visitors and encourage new ones. In the future, websites will be 'sped' out of the market, not 'priced out'."Yesterday BT announced it was launching a dedicated entertainment division devoted to developing partnerships with broadcasters, movie studios and independent producers.The mass market acceptance of online music services such as iTunes and Napster has also contributed to the rising popularity of broadband, with high-speed connections making music download speeds around 10 times faster.The rise in broadband connections has been well documented, with more than 4 million households hooked up to high-speed links that make online television, movies and music a reality.But the new research shows that high-speed connections tend to be most popular in larger households with five or more people, meaning that more people than previously thought are surfing over broadband lines.This is likely to be because larger households get more value from the faster, always on connections that do not tie up the phone line. Six out of 10 internet-enabled households of five or more people have upgraded to broadband.According to the figures, the dramatic rise in the number of high-speed connections means that 11.5 million people are using broadband at home, an 117% increase on last year.Meanwhile, the number of people actively surfing the web from home each month in the UK has grown by 15% to 23 million, confounding predictions that the overall universe of home internet users would level out.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Britain's most prolific spammer, 23-year-old Peter Francis-Macrae, is on the run from both the police and UK domain registry Nominet after he finally pushed his luck too far," reportsThe Register."Francis-Macrae, who lives in the tiny village of St Neots in Cambridgeshire with his father, failed to turn up to a hearing at Huntington Magistrates court and a warrant for his arrest has been issued. He is charged with five criminal counts from threats to kill, sending offensive messages and threatening to burn a trading standards office that was investigating him for a variety of Internet scams."Comment:The Times published a fascinating piece about Weaselboy, which you can read on the Spamhaus site,here. Also see Spamhaus's other links aboutPeter Francis-Macrae.
Steve Wilson (Letters, November 27) asks what happened to the computing revolution pioneered by the Lyons Electronic Office? The pioneering efforts have left a legacy and have not been forgotten. For example, the AIS, the worldwide organisation of information systems scholars, gives the annual Leo award for outstanding contributions to the study of computer information systems. A book, A Computer Called Leo, by Georgina Ferry, published recently in paperback, provides a fascinating account of the Leo story and was a BBC Radio 4 book of the week. Another BBC radio programme selected the Leo story as one of four programmes on the computer pioneers last year.The highly publicised major computer failures (IT chaos, November 27) could not   have happened if the methods and disciplines developed by the Leo team decades ago had been followed (seeleo-computers.org.uk).(Prof) Frank LandEmeritus professor of information systems, LSEIt wasn't just the Lyons payroll that was revolutionised by Leo. The benefit extended to optimising the daily delivery of goods such as cakes, biscuits and tea to the tea houses across the country. Beyond that, they were able to hire out Leo to other companies, and not just to do payrolls. At Rotax we used Leo to design minimum-weight electrical equipment for the new generation of jet aircraft - a use far beyond Leo's original conception.John SteelGuildford, Surrey
A man has pleaded guilty to having "cybersex" with a 13-year-old girl in what is believed to be the first case of its kind in Scotland.Alloa sheriff court was told that Neil Ross, 31, of Dennistoun in Glasgow, conducted a five-month internet relationship with the girl, having told her he was 19. He watched on a live webcam link as the girl, from Clackmannanshire, posed naked in what the court heard was a sexually explicit manner.She would also watch him performing a solo sex act over the same link. Ross was arrested at his former home in Dundee, after the girl's parents intercepted text messages between him and the child. They contacted Central Scotland police, who examined the girl's computer.In court yesterday, Ross admitted using lewd, indecent and libidinous practices and behaviour towards the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons. He could face up to five years in jail.Legal experts said the case had made legal history because until now it had always been assumed that an alleged abuser had to be in the same place as his victim to commit the offence of lewd and libidinous practice.Sentence has been deferred until December 21 for social background reports and an assessment of Ross's suitability to perform community service as a possible direct alternative to jail.Ross bowed his head in the dock as he was told that his name would be added to the sex offenders' register. His pleas of not guilty to two further charges, of possessing or making indecent images of the girl, were accepted by the crown.Ross's solicitor, George Higgins, told the court that his client was a first offender.Speaking after the hearing, Detective Chief Inspector David Wilson, of Central Scotland police, said he welcomed the landmark guilty plea.He said: "The internet has opened up a new world of possibilities for people like this ... Now you can commit a crime like this literally anywhere, and crimes involving children are at the top of our priority list."This was one of the more extreme cases, where overt sexual acts have actually taken place, but we know the internet is used on a daily basis by paedophiles to find and groom children."
Chicago is selling all the memorabilia it can get its hands on, from an original Playboy bunny outfit to old manhole covers and parking meters, in an eBay auction this week aimed at funding the arts in a budget crisis.The city claims to be the first to use a charity online auction to help solve its financial problems, in what it is calling the Great Chicago Fire Sale, a reference to a disastrous blaze   that destroyed much of the city in 1871.The organisers believe the idea will catch on, as did the city's novel scheme five years ago to scatter life-size model cows, painted by local artists, around the streets. Some of the original cows, borrowed or imitated in cities around the country, are also up for sale."I think selling the city on eBay could be a big deal," Lois Weisberg, Chicago's cultural affairs commissioner, told the New York Times. "I'm sure that if this catches on, other cities will want to do it, just as they did with the cows."Struggling, like many US cities, with a vast deficit, Chicago has cut its arts budget by almost a quarter over the past two years to $9m. Ms Weisberg, who thought up the cow caper, decided on the eBay sale to make up the shortfall.The city went to its celebrities, sports teams, restaurants and hotels asking for donations. The top item on the auction website,www.the greatchicagofiresale.org, is an original green satin Playboy bunny outfit dating from 1960, when the first Playboy club was opened in downtown Chicago. It comes complete with bunny ears, fluffy tail, white collar and cuffs. A similar outfit apparently sold for $14,000 at a recent auction.Also available for bids from Thursday will be a Chicago Cubs baseball shirt signed by one of the team's players, various meals for two or weekends for two in the city's restaurants and hotels, architectural tours and champagne-fuelled shopping expeditions.The city has clearly been rummaging around in its own basement and has come up with genuine City of Chicago manhole covers (selling price to be determined) and five decommissioned parking meters, for the Windy City aficionado who has everything and wants to recreate the Chicago streets at home.
According toNew Scientist: "If you thought predictive texting was impressive, you ain't seen nothing yet. A cellphone is on the way that can predict what you are about to do. Some cellphones already come with a built-in calendar that warns you of events you have stored in its memory. The new cellphone is far smarter: it learns about the things you do from day to day, when you do them, who you do them with, and where. This will one day allow it to come up with all sorts of intelligent advice, its inventors say."The article,here, says:The phone, developed by Nathan Eagle and Sandy Pentland at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, learns about its users' lifestyle by logging when they make voice and text calls or use phone applications like an alarm clock or phone camera. And using built-in Bluetooth short-range radio links it determines who you associate with by the proximity of their Bluetooth phones. The location capabilities afforded by cellular phone masts allow the phone to work out where you socialise, work and live.The system is based on mobile message logging software called Context, designed in Finland by Mika Raento and a team of engineers at the University of Helsinki and the Helsinki Institute for Information Technology. Installed on the phone, Context logs the ID code of every Bluetooth chip that it passes, the location of every new phone mast it contacts, the number of every person phoned or texted, and every time an application is used. Each piece of data is time stamped and sent for storage on your network's servers.The system is being tested using 100 MIT students with Nokia smartphones.
Where once they popped down to the garage on Christmas Eve to pick up a perfect present, thoughtful men are now turning to the supermarket and the internet to find that special festive gift.Twice as many men than women will use the supermarket and the internet to buy Christmas presents this year, according to a new report.The internet will be a saviour for seven out of 10 shoppers this year as consumers go online to plan their trips to the high street with military precision or avoid the scrums on shop floors entirely.While one in three intend to buy presents online, a further 40% will use websites to research presents and compare prices before they hit the shops, according to the annual Christmas survey from Deloitte &amp; Touche.While Britons are braced to spend more than ever on this year's festivities - an average of &#163;319 per person on gifts, &#163;159 on food and drink and &#163;136 on socialising - their use of the internet shows they are becoming more discriminating about presents and prices."One clear message this year is that consumers are in control - people increasingly seem to know what they want, they're prepared to research the best deal and they have little loyalty to retailers who don't provide the magic combination of convenience, good customer service and excellent price," said Sharon Fraser, consumer business partner at Deloitte."This is a wake-up call for all high street retailers - large and small. Consumers put convenience as their number one priority when it comes to choosing where they shop. Many traditional retailers don't appear to realise how important this is to shoppers."Data from the Office for National Statistics show internet sales are doubling each year and totalled nearly &#163;12bn last year.Despite a series of much-hyped toys, the survey found there was no obvious "must have" game or gadget this year. Most people's Christmas lists were topped with the usual toys, computer games, cosmetics, perfume and food and drink. Apple's iPods could be the only popular present in short supply.Despite their penchant for internet price research, men remain bigger spenders overall than women, devoting an average of &#163;656 to Christmas, compared with women's average spend of &#163;572.Perhaps buoyed by the recent house price increases, 26% of people in Wales intend to spend more than last year. By contrast, London and Scotland are feeling the pinch - only 17% of Londoners and 10% of Scots are planning to spend more than last Christmas.The most popular way of paying for presents remains cash: with 80% of people planning to use cash or debit cards for most of their purchase, with only 16% saying they would predominantly use a credit card and just 2% opting for a store card.
The low-cost mobile phone network launched by Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the founder of the easy group of companies, today received a significant boost when T-Mobile signed up to the plans.Mr Haji-Ioannou expects the joint venture, called easyMobile - which will allow users to order SIM cards and airtime for their existing handsets via the internet - to start in March.The involvement of Deutsche Telekom, which owns T-Mobile, is a major breakthrough for the service, and means that the Danish telecoms company TDC will handle billing and the running of the network.The online sales concept has already proved popular in Denmark, where it is said to have gained a 10% market share in four years.Announcing the airtime agreement with T-Mobile, TDC said the absence of handset subsidies and subscription fees made the service attractive. "The concept focuses on lean operations, no high street shops and limited marketing budgets," it said in a statement.The venture will offer voice and text (SMS) services, and will cover a different market to the rest of the sector, in which operators are pushing internet and camera-based phones. Details of prices have yet to be announced."EasyMobile will offer good value second generation voice and SMS services to customers who are not generally profitable for the established network operators," Mr Haji-Ioannou said.He added that talks with operator Orange about resolving possible confusion over the use of the orange easyGroup logo were still ongoing.TDC also has the opportunity to launch the service in 12 other European countries after entering into an agreement with easyGroup in August.
There is still time to bid for a celebrity stapler in Staples' US auction, which closes on December 6. There are staplers available from a wide range of celebrities includingSarah Ferguson, Duchess of York ($305 at the time of writing),Meryl Streep($505), andCher($605), though there are cheaper options such as the lovely (pictured)JoAnna Garcia($70) and others.In the celebrity business mogul stapler stakes,Donald Trump($755) is ahead ofBill Gates($555).All the money raised goes to charity.
