By now everyone knows that iPods – and pretty much every MP3 player – comes with rubbish headphones, whose spec is chosen so that they won't sound actively awful while not putting too much cost onto the final product. Which means that if you want to enjoy your music you're usually left to buy some real, proper headphones.Such are theBlackbox i10noise-cancelling headphones (£79.99) fromPhitek, which are only for the iPhone, iPod (non-shuffle models) or iPad: they attach to the 21-pin socket on the bottom. Unfortunately, it's Apple products only; they won't connect to the Samsung Galaxy Tab. These are headphones intended to get the most out of your listening experience, specifically by including noise cancellation.The principle of noise cancellation is straightforward enough: a microphone on the headphone cable detects the ambient sounds, and feeds its inverse into the signal being delivered to the earpieces. Thereby cancelling out external noise, within the limits of the microphone's frequency response and the electronics' capacity to respond to changes.Alternatively, there are Atomic Floyd's newest designs, theMiniDarts(Apple Store link, not Amazon so far), also built with iPods and iPhones in mind: it has a straightforward 3.5mm jack but also includes a microphone, activated by a button, which can be used to control playback – pause, play, skip forward one track, skip back to the start. The MiniDarts come with a comely red lead, which should make them stand out if you misplace them.First impressionsI compared both pairs against a pair ofAtomic Floyd HiDefjaxheadphones, which don't use noise cancellation; they have a standard headphone jack, but use careful manufacture and a variety of earpiece sizes to block out external sound. (Ireviewed them in January 2009, when I noted that they were the only headphones I'd ever used that absorbed me so completely that I missed my train stop on the way home.)So how do the Blackbox i10s shape up? Putting them on (with the very snugly fitting earbuds) gives the immediate impression of being put into a soundproof booth; external noise (such as on the train where I'm writing this) simply drops away, though if you want it back – say, to listen to announcements – you can press a button on the headphone cord. There's also a clip on the cord, and a volume control, because the volume control on the iPod or iPad itself won't work; you're taking the audio feed now.The MiniDarts surprised me, because they wouldn't stay in easily. They've got a straight shape, and not very large earbuds; I found it hard to make them stay properly lodged for walking around. (I don't think they'd stay in place for real exertions like running.) By contrast, the Atomic Floyd HiDefjaxes are shaped so they nestle snugly into your ears, and stay there: they've got a curve in the shape of the earpieces that wedges them in your pinna.Listen, againComparing the three pairs of headphones, I found the i10s lacked a little in the midrange (around 300Hz where the human voice tends to be) compared with the Atomic Floyd HiDefJax. However, you can still adjust the sound equalisation on the iPod or iPad, so you could create a new setting for them. The earpieces are comfortable, and the pack comes with various sizes if the default ones don't suit.The MiniDarts had very good sound reproduction across the range, including the bass. The AirJax I use as a reference pair, because they have terrific bass reproduction – which is difficult for in-ear headphones to do well.What the HiDefJax model notably offer is distortion-free reproduction even at the highest volume. My reference track for this, since you ask, is Queens of the Stone Age's "You Think I Ain't Worth A Dollar But I Feel Like a Millionaire", which has a huge dynamic range from really quiet to REALLY LOUD to silent to LOUD, and will test anything at top volume because of its deep bass combined with a high end.The HiDefJax headphones play this flawlessly, even at the loudest setting: the bass, drums, guitars, cymbals all come over clean.By contrast neither the Blockbox i10 nor (to my surprise) the MiniDarts could manage this: both had noticeable clipping at the loudest points, though they reproduced the quiet passages – there are some – cleanly.The MiniDarts do, though, have the advantage of that microphone (which you could use with an iPad or iPod Touch with Skype or other VOIP packages), and of course the clicker to control playback remotely. Atomic Floyd headphones also come with some useful extras: an adapter that will plug into a computer's microphone and headphone input (as they're beside each other), and an adapter for large headphone jacks as found on hi-fi equipment.Overall?• If you need to listen to music very loudly, you're still better off with theAtomic Floyd HiDefJaxheadphones: they manage the best reproduction of wide dynamic ranges. &#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10029;• If you want reliable noise cancellation that you can turn on and off with a switch (useful for commuting), theBlockbox i10sdo the job very neatly. &#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10025;• If you need a microphone with your headphones, good sound reproduction (except at top volumes) and remote control of your iPhone/iPod, theAtomic Floyd MiniDartswill do the job very effectively. &#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10025;They all sound better than the iPod or iPhone default headphones – and they'd all make a pleasing addition to any Christmas stocking.
Fallout: New Vegas, the latest title in the cult post-apocalyptic action RPG series, is another nihilistic triumph, taking gamers into the diseased heart of a catastrophically damaged America. This time, the action centres on the west coast where a fragile community is attempting to carve out a post-nuclear existence, while several aggressive factions slowly move in to claim the land. As the lead character, the player can interact with this world as a moral blank, playing factions off against each other and crafting a reputation as a trustworthy warrior or a double-crossing weasel.The game greedily wolfs down apocalyptic archetypes, borrowing from TV, film, books and scripture to create its huge, detailed world. But having compiled a highly contentious list ofthe best post-apocalyptic games, I wanted to find out more about what drives this fascination with the end of civilisation. Why do we all want to be Mad Max, Robert Neville or Isherwood Williams?To find out, I spoke with the lead designer on New Vegas, Josh Sawyer, a veteran of RPG development whose credits include the Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale series. He was more than happy to share his thoughts on Armageddon and human nature. Turns out, our quasi-religious love of apocalypse might have as much to do with gambling as it does to do with God...First, the obvious question: what do you think it is about apocalyptic fiction that fascinates us?I think it's a fantasy to see the world and societies we know in ruins. It's a trend that runs through disaster fiction as well. It's a different form of escapism, an examination of what remains of humanity after we've been brought to the brink of total destruction and all order collapses. Surviving in these broken places challenges human capabilities as well as human social values, and I think that's what's intriguing.What do you think have been the key apocalyptic influences behind the Fallout series?There are a huge number of influences, but some of the most obvious are the Mad Max series (especially Max's sawn-off shotgun, iconic leather outfit, and Blue Heeler companion), A Boy and His Dog, The Omega Man/I am Legend, and documentary summaries of the Cold War era like The Atomic Café. It's the naïve optimism of the pro-nuclear cold war era that influences a lot of the dark humour of the Fallout series, especially with regard to the underground vault communities where many people in the series tried to wait out the world's collapse.The series' art style is also heavily influenced by a unique brand of 1950s retro-futurism that was established in the original Fallout. There are science fiction ray guns, big-finned atomic-powered cars, and of course the iconic Monopoly-style vault boy cartoon figure that's found everywhere. In Fallout: New Vegas, our lead artist, Joe Sanabria, pulled heavily from theGoogie stylewhich was very popular in the art and architecture of late 1950s Vegas.Are there any apocalyptic games that you've really admired? What was it about their vision that you appreciated?Wasteland was the original inspiration for Fallout. I grew up on Interplay and SSI role-playing games. They were light on graphics and left a lot to the player's imagination. They managed to do a lot with very little.I also really like the S.T.A.L.K.E.R series. The games can be unforgiving and the setting is sort of a micro-apocalypse, but they have fantastic atmosphere and really make the world feel dangerous. It's also interesting to see an apocalyptic setting that isn't American.Is there a political or moral dimension to the post-apocalyptic landscape in Fallout? Are you looking to make any points about how the events in the game came about? Is Fallout, in any way, a warning to us?There are heavy moral aspects to all of the Fallout games, though the political aspects have been emphasised differently in each game. The Fallout world is usually brutal and merciless and the start of the series was pretty notable in its time for allowing the player to be just as brutal as the other monsters of the wasteland. We emphasise player choice heavily, which means giving them the option to lay waste to everything around them.Politically, the series usually presents the player with dysfunction. Very few communities of any size manage to get by without developing serious shortcomings. In Fallout: New Vegas, the New California Republic is the closest thing the wasteland has to a modern-style republic, but much like modern republics, it is fraught with bureaucratic inefficiency, corruption, and imperialist tendencies. Caesar's Legion is highly ethical, efficient, and disciplined, but in practice is misogynistic, brutal, and allows no room for individuals to have any voice. Caught in the middle is Mr House, the de facto ruler of the Strip, a sort of laissez-faire dictator who is ultimately only interested in maintaining independent control, no matter what the cost may be.All of these forces show serious flaws because ultimately they are all run by human beings with the same laundry list of shortcomings we have always had. The repeated refrain of the Fallout universe is "War. War never changes." Whether the individual's goals are noble or depraved, ultimately Fallout's humanity finds itself drawn into the same sorts of conflicts that almost resulted in their destruction in 2077.What do you think are the key elements of any post-apocalyptic story?The physical world in ruin is an absolute must. Even if there are pristine pockets, the world we know has to be broken apart. This can be reflected in nature: blasted trees, mutated plants, cracked earth, bizarre weather. It can most strikingly be shown through the destruction of everything humanity has created: cities in ruin, highways of empty cars, skyscrapers with every window blasted out.That ruin also has to extend to human society. Fallout: New Vegas shows post-2077 society at its most structured and ordered, but the Mojave Wasteland is still engulfed in chaos and warfare. Without order and under duress, human nature quickly turns very bleak. It's that grim search for light in the darkness that I think many people find compelling.Do you think the Fallout vision of the post-apocalyptic environment has evolved over the series?In the original Fallout and in Fallout 3, the world was socially and physically in shambles. People lived in small communities and there were very few organisations of any significant size in the wasteland. Many of the vaults had not yet opened, so it was very much in a state somewhere between The Road Warrior and Beyond Thunderdome.Fallout 2 showed the American south-west rebuilding. There were many more communities, those communities were more organised, and there was even a defined nation, the New California Republic. Despite this increased stability, the NCR was shown as having many problems with corruption and underhanded imperialist tendencies.Fallout: New Vegas is, in some ways, a post-post-apocalyptic story. Fallout's American southwest has been built up tremendously over time. They've moved beyond simply living in the ruins of the old world and have started to strike out and build new empires. Three large forces are locked in a conflict that is military, political, and ideological in nature. As such, the issues in many cases move beyond the individual - or stomp on the individual in the process.  Even the smaller organisations of the universe, such as the education-oriented Followers of the Apocalypse, are ultimately bit players compared to the big movers and shakers.It's interesting that you've set New Vegas in a city famed for gambling and hedonism - George Romero's apocalyptic zombie movies were always about consumerism and consumption gone mad - are you making similar points with this game?I do think we try to point out the absurdity of a gambling oasis in the post-apocalyptic wasteland. Some of the more aware characters in the game will pointedly comment on it. Specifically, the idea that citizens of the New California Republic who were scrambling for security a few generations ago would be so cavalier about frittering their money away on gambling vacations is ridiculous. But it's a sort of absurd behaviour that we see in the real world all the time.The fact is that casino games are mathematically against the player; probability and basic logic show that in the long run, the player is almost certainly going to lose. Even with this knowledge being seemingly obvious and widespread, it doesn't stop people from gambling, whether it's at casinos or elsewhere. Possibility and fantasy overpower probability and rationality. You only have to examine the recent process by which American, British, and other world real-estate markets have collapsed to see that this is a general constant in human behaviour. We ignore risks, forget the sacrifices and careful practices of our forebears, and throw caution to the wind in pursuit of the possible but improbable.How do you see the Fallout series developing after New Vegas in terms of your post-apocalyptic vision? Do you see a future in which the society devolves even further? Do you have new environments you'd like to explore?Given that so far the Fallout series has been pretty specific to certain parts of America, I think there are a lot of different ways to go with future titles.  Despite featuring the New California Republic, Fallout 2 dealt with the idea of a human society that had gone naturalistic and tribal in an isolated area, much like the children in Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome. There could also be an examination of an even more advanced society, or a story set in a different part of the world. Many of Fallout's core values are particularly American, so certain settings could be hard, but I personally think it could be interesting to see some other locations.What do you think the dominant themes will be in post-apocalyptic films and games will be going forward? In the fifties and eighties it was all nuclear devastation and more recently, movies have dealt with climate change. Do you see any new trends in apocalyptic thinking on the way?If I have to guess, I'd say resource shortages. Peak oil, water consumption, and the viability of alternative energy sources are all hot topics right now, and I can only see them becoming more pronounced over time. Interestingly enough, it's what was cited in The Road Warrior as the cause of the war. This was mirrored in the opening of the original Fallout. Ideologies aside, the resources at stake were what made people desperate. It was still a hot topic in 1981 due to the 1973 oil crisis. We forgot about it for about 20 years, but unsurprisingly it's become a political issue and artistic theme again.I think Daybreakers was one of the more interesting films to come out recently, in part because it's about a vampire apocalypse brought about by exhaustion of a vital resource. Human blood consumption reaches a rate where the vampire population, which dominates the planet, can no longer sustain itself. Vampire society degenerates and collapses upon itself. It's a fantasy scenario, but viewers don't have to stretch their brains much to see the parallels to our own habits of consumption.Because environmental issues and resource consumption are intrinsically linked in a lot of ways, I wouldn't be surprised to see a transition from fictional "what-ifs" about climate change to fictional "what-ifs" about resource scarcity and the resulting industrial, financial, and social collapse it can create.  Instead of asking, "What happens if we blow each other up?", we may be asking, "What happens if you pull the wheels off of 21st century consumer societies?"Fallout: New Vegas is out now on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.
Last night's Kinect launch party in London was a more family friendly affair - Leona Lewis and boyband The Wanted played - than the previous evening's Call of Duty event. Given the target audience for Kinect though this was entirely understandable.  The motion controller is being targetted at everyone and judging by sales in the US it seems to be doing well so far. There is a relative lack of variety in the launch titles - I am keen to see Kinectimals though - but for me the more serious concern is how much space you need to properly use Kinect. I don't have one at home yet but chatter at the party last night suggested you do need at least a 6ft space in front of the TV, possibly more. As soon as I get one I'll see how it goes but what about you? Have you bought Kinect yet? If so how is it working for you?
You may have noticed that a game called Call of Duty: Black Ops was released yesterday. We didtheoddarticleon it. Best of all wasKeith's reviewwhich gave the game 5/5.  But how did the rest of the media rate the game?Very well actually. As you can see below Black Ops has reviewed consistently well across the board although some have questioned the originality of the single player game. Anyway, here is a selection of reviews and quotes..The Guardian - 5/5Call of Duty: Black Ops quite probably represents the pinnacle of the linear military shooter experience – and you wonder where the sub-genre can go from here.As CoD players we have travelled the world, killing people, following orders, hunting down madmen … many of us have had enough. Call of Duty should go out on a high, or at least come back totally re-invented. Perhaps that's what we'll get with Modern Warfare 3. But for now, and for the next two-years of multiplayer engagement, revel in this game's mastery of its well-trodden domain.The Telegraph - 10/10Call Of Duty: Black Ops will be a tough act to follow as it's easily one of the best games of this, or any year. It is even, dare we say it, better than Modern Warfare 2.USA Today - 4/4The single-player game is Treyarch's best work and it's as much a thrill ride as the ones previously taken with the more heralded Modern Warfare games. If you only answer the call of duty every two years, this time around you might reconsider.Eurogamer - 8/10The campaign is relentlessly aggressive and spectacular – a Jerry Bruckheimer tribute act stuck in permanent encore – while the multiplayer modes are a mixture of smart tweaks to working formulas, as focused on protecting that guaranteed bottom line as the campaign's yellow objective cursor is on making sure you never falter. The results are never less than entertaining whatever you choose to do, then, but not exactly brave and bold either.CVG - 9.3/10Disappointingly, the single-player campaign is beset by the exact same problem we complained about in the previous three Call of Duty instalments; namely, unspectacular enemy AI.But you'd be a fool not to love the campaign - our favourite in the series so far - whilst the multiplayer, though far from perfect, offers a wealth of fun and customisation to suit all tastes.IGN UK - 8.5/10With Treyarch seemingly content to tread water in the single-player arena, it feels like its focus has been well and truly on ensuring that its multiplayer offering is right up there with the very best. To that end it has succeeded, and thanks to its superb run of Wager Matches, Treyarch has literally raised the stakes. Whether extensive customisation options and inspirational multiplayer makes up for the ragged single player portion is sure to be a subject of controversy in the weeks and months ahead. Maybe next time we'll get the full package...Joystiq - 4.5/5Black Ops is a terrific action game with a solid story and a deep, rewarding multiplayer mode. Sure, when placed up against the other games in the series, players may feel forced to pick favorites -- they may be disappointed that their favorite playlist is gone, deathstreaks are out, or that the Nuke killstreak has been removed (though the Attack Dogs killstreak in its place is really darn funny, and has the benefit of not completely ending the match early).Giant Bomb - 4/5It's got a lot of great moments, but portions of the story feel cliched and hokey. Also, this is now the fourth game out of Activision that has used the same style of combat to power its campaign and multiplayer. The formula, as awesome as it can still be, is starting to wear thin.What do you think then? Agree with the massively positive – if a little underwhelmed by the originality of the single player - consensus? Or do you need a week or two with the multiplayer to make up your mind?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is facing renewed criticism for sending two 'non-technical' members of staff to investigate Google's illegal collection of data from Wi-Fi connections in July.Two senior members of ICO staff with "considerable experience" of data protection lawclearedGoogle of any wrongdoing earlier this year after examining a sample of so-called "payload" data at Google's London headquarters. Conservative MP Rob Halfon said it was "astonishing" that the ICO "did not send technical people" to investigate the breach, which the ICO  later ruled was a "significant breach" of the Data Protection Act.Last week the ICO ruled that, in light ofsubsequent investigations by international privacy commissioners, Google had broken data protection laws, contrary to its initial impression in July.Halfon, the Conservative MP for Harlow, told the Guardian: "I find it astonishing that the Information Commissioner seemingly did not send technical people to investigate the Google breach of our private data."The IOC seems more Keystone Cops than protector of our civil liberties. It is extraordinary that the IOC can spend £13m on PR over 10 years but can't find the right resources to investigate breaches of our data protection."New information about the ICO's examination shows that the information commissioner, Christopher Graham since June 2009 and previously Richard Thomas, has not met a Google representative for two years. Staff from the ICO have met Google on two occasions in this time, written answers by the Ministry of Justicereveal.The ICO sent an assistant commissioner and a "strategic liason group manager" to examine the data at Google's headquarters in July, deciding after a two-and-a-half hour meeting that the company wasunlikely to have collected"significant amounts of personal data" or data containing any "meaningful personal details".Details about the nature of the ICO's investigation into Google's unlawful data collection, which it admitted to in May, have until now been thin on the ground. The Ministry of Justice, the government department which the ICO is directly accountable to, released the details in response to written questions tabled by Halfon.The collection of so-called "payload" data, including full emails and passwords, from unsecured Wi-Fi connections by Google Street View cars is under renewed scrutiny in the UK following last month'sparliamentary debate on privacy and the internet. The Metropolitan police has dropped its investigation into the breach.The information commissioner last week announced that Google will now be subject to an official audit of all of its data protection practices in the UK. "It is my view that the collection of this information was not fair or lawful and constitutes a significant breach of the first principle of the Data Protection Act," he said."The most appropriate and proportionate regulatory action in these circumstances is to get written legal assurance from Google that this will not happen again – and to follow this up with an ICO audit."Following last week's ICO ruling, Google's global privacy counsel Peter Fleischer said the company was "profoundly sorry" for the collection.
No need to do this, Mr Ballmer. Photo byMissMessieon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSteve Ballmer saved $100 million in taxes selling $2B in MSFT stock &gt;&gt; Don Dodge"Ballmer Economic Stimulus Plan - He saved $100M in taxes, and has nearly $2B in new cash. That is great for the economy because he has to put it somewhere. Maybe he will invest some of it in startups. That will stimulate jobs, economic growth, and innovation. Hey Steve, give me a call. I can point you to hundreds of startups that could use a little rocket fuel." So he's not bailing (and he said as much). He's just able to afford better tax advice than most of us... for tax problems of a scale we'll probably never face.Dear Starbucks: The skinny on how you can be a security hero &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityMore ways to kill (or make redundant) the Firesheep extension: make every open Wi-Fi system use WPA2 and make the default password "free". "What is the value of a password if it is a 'well-known secret?' WPA2 negotiates unique encryption keys with every computer that connects to it. This means you and I cannot spy on one another's traffic even when sharing access on the same access point."How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukOften overlooked, but "Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before – and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country."Awesome cloud computing infographic &gt;&gt; Cloud HypermarketIt is quite fun (though we prefer the awesomeness of our smartphone patent wars one, which is getting an upgrade) but more intriguing is the analysis: "Cloud computing spending will account for 25% of annual IT expenditure growth by 2012 and nearly a third of the growth the following year. " Chew on that. Microsoft has a big advertising campaign on the way aimed at small businesses to persuade them to use its cloud.Route Optimisation Christmas Competition &gt;&gt; PostcodeAnywhereTravelling salesmen (and women) may like to apply for the £250 worth of Amazon vouchers. 20 points, two time-sensitive deliveries, the fastest route... how hard can it be? You've only got around 2.4 billion billion (not a typo) options.Man Held in Defrauding Roger Davidson, Musician &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comSimply astonishing: "Over time, prosecutors said, Mr. Bedi told Mr. Davidson about an elaborate international conspiracy that had attacked Mr. Davidson's computer and was threatening Mr. Davidson and his family. The conspiracy allegedly involved a mysterious hard drive in a remote village of Honduras and a plot to infiltrate the United States government by Polish priests linked to Opus Dei. Mr. Bedi persuaded Mr. Davidson to pay the computer shop not only for data retrieval, but for personal protection, the authorities said."He paid to the tune of at least $6m, and possibly up to $20m. Write your own punchline.The first Windows Phone 7 apps you should grab &gt;&gt; MSNBC's TechnologUp to 1,600 apps in the Marketplace, but beware: "There's already a lot of cr'apps in there, the standard lineup of flashlights, tip calcs, stopwatches, unit converters, and of course fart emulators. And because you can read what system resources each app needs to access, you can spot some shady ones too. A 'simple and fun finger drawing tool' that needs access to 'owner identity' and 'phone calls'? I'm sure there's a plausible explanation, but I am gonna pass!"Kno Prices Its Student Tablets at $599 and $899 to Ship By End of the Year | Kara Swisher | BoomTown | AllThingsD14.1" single- and dual-screen tablets, mind you, on which students buy digital textbooks that it says are around 50% cheaper than physical ones. No word of the OS they're running though. But will students want just that? Or something smaller?BlackSheep - A Tool to Detect Firesheep &gt;&gt; Zscaler Research"BlackSheep is a Firefox add-on which warns users if someone is using Firesheep on their network. It also indicates the IP address of the machine that is spying on you." And so the arms race begins.Google TV Gets Static &gt;&gt; AdWeek"The biggest flop of the new fall TV season wasn't Fox's Lone Star or ABC's My Generation. It's Google TV."The engineers at the search goliath appear to have pulled off the double whammy of disappointing the technorati and alienating the broadcast networks -- two constituencies crucial to getting Google TV off the ground."It's like Yahoo's inability to understand the internet when advertising guy Terry Semel ran it, but the other way round: this is internet people (well, Google) not understanding the outside world.Bet Microsoft's laughing as it looks at its WebTV franchise. Well, "franchise".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Ask.com is throwing in the search towel. Having beenbought for $1.85bn by media mogul Barry Diller's IACin March 2005, the company on Tuesdaytold Bloombergthat it is cutting 130 engineering jobs and basically giving search up to its competitors.And yet: IAC's search revenue in the third quarter was up 20% to $205.1m, and its operating income rose 43% to $28.9m. So why close it down? Because the search engine side isn't doing the growing - it's theAsk.com toolbar. No more search engine, but plenty more questions and answers.So that's $1.85bn not exactly well spent in just five years. And so ends a struggle that has been going on since some time in the mid-90s to give the Ask Jeeves (as it was) search engine some sort of edge. Initially, the idea was that you would ask Jeeves - the butler - questions in a natural language. Trouble was, it wasn't much good at parsing natural language, and there was the little business of a row, early on, over the ownership of the Jeeves name (which had to be licensed from PG Wodehouse's estate). Then there were multiple rebrandings, tweaks, extras,Jeeves was killed off, Jeeves was revived, and now he's been put into carbomite with a stake through his heart.Ask.com President Doug Leeds told Bloomberg that the search unit will consolidate its engineering operations at its HQ in Oakland, California, and focus on developing its online question-and-answer service. (How long do you give that? Did you even know it existed?)Twenty of the engineers currently working in New Jersey will be asked to relocate to Oakland, the company said. Leeds said that Google has become too powerful a competitor to justify Ask.com's continued pursuit of those search users. "It's become this huge juggernaut of a company that we really thought we could compete against by innovating," he told Bloomberg. "We did a great job of holding our market share but it wasn't enough to grow the way IAC had hoped we would grow when it bought us."Yeees. Since you ask, Ask's market share - as 6th of the search providers (Google, Yahoo, Bing, AOL, ummm, Ask) - was 2%.But think of that rising revenue and profit. Jeeves might be going away, but IAC and Ask aren't. Ask.com's search results will be supplied by... well, they're not saying, but it's looking very like Google.Update:Ask Jeeves gets in touch to say that, well, read it yourself."Ask Jeeves is very much alive in the UK and remains a significant part of the overall Ask Network and IAC businesses."To clarify, in the UK we are still called Ask Jeeves (Jeeves was brought back last April due to user demand after a three year hiatus), but in the US, we are Ask.com. Q&amp;A is our heritage and our commitment continues to be to provide the best Q&amp;A experience on the Web."This laser sharp focus on Q&amp;A, means we're no longer going to focus resources on the development of our own web search technology. As a result, we will be closing our engineering offices in Edison (New Jersey) and Hangzhou (China)."This doesn't mean however that we have given up on web search. On the contrary. web search was and will continue to be a crucial ingredient to our Q&amp;A offering, but will be provided via third party feeds rather than through Ask's own technology."So you'll be able to search on Ask, it just won't be Ask's search. Got that? Excellent."Why make the huge capital investment required to support algorithmic web search development when independent Web Search is not required by our strategy. We have access to multiple third party structured and unstructured data feeds that, when integrated, can provide a web search experience on par with what we are able to produce internally, at much lower costs."This will enable us to focus resources on innovating products and features that more effectively provide answers to users questions, be those answers from the web or from real people."In other words, as it says as the top, Ask is throwing in the search towel. Google (most likely, as it has a contract through to 2012) will power the normal search process, and the toolbar will keep making money for IAC. But it's still the end of an independent search engine. Never mind - there are plenty more such asBlekkoandWolframAlpha.
When a dauntingly technical lawsuit thumped onto the tables of a small district court in Wisconsin today, the global mobile phone industry sat up and took notice.The suit, in which Spansion, a maker of flash memory chips, alleged that Samsung smartphones infringe one of its patents, was not just a local spat but the latest battle in the smartphone wars that have drawn in the industry's biggest players.Billions of dollars are at stake for companies including Apple, Google, BlackBerry maker RIM, Nokia and Microsoft. The legal struggle could even lead to the iPhone being banned from sale in the US – if Nokia gets its way in one dispute that has gone to the International Trade Commission (ITC).Only 28% of US and European users have a smartphone that can browse the web, use email and run apps. (The biggest penetration worldwide, estimated at 40%, is in Italy.) Apple, RIM (maker of the BlackBerry) and Nokia together made $3.8bn of profit in the past quarter.With billions of users yet to upgrade, that leaves lots of room for very profitable growth for the handset makers, carriers, advertisers – and anyone who gets paid when their patented technology is used in a handset.For years, handset makers have licensed patents to each other so they can make interoperable products. Normally, they are licensed on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms. But Guy Burkill at Three New Square, one of the UK's leading patent barristers who specialises in telecoms-related patents, says that with worldwide sales of mobiles passing 1bn units a year, "the stakes are enormous – fractions of a penny per handset are worth fighting over."Not every patent survives a legal challenge – a judge may strike it down because of "prior art" (someone invented it already), which makes the cases worth fighting. Burkill said: "The sums at stake are so large that the high cost of litigation is no deterrent. That makes it difficult to foresee how it will all end."Sony Ericsson and Nokiasuggested in 2008that the amount payable per handset should be capped at less than 10% of the handset price. But nobody could agree on how the capped fee should be divided up. So the lawsuits go on, on many fronts.Nokia (which holds many phone patents) first sued Apple in the US in October 2009, claiming violations relating to 3G networking and mobile Wi-Fi wireless. Apple responded in December claiming Nokia just wanted to force a cross-licensing deal. Nokia raised the stakes with a suit filed at the ITC, which can ban imports to the US, asking for the blocking of iPhone, iPod and Apple computer sales, claiming that "virtually all" its products infringe at least one of seven Nokia patents. Apple responded by filing against Nokia in the ITC in January.Hearings began last week to determine whether Nokia indeed violates Apple's patents (with ITC staff apparently siding so far with Nokia), but will probably take until June to reach a decision.Florian Müller, a German software developer and intellectual property activist who has followed the battles, said: "I believe we will see a number of major settlements next year as some ITC  complaints will approach the point at which a decision gets taken."He warned: "Those settlements will have a profound impact on the economics of the different vendors."For Apple, losing might be a problem – though one that could be sorted out by coughing up to Nokia. (In fact it could just buy Nokia –valued at about $40bn– with its $50bn cash pile.)But Google is not out of the patent woods either. Android is under severe attack, notably from Larry Ellison's Oracle, which claims it infringes the Java patents it acquired when it bought Sun. The argument is mind-bending – as with most patents rows – but could lead to Google or handset makers (or both) being forced to pay Oracle a fee for every Android handset sold, which would be a serious problem as the platform has begun to take off in the US and worldwide.Müller thinks it means trouble: "the total cost of patent royalties that vendors will have to cough up per unit of an Android-based device will likely become substantial and could result in a cost disadvantage for Android as compared to Windows Phone, for which Microsoft provides a patent guarantee that gives vendors peace of mind and predictable licensing costs." No date has been set for a hearing on the case."Since no other mechanism exists for deciding who holds the strongest hand, and nobody can agree, the courts are now being asked to rule on individual patents – a massive task, since there are so many of them," said Burkill. "To misquote Clausewitz, 'law is negotiation by other means'." And to the winners will go a lot of the spoils – for years to come.BlackBerry v iPhoneBlackBerry's status as the smartphone of choice for companies all over the world may be about to end. Apple's iPhone has begun to make significant progress against the device made by the Canadian firm RIM.In the past quarter, the iPhone outsold the BlackBerry; now, Citigroup and Bank of America are investigating whether the iPhone offers a sufficient mixture of security and utility to replace it. JP Morgan has already said it will allow employees to use iPhones or other alternatives to the standard-issue BlackBerry while British bank Standard Chartered already gives employees the choice to use iPhones.With more than 250,000 staff each, losing either Citi or BoA would be a huge blow for RIM , which also faces being pushed out of the 25,000-strong computer maker Dell in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 or Google Android phones. Dell said the move will save money, but RIM disputed that, noting the cost of buying, deploying and supporting new devices.
The very firstInternet Week Europehas kicked off in London, so this week's programme brings you a taste of the five-day festival of events celebrating the internet.We visit Google's London offices to hear their Creative Lab leader Tom Uglow explain how they created asymphony orchestra out of YouTube,  and how visualizing tangible objects helps him develop things for the web.Creative agencyDentsu Londonshow us how their work has been influenced by innovation from their partners in Tokyo, highlightinh work such asMelody Roadandlight painting with iPads.Finally, the co-chairman of the week's events, Nick Farnhill explains the thinking behind the festival, and back at Google, we speak to Paul Truong after his presentation on HTML5.  He explains how it will shape the web and tells us why we should be starting to use it now, despite an unclear ratification date.Later in November, Tech Weekly is out and about again, coming to Dublin for a meetup –Jemima has more details here– come and visit us!Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The past 7 days top Twitter stories from@guardiantech(measured by number of clicks viabit.lylinks)•Twitter: The great pretenders3 days agoOoh, it's that Cheryl Kerl! That Princess Diana! That Cat Bin Lady!•Cooks Source: US copyright complaint sparks Twitter and Facebook storm4 days agoWhen the editor met the blogger. It's not pretty.•Call of Duty: Black Ops – the 10 weapons and items you MUST try17 hours agoThe custard pie is not an option, but this has created a great deal of discussion.•iOS 4.2 update due by 7 November as Apple admits iPhone DST alarm bug5 days agoWrong, but what's puzzling is how Apple let this dire piece of coding through.•Study suggests Android handset makers will suffer the fate of PC makers4 days agoWhat if makers of Android handsets are forced to scrabble for profits in the way that PC makers are?•Spain's gays and lesbians to stage 'kiss-in' during pope's visit6 days agoSelf-explanatory, really.•New speed camera can catch drivers committing five offences at once6 days agoIf you can think of five offences to commit at once. Can you?•Guardian updates iPhone app4 days agoOK, overdue. But done.•News Corp runs out of patience with MySpace5 days agoPushes head onto guillotine block and tells it to start running.•The Technology newsbucket: Gmail shuts out Facebook, the last Windows?, Android exploits and more1 day agoMonday's set of links.Do you find these useful? Annoying? Let us know in the comments.Fixed: meandering comma in headline.
Some didn't need to see last week's Times paywall figures to judge the experiment a financial failure. Others wereleft cross-eyedat the first glimpse of some Wapping numbers.Clay Shirky, the all-round digital evangelist, was in the former camp,having told the Guardianin July: "Everyone's waiting to see what will happen with the paywall – it's the big question. But I think it will underperform. On a purely financial calculation, I don't think the numbers add up."And the numbers, now wehave some, reflect a "referendum on the future" for the digital newspaper business, Shirkysays. Since constructing the wall, he surmises, something interesting has happened to the news organisation's output."The Times has stopped being a newspaper, in the sense of a generally available and omnibus account of the news of the day, broadly read in the community. Instead, it is becoming a newsletter, an outlet supported by, and speaking to, a specific and relatively coherent and compact audience," writes Shirky, adding that The Times is becoming little more than the "online newsletter of the Tories"."If you are going to produce news that can't be shared outside a particular community, you will want to recruit and retain a community that doesn't care whether any given piece of news spreads, which means tightly interconnected readerships become the ideal ones."A paywall, Shirky argues, forces the publisher to "re-engineer" its content for a different audience, part of a process he calls "newsletter economics". "This re-engineering suggests that paywalls don't and can't rescue current organizational forms. They offer instead yet another transformed alternative to it," he said."Even if paywall economics can eventually be made to work with a dramatically reduced audience, this particular referendum on the future (read: the present) of newspapers is likely to mean the end of the belief that there is any non-disruptive way to remain a going concern."Read the full Clay Shirky post, titled The Times' paywall and Newsletter Economics,at this link.
With the iPad, and subsequent tablets, came a new enthusiasm for aggregation tools for both media and social content - and a new opportunity for more visual ways of representing data.PulseandFlipboardattracted some serious attention at launch, reincarnating text RSS feeds into something more magazine-like - more visual, more delightful and less of a chore.Rather, it's a about a more leisurely and pleasant reading experience - and consequently of great interest to the media industry. The New York Times thought the Pulse reading experience was compelling enough that itbanned itfrom using its feeds at one point, though laterreinstatedit.As a power RSS user (and a 'feed zero' compulsive) I'm not convinced that these are the most efficient way to deal with a few hundred must-read feeds. Taptu want to convince me otherwise. Until now a mobile search specialist, and the firm behind theWapediaWikipedia app, theMy Taptu applaunching today for iPhone, iPod Touch and Android.My Taptu presents RSS feeds in a similar way, ambitiously but fairly effectively breaking stories down into browse-able squares with enough text and image to illustrate each of them. Add feeds by choosing from editorially curated lists including celebrity, tech and politics  - of which Taptu have channelled 5,000 specialist feeds into 200 lists under the app's 'StreamStore'. There's also a bookmarking feature so you can browse headlines offline and read full stories later.Konstantinos Papamiltiadis, Taptu's senior director of product and engineering, says Taptu is not looking to extend the app to the iPad, so contests that there's any competition with Pulse or Flipboard. It's about creating that experience on mobile, he says."A typical mobile user might have 30 or 40 apps on their phone, and would start the day checking Facebook, then Twitter and then the BBC," said Papamiltiadis. "That kind ofapp hoppingis what we are trying to solve by aggregating all that content."Taptu, based in Cambridge and with a team of 30, appears to be treading carefully when it comes to relationships with media companies, being quick to point out that linking through to a story within the app only serves up the first paragraph - users need to click through to the home site for the full story. "We want to make sure the media gets the right attention, making it as sexy as possible to go through to the website. That's why we are sticking with our search principles and using only part of the story [in the app]. It's a teaser."Though ads within publishers' feeds show up within the My Taptu app, Papamiltiadis says it does run minimal ads itself but is waiting to see how the app performs before committing to banner,  in-stream ads or anything else.My Taptu is light and about as well designed as that 3.5" screen will allow. The customisation is much more comprehensive than Pulse or Flipboard and it's an attractive proposition, so for most consumers it will be worth a try.But back to the power RSS user issue. I follow 80-or-so feeds and read every headline from the last 24 hours on all of those. I useBylineon iPhone (not perfect - very crashy and quite slow) because it integrates with Google Reader - I don't want to have to set up all those feeds again every time I try a new RSS reader. But I also need to share and star stories in the reader I use.There's no Google Reader integration with My Taptu at all at the moment. Maybe that will change, but I think there's still a good deal of work to be done in bridging the gap between visual and interesting RSS readers and heavy-duty tools capable of efficiently serving up several hundred headlines.• Update:Taptu say theyareworking on an iPad version, but wanted to concentrate on mobile initially as that's their background, but also to discourage comparisons with Pulse, etc...
The drumbeat of diplomatic tension between Facebook and Google, two internet heavyweights, is growing louder by the day.In a rare public statement admonishing one of its rivals – or, soon-to-be rivals – Google last weekbanished Facebookfrom using its data feed for Gmail contacts, saying the social network isn't pulling its weight in a "world of true data liberation".Singling out Facebook as a chief offender, Googlesaidthat services that do not allow users to export their contact data to other applications in a way that is "substantially as fast and easy as exporting such data from Google Contacts" will no longer be able to use its Contacts API.Facebook, the search giant said, leaves users in a "data dead end", and their carefully-constructed network of contacts "effectively trapped". As a result of the wrangle, new Facebook registrants were suddenly unable to import or invite contacts from Google services in an automated way.But Facebook is nothing if not bolshy. According to TechCrunch, the site has quickly subverted Google's blockade byhacking together its own solution. New registrants can now download – and then upload – a file of their Google contacts without having to leave Facebook. What's more, this solution subverts Google by taking advantage of the search giant'sData Liberation Front.Yes, the DLF is A Real Thing. It's a team of Google engineers, to be precise, whose "singular goal is to make it easier for users to move their data in and out of Google products". (Here'sour interview with Brian Fitzpatrick, its chief, from September 2009.)Sure enough, Googlelets users export or import contact details at their leisure, in the format of their choice. Brilliant generosity, says Facebook, we'll use that to hop over your hastily-constructed obstruction.Update:Google has since issued us with this comment: "We're disappointed that Facebook didn't invest their time in making it possible for their users to get their contacts out of Facebook. As passionate believers that people should be able to control the data they create, we will continue to allow our users to export their Google contacts." Feisty, huh?Facebook continues to refuse comment on the issue, preferring instead to cater to the needs of its users. Google's original statement, issued last Thursday, merits a greater read:"Google is committed to making it easy for users to get their data into and out of Google products. That is why we have a data liberation engineering team dedicated to building import and export tools for users. We are not alone. Many other sites allow users to import and export their information, including contacts, quickly and easily. But sites that do not, such as Facebook, leave users in a data dead end."So we have decided to change our approach slightly to reflect the fact that users often aren't aware that once they have imported their contacts into sites like Facebook they are effectively trapped. Google users will still be free to export their contacts from our products to their computers in an open, machine-readable format – and once they have done that they can then import those contacts into any service they choose. However, we will no longer allow websites to automate the import of users' Google Contacts (via our API) unless they allow similar export to other sites."It's important that when we automate the transfer of contacts to another service, users have some certainty that the new service meets a baseline standard of data portability. We hope that reciprocity will be an important step towards creating a world of true data liberation – and that this move will encourage other websites to allow users to automate the export of their contacts as well."Google wants fellow internet companies to play fair with user data. I'll show you mine if you show me yours. Facebook isquick on the reflexif it feels another company is stepping on its toes, but altogether slower when it comes to allowing users out of its social silo.The question is now whether Google will take further measures – difficult, given that the DLF exists – or whether it will find some way to jemmy open Facebook's systems to help setting up the much-rumoured Google Me. The latter looks unlikely; contacts are Facebook's secret sauce just as much as Google's precise search algorithms are its. Where is the undeclared war going to break out next?
Jimmy Waleslikes to describes himself as a "pathological optimist", so it's no surprise that he's extremely enthusiastic about the longevity of wikis, the group publishing tool epitomised by the mightyWikipedia, which he founded in 2001.His latest mission, though, is to bring some life back toWikia, the wiki site also founded by Wales. Overshadowed by its ubiquitous older brother, Wikia claims to have more than 2 million registered users and 165,000 wikis on everything from cult musical TV showGleetoPop Tarts, fromVintage PatternsandThe Muppets.Photo byJoion Flickr.Some rights reservedWhere Wikipedia is encyclopaedia-like, neutral (despite the regular flame wars between disputing editors) factual information, Wikia is for fan communities and more expressive. Rolling out an overhauled version in the past few weeks, Wales claims the new Wikia is far more social with better sharing features, a simpler 'WYSIWYG' editing interface, theme designer and improved navigation."The idea is to move into new markets, attract new people - people who traditionally thought wikis would be too complicated to use," Wales told the Guardian. "Wikia 2.0 marries the traditional wiki tools that have been so successful with newer social and editing features."Making Wikia stickierBehind all these improvements is the ambition of making Wikia stickier, encouraging people to keep nurturing their wiki after the initial burst of excitement. "We're already seeing a big increase in people creating new wikis, so it's about improving that part of the creation process. If we have faster setup people, and if they are notified when someone else signs up, they are more likely to keep going. We want to improve the survival rate."Wikia's vice-president of product, Angie Shelton, said that with the old Wikia design typically only 1% of creators really stuck with the project for the longer term. Experimenting with a stickier format has pushed that to 2%."The focus of the redesign was to make it easier for people to understand what a wiki is, how it works, and how fun it can be to get involved," she said. "This has lead to a five times increase in people wanting to start a new wiki. Now the work will be watching, listening and learning from this new crop of wikis founders and editors and giving them better tools to recruit a community and build a successful wiki."Competing for ads and attentionWho is the competition? Is it Facebook Groups, Ning or Wordpress, perhaps? "That's a weird question... I never think about the competition because each of those does something else and isn't a wiki. We want to help people create large bodies of high quality content, a collaborative space for editing and building something together."Inevitably, where there's Jimmy Wales there is an entourage of controversy in one form or another. Wales watchers have criticised Wikia over its advertising model, which relies on content created for free by users and does not return a share of ad revenue to them. The new version of Wikia publishes ads but only shows those to readers - any registered users or creators of the sites won't see them.The Muppets' fan site on Wikia.com"That revenue share model is one that we don't really find a big demand for," said Wales. "The kind of people that do that kind of revenue sharing content production... we're more interested in the really passionate fans who want to get together because they love it - not because they look through a list of SEO optimised keywords and write whatever has the highest ad return. That's not a sensible model for real creative production."As for the snipers, he doesn't worry about them, he says. Anyone who thinks Wikia should not be funding itself with ads can use an ad blocking tool. "It's really the primary model that allows people to use a free platform – including YouTube, MySpace and Facebook."Can Wikia really compete for attention with so many other content creation tools on the web? Isn't the wiki itself in danger of being seen as a bit old hat, as one of the tools - along with the increasingly dated medium of blogging - that were part of the first generation of web publishing tools?"Wikipedia is a cultural institution - and still the number five site on the internet," said Wales. Given that Wikia was founded in 2004, and Wikipedia in 2001, Wales's empire doesn't seem ready to buckle just yet. "I should've started sooner. All the tech components needed to start these projects existed several years earlier - there was no reason I couldn't have started Wikipedia in 1996."
A day afterthe Queen made her official debut on Facebookthe royal family's profile has become a lightning rod for debate about the monarchy, with the palace web team forced to censor a string of offensive comments.More than 150,000 people have "liked" theBritish Monarchy pagesince it was published yesterday, with thousands of comments added to the profile's news stories and photographs.Alongside postings of support from monarchists, the profile has become the focus of comments from anti-royalists as well as Argentinians angry about the ongoing dispute over the Falkland Islands, Cornish nationalists and republicans.A Buckingham Palace spokesman said that moderators were forced to step in and takedown abusive comments but added that there was no selective targeting of postings made by republicans."Spamming is a common problem on Facebook," the spokesman added. "The site has systems in place to report and block spammers and the web team is using the tools available to block offensive comments."Users are able to "like" the royal Facebook page, which means they will receive updates in their news feeds. But it is not possible to "poke" or "friend" the Queen because, as a public figure, she is represented by a page not a profile.The launch of the official Facebook profile has sparked a host of online spoofs with profile pictures including the Queen in a McDonald's uniform and wearing Rangers and Arsenal football tops.Buckingham Palace already has a Twitter feed,which has more than 70,000 followers, and a YouTube channel,with more than 33,0000 subscribers.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
As premieres go, it was unconventional. Held in a cavernous temporary structure in London's Battersea Power Station, rather than the cosy confines of Leicester Square, the assembled celebrities – along with the likes of Sophie Ellis-Bextor, Alex Reid, Duncan James from Blue, Goldie, Calum Best, Gail Porter plus, ahem, the girls from The Only Way Is Essex – for once happily mixed with the non-VIPs.But that was because rather than celebrating the launch of a film, they were participating in the video game industry's annual moment in the pop-culture limelight – the launch of a new Call of Duty game, this time subtitled Black Ops.It would be easy to scoff at the lack of mega-celebrities, but the attraction of the event was obvious – Call of Duty: Black Ops has a good chance of being crowned the most successful entertainment launch of all time. Its predecessor, last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, is the current holder of the Guinness World Record for most successful entertainment launch of all time, with day-one global sales of £242.4m, comfortably beating any previous movie, as well as previous game holders Grand Theft Auto IV and Halo 3.But instead of posing, the celebrities got stuck into demonstrating their credentials as gamers – an online match-up between European celebs saw Manchester City and England footballer Wayne Bridge come a close second to his Dutch counterpart, beating the rest of Europe in the process.George Lamb compered proceedings, which included a tantalising glimpse of the game's early stages (games are too long to play in full at such an event) and culminated with a live set from Tinie Tempah.Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 sold more than 20m copies worldwide, staggeringly grossing over $1bn (£618m), and Activision hopes that Black Ops will do even better than that. Few would accuse it of over-optimism. Analyst Nick Parker, director at Parker Consulting Ltd, says: "With a growing installed base of consoles in homes, especially after the recent price drops, Black Ops could very well become the best selling Call of Duty iteration."The glitzy premiere was backed up by the midnight opening of more than 400 stores around the UK – including 70 branches of HMV – at which fanatical gamers queued to be among the first to get their hands on the game, which casts players as various US military black operatives during the Cold War era, in locations such as Russia, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam.Many retailers enticed gamers to their stores at midnight with discounts if they either bought or traded in games from the current charts. Cheekily, HMV, for example, is offering CoD: Black Ops for £7.99 if you trade in a copy of the recently released Medal Of Honor, published by Activision's arch-rival Electronic Arts.On paper, it was by no means a foregone conclusion that Black Ops would achieve the success enjoyed by Modern Warfare 2. Activision employs two developers, Infinity Ward and Treyarch, to ensure that a new version of Call of Duty arrives every year, and Black Ops is made by Treyarch, previously the less favoured of the two. But Treyarch has upped its game, concentrating solely on Black Ops and employing a massive team of more than 200 people, and previews of the game have been overwhelmingly positive.The games industry could use the boost provided by Black Ops, as well as this week's high-profile launch of Microsoft's innovative body-sensing controller, Kinect. Retailers have reported games sales as being down on 2009 so far, although we have yet to move into the crucial Christmas sales period.But Andy Payne, chairman of UKIE, the UK's trade body for games publishers bullishly argues that games consoles have greater penetration in UK homes than last year. "Black Ops, Football Manager 2011, Fallout New Vegas, FIFA 11, Fable 3 and others have boosted the market for AAA boxed games releases, for sure, and Kinect and Sony's Move will refresh everyone's hardware," he says."But, given the huge audiences for games on all formats, 2010 has been a year of unprecedented activity and focus. The industry has widened beyond all expectations and will continue to expand exponentially in 2011."If Black Ops does out-gross Modern Warfare 2, it will suggest that the argument that video games are relatively immune to recession holds up, because people still buy products which offer long periods of entertainment. In terms of quality, the games industry certainly isn't slacking, with the titles Payne mentioned – plus the hotly anticipated Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, followed by the likes of Gran Turismo 5, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword and Dead Space 2 early next year – all deserving to sell well.But Call of Duty: Black Ops looks nailed on for the coveted Christmas number one slot, which was snaffled so comfortably by Modern Warfare 2 last year that bookmaker Paddy Power paid out early.Although the all-format FIFA 11, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit could well be worth each-way bets. Things, at least, are looking rosy for gamers this Christmas.
Some of you probably went to the midnight openings. Some of you will be picking up today. Some of you will already be experts on the multiplayer. For everyone who has copy then, what you think of Black Ops so far? I haven't got a copy of the full game yet but a play at last night's launch party suggests the action is polished as ever. It all felt very familiar though...Anyway, what do you think of Black Ops so far?
It's right about the time you're shooting a well-known communist leader in the head that it all clicks into place. Here we are in Call of Duty land again, where insane Boy's Own battle action and precise historical detail weirdly conjoin. This long-running series of million-selling military shooters is essentially the Inglourious Basterds of the gaming world – a strange, ridiculous, entertaining, fanciful and bloody celebration of man's interest in violence. And it still works. By some considerable margin, Black Ops works.For the campaign mode, you play almost exclusively as Alex Mason – a special operations veteran caught up in the Bay of Pigs invasion and then cast into a covert war that quickly descends into a fraught psychological odyssey. As the action ping-pongs between Cuba, Vietnam and Russia, an interesting tale plays out concerning dodgy CIA dealings, Nazi experiments and communist expansionism, all bubbling beneath the accepted "facts" of the era. It's similar to the Modern Warfare titles in that it actually boils down to a classic manhunt in the end, but while some elements get lost in the rush, this is easily the most cogent and well-constructed story we've seen from this franchise in a number of years. Although it's not quite the time-travelling psychedelic drug orgy some were expecting, there are several well-handled plot twists that make Modern Warfare's narrative battering ram look even more brutish and incoherent.Splattered across the game's expansive Cold War canvas is a very familiar Call of Duty experience. Once again, we're shooting our way along linear paths, more often than not following a lone indestructible character as he barks out orders. Navigational options are kept to an absolute minimum, a straitjacket that feels almost suffocating at times, especially when we're shown astoundingly rich and detailed environments like Vietnamese jungles and the inner chambers of the Pentagon only to be told we can't go anywhere.But this is the CoD way, and operating within the constraints of the series, Black Ops is a master work. Whether you're busting out of a hellish Russian prison camp or creeping through Viet Cong tunnels with just a flashlight and a revolver, Treyarch knows how to grapple the drama and spectacle out of every choreographed encounter. What this game is, in fact, is a ceaseless barrage of brain-pulverising set-pieces. There is Hue City on fire, with US choppers strafing overhead like monstrous dragon flies; there is the raid on the Russian launch site, its towering rocket looming beneath a sickly orange sky; and there is the shootout on the rooftops of Kowloon city, with jumbo jets scorching close overhead as bullets fly. Black Ops doesn't so much capture your attention as bludgeon it into bruised acquiescence.Within the cacophony of each mission, you will find the usual buffet table of interesting weapons. There are the faithful regulars of course, including the M16, the FAMAS, AK47 and Skorpion machine pistol, but Treyarch has also trawled the archives to find some fascinating contemporary rarities, including the box-like G11 and the powerful but slow H510 shotgun. Enemy AI is decent, too, especially the Russian spec-ops forces who roll and leap around the screen like circus athletes – but circus athletes with semi-automatic rifles. If they get close enough, they'll rush at you with savage speed and purpose, a rare behaviour for computer-controlled fighters and a welcome respite from the usual peeking-out-from-behind-cover behaviours.Part of the success of the game, though, has nothing to do with its relentless action: the comparatively authentic characterisation is vital. None of the people in Black Ops are as interesting as Modern Warfare's astoundingly moustached Captain John Price, but at least the lines are punchily delivered and sometimes even move beyond gritty military doublespeak. Treyarch has also made agenda-setting use of full performance capture (when an actor provides motion capture, facial capture and dialogue simultaneously), to provide genuinely expressive virtual thesps capable of glowering with anger or cowering in fear with something approaching humanity. We're not out of the uncanny valley yet, but we can at least occasionally glimpse the upper slopes on the other side.At the same time, this game is chock full of cinematic references – which, as Rockstar discovered via GTA's endless pop culture recycling, adds bags of credibility to the script. Our first experience of Vietnam is so fecund with clichés – from the topless soldiers laying out body bags in the sun to the trippy southern rock soundtrack – it's like mainlining every 'Nam movie ever made in one three-minute mega-fix. And then we get more precise allusions to the likes of Apocalypse Now, Platoon and The Deer Hunter, the latter skilfully pastiched in a nightmarish Russian roulette sequence. There are also references to Lost, 24 and countless other conspiracy dramas. Most importantly, the writers have learned from TV structure, constantly reminding players where they are and what they're doing in this savage globetrotting adventure; and that's what Infinity Ward failed to do with its at times incomprehensible Modern Warfare sequel.Largely, apart from an overly simplistic Lockheed Blackbird sequence, the title's forays into alternative game mechanics are successful. There's a brief air combat sequence in which you pilot a Huey as it blasts ground forces before taking on a couple of Russian copters; there's also a decent enough boat section, where you whiz down a jungle river, shooting stuff up. The controls are pretty cumbersome and the effect rather shallow and inconsequential, but these asides add a little variety and certainly don't outstay their welcome. Indeed, with the whole campaign coming in at around six to eight hours of gameplay,nothingoutstays its welcome – though Black Ops does at least put up more of a fight than the spectacularly brief Medal of Honor.The multiplayer component is, as you would expect from this series, skilfully constructed and breathtakingly expansive. There are 14 maps, designed to explore and support a range of playing styles. The standouts, at least in terms of visual style, are "Jungle", with its winding paths, tree houses and hanging vines, and the brilliant, "Nuketown", designed to resemble one of those simulated neighbourhoods constructed in remote locations by the US military to test the effects of nuclear weapons. There are eerily authentic fifties houses and vehicles, and the streets are lined with spooky shop window dummies. The level was apparently inspired by the nuclear explosion scene in Indiana Jones 4 – though it also feels a lot like the scary test zone featured in Alexandre Aja's Hills Have Eyes remake.Elsewhere, there are military industrial complexes such as "Launch" and "Radiation", and dense urban settings such as "Villa" and "Havana". All offer decent combinations of cubby-holes, sniper vantage points and open assault arenas – though there's a greater emphasis on claustrophobic, close-quarters choke points than previous games. Add in some interesting new equipment like the camera spike (which lets you plant a spy cam anywhere on the map so enemies can't sneak up on you), decoy bomb and motion detector and you get a game that's really exploring the strategic depth of the multiplayer experience.Amid the usual collection of deathmatch and capture-the-flag variants, the new "wager" modes, which let you use a virtual currency to bet on the outcome of themed bouts, are the stars of the show. "Gun Game" and "Sharp Shooter" are both gripping variations on an entertaining theme: getting players to use as many different weapons as possible within a single match. In the former, you're given a better gun after each kill, and the action ends when one player succeeds with all 20; in the latter, each player is given the same weapon type, and this is swapped randomly every 45 seconds. With both, your whole tactical approach has to remain fluid as you constantly switch between, say, inaccurate machine pistols and unwieldy sniper rifles. The result, especially when a bunch of players find themselves in an enclosed space just as the weapon type changes to rocket launcher, can be much hilarity. These are just great party modes.The other two are more demanding. "One in the Chamber" gives you just a single bullet per kill, plus melee attacks, and each player has three lives in which to fight it out. Matches are tense and guarded, with lots of creeping around interspersed with sudden explosions of impulsive action. "Sticks and Stones" could well be the cult favourite, giving players just crossbows, tomahawks and ballistic knives with which to do battle.Again, this one's all about technique and accuracy as players learn to squeeze the absolute most out of the unique properties these weapons offer. The crossbow could well be the most inspired addition to the FPS armoury since the sniper rifle. If you hit someone with an explosive bolt, there's a five second delay before it explodes, so your victim has to suffer the indignity of waiting for their messy demise. However, they also get the chance to leg it toward an enemy and take them out too – a guiltily satisfying achievement. Together with the tomahawk, which can be bounced off the ceiling to take out enemies hiding behind cover, it's going to figure heavily in the game's amusing Theatre mode, which lets you replay, edit and share favourite gaming moments.And then you have zombies. Treyarch has taken the unlikely co-op "horde" mode it bolted on to World at War and made it even more of a compelling laugh-fest with new weapons, enemies and traps for your undead prey.POSSIBLE SPOILER:But the piece de resistance is the unlikely cast of playable characters: you're not fighting as anonymous soldiers, you're controlling ex-presidents and politicos like John F Kennedy, Richard Nixon and Fidel Castro, all of whom spout familiar sound bites as they hack down staggering Nazi aggressors. It's a neat, knowing inversion of the campaign's serious Cold War setting, and it nicely recalls Patrick Swayze's bank robbing gang in Point Break with their over-sized president masks. There's also an extra mode named Dead Ops, a dual-stick top-down shooter in the style of Robotron: 2084 or Smash TV in which you fight through a series of single-screen locations, competing for cool power-ups like flame-throwers and rocket launchers. Awesome fun.Call of Duty: Black Ops quite probably represents the pinnacle of the linear military shooter experience – and you wonder where the sub-genre can go from here. Treyarch's game is exhilarating and beautifully orchestrated, but it feels like a full-stop, itneedsto be a full-stop, because toward the end of the campaign, bombardment fatigue begins to set in. As CoD players we have travelled the world, killing people, following orders, hunting down madmen … many of us have had enough. Call of Duty should go out on a high, or at least come back totally re-invented. Perhaps that's what we'll get with Modern Warfare 3. But for now, and for the next two-years of multiplayer engagement, revel in this game's mastery of its well-trodden domain.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Pressure? Photo byInstant Vantageon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGeorge Colony: Perspective on Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; Forrester Blogs"Now Zuckerberg may eventually earn all of these accolades, but it hasn't happened yet. His one big idea hasn't morphed far from its original form. The great CEOs in technology navigate their companies through product change, brutal competitive threats, shifts in architecture, and highly fickle customers."Ballmer Statement on Stock Sales: First stock sale in seven years, for diversification and tax planning &gt;&gt; MicrosoftHe's selling 12% of his holdings in Microsoft: "Microsoft Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer confirmed Friday that he is selling some of his holdings of Microsoft stock to gain financial diversification and to assist in tax planning before the end of the calendar year. He plans to sell up to 75 million shares by year-end. Before taking into account recent sales, according to the latest Microsoft proxy report, Ballmer held approximately 408 million shares."&#10;To "gain financial diversification"?"Shiny app syndrome" and Gov 2.0 &gt;&gt; O'Reilly Radar"Where the conversation in Manor got heated, however, was when Texas state government officials revealed that there was no Android or BlackBerry app, nor was there a mobile version of the Texas.gov site. One attendee, CityCamp founder Kevin Curry, asked a simple but important question: Are .gov iPhone apps 'empowering the empowered?' Given that such apps require an internet connection and an expensive iPod Touch or iPhone, do they essentially add to a digital divide? Is this an evolution of the issue that Michael Gurstein raised in September, whereopen data empowers the empowered?"Nokia grabs control of Symbian, downsizes Foundation &gt;&gt; The Register"Nokia is taking over the governance of Symbian, leaving the non-profit Foundation as a vestigial organisation in name only."Around 75 of 100 jobs will be lost, we understand, as the Foundation becomes an entity devoted to licensing IP."&#10;Given that Nokia is now the only company actually taking licences for Symbian in any number, this makes complete sense.How Apple Almost Got Microsoft's Kinect Game Controller &gt;&gt; Cult of MacBut failed because of its cult of secrecy. (Though what would it have done with it?)Google Maps + London Cycle Hire dynamic markers via canvas &gt;&gt; Monocubed ~Choose a day from the past, and you get a button you can use to move through the 24 hours and see how bikes move in aggregate in and out of London. HTML5 by Googler Paul Truong.Flight or Fight? HTML5 games &gt;&gt; MonocubedInteresting game that uses the canvas tag in HTML5 to create a game. Also works if your computer has orientation sensors.Tim Salmon's World...: Dell Streak - Phone or Tablet?Or possibly vehicle for some not-so-great Dell software, and lots of upsell attempts for its non-standard dock?Inside Google's $1 Billion-a-Year Tax Cutting Strategy &gt;&gt; BusinessWeek(Flash) interactive showing how, with the aid of the "Double Irish" and the "Dutch Sandwich", Google has avoided paying about $3bn from its income tax bill since 2007.The Mathematics of War: Iraq &gt;&gt; Max Braun on FlickrA stunning visualisation built from Wikileaks data which indicates that the frequencies of violent events follows a power law, and that the exponent is fairly constant for modern wars. See also his analysis for Afghanistan, linked from the page.South Korea's Power Structure Hacked, Digital Trail Leads to China &gt;&gt; Fast Company"If the new report by the National Intelligence Service is correct, hackers inside the People's Republic of China gained access--via malware--to personal computers and PDAs belonging to much of South Korea's power structure." And that despite warnings from inside the government about potential hacking. When will governments join the dots on this?Citizen Publisher &gt;&gt; AsymcoSuggesting that publishing to tablets is in the same stage as film was when it first emerged, Horace Dedlu looks at the film's evolution for pointers: "It's my opinion that before there is an Orson Welles of iPad there needs to be a Studio System and a Star System for iPad apps. The Star System is nearly there with the current App Store, but it needs discovery and a systematic way of promoting talent. The Studio System has yet to emerge."Extendergate: What an obscure hardware glitch says about Microsoft's future &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott: "Dropping support for a discontinued device is understandable under some circumstances, especially if the device and others in its category have been around for five years or more. But these devices were still new and widely promoted as little as two years ago. They were designed to work with a core feature of Windows Vista and Windows 7, both of which are current and fully supported Microsoft products.Cisco has a responsibility to fix this problem quickly."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Red carpets are so last millennium. Instead, the carpet down which celebrities such as N-Dubz, Alex Reid, Ashley Cole, Calum Best, Duncan James and Sophie Ellis-Bextor sashayed tonight for what could prove to be the biggest entertainment launch ever, was black, for two reasons. First, to emphasise that a video game, rather than a film, was being launched. And second, in reference to its name – Call of Duty: Black Ops.Activision's first-person shooter game has a tough act to follow: last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 holds the record for the most successful entertainment launch of all time, with first day global sales of £242.4m, comfortably beating any movie. It went on to sell more than 20m copies worldwide, and gross more than $1bn. Activision hopes that Black Ops will outsell its predecessor, and few would accuse it of over-optimism.Nick Parker, a games market analyst, said: "With a growing installed base of consoles in homes, especially after the recent price drops, Black Ops could very well become the best-selling Call of Duty [version]."Tonight's glitzy premiere at Battersea power station, south London, was backed up by the midnight opening of more than 400 shops around the UK (including 70 branches of HMV), at which gamers queued to be among the first to get their hands on the game, which casts players as various US military special ops soldiers during the cold war era, in locations such as Russia, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam.Many retailers offered discounts if customers either bought or traded in games in the current charts. HMV, for example, was offering CoD: Black Ops for £7.99 if you trade in a copy of the recently released Medal Of Honor, published by Activision's arch-rival, Electronic Arts.On paper, it was by no means a foregone conclusion that Black Ops would achieve the success enjoyed by Modern Warfare 2: Activision employs two developers, Infinity Ward and Treyarch, to ensure a new version of Call of Duty arrives every year, and Black Ops is made by Treyarch, previously the less favoured of the two. But Treyarch has upped its game, concentrating solely on Black Ops and employing a team of more than 200 people, and previews of the game have been overwhelmingly positive.The games industry could use the boost provided by Black Ops (as well as this week's high-profile launch of Microsoft's innovative body-sensing controller Kinect); retailers have reported games sales as being down on 2009 so far.Andy Payne, chairman of UKIE, the UK's trade body for games publishers, is bullish, arguing that games consoles have greater penetration in UK homes than last year. "Black Ops, Football Manager 2011, Fallout New Vegas, FIFA 11, Fable 3 and others have boosted the market for AAA boxed games releases, and Kinect and Sony's Move will refresh everyone's hardware. But, given the huge audiences for games on all formats, 2010 has been a year of unprecedented activity and focus. The industry has widened beyond all expectations and will continue to expand exponentially in 2011."If Black Ops does outsell Modern Warfare 2, it will suggest that the argument that video games are relatively immune to recession, as people still buy products which offer long periods of entertainment, holds up. In terms of quality, the games industry certainly is not slacking, with the titles Payne mentioned, plus the hotly anticipated Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, followed by the likes of Gran Turismo 5, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword and Dead Space 2 early next year, all deserving to sell well.But Call of Duty: Black Ops looks set for the coveted Christmas number one slot, which was snaffled so comfortably by Modern Warfare 2 last year that bookmaker Paddy Power paid out early. Although the all-format FIFA 11, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit could well be worth each-way bets. Things, at least, are looking rosy for gamers this Christmas.
Google's firstlaunch of a voice recognitiontechnology in Africa is significant on a number of counts, as reported by theTelegraphthis weekend.In developing markets, like Africa, desktop web access is often limited but mobiles are becoming widespread, which means there's a very large territory to be claimed if tech companies can get the service just right.Photo byfutureatlas.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedOne of the liguistic experts who helped establish the service, Etienne Barnard, described two typical reactions to the new smartphone tool which returns spoken Google search results inZuluorAfrikaanstext on screen. "You have a group of people who are horrified - they see speech as a human thing and don't want to talk to a machine," he said. "Then you have a group who are fascinated. They're proud of their language and when a phone responds to them in it, it means they're taking ownership."Google's objective is to drive as much growth of its services as it can muster, planting flags into the developing economies - and therefore developing advertising markets - of the world. But it faces enormous challenges in infrastructure (it is already helping upgradeinternational fibre-optic cabling) as well as a consumer base (well, 'people') who can't afford even the most basic web-enabled phone.Voice technology here could be extremely powerful. A fully voice-powered phone doesn't need a touchscreen - or even any screen. Could Google engineer a simple, intuitive and cheap voice-only device for developing markets? That's quite a challenge but, as publisher Richard Mulholland says in this piece: "Africa needs Google but in the same way, Google needs Africa because it's going to push it to work out all kinds of new solutions, which is what it actually does best."Meanwhile, Facebook's solution to developing markets has beenFacebook Zero, a low resolution version of the site which Facebook negotiates with operators to offer as a free service. How will Google meet the challenge of breaking a cash-poor but high potential market?
Photo bykodomuton Flickr.Some rights reservedThe iPhone DST bug is making its way around the world and has hit the US - where people found that they slept through for an hour after the end of daylight savings time there on Sunday morning.Contrary tomy mistaken impression, Apple did not rollout the iOS 4.2 update which fixes the bug - meaning that many peopleslept throughif they had set a repeating alarm to wake them on Monday. (And of course expressed theirannoyance on Twitter.)Apple'ssupport document about the problemremains curiously imprecise about the cause, while noting that "In some regions, shortly before or after the daylight saving time (DST) change, repeating alarms created in the Clock app may work incorrectly." We don't know which regions it would work correctly in: everywhere from New Zealand to, so far, Hawaii has been affected. If anyone knows of anywhere else that hasn't been affected by this bug, do tell.The bug seems to be caused by the repeating alarms being tied to the local time at creation rather than the local time at use. It also seems to have been introduced with Apple's iOS 4.x update.And just to remind you of the solution: "To resolve this behavior for existing alarms, set the repeat interval to Never. You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them. After November 7th, 2010, you can set your alarms to repeat again." Except that you need to delete the alarms and recreate them. Not ideal. We'll have to wonder what things are going to be like in iOS's second leap year, 2012, by which time we'll probably be on iOS 5.x. Thingsdidn't go well for the Zune then. Perhaps Apple can top it.
Top 10 UK games, week ending 6 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Football Manager 2011(3+)PC (100)12 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (33)Wii (8)PSP (7)63 (1)Fable III(16+)Xbox 360 (100)24 (4)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)45 (8)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)36 (13)New Super Mario Bros. Wii(3+)Wii (100)327 (3)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (9)38 (6)Medal Of Honor(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)49 (5)Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Ii(16+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)Wii (5)210 (9)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (28)DS (19)PC (13)16Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
Talking the other day to Sarah Wood of Unruly Media in London's Brick Lane, I began wondering about the way that technology companies like to cluster together - but also, prompted by some of the things she had to say, about how they're moving around.We also know that we need to have a much bigger resource when it comes to knowing about UK technology startups - which we've defined as (1) up to five years old (2) fewer than 100 people (3) turnover/revenue/sales less than £10m.So we'd like to gather that data, and even better we'd like to map how it is now, and how it has changed over time: all we need for the latter is a postcode and number of people. (We realise that giving out historical revenue figures might be difficult.)We think that with this we could create a really useful resource showing where companies are, and how big they are, and in what sector they are. If you'll help us out by filling it in and passing on the detail, we'll try to feed back the details for you. Obviously, the more people who take part, the more useful it becomes.We're not collecting the data for marketing purposes - it's not to sell you things. It's to make it useful.(Yes, we know it's beentried before, but we think this might have some more momentum. We can hope, at least.)Here's the form, or you can find it atthis link. The link is athttp://goo.gl/Qz8yA- please, again, pass it on.We'll try to create a visualisation once we've got some data. But that depends on getting the data...
How many hours of my life have I given to Football Manager? It's one of those questions it's probably best not to think too long or hard about. Since Sports Interactive first captured the hearts and minds of football fans in the early 90s, thousands of us have devoted large chunks of our lives to the series – and 20 years on the world's greatest time-eater shows no sign of abating.Like any other franchise, a new year brings with it new bells and whistles to make sure fans are willing to dip into their wallets yet again. Football Manager 2011 actually seems to be a particularly big leap forward compared last year's update – thanks largely to some significant changed to some key areas of the game.First off, the interface looks better than ever, with a tweaked manager's homepage complimenting a raft of small aesthetic changes – seen also in the noticeably improved 3D match engine. Add in the option of linking in your Twitter and YouTube accounts, and FM 2011 feels fresh, somehow, despite the fact much of what you're doing has barely changed since the series' inception.Contracts and player interactions have been completely overhauled, now working in real-time, so there's a satisfying sense of an actual negotiation taking place. It's no longer simply a case of throwing out offers or platitudes – you have to be reactive and willing to take risks to get what you want. Agents are present in the game for the first time, and handling their personalities to ensure you can keep your star striker's wage demands in check brings player-power realism to the series in a way we've never seen before.Training has been somewhat improved, and there's a brand new set-piece generator – welcome updates to two parts of the game which hadn't much changed in the past five years. Tactical analysis is also now deeper than ever for those prepared to put the hours in.It's easy to forget too that there's this year's edition of the absurdly huge and authoritative player database on offer and, while a few niggles like the shallow and repetitive media-handling remain, there's more than enough here to recommend those who enjoyed the last iteration to get on board.What about those that didn't enjoy last year's Football Manager, though? It strikes me that FM's audience is split into two camps: those that love the direction the series is heading, and have bought and enjoyed every version; and those that gave up at some point, simply because the game, or the rest of their life, became to demanding. Because of this divide that I hope you'll forgive me writing a review of two halves, as it were.More casual players who pine for the simpler days of the original Championship Manager series will still find the game as it exists today far too complicated and time-consuming. For example, you're now made to train your players in specific tactics you want to use – you can't just throw them into a 4-3-3 the morning before a match and expect it to work. Although this is a fairly low-maintenance activity, and can be left to your assistant, it seems like little more than a chore – albeit one that adds a little realism.What with scouting, training, player interactions, pitch alterations, board requests, coach meetings, team talks, opposition instructions, and so on, not forgetting a level of detail given to tactics Rafa Benitez would balk at, it now takes hundreds of clicks and thinking about hundreds of variables just to get through a week, whereas once you could fly through whole seasons doing little more than picking the squad. This depth is certainly impressive. But it doesn't make me enjoy the experience more.Essentially, you get out of Football Manager as much as you're prepared to put in – and it asks you to put in a lot. While FM2011 does more than ever to hold the hands of newcomers and automate some of the more arbitrary tasks, the flipside of this is that every time you turn on one of these streamlining options, you wonder if your negligence is affecting your team's performance. FM2011 is unlikely to please anyone that didn't like FM2010, and I fear FM2012 will be exactly the same.While I do worry about where the series is headed, and it certainly isn't as accessible as it once was, there's still nothing quite like it. I've just spent the best part of two hours trying to find part-time overseas players willing to join my nascent Vauxhall Motors team, and getting them promoted was probably more satisfying than ever thanks to the level of difficulty now on offer. It goes without saying that, yet again, Sports Interactive has released the best football management sim ever. It's just very hard work at times.• Game reviewed on PC
There are just a few hours to go before the launch of the latest Call of Duty gun-a-thon, and if you're thinking of hitting the multiplayer servers, we thought we'd give you an idea of what to look out for as you gain experience. Last week, I sat down with Black Ops design director David Vonderhaar who guided me through a selection of the most interesting new weapons and items in the game.Predictably, selecting and balancing the armoury is a key element of the CoD design process. The team closely examine all the weapon specifications, but then convert these into game-friendly maxims, ensuring there's always a trade-off between power and usability. As Vonderhaar explains, "We use the weapon's calibre only to figure out where it should fall in the damage ranges. So take the AK-47 – it uses a very high calibre bullet compared to other weapons, so we'll make that gun higher damager, but we'll offset it with higher inaccuracies or slower reloads. And then guns that have low calibre ammunition, we usually make more accurate but less deadly. It's a general game design rule but it's not hard and fast. You don't want to accidentally make any one gun over-powered, and it's tough when you've got 40 guns in the game. But they all fall within certain ranges – it's very systems driven. We take it very seriously"Before each multiplayer bout, you can equip yourself with an array of useful non-weaponry items, and we've highlighted a few of these too…WeaponsHeckler &amp; Koch G11 assault rifleA chunky angular burst fire rifle that uniquely loads from the top. It's a classified weapon so to get it, you need to buy all the other assault rifles, but it's worth a look, as it's spectacularly deadly (though as a burst fire weapon, you can't shoot it that fast). "It's a beast of a gun," says Vonderhaar. "It's a weapon that was prototyped, but it didn't see mass distribution. There aren't many around." So how did Vonderhaar and his team stumble upon it? "We use a lot of gun reference materials and spend a lot of time researching pre-production weapons. We basically make a list of every gun even remotely near our time period, some before some after – because if it's a prototype weapon you don't know what year it was introduced. And if you're an SOG officer, you're the perfect person to test these weapons." Turns out, the G11 used a proprietary caseless ammunition, which is why it didn't make it into production: the military likes to use standard ammo.China Lake pump action grenade launcherDeveloped specifically for Navy SEALs forces and deployed during Vietnam, the China Lake is another brute force weapon with a delayed firing mechanism. This time you're forced to aim down the sight before shooting, thus adding latency to counter-balance the weapon's horrendous damage potential. "You can't really use it effectively as an all-round offensive weapon. It's very good for shooting into the middle of objectives, blowing up cars with it, but it's only got two rounds of ammo and it takes forever to shoot it."CZ75 with full-auto upgradeThis is usually a standard semi-automatic pistol, but it can be upgraded with a forward clip to become a full-auto pistol – the only one in Black Ops. You'll need to buy every other pistol in the game to get it, but it's a unique, powerful weapon.HS-10 shotgunAnother classified weapon, so you have to buy all the shotguns to unlock it. "We were really trying to find some crazy shotguns," says Vonderhaar. "The shotgun has got this core design principle to it, and there's been very little change – if you find a shotgun from the '40s or '50s and compare it with one that was manufactured yesterday, it looks the same – a 12 gauge shell with a long barrel. It's hard to find unique versions. But we stumbled across the HS10 and similarly to the G11, it was an experimental weapon, I think it was envisioned by a police sergeant who wanted a shotgun he could conceivably hold with one hand, so he could use a flashlight at the same time. So this is the only shotgun in the game which allows you to use two at the same time." It's powerful, but again, there's a price: it's only got four shots, it's slow to reload and it kicks like an enraged stallion.PSG1 sniper rifleA brand new sniper rifle for the CoD series. "I love this rifle," says Vonderhaar. "We've not been in a period yet which has let us use it –  and it's still a little experimental for our time range…" The rifle has a variable zoom scope, which lets you circle through three levels of magnification for ultra precise aiming.Stoner 63 rifleEugene Stoner was the weapon designer responsible for much of the groundwork on the AR-15 (M16) and Colt Commando rifles. "He pioneered the concept of modular weapons – a gun that could be manufactured, but then if you needed an LMG version of it you could fit something to do that," explains Vonderhaar. "When we stumbled on the Stoner 63, it was fascinating. I mean, lots of things are modular now, it's a common design practise. But in 1963, no one was thinking about modularanything. This guy's a total visionary – I'm not a gun nerd, but it's an interesting story, how he made interchangeable parts, and how the guns could be reconfigured. That was why we put the Stoner 63 in. It's a very fast firing LMG, but actually it's a hybrid, it's also an assault rifle. You can't really classify his guns anymore." Like the China Lake grenade launcher, the Stoner 63 was used in limited numbers by the US Navy SEALs in Vietnam.EquipmentCamera spikeSimply place this anywhere on the map, switch it on, and your mini-map in the corner of the screen is replaced by an image showing live video footage from your electronic spy. Cleverly, wherever you're looking where you place the spike, that's where the camera will focus: so plant it when you're staring straight up and the image it'll feed back to you will be of the sky above. Naturally, snipers will be able to use the camera spike to ensure no-one sneaks up on them. "I like to stick it on the flag in Capture The Flag games when I'm defending, " says Vonderhaar. "Most maps are designed to have three main routes that go from one end to the other, so I'll use it to watch the path I'm not directly guarding."JammerThis handy box can be placed anywhere in the game environment; when an enemy wanders within its radius the device will scramble their radar. Vonderhaar then shows me a handy cubbyhole on the Summit map where the jammer can be perfectly hidden. You need to jump up on some mainframe computers in a control room then leap across to an upper platform. "I've never shown anyone this before," he admits.Motion sensorPlant this anywhere, and if an enemy chances into its radius, they'll appear as a red dot on your mini-map; just like when a spy plane goes overhead. There's a perk that counters the sensor, but if you don't have it, the operator will know you've arrived. So what differentiates this from the camera spike, if both are about monitoring player positions? "Good question," responds Vonderhaar. "The motion sensor won't tell you which direction the enemy is running in because of the delay in the pings –you'll just now that therewasa guy nearby. With the camera spike, you can see people, you can see how many of them there are, what direction they've taken your flag in, it's always showing you something."Decoy grenadeThis is a tactical grenade that, once lobbed into an area, jumps around making a firing noise while flooding your enemies' mini-maps with red dots, indicating a big fight. As Vonderhaar explains, "This was inspired by a real device that we learned about from Major John Plaster, who was an SOG operative during Vietnam. This guy's amazing, he came in and talked to us for two days. They used to go into places like Laos and Cambodia, where they weren't supposed to be; and when they were trying to get the hell out, they'd have this board covered in firecrackers – they would light it and throw it, so the guys chasing them would get confused about where Plaster and his team were. So we took this concept, fictionalised components of it, and made up this tactical decoy."The idea is, you throw one into an open location, and when the red dots start showing up on your enemies' mini-maps, they charge in expecting a massive skirmish – what they get is you standing behind the door, waiting to quitely take them out. "It's great for trapping red dot hunters, the guys who willalwaysbe checking their mini-map to see where the enemy is. And this is very satisfying because you're punishing the best players in the game. I don't think you'll see it used in Team Deathmatch – people start to tune out the dots because there's so much going on. But in the games that are a little slower, the tactical multiplayer modes, the decoy will have a big role. "
Two years in the making, and with a staff of some 30 people, the latest "social browser" today makes its way onto the web.Dubbed the "Facebook browser",RockMeltis makinga big splash. The new browser integrates familiar social features – chiefly Facebook – and naturally plans to reinvent how people use the internet.But haven't we been here before?Built atop Google Chromium, RockMelt looks to boom where others – namely,Flock– have failed to take off.As an interface, RockMelt trumps Flock, whichmoved from Firefox to Chromefour months ago. With a handful of small-scale embellishments, RockMelt moreorless stays true to Chrome.RockMelt moves into private beta: Chrome with strings attached? Image: RockMeltBut the Facebook integration, with a left-hand panel of "top friends", would no doubt prove aggravating as updates – comments, wall posts, and the like – are piped through to the browser, appearing as an orangey-yellow blob whenever new content is available. Likewise on the right-hand side panel with RSS feeds, from where you can drag-and-drop content to share with Facebook friends.The search box – why does it need a search box? – also loads results in a drop-down menu, saving approximately 0.3 seconds from the average search. It's not to everyone's taste. Over at Daring Fireball, John Grubernotes: "They solved the problem of Chrome having a nice, simple, minimalist interface."RockMelt is perhaps better-placed to drive forward social browsing where others have faltered. Its lead investor, Andreessen Horowitz, is jointly run by Marc Andreessen, who co-founded Netscape Communications. Its co-founder, Tim Howes, also figured inThe Great Browser Battle of Netscape-Microsoft. They've seen browsers come and go.While we wait for our beta request to be approved, have you jumped onto RockMelt yet? Tell us in the comments below. If, that is, your attention remains undisturbed for long enough.
Since his breakthrough digital role as Gollum in the Lord of the Rings trilogy, Andy Serkis has become the film industry's go-to thespian on all things digital.And after he won games critics' hearts (if not, perhaps, consumers) with his contribution to last month's Enslaved: Odyssey to the West, we thought we'd find out a bit more about what tempts a high-profile actor to spend hours wearing only a skintight black bodysuit covered in Pritt Stick and ping-pong balls.What is performance capture, exactly?There's an important distinction between motion capture, which is the technology used to track body movement and was developed by the medical industry to assess injuries, and performance capture (PC) which has been developed by the film industry as a means of capturing on film an actor's complete performance – their physical, facial and vocal performance.What are the main differences, as an actor, between working with PC and traditional stage and film acting?If you are playing an ape or a fantasy creature like Gollum, you need to learn to calibrate your movements to match these characters. But there is no difference in the way an actor approaches rehearsal and playing a character for a PC shoot than there is for any other theatre or film performance.What would you say are the incentives for a high-profile actor to get involved with motion capture?The incentive is that PC is increasingly becoming part of the storytelling culture for the new generation of cinema and theatregoers and video gamers.It's also a liberating tool, an exciting medium to work in, the ultimate transformational experience. Anyone interested in this would see what a powerful and innovative tool it is. It allows you to move into different areas such as video games, which will in future be part of our storytelling culture.Every age has its storytelling form, and video gaming is a huge part of our culture. You can ignore or embrace video games and imbue them with the best artistic quality. People are enthralled with video games in the same way as other people love the cinema or theatre. Over time, I think perceptions will change.How has technology changed since your first digital role as Gollum as Lord of the Rings?The technology has changed and the perceptions have changed. Originally, PC was shot away from the main set, treated as peripheral and separate, with computers that would regularly break down. It is now seen as central and core to the whole film, which is now shot in a dedicated PC studio.The methods of recording give greater fidelity to an actor's performance, and the technology can now capture multiple actors. It couldn't be more different.How did you prepare for the role of Monkey in Enslaved?We looked at the original novel, Journey into the West, and decided to take elements of that character but – excuse the pun – not be slavish about it. We decided to make him less of a mischievous and chaotic figure and more of a gruff hobo; a loner not used to communicating with others and quite selfish.It's complex when playing the leading character in a first person game as you don't want to lead the player too much in one way or another – after all, they are the character too. A character like Pigsy, on the other hand, can be whatever the actor brings to the role.I prepared for it by observing a man who walked his dog regularly on Hampstead Heath. He talked to his dog a lot but was really talking to himself. Physically, I didn't have to do too much – that's the beauty of PC. Monkey is a well-built guy who can take care of himself, with a lot of upper body strength. But at the same time as filming this, I was preparing for the role of Ian Dury and losing two stone in body weight!Video games don't receive the critical attention of theatre or cinema. Was it frustrating to know that your performance as Monkey was unlikely to receive the same attention as your film projects?Things are changing. In the past, Bafta wouldn't have recognised video games, but now they have a range of awards for different aspects of video game making, directing etc.So it is only a matter of time and attrition before video games will be recognised on a par with theatre and film.Do you think PC performances will ever be held in as high a regard as other acting mediums?Playing a character in a video game is different to other performances because your character can't lead the audience of players in one direction.If you look at the performance of Richard Ridings as Pigsy in Enslaved, I would put that up against any other character performance in film or stage, and think it deserves accolades.Enslaved wasn't your first project with Ninja Theory – how were you originally approached for Heavenly Sword?It's a strange tale. I was approached via my mortgage broker, who is the brother of on of the Heavenly Sword developers. He showed me a trailer after we'd discussed mortgage rates and I thought it was fantastic. So it was very much a chance encounter.What were you most pleased with about Enslaved, looking back on it?The way we worked hard to ensure that the cut scenes and the gameplay flow and are seamless so the dramatic tension is kept up throughout the game. Alex Garland wrote the screenplay for Enslaved, and he did a great job.There is a huge transmigration from the film industry to video games, not just because people personally like the idea of making a video game but because they recognise that, with the advent of 3D, it is an incredible arena for storytelling.Do you, or have you ever played video games as a hobby?I wasn't a huge gamer in the past, but I do play a lot now with my children. I'd like to think that we strive in film and theatre to tell great stories, and I believe in the power of storytelling in our culture.But, until recently, this huge gaming force has been neglected when it should have been treated with respect and invested with as much artistry as possible.Can you still see parts of yourself when you watch a finished digitally captured performance? Or is there a complete disconnect?You can always see yourself, and people tell me they can see elements of my personality in the characters. It's subtle – timing, eye movement and gestures – but it's there if you look closely.Tell me about the Imaginarium project - why is motion capture something you're so passionate about?The plan is for the Imaginarium to provide a dedicated PC studio in London with three main aims: to produce our own films using PC, to encourage a culture that encourages experimentation with this groundbreaking technology by making it affordable and available to aspiring film makers, and to create a melting pot for talented people to push this art form into new territory such as live performances, real time avatars as well as video games.Why? Because we have only seen the tip of the iceberg in terms of what performance capture can achieve. There are so many applications still yet to be discovered, and we have the talent in the UK to be at the forefront.•Andy will be appearing at theEncounters International Film Festivalin Bristol on 19 November to discuss performance capture
Yes, some of you may have long since consigned The Sims to gaming history but the franchise is still going strong. One of the latest iterations sees the life-simulation gameplay transported to a fantasy style medieval realm. Apparently there will be questing and other RPG-lite elements. Yes, it's a long way from the parties and pets of 2003 (ish). Has The Sims gone hardcore? Can we expect - say - Sims Space Marine in the future? Probably not, but personally I think Medieval looks like an interesting evolutionary step for the series. What do you think?
I was away this weekend so gaming time was limited. I did get some time with the very enjoyable Super Scribblenauts on the DS although the novelty has worn off a little now. What about you though? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Forget Heavy Rain. Forget Alan Wake. It could be that the most deranged and fascinating psychological thriller released this year isDeadly Premonitionfrom little known Japanese developerAccess Games. In this dark, twisted survival horror romp, a FBI agent named Francis York Morgan, must investigate the murder of a young girl in a remote town named Greenvale. There's only one slight problem – Morgan is a paranoid schizophrenic who regularly consults his imagined alter ego, Zach, while happily terrifying the locals with tales of his previous nightmarish cases. The town itself, meanwhile, is so weird it makes Twin Peaks look like Basingstoke.Reviews have been mixed to say the least. While gaming site IGN wrote the title off as 'awful in nearly every way', hardcore blog Destructoid awarded is 10/10 proclaiming it a 'beautiful train wreck'. Certainly the lose open-world structure, fiendish puzzles and occasional moments of extreme terror warrant more than a casual slagging off, despite the awful visuals, teeth-grinding physics and dialogue that must be heard to be believed - and even then you may hope you imagined it.To find out more about this astonishing title (happily given a budget UK release by Rising Star), we spoke to the game's director, Hidetaka Suehiro, also known as Swery. Here's what he had to say...Can you tell us where the idea for Deadly Premonition came from? Lots of people have mentioned Twin Peaks, but were you more influenced by survival horror games or by movies?The idea itself came to me even before I started making games. This was back in the 8-bit and 16-bit days, so I can't really pin down what the source of my inspiration was. In the beginning, it was meant to be an adventure game that focused on using forensic science to solve mysteries. In order to make a game that a worldwide market would be more receptive to, we added the shooting and horror elements and after much discussion it eventually came into its current form.The idea of a lawman arriving at a secluded town to investigate a disappearance has become a key theme of the horror gaming genre. Why do you think that is?I couldn't really say, but I think that setting has a mysteriously attractive quality. This quality pulls people in and a rather simple incident sets up high expectations in their mind. I also think that the way a rustic setting conveniently restricts the player is another reason to use it.But you've somehow made a survival horror game that isn't about survival, or indeed, horror. How did that happen?The survival horror genre typically depicts a story of life and death for the main character. The question becomes, "Can I survive?" It's impossible to build an appealing mystery based on this cliched set-up. That's why I focused on the life and death of characters other than Agent York, the dark history of the town and the villagers who had died in the past.I think the way we've created the playable action scenes, the shocking deaths of non-player characters and of course the story, is something that you don't really find in other games. For example, locations in the normal world have been created with a lived-in feel. These make a connection to the real world, the people who were here before you might still be around. We've scattered these details throughout the world of Deadly Premonition. Some examples would be the abandoned surgical instruments and discarded medical charts in the hospital, or tools laying about in the ruins of the factory, as well as lockers or the TV in the lounge.The game has an open, exlorable world – why did you decide to go with this type of design? Usually horror/suspense games are quite linear so that the game makers can control the shock sequences...It goes back to the lived-in feel I spoke about earlier. Only with there being life can one fully depict something that threatens this life. In the same way, I thought that only by giving the player total freedom could I fully depict restriction. With the freedom to explore the town however they like, the player becomes obligated to address their fears.Why do you think the game has split critical opinion so wildly? Did you think this would be the case?When you're creating something, you must maintain a balance between what it is you want to create, and what it is that the players are asking for, but in Deadly Premonition this balance is heavily skewed towards what I wanted to create. Certain people are not able to live with that and they didn't accept the game in the slightest. Other people completely empathized with it and I believe this is why they had an opposite reaction.What would your argument be against reviewers who disliked the game's pacing? Were you consciously trying to create a game that felt and played very differently from the likes of resi Evil 4 and the later Silent Hill titles?Well, people who are hoping for constant new developments will not be satisfied with the pacing of this game. In response, I'd like to ask people to try to understand what Deadly Premonition actually is. Games exists as a  free and unique media, not all games need to rely on fast story development. There is nothing wrong with games with this sort of pacing existing alongside the others.Do you think titles like Heavy Rain and Alan Wake have created or found a new audience more interested in darker, more emotional and adult themes? If so, where do you think games like this are heading?Both of those games are excellent high-quality titles. I think that if we'd been able to do graphics like those titles have, maybe the critics would have changed their minds about Deadly Premonition.I don't really know how the future will play out for this genre. Until users are able to accept games like this they will remain buried no matter what kind of masterpieces are made, and eventually people will just stop making them. The same is true for all media whether it be games, art or entertainment. In my heart I truly hope I can continue to make unusual games like this.A lot of well-known Japanese developers have been criticising the native dev scene for the last few years, claiming that studios aren't being innovative enough. Do you agree?Unfortunately I can't help but agree with this sentiment. There is an issue with developers and creators as well, but I think the games industry is heavily influenced by the Japanese environment that surrounds it and the tastes of Japanese users.Over the last several years, Japan has prioritised the domestic market. Going overseas to work or study has become something of a rare thing these days. In fact, the number of students studying abroad has dropped... This won't be sustainable in the future, so I think eventually we'll turn our thinking outward again. Developers won't be able to survive unless they think globally. They must begin thinking of all of Asia, at the very least, as the domestic market; and moreso, they need to think this way about entire world. I think in the near future Japanese creators will return to being more active worldwide. I'll do my part to make this happen.How will you look to expand on the themes and concepts you've introduced in Deadly Premonition?Deadly Premonition was created based on the concepts of Real Time, Real Life and Real Scale. As a result, with these three concepts as its corner stones, it became a dark and mysterious survival horror game that was serious yet sprinkled with comedic elements. If I am able to make another game with these elements all mashed up, I'd make their implementation easier to understand so that more people would be able to  experience them. I would also include as many useless elements (like shaving) as I could.When I say easier to understand I'm not talking about making a banal game without real contents. I'd just come up with something that would letmorepeople be able to have a unique experience like they'd get from Deadly Premonition. It would be a great pleasure to me if the people who play this game agree that this would be a wonderful idea.Deadly Premonition is available on the Xbox 360 now, priced at £24.99.
If all you want is something to wave at the screen, Nintendo's WiiMotion Plus or Sony's PlayStation Move do the job far more cheaply. But Kinect is supposed to change the way we interact with, and subsequently feel about, technology.Soon it could be integrated into your TV, satnav or mobile phone; but right now it's plugged into an Xbox 360 and accompanied by 13 launch games of decidedly mixed quality.Design-wise, Kinect (below) is a thing of beauty: a sleek black bar device containing two cameras, an infrared projector, four microphones and a noiseless, motorised stand.It's designed to sit directly under or above the TV, and you soon discover that perfect positioning and a largeish room are essential. A tutorial helpfully talks you through the setup; once you get the hang of things, it's an undoubted conversation-stopper. Your onscreen avatar copies subtle movements impressively, recognising and tracking gestures, faces and voices from anywhere in the device's frame of recognition.We've seen camera peripherals before, but none with this level of sophistication or spatial awareness. The six launch games I tried barely scratched the surface of what Kinect is capable of, but they did adequately highlight its obvious strengths and weaknesses.This is a device which excels at freedom while struggling with precision. Sportier titles like Ubisoft's My Shape may lack Wii Fit's variety and depth, but once you get used to exercising without the burden of a controller or plastic balance board, you'll never want to go back.Less successful are arcade games like Kinect Adventures, where the small but noticeable delay between physical movement and onscreen effect make gameplay feel sluggish or even pointless. And while it will be interesting to see how developers approach a genre like the shoot-em-up, judging by how Kinect Joyride mishandles car racing, I'm not holding my breath.Then again, the imaginative virtual pet simulation Kinectimals demonstrates how easily whole genres could arise. Once that happens, the combination of seamless video-conferencing and voice recognition, quirky gameplay and uniquely physical interactivity, will surely shake Nintendo's grip on the family console market. Kinect may be pricey and not yet essential, but it's here: undeniably impressive and filled with potential.Games we tried:Sports/Fitness:Kinect Sports (Rare), Your Shape (Ubisoft), Fighters Uncaged (Ubisoft)Music:Dance Central (Harmonix)Arcade:Joyride (Microsoft) Adventures (Microsoft – included with Kinect)Miscellaneous:Kinectimals (Frontier Developments)All games are £39.99
Google is celebrating the 115th anniversary of the X-ray with its latest doodle - and also nodding to its own past April Fools jokes, with the idea of "PigeonRank", where the ordering of pages would be determined by pigeon pecks.The X-ray is usually credited to Wilhelm Röntgen, who was the first to study its effects in 1895, though he wasn't the first to observe them: that occurred in 1875, when scientists investigating cathode rays - high-energy electron beams - noticed that unexposed photographic tubes put near the tubes in which the rays were generated became fogged.The tubes in which the rays were generated were known as Crookes tubes, which generated free electrons - then a topic of intense study - by applying a (DC) voltage of up to 100 kilovolts across a gap. The electrons in the elements of the air in the tube were accelerated as they travelled from the cathode to the anode; some were accelerated enough that the generated X-rays when they struck the glass of the tube.Röntgen- who had anextremely difficult academic life, came across X-rays on 8 November 1895 while experimenting with Crookes tubes, and began systematic studies of them. He dubbed them "X-rays" to indicate that the radiation being observed was unlike any recorded previously. His discovery won him the first Nobel Prize in Physics, which was awarded in 1901.It's not known exactly how he discovered X-rays, because he ordered all his papers, including his lab books, should be burned after his death. The best suggestion of how it came about it that he was investigating cathode rays with a fluorescent screen painted with barium platinocyanide and a Crookes tube wrapped in black cardboard so visible light from the tube wouldn't interfere. He noticed a faint green glow from the screen, about 1 metre away, and realised that some invisible rays coming from the tube were passing through the cardboard to make the screen glow. He found they could also pass through books and papers on his desk.Röntgen threw himself into investigating these unknown rays systematically. Two months after his initial discovery, he published his paper.X-rays have since become a part of daily life - especially for the luggage of people who are travelling, which is regularly subjected to X-rays. (However, travellers are not - the arches you walk through are metal detectors, which use electromagnetic fields.)Marissa Mayer, one of its senior executives,explained the doodle's significance on Twitterearlier on Monday - and pointed out that the small 'g', with its pigeon feathers and bones, is a nod to the "PigeonRank" April Fool's joke of 2002:"PigeonRank's success relies primarily on the superior trainability of the domestic pigeon (Columba livia) and its unique capacity to recognize objects regardless of spatial orientation. The common gray pigeon can easily distinguish among items displaying only the minutest differences, an ability that enables it to select relevant web sites from among thousands of similar pages. "
A computer system that promises to revolutionise the video games industry by allowing players to compete without hand controllers as well as without wires is launched this week.Microsoft's Kinect, which works with its Xbox 360 console, detects gestures and body movements via an infrared emitter and a camera that picks up the infrared light reflected from 48 points on a player's body, almost in real-time."It's an amazing technology," said David Braben, founder of British games studio, Frontier Developments. "If you were to describe this to someone just a couple of years ago, it would have sounded science fiction. There are things that it does that just feel magical."In 2006 Nintendo's Wii allowed control of a game without using wires to connect its handset. Microsoft's Kinect goes a step further, allowing gamers to interact with the onscreen action through their body movement rather than by holding a controller or pressing a button.The technology also lets gamers navigate the Xbox 360 menu and control the console by means of speech. The camera can even recognise different players.Braben, who co-wrote the Elite space trading game, believes the Kinect system has huge potential, and his company has created a pet game, Kinectimals, as one of its launch titles."The first thing that grabbed me was how we could create a window into another world; and when you move your head, the world moves too, it breaks down the barrier of the television screen," he said.Kinect is seen in the industry as Microsoft's most serious push to date for supremacy in the vast mainstream gaming market that the Wii has dominated. While shoot-'em-ups such as Halo and Gears of War, and the Xbox Live online gaming service, have made the Xbox 360 popular, Microsoft has struggled to appeal to the mainstream market dominated by the Wii with its simple party games and fun "WiiMote" control.According to analysts, the consumer appeal of Kinect will be in its software. Very few of the 19 launch titles move beyond the fitness, dancing and party concepts familiar from the Wii, and its continued success will depend on developers exploring and finding as-yet unconceived of possibilities in the hardware.Kinect's infrared traces 20 joint movements and 48 parts of the player's body almost in real time, creating a three-dimensional map accurate to 1cm in depth and 3mm in height and width – which means it "knows" where gamers are.If Kinect is a success, it may be a double victory for Microsoft, because it will mean the Xbox 360 will not need to be replaced until 2015, when Kinect has matured.At £129.99 Kinect costs almost as much as a Wii, but pre-orders and retail interest have apparently been so encouraging that Microsoft upped its sales expectations for this quarter to 5m units.Andrew Oliver, chief technology officer of Blitz Games Studios, said: "Kinect has the ability to put the player right into the action. Players will be 'seen' and 'heard' by the characters in their games, and interact with them without needing to have an understanding of existing rules and 'conventions' of play. It's all about broadening the market - and even broadening our definition of the word 'game'." Addressing the question of latency, or response time, Oliver said: "It obviously takes a fraction longer to process interpreted camera data than it does to process a button-press."That said, we're talking about incredibly small differences, probably one or two frames, perhaps a 30th of a second."For purchasers, meanwhile, there may be a more practical consideration. "The big issue I think, will be space," says Craig Owens of Edge magazine. "They recommend you have six to eight feet in front of the TV."Well, Microsoft would seem to have bigger living rooms than a lot of us."
Photo byfutureatlas.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBuilding the Simple Enterprise &gt;&gt; TechCrunchLinked, because it's wrong in so many ways. It begins: "In the enterprise, simplicity simply doesn't sell. Complexity, on the other hand, justifies costly software licenses and a swat team of consultants and systems integrators." It reads like someone who has never considered that the needs of an enterprise - the laws to be obeyed, disclosures to be considered, procedures to be followed - are orders of magnitude more complex than an individual's. Enterprise software often stinks, but it's not because it's unnecessarily complex. It's because it's trying to deal with complexity in a limited time and budget.Google points finger at Facebook hypocrisy, blocks Gmail import &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Facebook has long been a one-way valve. You put data in so you can connect with friends, and then you can't get it out and use it the way you would like to, even as the company is trying to corner the market on your identity."And Thursday night Google called out its rival on such data-portability hypocrisy: It banned the huge social network from allowing its users to connect their Gmail contacts to see who among them are also on Facebook to get the friending frenzy started."The closing of diplomatic relations often presages war.Generation Why? by Zadie Smith &gt;&gt; The New York Review of Books"I can say (like everyone else on Harvard's campus in the fall of 2003) that "I was there" at Facebook's inception, and remember Facemash and the fuss it caused.." And now she examines The Social Network. A fantastic piece. Bring a long drink.New browser RockMelt oozes into beta &gt;&gt; CNET News"RockMelt is indeed a "Facebook browser," if only because Facebook is the social-media service that's best integrated into it at launch. It's clear that ultimately the browser's team plans to make it more customizable with other services. The ultimate goal, you could say, is revamping the traditional browser many of the Web-browsing behaviors that have popped up in the past few years--social-media sharing, Twitter clients, RSS alerts, and speedier search--and works them into an interface that aims for convenience rather than confusion."Ohh, you mean likeFlock.The last Windows ever &gt;&gt; BankerVisionJames Gardner, who writes this, is the chief technology officer at the Department of Work and Pensions. The DWP has just done a deal to get Windows 7 (it's presently "struggling along" on XP), but "Personally, I think it likely this is  the last version of Windows anyone ever widely deploys, though."Why? Because "I think they'll be fewer workloads that actually require a heavy deskop stack. Today, of course, we have all this legacy that's coupled to the desktop, but in a decade, I really doubt that will be the case. Most stuff will arrive via the browser."Microsoft's Linux Patent Scare Trumps SCO - InternetNews:The Blog - Sean Michael KernerFrom March, but interesting: "Microsoft convinced Japanese hardware vendor I-O Data to sign up for Microsoft patent licensing to protect against Linux patent issues. Over the last three years Microsoft has been successful at getting multiple vendors including Amazon, Novell, Brother International Corp, Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd, Kyocera Mita Corp., LG Electronics, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and TomTom International BV to buy into their argument that they need protection from Linux patent infringement."Researcher outs Android exploit code &gt;&gt; The RegisterRelies on flaws in WebKit that have been fixed in Android 2.2, but only 36% of users have that. Its effects are limited to what the browser can read - thuogh that could include the phone's SD memory card.Investors back #TechCity – Concentration of startups "will attract" capital &gt;&gt; TechCrunch EuropeI'm not sure that the headline is completely supported by the quotes that appear, though: there's a lot of doubt that governments can really create the hubs.Xserve will no longer be available after January 31 &gt;&gt; AppleLots of people sang its praises, but Apple's servers never got the market traction: if you're savvy enough to set up a server, you're probably savvy enough to load it up with Linux instead. So that's the second time Apple has tried to get into the server market and given up.HTML5 Testing &gt;&gt; W3C Blog"..it seems that people are trying to draw conclusions from the tests or from the results, including whether one browser or another is better."An increase of 135 tests isn't meaningful. It's way far from making the results significant in fact. We'll need several dozens of thousands of tests to make those results indicative. Still, while working on the HTML5 specification, there is an advantage to figure out where we have interoperability issues already."Is this the W3C version of "yes but no but yeah but no but.."? (Thanks@DerekJohnsonfor the link.)Bank of America, Citigroup Said to Test IPhone for Mobile E-Mail &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"The banks are testing software for the iPhone that's designed to make it secure enough for company messages." The two banks employ 524,000 people, though not all will shift away from BlackBerrys. Even so, I'd expect that BoA and Citigroup will be getting some earnest calls from RIM's top people in the near future...Viral Spiral: most shared video ads of 2006-2010 &gt;&gt; Unruly MediaFrom the makers of the Viral Video chart: see who has been topping the video ads. (Flash required.)Dell to Ditch 25,000 BlackBerrys in Bid to Promote Own Service [and WP7] &gt;&gt; WSJ.comBig win for Windows Phone 7, which will run on the Dell Venue Pro that will do the replacing: "In a direct shot at BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd., Dell Inc. plans to move its 25,000 employees over to its own line of smartphones and then aggressively market a service to help other companies do the same."How one company games Google News &gt;&gt; CNET NewsEver heard of Red Label News? Probably not: "Upon clicking on any of the Red Label News stories, it became instantly clear that all of the stories were pure spam: ads from Google's AdSense and Amazon's affiliate program wrapped around barely cohesive sentences of SEO-friendly keywords along with a few links to other stories about the news." Does Blekko do news yet?First RS-232 to dock connector interface approved by Apple, controls telescope &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogWhen iOS devices are being used to control hardware like this... things are getting interesting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Dozens of UK computer game retailers will open at midnight on Tuesday to queues of avid fans awaiting the latest title in the hugely successful Call of Duty video game series.Major US retailer GameStop claims pre-orders for Call of Duty: Black Ops have broken all records. Its publisher, Activision, is expecting the title to perform even better than last year's predecessor, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, which sold over 20m copies worldwide, earning an estimated £1bn in revenue.The arrival of the game, set during the cold war, is accompanied by a multimillion-dollar marketing blitz, which peaked on Thursday with a Los Angeles launch party featuring rock band Metallica and a wealth of celebrities. A London event takes place tomorrow night at Battersea power station.In Black Ops, players take on the role of a special operative as he saves America from a huge communist plot – but it could be the game itself that proves a saviour for the global games business. The industry has had a challenging year so far, with software sales at high-street chains such as HMV and Game dropping significantly after a successful 2009. Several major publishers have reported heavy losses.
In the early 90s, before Google (founded 1998) and Facebook (2004), the Canadian novelist Douglas Coupland popularised a term that described the post-baby boom generation: Generation X. But kids today aren't slackers, they're geeks, and it's clear that new terminology is needed for a new generation.So it is that Zadie Smith,writing in the New York Review of Books, describes "2.0 people". These are the children of the internet who came of age with the social web and to whom concepts such as "privacy" are just plain alien. But credit where credit's due."You can't help feel a little swell of pride in this 2.0 generation," writes the novelist. "They've spent a decade being berated for not making the right sorts of paintings or novels or music or politics. Turns out the brightest 2.0 kids have been doing something else extraordinary. They've been making a world."Chief architect of this world could well be Mark Zuckerberg, the 26-year old founder of Facebook and hero, or anti-hero, of a new movie,The Social Network. It's this film, its qualities, but also its truthfulness to its subject, that Smith explores. The problem is that "this is a movie about 2.0 people made by 1.0 people (Aaron Sorkin and David Fincher, 49 and 48 respectively)".Smith is not the first person to make the point that theWest Wingscreenwriter and his director accomplice could really have been making a film aboutanything, it just happened that Facebook was their subject. This means they ascribe very 1.0 motives to Zuckerberg: friends and colleagues are left in his wake as he ruthlessly forges onwards, driven by the promise of wealth almost unimaginable, if not by his desire – yes, that old trope – finally to get his girl.It's none too convenient that in real life Zuckerberg has been dating, with one brief interval, the same woman since 2003, so the film-makers omit to mention as much. So what did drive Zuckerberg? As Smith wonders: "Is it possiblehe just loves programming?"Other commentators have been harsher yet: writing in theNew Republic, Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig has argued that Fincher and Sorkin have missed the significance of Zuckerberg's achievement entirely: "This is like a film about the atomic bomb which never even introduces the idea that an explosion produced through atomic fission is importantly different from an explosion produced by dynamite." For them, the open internet, the platform which allowed Facebook to flourish, is the real hero of this story.Where Smith differs from Lessig and others is that she's not a whole-hearted cheerleader for this technological revolution. "I must be in Mark Zuckerberg's generation," she writes, "there are only nine years between us – but somehow it doesn't feel that way." For all the many good things the web has brought us, why is there that nagging feeling that it just can't be right to live our whole lives on Facebook? Smith, who is 35, quit using the site two months after she joined it, concerned that it is "falsely jolly, fake-friendly, self-promoting, slickly disingenuous".To buttress her suspicions, theWhite Teethauthor, born in north-west London, now a professor of fiction at New York University, calls on Jaron Lanier, author of the recent bookYou Are Not a Gadget. In this, the celebrated techno hippy writes convincingly about the perils of software "lock-in": this is the process by which quickly, often poorly, conceived examples of design end up as the bedrock of far bigger programming systems – nay, of our lives as we now lead them.Facebook was designed by a college sophomore; for its 500 million users, it is now, in Smith's phrase, their "beloved interface with reality". Which is creepy.www.nybooks.com
When Microsoft announced Kinect at the E3 games conference in 2009, it was that arch storyteller of the modern era Steven Spielberg who took to the stage to help unveil it. The intent – to make gaming as accessible and inclusive as possible by removing controllers, as well as offering the chance to breach the fourth wall through direct interaction with characters – clearly appealed to an artist for whom bringing a sense of wonder to a shared experience has long been key. His presence was no coincidence; the concept goes beyond graphics or processing power, towards an entirely different way of playing. This was to be, as is Spielberg's metier, an adventure, a story with his own Hitchcockian cameo in the opening shot. The question was, just how far, and where, would Kinect go?The Kinect sensor (out Wednesday, Microsoft, £130, bundled withKinect Adventures) plugs into an Xbox 360 and consists of an RGB camera flanked by two others built into a slim unit that sits in front of, or above, the TV. The cameras build a 3D picture of the space in front of them, map this area and then define the user's body within it as separate points of articulation. This allows it to identify these points as commands, their movement – the body's movement – replacing that of fingers on joypads. It's illustrated superbly as you "tune" the sensor to the room, displaying the camera's-eye view.Which is an essential operation. This is high-end technology and has requirements to match. A clear space is most important – 6ft of entirely uncluttered distance between it and one player and 8ft for two are suggested. In reality it functions best with a little more – and plenty of space is required for the full-body physicality of the experience.The immediate interface offers a limited set of controls through voice recognition that work very well, even with considerable ambient noise, while selections on screen are made with the point-and-hover of the user's hand. It's a little awkward, especially at first, and may well not be the way the system evolves – the point-and-sweep of launch titleDance Central(rather like the way a cricket umpire expansively signals a four) for example, is more intuitive and much more satisfying for sci-fi fans looking for thatMinority Reportmoment. But the mike-camera combination works superbly for the video chat it also supports, tracking the movements of participants on camera in real time.In gaming terms it's this movement-tracking that Kinect is really all about and, to its credit, it genuinely works. There's a tiny but definable lag between action and on-screen reaction, which becomes slightly more pronounced the more the system has to process. The most successful of the launch titles have recognised this and allowed for it, acknowledging that when dealing in the physical, the broad gesture offers a more immersive experience than the nuance. So the football ofKinect Sportsthrows players into heading, diving and, because this is afull-bodysensor, kicking the ball. It is physical both in the literal sense and in that there is a genuine feeling of involvement in the game.Which isSports' strong point, and at this stage the central appeal of Kinect. With two players it's even more fun, and will immediately please families looking for simple, pick-up-and-play gaming. There's more of the same in the mini-games ofKinect Adventureswhich positively encourage you to leap around and flail your arms about. In fact, there's little return here if you don't join in with abandon: sniffy hardcore gamers should understand in advance that at this stage, to enjoy Kinect is to leave the attitude at the door.So while mimicking a steering wheel in kart-style racerJoy Rideseems ill-suited to the medium, throwing shapes inDance Centralis very successful; the full body movements almost turn it into a dancing tutor – a trick also pulled off with exercise inYourShape: Fitness Evolved.The pet-simKinectimals, a gentler affair of fun, mini-games and, well, petting, of virtual big-cat cubs, also stands out. Children will love stroking, playing and interacting with their impossibly cute, furry friends. It is also here that there is some sign of where the hardware may go in the future. As the animals lean towards the player offering a frisbee in their mouth, it is all but impossible not to reach out to take it. After all, as that fourth wall wobbles, you have been "throwing" it for them, right?That the conceit works is testament to the success of this attempt to do something new with the genre. Space, lag, bodies coming inadvertently into camera confusing the system – a difficulty at parties, one suspects – and certain types of games definitely needing more accurate, nuanced control are all issues with Kinect, but all should improve with development. It all makes for a great, upbeat opening, a winner for the family audience, but the real thrill is in the potential.  With game designers and developers now in the living room with this capability, the real adventure can now begin.
A couple of weeks ago, Apple announced some new products, including a fancy new lightweight laptop and the latest version of the OS&nbsp;X operating system. In the midst of all the techno-porn, however, Steve Jobs dropped a little bombshell: Apple is opening an online store to sell Mac apps, ie small programs akin tothose sold for the iPhone and iPad.So what? you say. And you may be right. But since Apple is now one of the biggest companies in the world (by market value), nothing that it announces will go unexamined. In the blogosphere, there has been much speculation about what the Mac app store portends.Opinions vary from the bored to the apocalyptic. Here'sone commentator, Lance Ulanoff: "'This changes everything' rolled through my head as I heard Jobs explain the new world of desktop applications. All the 'benefits' of apps on the iPad, iPhone and iPod touch would arrive on your Mac desktop. Things that those of us who use Apple's portable devices take for granted, like remembering where you were when you open the app again, one-click downloads, auto-installation and even auto-updates would all become natural parts of the desktop and laptop operating system."Some background information may be helpful here. An operating system is the basic program that turns your computer from an expensive paperweight into something that can do useful work. Apple's resurgence over the past decade is partly due to the fact that it developed a serious operating system called OS X. Initially, this powered only its computers, but when the iPhone was being developed it was endowed with a cut-down version of OS X, now known as iOS.This has many of the agreeable features of its big brother, but also some very annoying limitations which mean that there are some things that it cannot do, multitasking, for example, and you cannot install on iOS any programs other than those that Apple has pre-approved. So iOS is an operating system for a tightly controlled, locked-down device.An Apple Mac laptop, in contrast, runs under an uncrippled version of OS X, so not only can it multitask but you can install on it any software that takes your fancy. You can even write programs yourself for it. It doesn't matter whether Steve Jobs approves of them or not: if they are syntactically correct and conform to the technical requirements of the operating system, your Mac will run them for you with no questions asked. So it's a general-purpose, open machine that is free to do your bidding. (The same applies to the PC family of personal computers, by the way, which are also open, programmable machines.) This means that there's a lively ecosystem of software developers who write software for the Mac.As a Mac user, I've just done an inventory of my software usage and it turns out that none of the applications I run most frequently (apart from OS X) comes from Apple. I've bought most of my favourite programs directly from their authors. Some of these small developers are delighted by the new Apple initiative, which they think will provide them with wider exposure and a simpler distribution system. Others fear Apple's stringent approval procedures, but basically they too think it's a good idea.At the other end of the spectrum are those who see this as the latest step on the road to Jobsian total control. On such a view, the Apple line of reasoning is that the astonishing popularity of the iPhone and iPad suggests that consumers like having a crippled operating system because it makes their devices simpler and more predictable and they value the quality-control and easy downloading provided by the iTunes store.Most people who buy Apple laptops are more like iPhone users than they are like geeks (who like to tinker with their computers). So most will prefer to have a crippled operating system running their laptops too. And another bastion of freedom will have fallen to Mr Jobs. QED and fade to black.Which version is true? Probably both. Expect to see iOS running on low-end Apple laptops soon, with a "premium" version of OS X available only for the more powerful desktop machines. And if you accuse Mr Jobs of having his cake and eating it, then he&nbsp;will probably reply: what else is cake for?
What do you think the internet looks like? Like a convoluted pathway that lets others share your happiness? Like something equal parts comforting, silly and sombre – a bit like a giant blue bunny? This is one question, however daft it seems, that will be asked at the firstInternet Week Europe, a series of events taking place in London. The hope is to emulate a similar festival that has run in New York over the past three years and which is credited with helping the revival of the tech industry there.According to David-Michel Davies, the chairman of Internet Week New York, who is also helping run the London event: "We wanted to engage the entire European industry and London is a similar city to New York in that every internet company has an outpost there or travels through there."While the event is sponsored  by Yahoo and involves leading digital companies – its executive council includes the manager of Google's Creative Lab team and one of the founders of Lastminute.com – it is billed as an "open source festival". This means the schedule hasn't been decided by committee; rather, companies have been able to add and organise their own events.Drawing the internet is a different matter. The challenge to visualise it has beenlaid down by a creative agency, Saint,to others in their field. At a workshop event, the "professional" attempts will be pitched against pictures drawn by a group of children from an association of schools in east London.The idea is to gain an insight into how those who've never known anything other than the web see it, as well as to encourage students from underprivileged backgrounds to think that they, too, can contribute to Britain's creative industries.www.internetweekeurope.com
It's a quarter of a century since Nancy Fields, now 62, passed her driving test. But since then Nancy has never driven on a motorway, not once, not a single mile. She has never exhaled with relief as  she scuttled down a slip road, joined the three-lane carriageway and let her car settle at a decent, uninterrupted pace.  For most of us, joining the motorway is the moment a journey begins. At last you can take a chunk out of the mileage without the palaver of roundabouts and traffic lights. It's the poetry of perpetual motion. But not  for Nancy. "Oh, it's too fast," she says, eyeballs popping, "and you can't stop. And what if you miss your junction?"Ms Fields would be no fan of the new Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG. It's a&nbsp;huge estate, purpose-built for the open road. For the E63, there can never be too many miles. It devours that endless grey ribbon faster than a hyperactive child wolfs down a metre of Moams.It's easy to describe the flagship E63. It's a technically sophisticated, high-performance goliath. Its hand-built  V8 6.3-litre 525hp engine blasts you  to 62mph in 4.6 seconds. It has an outstanding paddle-shift seven-speed gearbox.  It boasts the highly regarded AMG Ride Control Sports Suspension that features three settings: Comfort (scary), Sport (more scary – nasty rollercoaster) and the needlessly intimidating Sport Plus (heart-in-your-mouth-scared-witless).It's a family estate car that can be fitted with a wheel-burning function which launches you at maximum acceleration and optimum traction.  It would be nice to say that the E63 is the fastest estate car in the world, but that honour goes to a 765hp, street-legal MG-Rover (yes, really) which recently clocked up 233mph. But it is the most powerful estate car ever made by Mercedes-Benz. In fact, the AMG is nothing short of OMG.What is hard to describe is why. Why does the E63 exist at all? Who needs a cheek-shudderingly fast estate car? The front end is a racing car, the rear a family wagon – the back seats even have Isofix car-seat fixings for toddlers. It has a load capacity of 1,950 litres and comes with a dog guard – imagine Bonzo's jowly face as you hit 60 in less than five seconds.Needless to say, the E63 is not cheap to run. It does only 22.4mpg and has CO2emissions of 299g/km – hardly  an A* for chivalry towards Mother Nature, but at least it's trying. These figures better those of the outgoing model by 12%. Mercedes knows its hyper-estate will be a rare sale –  they only expect to shift a couple of hundred a year, and those customers will all be rich, car-obsessed, dog-loving family men all deep in the throes of an acute midlife crisis.  Good luck to each of you.Finally, a message to Nancy. She's not alone in being motorway phobic. The AA estimates UK motorists drive 600m extra miles each year simply  to avoid motorways. The roads less travelled may be more picturesque,  but remember that, statistically, motorways are the UK's safest roads. And if you justenjoydriving, a survey this week by Mobil 1 has found that Britain's most pleasurable road is the A82 from Glasgow to Fort William.  Be sure to buckle up for the ride.The AA Charitable Trust offers a free two-hour Drive Confident course aimed at nervous drivers (theaa.com/drive-confident)Britain's best and worst roadsA week-long scientific study by Mobil 1 has revealed:The best road is the A82 Glasgow to Fort William.The worst road is the M1 at Sheffield.The noisiest and bumpiest road is the A74 Lanarkshire to Kirkton (noise levels reach those equivalent of a whistle being blown inside the car).The quietest road is the A57 Snake Pass (equivalent to a refrigerator humming).The smoothest road is  the A34 from Walsall to Cannock.The most stressful road is the M60 greater Manchester Ring Road.
WikiseedierAlongside Google and Facebook, Wikipedia has become one of the secret rulers of the internet universe – and damn handy for pub quizzes. Yet despite how much we trust it for information, it is because of its open source nature that it is also home to pranks, lies and false facts. Most of these acts of random info vandalism get immediately erased by the site's watchdogs, but here they are cherished for posterity. Most of the finest examples concern celebrities: fibs that a disease has been named after Ben Fogle, that Andi Peters died in a freak paintballing accident and that Sean Bean (real name Sean Pig) employs a Swedish ex-nanny to tweak his nipples. Elsewhere we learn that "halibut is the only fish that masturbates" and the second world war began when Hitler ate the last slice of cheesecake.Recycled Movie CostumesRecycled Movie Costumes. Photograph: AllstarWith limited budgets, most films and TV dramas rely on costume houses for their wardrobes. It means getting the right period look, but also that a dress worn by the leading lady in one film turns up in other productions. Here these recycled costumes – from medieval ruffles to Mad Men-era cocktail dresses – are spotted and noted. The same clothes were worn by Richard Burton in Cleopatra and Sid James in Carry On Cleo, while every depiction of Elizabeth I features an identical gown. Most recently Downton Abbey has been riffling through the wardrobes of Helen Bonham Carter and Keira Knightley.Blog roll: The X FactorOne Direction, home. Photograph: Ken McKay/RexReality BitesWagner Watch, the campaign for a Smiths Week, and all the contestants' Twitter feeds.Aiden GrimshawThe most "intense" man ever to come from Lancashire in all his "intense" glory. He's a bit "intense", you know.UnrealityTales from the tabloids, Tesco Mary news, and a forum for failed auditionees still waiting for their call back.The F FactorMatt Edmondson's official – but still funny – online-only weekly fan show.Peter DicksonThe frightening official site of The X Factor's voiceover shouty man.PaptureWhere the people's paparazzi post their cameraphone snaps of One Direction nipping out to the Spar shop.What we learned on the web this weekNokia 1100, the most popular phone in the world.The most popularmobile phone in the worldHow to spoil100 horror movies in five minutesHow to explainthe internet to a 19th-century street urchinThe biology ofzombiesHow much doesLisbeth Salander really know about hackingThe secret algorithmof the Facebook news feedProcrastination isfuelled by weakness in the face of impulse and a failure to think about thinkingAstronauts' fingernailsfall offThe 18 songsin The Social Network soundtrack that aren't on The Social Network soundtrack
@CherylKerl@CherylKerl: 'In real life I sell automatic doors to the construction ­industry.' Photograph: David Yeo for the GuardianJohn Duffy, 53, ReadingDay job: Sells automatic doorsFollowers (on 1 November): 40,588I started a year ago. I like the accent, and tweeting in Geordie amused me. In real life I sell automatic doors to the construction industry, but you can pretend to be anybody on the internet, and this proves it.At first, I'd gain 400 or 500 followers in every episode of The X Factor, thenGreg Jameson Radio 1 got one of his Geordie production staff to voice the tweets every day for a month. Each time, I'd pick up 4,000 followers. It felt incredible. I'd done it with no idea of a commercial project, it was just a doodle. Now I've had a book published as Cheryl Kerl.My first tweet was something like, "Why aye, I'm on twitter." For the first few months, it was exclusively about The X Factor, but after that I made her more of a social commentator. I'm keen not to be offensive to her: making light of the malaria and the divorce would be distasteful. She still talks about her own life, but she's just as likely to tweet about budget cuts and Keynesian economics.Top tweets• Seimon's pulled rank so wiv aall&nbsp;gorra take One Direction doon&nbsp;the pawk tuh gan on the swings an feed the ducks.• Wei's the govamint gerrin rid a&nbsp;quangeaus? Leik Ah really enjoy a&nbsp;bag just as a snack noo an then. Specialee cheeze flava.• Aww, hazzen Nick Clegg done well&nbsp;faw himself? Leik thor he is t'dee gannin on aboot the IFS just as&nbsp;if he&nbsp;knas aall aboot it.@chilean_miner@chilean_miner: ''We wanted to divorce it from reality because if we tweeted about the news, at some point the mine could collapse and suddenly we'd be in a nasty place.' Photograph: David Yeo for the GuardianStephen Morrison, 37, LondonDay job: Office receptionistAlex Jenkins, 34, LondonDay job: JournalistFollowers: 14,640SM:Alex and I met at work, and tried tweeting as a married couple calledJules and Les. We had about 45 followers, which we deemed to be massively successful. Then the crisis hit in Chile and I had the idea to tweet from the bottom of the mine. I went to lunch one Friday and we had 40 followers, and after lunch we'd gone to 200. That was when we started to get nervous about what we'd write.AJ:The comedy came from 33 work colleagues trapped in the same room for four months, having to make small talk. We wanted to divorce it from reality because if we tweeted about the news, at some point the mine could collapse and suddenly we'd be in a nasty place. When the miners were rescued, we brought it to a halt. We ended on one last tweet about having a well-earned bath and getting locked in the bathroom.Top tweets• "If I wasn't trapped down this mine&nbsp;I'd probably be at work, down&nbsp;this mine."• "Can someone PLEASE let us know&nbsp;what's going on with Brangelina?? There is literally no&nbsp;gossip down here."• "Ramon thinks digging a second bedroom will add value to the mine."@CatBinLady@CatBinLady: 'I had a suspicion I could get up to the 1,200 followers I had on my own Twitter account, but it did that in less than a day. In two days I had 20,000.' Photograph: David Yeo for the GuardianRich Neville, 42, BristolDay job: Ex-computer programmerFollowers: 32,497I left my job about a year ago, and wanted to try comedy writing. The&nbsp;trigger for starting it was when things turned mean in the media and the realcat bin ladystarted getting death threats. I thought it was time to lighten the mood.The account is not so much based on the woman herself but on the imaginary condition I've decided this character has that causes her to act on impulse. The first tweet was: "Just passed a shoe shop. Threw one of the sample shoes outside on top of a bus. Why do I do these things?" I also created a character called Brenda, who is a foil for cat bin lady's more mischievous side.I had a suspicion I could get up to the 1,200 followers I had on my own Twitter account, but it did that in less than a day. In two days I had 20,000. Within 12 hours the account had been reported on Time magazine's site and MSN. People likeChris Addison,Clare BaldingandClaudia Winklemansaid nice things.A few people think I am the original woman. The most recent "hate tweet" labouring under that illusion was:  @CatBinLady U r so mean to innocent cakts you JERKOFF.Top tweets• "In Tesco now. I've put some frozen sausages in with the cereals. They'll probably go off. I draw no pleasure from this."• "Lovely coffee at Brenda's, but as soon as she left the room I couldn't help tipping it down the back of her telly. Regretting it already."• "At my niece's birthday party. The&nbsp;cake's in the pond. It's not going down as well as I thought."@DrSamuelJohnson@DrSamuelJohnson: 'The whole idea has that mix of Radio 4 panel game and practical joke that appeals to a certain type of nerdy Englishman.' Photograph: David Yeo for the GuardianTom Morton, 37, LondonDay job: Ad agency strategistFollowers: 22,162I started in March 2009, just when Twitter was taking off. I've yet to meet a female fake tweeter. I think the whole idea has that mix of Radio&nbsp;4 panel game and practical joke that appeals to a certain type of nerdy Englishman. At the launch ofmy Dr Johnson book, it was like a cross between an AGM of trainspotters and the League Of Extraordinary Gentlemen. I'm proud to be followed by Michael McKean, who playedDavid St Hubbins in Spinal Tap: a fake lexicographer gets recognition from a fake guitarist. If you thought too hard about it, it&nbsp;would open up a black hole.Top tweets• FISH FINGERS: "Maize-encrusted Appendages of a fabricated Sea-Creature, then hawk'd by a&nbsp;fabricated Sea-Captain."• HARRY POTTER: "Wizard whose greatest Spells have made  Publick-Schools acceptable to the Masses &amp; Infant-Books acceptable unto Adults."• WAYNE ROONEY: "Bruising Lancastrian sports-oaf, whose face&nbsp;was carv'd by almighty God&nbsp;from a POTATO."@dianainheaven@dianainheaven: 'I follow Twitter news feeds, which often announce celebrity deaths before Sky and the BBC, so it looks as if Diana is getting the scoop.' Photograph: David Yeo for the GuardianAndy Dawson, 38, SunderlandDay job: TV critic, Sunday SportFollowers: 19,461I don't know why I started tweeting as Diana – I'm not a particular fan. I&nbsp;imagine her as quite streetwise and&nbsp;foulmouthed, which she might&nbsp;have been in real life, I don't know. When Lily Allen retweeted it, I put on about 3,000 followers in&nbsp;two days.Diana is in the VIP section of heaven. When someone famous dies, she writes about them arriving and what they're doing. She's got a&nbsp;massive crush on Jimi Hendrix, but he isn't interested.The Daily Express ran a "ban this sicko" story about it, but apart from&nbsp;that the only negative feedback I get is from teenage girls. They say things like, "You sick freak,&nbsp;show some respect for the dead." And I think, "You're&nbsp;at an&nbsp;age&nbsp;where you should be disrespecting everything."I follow Twitter news feeds, which&nbsp;often announce celebrity deaths before Sky and the BBC, so it&nbsp;looks as if Diana is getting the scoop. When Alexander McQueen killed himself, I wanted to leave it alone. When it's someone young, I&nbsp;won't get any comedy out of it, but&nbsp;when it's someone like Michael Foot or Cyril Smith, I can have a bit&nbsp;of fun.Top tweets• "Paul The Psychic Octopus is here. We're not sure whether he should go&nbsp;in VIP (Animals) or not. That's because he looks fucking delicious."• (On Father's day) "Best wishes on&nbsp;this special day to the fathers of my&nbsp;children. Er, father, I meant father. As in only one."• "Cyril Smith's been here five minutes and already, all of the crisps&nbsp;have gone. All of Heaven's crisps have gone."
Should various sci-fi dystopias likeThe Terminatorseries prove prophetic and machines really do inherit the Earth, then it's not hard to imagine them taking the form of thePorsche Cayenne Hybrid. Everything about this silent 4x4 monster bespeaks a terrifying superiority of which even its driver can never feel wholly a part.Such is its daunting power and impersonal slickness, and the intimidating substance of its hulking black body, like some giant robotic post-nuclear cockroach, that you feel a kind of species alienation. After a few miles of effortless travel, the thought occurs that this big bastard could survive perfectly well without you.That impression is only increased by the eerie hush of the electric engine that operates at speeds beneath 37mph. As you noiselessly stalk the streets, high up in the cushioned retreat of the cabin, the sense of being borne by some futuristic urban beast is hard to shake. But then nothing shakes. Everything is smooth. There are other subspecies that share similar traits of armoured capacity and semi-green power – the Lexus hybrid, for example – but the Porsche Cayenne appears to mark a new and worrying stage of evolution.Worrying because the electric engine's 37mph limit appears to be designed for the urban setting, to which the dimensions of the car, paradoxically, are least suited. Now what's that about? Some will say it's there to help bring down Porsche's corporate average fuel economy, so vital for the strictures of the US market. Some will say it's intended to salve the conscience of wealthy mothers who drive massive SUVs to protect their babies from the big cruel outside world but don't like being blamed for torching the planet.However, it's surely not paranoid to suggest that this particular hybrid (part car, part demonic android) is nothing less than a show of automotive strength, an awesome demonstration of the smart technology that is ready to be deployed against us should things kick off, machines-wise, anytime soon. I'm speaking, of course, of the eight-speed Tiptronic S automatic gearbox. Don't tell me there's anything passive about that.When all's said and done, the Cayenne S Hybrid is not really about fuel economy. For that, you could look towards almost any other car. You could say it's about comfort, yes, but is it the kind of comfort designed to lull humanity into a false sense of security? It's notable, in this respect, that cocooned in the sumptuous interior, my concern for humanity rapidly dwindled. And by the time I lit out on the motorway, I could scarcely remember any people at all.Suddenly the future, with all its numbing efficiency, came rushing towards me like the oncoming traffic.Porsche Cayenne S HybridPrice£57,610Top speed150mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.5 secondsAverage consumption32.5mpgCO2emissions193g/kmEco rating4/10Bound forPost-apocalyptic survivalIn a wordRemorseless
GoldenEye 007, released for the Nintendo 64 in 1997, marked a truly seminal moment in gaming. It was a turning-point in the war between the console and the PC, the first console-only first-person shooter to really make it big. It sold nearly 8m copies. Its single-player was tight and well put-together, but the real draw was its wondrously addictive four-way split-screen multiplayer.The PC hit back with Half-Life just a year later, and its hugely successful multiplayer mod, Counter-Strike, but the damage was already done. The LAN party – where formerly we got our multiplayer kicks, waiting for servers to load so we could play Starcraft, Quake or Red Alert from different rooms along trailing wires – had suffered a body-blow. Parties belonged to the console now, and GoldenEye was the perfect party game.People of a certain age still get together for a few nostalgic beers and a game – Temple, pistols, "licence to kill", no Oddjob allowed, or Facility with remote mines. Everyone of my generation thinks they're the nuts at GoldeneEye. It's one of the things that define us, so setting out to remake it for the Wii is a bit like setting out to remake Casablanca with sock puppets.But since those halcyon days of party gaming, things have changed a lot. Most console multiplayer now happens online. While some games on the Xbox 360 and the PS3 offer split-screen, four-way play is rare. It is with the Wii's innovative – if controversial – control system, and endless series of casual titles, that Nintendo has reclaimed the party crown.Where does GoldenEye fit into this ouvre? "Bringing multiplayer back to its roots" promises the packaging, and you can breathe a heavy sigh of relief because it delivers. The four-player split-screen is fast-paced and incredibly easy to pick up, and there are plenty of gameplay modes to choose from – including classics like big-head mode and slappers only – and some new ones like bouncy grenades. Even paintball mode makes a welcome return.You can take much less damage before dying in multiplayer, and regenerating health has replaced a set health bar, which removes the need for a lengthy war of attrition, and in both the multiplayer and the single player you are now limited in the arsenal you can carry, so you have to plan your weapon strategy carefully. Otherwise, the multiplayer is instantly, almost instinctively, familiar. It's nothing new or particularly innovative, but it feels like coming home. The major difference is that weapons do not spawn in the map; you choose your starting gun instead, but this is balanced by the fact that up to eight players can engage in fast-and-frantic online matches.The game stays quite true to the chunky GoldenEye visuals of old, though somewhat matured, darker, more sophisticated and with some of the kitsch smoothed-over. It looks extraordinarily good for a Wii game – the Wii is never going to approach the cinematic splendour of a Call of Duty, but the retro styling works just fine for me. The controls are like settling into a familiar arm-chair too, especially for me – as a purist – on the excellent Classic Controller Plus, though the game also works surprisingly well with a Wii-mote and nunchuk too.But it is the single-player campaign – scripted by one of the writers of the original movie – that really shines. The game pays more than just tribute to the original; parts of some levels will instantly send fans of the 1997 release into nostalgic orgasm, and the stories, both based on the movie, are parallel. This GoldenEye has been updated for the modern Bond: his laser-watch is now a smartphone with which you take photos of secret blueprints and hack into Wi-Fi ports; and you now play as Daniel Craig instead of Pierce Brosnan.The GoldenEye theme tune for the game may have been newly commissioned from the Pussycat Dolls' Nicole Scherzinger, but there is still an Alec Trevelyan, and though he is sadly no longer Sean Bean, he still says: "For England, James?"The AI is often a bit Wii-standard, meaning that guards will sometimes queue up to be mown down, but this is made up for by the myriad of different options available to tackle each scenario; stealth is often a much better option than going in all-guns blazing, while sometimes running from cover to cover and closing ground is much more rewarding than sniping from afar. Harder difficulty settings bring new, more challenging secondary objectives, so as in the original, you find yourself wanting to go back and replay each level. It's all very atmospheric, too; the soundtrack blends beautifully with the action, from when a guard notices your presence to the moment you callously dispatch him, the soundtrack follows your actions.An occasional annoyance are the cut-scenes and scripted sections blended into the action; impressively cinematic as set-pieces, they are sometimes a bit unnecessary, taking control away when you could easily have retained it, and on a couple of occasions they resort to poorly-signposted quick-time sequences. Also, if less of the game was on rails it might have been easier to include a co-op mode, which would have been fun. The one-player campaign could have done with being a bit longer, too.When the hype settles, the new GoldenEye will probably not be as epoch-defining as the original. However, its pick-up-and-party multiplayer, and audacious and satisfying single-player mean that Goldeneye 007 on the Wii may wear the name with pride.• Game reviewed on a Wii
"I'm a bit embarrassed by my behaviour here to be honest." With that wretched confession, literary perfectionist Lazybones sent me the fourth iteration of his 'Best Of' for the week of October 22-26. It was not to be his last attempt.It's all done now though, and alongside news from Fallout and PES, fans of poetry are about to be treated to something very special.Monday, October 22Monday's child is fair of face. Monday's chat, however, can often lack in comparison to that of its siblings: the sullen, socially awkward, teenage child of chat. This Monday was different, however. Doubtless there was the beer-boasting, the weekend braggadocio, and the low level grumbling. But there was also a new game being played: Fallout New Vegas.Posts about FNV, as it soon became known, proved something of a minefield. Chat was full of spoilers that many tried to avoid, yet desperately wanted to read. Bugs were mentioned, but these were embraced by many as part of the Fallout charm. Like an old friend, with many faults, whom you couldn't help but admire."Rads", "Death claws", "Vaults" and "VATS" ... So many living the post-apocalyptic dream. Simian said he had drunk from a toilet. We can only hope he wasn't talking about his new job.Other news came in the announcement of the Chatterbox Pro Evolution Soccer 2011 league teams. PES Duce, Goody84, had allocated the squads, basing his process on ability, team preference, internet speed and Bertillonage. Most seemed pleased. We can only hope, for their sakes, that they get their fixtures played.Hardcore FPS players rejoiced to the news of "nerfed quickscoping" in Call of Duty: Black Ops. A sentence of particular resonance for the eagle-eyed, the cobra-quick ... the clown-minded man-child.Pauses in chat were filled by people discussing James Bond: a perennial topic on which everyone had an opinion. One or two of these were even worth sharing. But possibly not repeating.TuesdayTuesday dawned: and Riadsala heralded the coming winter. "The mornings are starting to fall to the advance of darkness. I am not happy". Seasonal Affective Disorder? Perhaps. Miffed at people's moaning about the game of Neptune's Pride he set up? Probably.Goody84 revealed the first fixtures for the Chatterbox PES 2011 league: Stoke vs. Real Madrid - the glory tie. Lazybones shadow-boxed with enthusiasm: "When I closed my eyes to sleep last night I saw men running about on a verdant pitch. I was thinking of squares and triangles. It has permeated my consciousness."FNV chat kept coming: "Hardcore" mode was discussed; the secret weapon locations revealed. The lack of Dogmeat ... bemoaned. WillumCobbers described unhappily some of the characters he had met: "I didn't like their hairstyles and neither of them complimented me on my moustache."As the Killzone 3 beta did the rounds, SerenVikity channelled the spirit of the Krankies with her own highlight: "There is a bit where you can plunge a sharp object through someone's eye. Fandabadosy".WednesdayFallout New Vegas day.Deathclaws, eggs, butter and milk underneath a post apocalyptic sun.No Gordon, no Delia, our Masterchef Simian, cook and hunter as one.A Ferris sees nothing other than sand.The blog doesn't wait to take the boy to hand."Just you I think" says an English Red.Before the blog turned to the better bred:Lassies from Killie, musically inclined,Cunning in the wings, mister wined and dined.Her mother, sister and granny too,The last said his wanger was the size of a shoe.To finish the day let us all give big shouts,To Sage and his missus and their Thai brussel sprouts.Sage regally wafts duvet to celebrate one year married - Big cheers from the blog back in Blighty.ThursdayStill with us? Good. That shows real commitment. You should be proud of yourselves. Let's talk about Thursday – a mixed bag really.A typically contentious start to the day came with the result of "Miss Chatterbox 2010" being leaked, months ahead of the official announcement. Grumblings of a fix lingered.Gaming talk was the leveller, with the blog's soup du jour (soup of the day, in French) being Fallout New Vegas. Neptune's Pride brought out the worst: the dark side of human behaviour, and for a time it looked like it was all about to go down; turn nasty. To salvage this awkward situation? Questions, of course ..."What names do people give their created characters in games?" Check."What time does everyone go to bed on a school night?" Check."What did you think of those big strapping lads at the weekend, all greased up and rolling about?" Check."What is the single best song ever made?"For once there was consensus on the blog, "Boom! Shake the Room"! by DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince. BigWorv proved a lone voice of discontent:"The lack of body oil and ponytails immediately puts it in a far lower league of song."FridayYes?Halloween? Nearly.Elquesodiablo was particularly excited: "It's the day Rock Band 3 is released. I have decorations for my flat, I'm a pair of green pants and a mask away from having my Green Lantern costume sorted."That's the dream.As usual NaN Thursday had been a success, and SerenVikity's foul-mouthed tirades led to talk of being "sweary" over the headsets. Sheep2 hit straight to the point: "Swearing in games. An alternative to competence."The FNV love carried on apace, with many tales of wasteland exploits.RustyJames continued in his quest to become the most erratic online strategist; accidentally provoking two conflicts in the even-more-glacial-than-normal Chatterbox game of Neptune's Pride. Sabres were rattled, threats were made. Fast back-tracking restored only an uneasy peace.Horror films, suits, Limni's "girl's shoes", boasting about stats, attempts to get quoted in the "Best of", LARPing confessions, tetchiness, self recrimination and "Favourite Blogger To Game With" - these all came up, plus more. And, as chat descended into bouts of mutual appreciation, October slipped discretely out of the Chatterbox back door.Quotes of the week"I'm some form of maniac fantasist."St00 lays it all out there. Uncomfortable."Having a mere passing interest in Warhammer makes you a massive geek whereas you'd need to be a serious anorak about football for that to be considered geeky".BigWorv gives the blog the benefit of his geek wisdom."Who on earth actually likes this? Weirdos and people who like other people to be sick in their mouths, that's who".CrispyCrumb loses control of his world.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – Feelin' by The Las...Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's daily compilers were: RustyJames, Limni, mollocate / painstructure, HereComesTreble, Crispycrumb."If the enemy is in range, so are you."
