For many students, going to university means studying as far from their birthplace as their grant cheque will allow. But thanks to developments in online learning materials, going to college in the near future might mean something a lot closer to home.The next academic year promises to be a watershed in the development of e-learning. Driven by initiatives spearheaded by David Blunkett's Department of Education, many universities are now preparing online teaching and learning materials to launch in September. These will both supplement traditional courses but also allow some students the option of studying from the comfort of their home.University is no longer the preserve of the lucky few. Almost half of all school leavers will soon go to university. But with student numbers growing and government funding falling (between 1989 and 1997, higher education per student was cut by 36% per student), many academic institutions are turning to the internet as a cheap and useful medium to help bridge the funding gap.But as with everything on the internet, the moneymen are not far behind. Analysts predict that the e-university industry will be worth $2bn in two years. This is leading to a number of higher education institutions to forge alliances with the private sector. For example, the London School of Economics, together with   Chicago, Columbia and Stanford universities, is now offering degree modules online via, UNext, a private internet-based company. And with other academic institutions grappling with their own funding crises other companies are realising that there is money to be made in wiring Britain's universities.Up until now e-learning has been mostly a US phenomenon. But just before Christmas a UK start-up, founded by three former Oxford University students, launched its first ever e-lecture. Why the World Wars were Won is a 40 minute lecture by Oxford professor Niall Ferguson. The e-lecture comprises of an audio-video stream of Ferguson's head, interspersed occasional archive film footage and accompanied by a rolling transcript with additional footnotes and links. The lecture has been archived and can be watched anytime.Professor Niall Ferguson, professor of Political and Financial History at the University of Oxford is head ofBoxmind'seditorial board and is a   director of the company. Boxmind's chief executive officer is Richard Halkett, who gained a double first in history from Merton College, Oxford. Halkett, along with two college mates, Richard Comish and David Auckland, hatched the idea for Boxmind while the trio were studying for finals - a mere three years ago.With Ferguson's help Boxmind has recruited a team of internationally renowned dons to its editorial board. They include Richard Dawkins, Peter Atkins, John Kay and Dr David Womersley. Boxmind is based in Oxford, but has no formal links with the university.Over the summer Boxmind hired 30 people,   mostly students, to help build an online library - a kind of academic Yahoo! The students filtered 150,000 academic websites down to 17,000 and referenced them across 27 core subject areas.Boxmind has no intention of becoming an online university. It is more of an e-publisher that buys up the rights to specific lectures and is now trying to license them out to the universities."There maybe some start-ups out there who will decide to set up a net university," admits Halkett. "But when people want a degree they want one from Warwick, LSE, Oxford, Cambridge or Stamford. People still want those affiliations." So academic content providers like Boxmind are attempting to step in to provide online resources for the UK's cash-strapped universities.But although most academics agree that online resources are becoming an essential component of most undergraduate degrees, not all see the e-lecture as the only way forward."I don't think that the lecture is a method that should persist," argues Diana Laurillard, pro-vice chancellor of learning technologies and teaching at the Open University. "It is wonderful for occasional moments when you have an inspirational speaker. But it is not suitable for the way in which you deliver the bulk of the learning. You have to have something that is much more interactive."What the OU does have is something called Lyceum -   a kind of virtual classroom where groups of two or three students complete exercises. Lyceum uses audio software that means that the students can literally talk to each other. They share a number of visual aids and a lecturer moves between various "rooms" monitoring progress and setting fresh exercises.Britain's oldest distance learning institution began experimenting with webcasting as long ago as 1995 and recently announced a &#163;12m investment over three years aimed at "extending and enhancing" the OU's position as an e-university. The OU learning community now has 200,000 students online and numbers are growing rapidly.The OU say that it will never be a totally online but by 2004 all courses will have some online component. Already 85% of OU students have access to computers. Laurillard admits that there will always be "some small group that will not have net access." But the OU is pursuing a regional programme that is putting students in touch with "the plethora of community centres, libraries and schools that give net access."But it is not just specialist universities that are going online. Traditional universities are beginning to offer online courses too. The University of Greenwich will offer its first online post-graduate courses in September. An MSc in e-commerce has been developed jointly by the university's schools of business and of computing,   maths and statistics. Other online resources will be integrated to many of its undergraduate courses as well.John Dunne, a lecturer in French history, agrees that online resources give a university like Greenwich the chance to compete with the best universities in the country - not least through knowledge of the internet. "With lecturers developing their web awareness we can have access to materials that otherwise we couldn't afford," he admits.But, interestingly enough, Dunne argues that online resources have other benefits too. The use of the internet helps "narrow the gap between traditional undergraduate learning and research because more and more students can visit the internet and get access to the kind of sources that they used to get from books. Now books - the secondary sources - are no longer their staple."No one is quite suggesting that the internet will lead to a more egalitarian university system in the UK. Not yet, perhaps never. If companies like Boxmind and UNext manage to secure some of the   most prominent academics in the country, how long will the universities - who pay their wages - allow their dons to moonlight? What would be the point of going to Oxford, it could be argued, if you can study the same curriculum taught by the same lecturer at a local university like Greenwich, Paisley or Huddersfield?Indeed, this very problem is currently being thrashed out in the US courts. Arthur Miller, a Harvard law professor, has been freelancing with Concorde - the US's first ever online law school. Harvard says that Miller has no right to advertise himself on Concorde as a Harvard professor. So Miller is taking it to court over the right to use his title.But battles over copyright aside, should we be so keen to embrace the flexibility of online learning? Many in the e-learning fraternity are quick to point out how the internet will benefit many special groups like the disabled and single or working parents. In the US, over half of online students are over 30; most already have a degree and work full time. This, say the online universities, is the key to success - allowing people to study whenever and wherever they want.But some say that it could also let universities off the hook. Many disabled groups want better wheelchair access, not internet access, and single parents seeking the social aspect of university would probably opt for a campus creche over a series of e-lectures, no matter how   well referenced and easy to use they are.Still, it is also worth remembering that only in the UK do the majority of students relocate vast distances to study. Ultimately, if students have the same access to the same resources then perhaps online learning could lead to the development of a fairer university system that would put a local university on the   same footing as the academic big hitters. After all this is already the case in France and Germany, and in the US once the Ivy League (which only caters for a small elite) is taken out of the equation.At risk is the social aspect of education - the importance of the common room and the close bonds that students develop while isolated on campus far from   home. But unless our academic institutions suddenly find a way out of the current funding crisis, the internet is going to play a very, very large part in our future university - e-versity system.
The ill-fortunes of e-commerce companies over the last nine months will have escaped the attention of very few, as they increasingly faced the onslaught of dwindling cash reserves, weak turnover, and a crisis of investor confidence during the period.Since then, a tragically weakened advertising sector has added to the dotcom misery. In a viciously circular motion, it has cut off the main source of revenue for most e-commerce ventures, while failing to generate the level of publicity needed to ensure significant traffic and sales, which in turn has meant less cash available to spend on advertising.Industry watchers now question the wisdom of such dependency on advertising and the vast amounts of money frittered away at its altar in the early days of the e-commerce revolution. Yahoo.com, AskJeeves.com and online ad agencies such as Doubleclick and 24/7 Media all recently issued profit warnings attributed to sluggish advertising revenues.But while many were dragged in the wake, a few forward-looking firms sought alternative ways of getting heard above the white noise of millions of other websites. And, what has until now been a very well kept secret, is emerging as an option to expensive, yet ineffective, online advertising. It is called affiliate marketing.Affiliate marketing generally involves agreements between retailers of complementary goods and services or with media sites, to feature links to one another's web pages. The thinking is that the schemes not only provide a ready-made revenue stream to websites that have no e-commerce capability, but also extend the reach of those that have. This can be done simply by attaching the merchant's logo to the affiliate's homepage, or context-specific section of the website, or 'buttons' and text hyperlinks that click through to product details on the merchant site.Depending on the terms, commission (generally between 5% and 15%) is paid to the affiliate website for every referred visit or 'click through' to the merchant site,   or just for those that convert into a sale.Against a backdrop of scatter-gun banner advertising campaigns with little guarantee of sales from click throughs (generally costing between &#163;35 and &#163;40 per 1,000 page impressions) and even less cash to spend on marketing, many converts see these as relatively favourable terms.Such is the faith of analysts in the concept, as an alternative to advertising revenue and a means of lowering of customer acquisition costs, that Forrester Research predicts it will be responsible for up to 21% of all sales over the internet by 2003, up from 13% a year ago.Not surprisingly, the phenomenon is well established in the US, and Amazon.com claims the world's oldest and largest affiliate network. It boasts of having over half a million members, built up since 1996.This will no doubt have stood the online giant in good stead for its record Christmas season as the most visited site this period. According to internet ratings company NetValue, Amazon.co.uk (with over 10,000 affiliates)   sold more than three million items, with at least 15% of all UK internet users visiting the site during December. Affiliate members all did their bit, including santasmail.co.uk, Santa Clause's very own virtual mailbox and toy store, TV chef Jamie Oliver's website and the Northampton Symphony Orchestra .Buy.com, a giant US online computer retailer also doing substantial business in the UK, swears by the effectiveness of its own affiliate programme, to the extent that it does not use banner advertising."As a means of customer acquisition, it is our most effective tool," says Gordon Henderson, Buy.com's vice president of marketing in the UK. "We've found that each first purchase is &#163;100 or so, and the cost of that first-time customer is &#163;5. For their next purchase they come straight to us, and cost us nothing."Buy.com boasts of around 2,000 affiliates in the UK, including Yahoo!, MSN, AOL UK and egg.com, and is considering recruiting partner sites direct from the US for maximum reach. TradeDoubler, a Swedish agency, manages Buy.com's UK pro gramme - along with that of waterstones.co.uk and the beleaguered letsbuyit.com - and is one of an increasing number of firms set up for this purpose. Buy.com also has schemes run by rivals ukaffiliates.com and the US company, Commission Junction. Other competitors include MagicButton.net, the first UK-based agency, whose customers include Virginbiz.net and BT (whose own programme launched on January 3).TradeDoubler,  one of the biggest operators in the UK since arriving last February, also creates its own "virtual sales team" of affiliates. It stands currently at around 42,000 and spans 50 merchant programmes, using a proprietary, web-based system to track sales across affiliate sites."We can see if people just register their email address or buy a product, what the order number is and from which affiliate it was bought from," explains Will Cooper, TradeDoubler's UK marketing manager. For this service   Buy.com pays 5% commission for each sale generated, plus a further 1.5% to the affiliate site, on a 'no sale, no fee' basis.Alternatively, UK shopping portalmytaxi.comuses "about 15 affiliate marketing agencies" to increase the number of merchants and customer traffic on its site, with 350 affiliates so far, according to head of marketing Joanne Shurvell."Most of the affiliated merchants on mytaxi.com are there because we approached them directly or they've approached us. However, we have found affiliate marketing agencies very useful in that they allow us, with just a few key strokes, to quickly add shops to our portal," she says.But despite using such a relatively high number of agencies, certain limitations restrict affiliate marketing as a substitute for banner advertising, to being more of a complement. "Their usefulness is limited in that as we have no direct contact with these affiliates, we aren't able to easily build relationships with them. A large part of our marketing effort involves working on various promotions with our affiliates, so it's   more difficult to do this with the merchants we've obtained through affiliate agencies."For retailers with the time and inclination to run their affiliate network in-house, there are tools. For example, US firm Be Free offers a plug in system that registers partners, tracks transactions and reports the results back to the merchant and its partners. It also claims to offer a private network of affiliates unique to each merchant.Lastminute.com, BOL and Ask Jeeves are all subscribers. For Lastminute, which will launch its pan-European affiliate programme later in the year, the attraction is the potential for placing content onto affiliate sites, in addition to banners and buttons, which would be ideal for, say, special offers on the last night of a theatre performance."We could supply content feeds on to other sites," says Pete Flint, head of distribution at lastminute.com. "This would be dynamic content, which we could give to other websites for free. The theatre site, for example, would then be able to connect to particular categories on our website and the link would be contextual."The gulf in revenues created by ineffectual ad campaigns will have to be filled somehow. And while the decision to charge for content and services on the internet remains a moot point, the affiliate network may just prove a worthy contender.Affiliate Marketing agencies:www.TradeDoubler.comwww.MagicButton.Netwww.befree.comwww.commissionjunction.comwww.affilinet.comwww.affilinet.com
With internet start-ups dropping off like rotten apples, amid mutterings about the end of the digital dream, much of the euphoria over Britain's internet revolution appears to have evaporated. Or has it? Not if Christmas internet figures are anything to go by. In November 2000 more than 5m British shoppers made a secure connection to an e-commerce site, an increase of 1.8m over the previous year.The research, carried out by NetValue, found that the most notable rise was among British women. The number of females making secure connections at retail sites increased almost fourfold on 1999.Six of the top 10 most visited secure websites were financial, an indication that internet users are becoming less worried about carrying out financial transactions online. In fact, research from Nilesen//NetRatings indicates that the UK is one of the most developed e-banking markets in Europe.As the old-economy companies adapt to the internet, so the net is becoming more acceptable to the general populace.According to research company the Henley Centre, Britain's online numbers have grown from 30% of the adult population (46.5m) in 1999 to 39% in 2000. Even more dramatically, the number of users going online at home has more than doubled in just a year from 12% to 28% of the total adult UK population.In this category, the proportion of women users is growing rapidly, a finding that chimes with data gleaned from the Christmas period. The Henley Centre found that women account for 44% of home users, a 4% increase from 1999."Women now have more confidence," said Andrew Curry, associate director for new media at the Henley Centre. "Before it was a case   of 'my husband will kill me if I use his computer.'"Curry says women also tend to go online more purposively, with a definite task in mind, unlike men, who have a tendency to spend hours surfing haphazardly.In that sense men's and women's online behaviour is very similar to their TV watching patterns. With more women coming online, the Henley Centre reckons that Britain is probably about 18 months away from the landmark reached by the US in the middle of last year, when the number of women online overtook the number of men. The current ratio of men to women online in the UK is 55 to 45.Another feature of online use from home is that the social composition is becoming more like the population as a whole, albeit slowly. In particular, the proportion of less well-off people going online has risen sharply. The at home group of 13.1m people is also getting older with people aged 35 to 64 have made ground while the proportion aged 15-34 has declined. The Henley Centre argues that this augurs well for e-commerce, as the older users have more money to spend than their younger counterparts.But the biggest category for online purposes is what the Henley Centre calls the nearly group. These are people who have the strong potential to get online and are reasonably confident with other technological gadgets, in particular personal computers and game consoles. But people in this group - 14.8m - are not yet users.This large group notwithstanding, the trend is clear, argues Curry: internet use, a minority activity only two years ago, is becoming increasingly mainstream and with each year, the picture of the UK online population starts to look more and more like the population at large.Total number of adults in each segment: June 2000Total UK adult population46.5 million@home13.1 millionne@rly14.8 millionm@ybe4.6 millionnot@ll8.8 millionSource: Planning for Consumer Change 11/2000
If there is one thing keeping internet executives from throwing themselves off the window ledge at the moment it is the beckoning of a new Golden Age. They are praying they will be among the survivors of the current bloodletting and able to take advantage of the reduced competition that will ensue to do what they always wanted to do but could not: charge for the services they offer.There is a growing feeling among producers - not yet shared, it has to be said, by consumers - that the web's digital free lunch has got to end. Businesses are not the   International Red Cross. They exist to make a profit. Never in history have commercial companies been set up to provide free services for the general public.The only exceptions have been products such as television programmes or free newspapers where advertising revenues have amply compensated for the lack of point-of-sale income. The lesson of the last year is that the banner advertising model for internet companies has failed to produce a formula for survival. There are alternatives - like being required to watch a streaming video   advertisement (like those on commercial TV) before you access sites, but they are a year or two away and may meet consumer resistance, at least for the pioneers. Meanwhile, web companies must get income or pack it all in.It is worth pondering how long this unusual culture can continue. We not only expect our email and web access to be free but we are quite prepared to ring up the host company and complain bitterly when it isn't being delivered reliably - even threatening to take our custom elsewhere. The cheek of it!Yet how much would you be prepared to pay for email if it were not free? At 5p a throw it would be a bargain against a first class letter at 27p and the latter cannot be delivered anywhere in the world instantaneously complete with colour, or even moving, pictures.What would you be prepared to pay for a search engine such as Google, a web browser like Netscape or Explorer or the facility to build your own website with 100MB of free web space (as FortuneCity offers)?You would never expect oil companies to sell their    product for nothing, what is so different about web companies? The answer is: a lot. First, and most important, the marginal cost of production of a web product is zero. You may spend millions building a product like a search engine or email facility but thereafter you can   "produce" millions more at no extra cost (the consumer pays the very modest delivery charge when they download).If Microsoft started charging for email, there would be a mass migration to Yahoo!. And if all the main email providers decided simultaneously to charge, then a free alternative would soon emerge from the mutuality of the web. Remember, Mosaic, the browser that changed the world when it mutated into Netscape started life as a free-to-all product developed in academia. Likewise Napster.To escape from the - truly wonderful - mutuality of the   web, companies must do one of three things. First provide such irresistible value added that people are prepared to pay for it.The trouble is that value added - as Yahoo and MSN know to their cost, is also replicable: Yahoo! soon becomes Metoo. The newly fashionable variant of this, I am informed, is a big move by telcos, cable companies and carriers into "aggregated content packages". Consumers will be offered content as part of a package bundled into their telecom or cable charges so they do not realise what they are actually paying for.Second, companies will try to exploit a monopoly or quasi-monopoly situation in order to charge. Microsoft's 95% armlock on operating systems enables it to charge for its spreadsheets and word processing packages while AOL's walled garden of services enables it to charge its members. Why is it that email is free but text messages (ludicrously, when you consider how little system capacity they use up) cost 10p a throw? It's because the telcos control the portals.Third, companies will try to fill in the missing link of web commerce - the absence   of a micro-payments system for charging for small activities. If this had happened at the beginning of the web explosion then punters may have been prepared to pay, say, 1p or 5p for accessing premium pages (BT's pioneering Prestel service succeeded on a modest scale) and we would not have become immunised against paying for web activity.If this had happened it would have inverted the paradigm of web commerce and could have led to an unprecedented empowerment of individuals. Instead of the telcos creaming off all the money from web traffic (which   would not exist without web sites to go to) part of the revenue would have gone to the people who created the web sites - maybe you.The next few years will see a breakthrough in web payment schemes. Which one will win - paying by email, prepayment cards, secure credit cards or on your utility bills - I do not know. I suspect that it will lead to a new breed of quasi-mutual companies which combine making enough small profits to keep going without attracting interest from institutional or stock market investors. Will Yahoo! be the first?
102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the RescueDreamcast	&#163;39.99  Eidos 	**Back in the days of the Commodore 64 and the ZX Spectrum, games based on film licences were usually best left in their cassette boxes. This all changed in 1997 with the release of Goldeneye on N64; a game that moulded its Bond influences into a truly splendid adventure.However, since then we have been bombarded with   celluloid-inspired gaming - from Toy Story to Blair Witch - which have failed to match their onscreen counterparts. Thankfully, 102 Dalmatians bucks this trend, but only because it is as mediocre as the movie on which it is based.Your task is to guide the canine hero around some distinctly bland 3D settings while collecting goodies and barking at the bad guys (including Cruella).There is a lot to see and do, and the age-old trick of highlighting initially unreachable locations is used to good effect.Of course, experienced Mario veterans will have little trouble progressing, although the camera makes things   harder than necessary with patience needed to line up some tricky jumps.Bearing in mind the under-ten target audience, this is an obvious design flaw, although one that is partly rectified by the regular clues and tips given throughout.Considering the source material, the game is graphically uninspiring, with basic scenery that barely stretches the Playstation, let alone the Dreamcast. Every so often the platform proceedings are pleasingly interrupted by a minigame, with the pinball one a particular favourite but, for the most part, 102 Dalmatians follows the film-to-game plot perfectly by being strictly average.  (GH)Mechwarrior 4: VengeancePC	&#163;29.99 FASA/Microsoft	****Mechwarrior 4 is just short of being a masterpiece. But not only will it appeal to people who have been playing BattleTech games for the past decade - some even started with the board game - it should bring in a new audience who might normally be satisfied with first-person shooters such as Quake III and Half-Life.The great thing about Mech4 is that is a simulation, and in many respects, just as   realistic as a good driving game or combat flight sim. However, in this case you get to pilot an agile, two-legged, 30-foot robot, somewhat like a giant chicken with almost indestructible armour and a wide range of weapons. Many smaller enemies can be disposed of by the simple but satisfying technique of stomping on them.The problem is that you have to control your mech while moving, aiming and firing, which is like driving a tank and aiming the gun at the same time. It is not a good idea to stand still, as your enemies may include pilots with even bigger and nastier mechs than yours. Oh, you are also leading a squadron of mechs, which is something else to think about.What helps make Mech 4 accessible is the carefully   graded series of missions you must perform. It is restricting compared with the old days when you could roam the universe picking fights, but it works. The action is also backed by a heroic backstory, which Frank Herbert could have used as a sequel to Dune. (Your family has been murdered. You, Ian Dresari, must liberate your home planet, Kentares IV.) However, the video presentation could have been done better.Old warriors may bitch about the mechlab, where you customise your chosen mech for the battle ahead. It is easy to do with drag-and-drop weapons packs, but the phrase "dumbed down" may well spring to mind. There are other minor problems, too, such as an aiming system that prevents you from seeing where you are going.However, when you exhaust the linear series of missions you can take on the world in multiplayer mode. This offers a range of games, including attrition, capture the flag, and steal the beacon.The Mechwarrior series is unusual in that games have been produced by Activision and Microprose before finally ending up at Microsoft. All the different versions have had some species of merit, and in this case, it's a slick simulation with terrific graphics and good sound.If the FASA programmers take Mech 4 just a bit further by adding an expert mode to the mechlab and providing an extra galaxy of free-range scenarios, then Mech 5 could be an immortal classic.  (JS)American McGee's AlicePC CD-rom	&#163;29.99 Electronic Arts	****What's this? Lewis Carroll's whimsical children's tale transformed into a black, twisted, gore-spattered nightmare? What would little Alice Liddell say? "Cool," probably.In Electronic Art's latest release, the Queen of Hearts has plunged Wonderland into   chaos, and as the A-line-skirted heroine, it is up to you to put things straight. A psychedelic take on the 3D first-person shooter, Alice pits you against all manner of unlikely foes, and throws in a few traps and puzzles to boot.Making full use of the Quake 3 engine, Alice looks a treat. Lighting and weapon effects are distractingly beautiful, and the sinister soundtrack is every bit as good. You could quite easily play the opening levels just looking and listening in awe.Fortunately, there's plenty to do as well. A surprisingly high number of elements from the original story have   been worked into the plot, usually in ingenious ways: in the course of the game you will fight (rather too many) card guards, take hints from the Cheshire cat, and struggle to decipher the ramblings of the Mad Hatter. The tools you get to do the job are also fun: take your pick from lethal jacks, death-dealing dice and jack-in-the-box bombs.As ever, there is a price to pay for quality - and that price will probably be around &#163;100 for a top-of-the-range graphics card. The game's demanding specifications require at least a 400MHz processor, too.A more legitimate gripe is   the difficulty level; odd, given its use of the Quake 3 engine, that Alice features enemies significantly less intelligent than Quake 3 bots. And it might have been nice if gameplay had been weighted slightly more in favour of story ahead of mindless combat.Frankly, though, with its luscious visuals, relentlessly atmospheric music and intelligent level design, you will be well into the action before you notice any of these drawbacks.This is one game that deserves to have a little label attached saying, "Buy me." (AB)
IBM is combining a paper notebook with a notebook PC in its TransNote computer, which will be launched next month. Scribble a diagram, or a complicated mathematical equation, and make a few freehand notes: anything written on the 40-sheet A4 notepad with the TransNote's special pen is automatically transferred to the computer's flat panel display, and stored on the PCs hard drive for later use. You get, says IBM, the best of both worlds.The TransNote does have a keyboard but it is aimed at people who prefer to make handwritten notes, including lawyers, bankers, and many journalists. It could also appeal to people whose notes are not easily typed, such as science and engineering students. The user's jottings, stored by IBM's Ink Manager software, can also be converted to standard JPEG (.jpg) files and sent by email.Another advantage is that notebooks stored on the PC remain readily available long after the paper versions have been used up and either filed or thrown away.But the TransNote falls down in not offering any type of handwriting recognition, even as a feature that could be loaded later, for "post processing" jottings overnight. Nor does it do handwriting recognition in the background like Microsoft's Tablet PC prototype design, so written notes cannot be searched. However, users can enter keywords for documents to make them easier to find.Jim Alfaro, the IBM ThinkPad consultant who demonstrated the TransNote, speculated that adding handwriting recognition might have delayed the product. However, IBM could have produced something like the TransNote ages ago, because   it uses basically the same technology as Cross's CrossPad, which was launched in the US in September 1998. The CrossPad also uses a pen and a digitising tablet to translate written notes to a PC screen.Alfaro concedes that "we developed the CrossPad some years ago and decided not to sell it: Cross sells it. What's new is the form factor."In the TransNote design, the ThinkPad notebook computer is permanently attached to its rubberised plastic portfolio case, so there are both left-handed and right-handed versions. Also, the TransNote's 10.4in screen can be swivelled either towards or away from the operator. This makes it easy to use for educational purposes or sales demonstrations.Alfaro says that when Microsoft launches a version of Windows with its own "digital ink", that would make the TransNote even more attractive. "If there are some functions built in to the operating system, it may enhance this product. It can only help it, not hurt it."At least the TransNote is powerful enough to run Windows 2000. The built-in ThinkPad has a 600MHz Intel SpeedStep Pentium III processor, 64 megabytes of memory, a 10 gigabyte hard drive, and a Mini PCI card with Ethernet and a 56K modem. It weighs about 2.5kg (5.5lb) including pen and paper.Any type of paper notepad can be used, though IBM will sell pads marked with writing area guidelines to match the digitiser built into the portfolio case. A special pen must be used, but as well as a tiny radio transmitter, it also includes an ink cartridge. Refills are available from Cross.com.Alfaro's American "guide price" for the TransNote is $3,000, so lawyers will be able to afford them, but what about students? "That's the one-off price," says Alfaro. If a   university wants to sign a volume purchasing deal to buy them for (say) all its graduate students, attractive discounts could be negotiated.Visitwww.pc.ibm.com/us/thinkpad/
Mice, windows and pull-down menus have certainly made computers easier to use. By looking around the screen, it is usually possible to discover what you need to do, without having to learn obscure commands and key combinations. However, this is a very slow and inefficient way of doing things that you need to do often, and over-use of computer mice can also lead to physical pains in the forearm. It can help to learn the keystroke commands for these regular actions. This is easy to do, and soon you won't even have to think about them.For example, I regularly grab texts from news wires, copy them into Microsoft Word, and save them. The sequence is: Ctrl-A (selects everything), Ctrl-C (copies what has been selected), Alt-Tab (switches to Word), Ctrl-N (creates a new blank document), Ctrl-V (inserts copy) and Ctrl-S (for save). Once you've done it a few times, it takes only a few seconds.I'm not starting a war against mice. One really useful thing about this string of key combinations is it can   be performed with the left hand, so I can keep my right hand on the mouse.All these keystrokes are worth learning, whichever applications you use. If you are browsing the web, for example, there is no quicker or easier way to open a new browser window than Ctrl-N. The mousy alternative is to move the cursor to the File menu, select New, then move across to Window. Even doing it with keystrokes is fussy (Alt-F, right arrow, Enter). However, if you do that, you will notice that Microsoft has included the Ctrl-N tip on the pull-down menu.There are four key combinations you should master first, and fortunately they are easy to remember. Use Ctrl-C to copy things (C stands for copy) and Ctrl-X to cut them (the X is like a pair of scissors). Use Ctrl-V to insert what you've copied (the V is an insert sign, upside down), and Ctrl-S to save it (S stands for save).The same keystrokes may work on other systems, too, though on the Apple Macintosh, you have to press the Command key instead of the Control key. Other useful keyboard shortcuts are provided on the Mac's drop-down menus. The Mac does not have as many shortcuts as Windows, but they are much more consistent across applications: this means they are easier to learn and even more useful.Another interface convention is to underline a letter to   indicate a keyboard shortcut. For example, in Windows, the File menu always has the F underlined. This means that pressing Alt-F will select the file menu, then pressing O on its own will select Open (the O is underlined). A few of these shortcuts are worth knowing, especially if you use Notepad a lot: Alt-F S Alt-F X saves a file and exits, for example. The drawback is that Format has the o underlined because the F has already been used for the File command. It is probably not worth trying to learn that, unless you use it several times a day.Learning underlines can also be dangerous, because the same keystroke shortcut may do different things in different applications.Some of the PCs dozen function keys, labelled F1 to F12, are also useful. In Windows Explorer, for example, highlighting a filename and pressing F2 lets you rename it, while pressing F3 brings up a search box. If you high light a folder in the left-hand pane, pressing F5 makes Windows re-read the directory and update the list of files.Files can also be copied using Ctrl-C and Ctrl-V, just like bits of text.And on both the PC and the Mac, pressing the first letter of the file you want will take you to the first file that begins with that letter. If there are a lot of files in a directory, this is usually quicker than scrolling to it.People who suffer from disabilities or strain injuries may want to use keystrokes even for things that most people are happy to do with a mouse. And, indeed, a surprising amount can be done. In Windows, for example, the Alt-spacebar combination provides access to control menus, so you can minimise a program (make it disappear from the desktop) by pressing Alt-spacebar then N. Not many people know that.Pressing Alt-spacebar then M (for Move) lets you move a window to a new position on the screen. Move the window using the cursor keys and press Enter to accept the new position. Pressing Alt-spacebar then S lets you use the cursor keys to make a window bigger or smaller. Microsoft's aim for certified Windows 2000 programs is that users should be able to perform "every" action from the keyboard, without using a mouse at all.
Out of the MystThe Learning Company (TLC), which incorporates Broderbund, Mindscape, SSI (Strategic Simulations Inc), and Red Orb, was taken over   by Gores Technology Group last year, and is now being relaunched as Game Studios.The new organisation will continue to develop and publish games, including Myst III: Exile, which is scheduled for April.The first two titles, Myst and Riven, were developed by Rand and Robyn Millar at Cyan, but the saga is being continued by Presto Studios in San Diego. There's a movie trailer-style preview atwww.myst3.com. This is not the same as RealMyst, the real-time 3D online version of the Rand brothers' game atwww.realmyst.com.Boy, oh boyThe long-awaited Game Boy Advance, Nintendo's next-generation handheld, finally gets its launch in Japan on March 21. Pictures and a list of forthcoming games have been posted (in English) on the Game Boy site atwww.gameboy.com/gbadvance.htmlLoads freeFreeloader.comhas announced the games that will be available for free download next month. Top of the list is Grand Theft Auto 2, due on February 25. The    others are Creatures, PureFootball Online Manager and Tennis Antics.What Sid didSid Meier's Civilization III, being programmed by Firaxis, is nowhere near finished. Nonetheless, the build-up has just started with the opening of a website (www.firaxis.com/civ3). The next version will, it says, use features developed for SMAC (Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri), and will offer more than one type of multi-user play.
Lighting, not lightness, is the key to the success of Microsoft's Xbox games console, which will be launched in the US and Japan later this year. Demonstrating a prototype Xbox in London last week, J Allard, general manager of Xbox development in Seattle, said true, movie-style lighting is what had been missing from video games. Add lighting and realistic shadows and you get 3D games that look more like Toy Story 2, and generate more emotion."One of our objectives is to shift from a programming model to an art-driven model" for games, Allard said. Game designers should be able to implement what they imagined, instead of working around hardware limitations.The power of the new machine was evident from Malice, a bug-crushing game developed by Jez San's Argonaut Software in London. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates used the game to demonstrate the prototype Xbox at the Consumer Electronics Show   in Las Vegas earlier this month. Malice looks better than anything on the Sony PlayStation 2, or today's typical PC game, but it is still only a demo.The Xbox hardware is now complete except for the new Nvidia NV2A graphics chips which will be plugged in at the last minute. However, the Nvidia processor will only run at 250MHz instead of the promised 300MHz, compared with the PS2's 150MHz equivalent. Allard claimed the Xbox would still deliver a threefold improvement over the PS2 because the main processor speed had been increased from 600MHz to 733MHz. "We've rebalanced the system," he added.The prototype also showed that the Xbox would not ship with standard USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports, as fitted to most of today's personal computers. Allard said this was to prevent consumers from plugging things in and finding that they do not do anything, which happened with the PS2. The different socket will ensure that only Xbox peripherals can be used.Also, according to Allard, "We've put more voltage in the wire" to provide more force feedback (vibration) in the controller.Another change from   the specification announced last year is that the standard Xbox will not play movies on DVD, although it will play DVD scenes from game discs. To play DVD movies, consumers will have to buy an accessory remote controller for $20-$30. Allard claimed consumers prefered to use a video controller for movies, rather than a game controller, and that it meant hard-core gamers would not have to pay for DVD playback facilities they did not want.Further, there are no plans to launch a keyboard and mouse. Allard stressed that the Xbox had been "designed by gamers for gamers" and was not intended to be a general purpose device."The general purpose computer is the PC," he said. "We decided we did not want to be the minivan of computer games, we wanted to be the Ferrari."Allard also confirmed that the Xbox will provide "region coding" for games. This will enable publishers to code games so that they can only be played on one or two of the three versions of the Xbox built for North America, Europe and Japan. Gamers do not like regionalisation, and Microsoft intends to discourage it, but "we put the power in the publishers' hands to make these decisions".Xbox consoles will be built by Flextronics, which is based in Singapore, in factories in Mexico, Hungary, and one location in Asia.Although Microsoft did not make any announcements about the Xbox's size and weight, the device is bigger   and heavier than might have been expected: it is larger than many of the PCs with which it shares parts. "That's due to the power supply and the bad-ass graphics chip we've got in there," Allard explained.Both the size and weight are missing from the comparison specifications of the Xbox, PS2 and Sony Gamecube posted on the official site atwww.xbox.com/xbox/flash/specs.asp.One detail that remains undecided is the price. Traditionally, games consoles are sold at close to cost price, with the difference being covered by royalties on the sales of very profitable games. However, it is hard to envisage a system with a 733MHz Intel Pentium 3, Nvidia graphics processor, 64MB of memory, an 8GB hard drive and 100Mbit/sec   Ethernet networking going for less than &#163;299.By the time the Xbox arrives in the UK - perhaps March next year - the Sony PS2 may well be cheaper than that and have a better selection of games. But Microsoft could still find it needs to deliver on its promises to make an impact. Allard is bullish. "Underpromise and over-deliver is our philosophy," he said.
What was your introduction to computers?Probably a Research Machines 380Z at school. You'd sit in a darkened room and wonder what the hell you were meant to do on it. People used to end up printing out pictures of Snoopy!How long have you been using the net?I was lucky because I was doing a post-grad at Oxford in 1990, and they were on SuperJanet when nobody else was really on. I remember a friend showing me Mosaic (www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/SDG/Software/Mosaic/Docs/help-about.html)  which allowed you to connect to some academic sites. Generally we thought it was interesting but none of us had the good sense to start up a company!So how did you get into games design?I was always an obsessive games player. There was a great thrust game on the net called X-Pilot, which we used to play in the early 90s. Because there wasn't so much traffic then you could play it worldwide and there was a real online community around those early games. I initially went to Rare to be a systems administrator and then got to know the guys who were working on GoldenEye. I had aspirations in that more creative direction and I was asked to go and work with them on it.How does the UK gaming industry compare to the rest of the world?I think we do the best stuff! The one thing we don't have is the amazing confidence of the big Japanese companies to say "we're going to make a game and it is going to cost almost a film-style budget". I don't think that is likely to come in the near future here. But we have been fortunate in being allowed to make Timesplitters very quirky. Per capita, Britain is a real hotbed for good games ideas.Will broadband be the kiss of life for online gaming in the UK?It has been incredibly slow to happen. The academic internet in the UK has been around for some time, yet there has been this amazing commercial barrier against trying to make it publicly available. It is laughable. You can have a dial-up account; maybe you can have ADSL, if it is available in your area; or you can have a dedicated line, for which they will charge you &#163;30k a year! There's no connection where you can pay for what you get. We haven't got the internet connectivity we deserve, rather the internet connectivity that was inevitable, given this country's luddite view of telecommunications.Any favourite places on the web?There's a really good, sarcastic games site calledOld Man Murray. I also likeGooglebecause it is a search engine that doesn't try to sell you things. I've never, ever, clicked through on a banner advert! In the UK, most people are on a 56K modem and then you spend all your time downloading banner ads. Then you go to a website that looks good but you have to download 5MB of Shockwave first!Visitwww.frd.co.uk
It is Thursday night, and San Francisco is being battered by high winds, lashing rain and pounding seas, but inside a Chinese restaurant on the fringes of the city's Chinatown a group of 200 Apple veterans are having a whale of a time.It's the annual Netters' dinner, which started out 16 years ago as an intimate gathering of the handful of MacWorld attendees who had managed to connect their Macs to the internet.These days, the Netters take over the whole restaurant. And while Apple's slogan is "Think Different", they appear to be proving that geeks are still geeks, whether they have been weaned on the Mac's graphical interface or the PC's command line. In the queue for the buffet of fiery hot food there is talk of just how cool Apple's wireless networking is, at the bar there's unbridled lust for Apple's new top-end machines, and around the tables there's technically intimate my-Mac's-better-than-yours bragging between mouthfuls of kung po chicken.The undoubted winner of the king system bragathon, as determined by a rowdy show of hands later on, is a plump Californian who boasts a quarter of a terabyte of hard disk space, 1.5 gigabytes of memory on his desktop machine but, to jeers, "only a gigabyte on my laptop"."What do you keep on all that?" asks the master of ceremonies. "Porn," jokes one diner, to laughter. "Word 6," shouts another, referring to the notoriously bloated Microsoft product, and the attendees are rolling about, clutching their sides. It is the quip of the night.Spirits are high - this has been a good Macworld for Apple and its devotees. Two   days earlier, Apple chief executive Steve Jobs had appeared before a cheering 5,000 strong crowd, who had stampeded into the hall with a fevered expectation normally reserved for rock stars.Jobs had started his 90-minute keynote with a concession - that the last few months of the previous year had been "extremely challenging" for Apple, and the rest of the industry. But he said he wanted to start 2001 "with a bang", and went on to deliver machines designed to appeal to this hardcore audience. They include a top-end G4 desktop machine with built-in SuperDrive which allows users to create CDs and DVDs for playback on household machines - a first in the PC industry.And he used the now famous "and another thing" segment at the end of his presentation, as an apparent afterthought, to introduce the sleek new G4 PowerBook, called Titanium after the metal its casing is made from.The machine is only an inch thick, sports a 15.1 inch wide screen and faster processors, giving performance which Apple says beats Pentium III laptops. There were whoops from the floor of the vast Moscone convention center as Jobs whipped a sheet off the new machine. One attendee at the Netters dinner claimed he had ordered his machine using his existing laptop and a wireless connection to the AppleStore website within minutes of it being unveiled.Mac OSXBut, despite the excitement, the hardware was not necessarily the most important announcement Apple had to make. The Mac has long   needed a new operating system to match some of the features Windows users take for granted, including better protection against crashes and multitasking, and Jobs finally gave the date when the new Mac OS X will arrive in its final form - March 24.The new system, said Jobs, would be worth the wait: Apple had expected to sell 10,000 of its beta version of OS X - it sold 100,000, with 75,000 people giving feedback, "some of it quite long", joked Jobs. OS X won praise for its stability and feedback on the classic environment, which will run non-OS X programs, was also good. "I think a lot of you were really surprised to find it actually works," said Jobs.The greatest criticisms admitted by Apple centred on missing features in the beta which will appear in the final version and, more important to these style-conscious Mac users, the aesthetics of OS X and its new Aqua interface. Jobs unveiled several subtle changes to make the switch to the new OS more palatable for Apple old-timers, including the return of the Apple menu to the top left-hand corner of the screen.Jobs also unveiled a number of new features in the final version which did not make the beta - including improvements to the dock, a new navigation device at the bottom of the screen which will combine many of the elements of today's control strip,   launcher, Apple menu and finder and a new in-built screen saver.Memory requirements for the finished OS X remain high - Apple recommends that you have at least 128MB of RAM to run it - although it is only the classic environment that pushes the requirement that high: if you were to use only OS X-native applications that requirement would fall, says Apple.Exactly how many native applications there will be for OS X by this summer remains to be seen. The day after Jobs' keynote, Microsoft - the biggest Mac software developer - handed a major boost to the system by saying that it would release a new version of Mac Office for OS X in the autumn, only a year after its last major revision.But other major developers have been more reluctant to announce new versions, despite Jobs claiming repeatedly in his keynote that the bulk of new OS X applications would arrive in the summer.Most significantly, at the show stalls of Adobe and Quark - makers of market-leading programs Photoshop and XPress - representatives would not reveal their companies' plans for updating their applications for OS X.Lifestyle changeIn the keynote, Jobs also revealed his vision of a "digital lifestyle" where increasingly sophisticated gadgets around the home are linked together - with a Mac at the centre. The digital lifestyle, he said, would include the internet and emerging movement towards digital media, including MP3 music, DVD video and programming "broadcast" over the net. But,   instead of PCs disappearing inside glorified internet-enabled TV sets, as predicted by some, Jobs said the desktop computer's power, flexibility and superior interface would still be needed.He said Apple's strategy was "laying the foundation for the next decade, possibly the next decade and a half of Apple products."Continuing this theme, Jobs unveiled the first two software products of this new era from Apple - iTunes and iDVD. iTunes, free to download from Apple's website, is an all-in-one digital music program sporting Apple's new Aqua interface, bringing together functions such as MP3 playback, cataloguing, internet radio and CD writing, which are normally only run in separate applications. While Apple's aentry into the digital music arena is late, iTunes looked impressive, offering the most important features of its paid-for rivals except the MP3 cross-mixing features included in some.The only complaint from the conference masses was that no current Macs can produce CDs without additional hardware and, with no new iMacs or iBooks announced at this MacExpo, consumers will still have to splash out for a CD "burner" to make full use of the software.Inevitably, there is now speculation that new iMacs and iBooks boasting CD-RW drives will appear - either at Macworld Tokyo next month (Japan buys more iMacs than any other country) or at Macworld in New York this June, where new consumer products have aften been announced.Similarly, iDVD looked a strong product, but out of reach of the users it seemed made for. It looked like a consumer product, with drag-and-drop simplicity, easily applied "themes" for DVD menus and Jobs' suggestion that you could put together some home movies and "post them over to Grandma". But iDVD will only come bundled with the top end G4 PowerMac - a professional machine costing &#163;2,499 plus VAT, and with standalone DVD writing machines costing thousands it is difficult to see Apple creating a huge new market with the software.On the floorAway from the keynote and Apple, there were the two huge and bustling Expo halls filled with hardware and software vendors showing off their wares. With OS X around the corner, however, there was not a great deal of new software to get excited about - upgrades were largely incremental, with most vendors likely to announce their major upgrades at Macworld in New York in June.With big players saying little, smaller exhibitors had a   chance to shine. And they did not come much smaller than the International Hypercard Users' Group. IHUG is devoted to the pioneering multimedia program distributed with pre-internet era Macs for years."We raised the $5,000 for the stand through contributions from our group on the internet" says R Charles Flickinger, a leading light of the group dressed in an IHUG T-shirt with a floral baseball cap atop his shoulder-length grey hair. "We just want Apple to carbonise Hypercard and bring this great program into a new era."But, I ask him, hasn't Hypercard - which has its own English-like programming language HyperTalk - been left behind by the arrival of the web and languages like Java? It is clearly a question he has been fielding all day. The full version is still on sale at the AppleStore, he points out, and play-only versions are built into the system still.And he's only too happy to reel off a list of applications. "NorthWest airlines is using a custom stack &#91;Hypercard program&#93; to manage its airline maintainence. Nabisco is using stacks to help run the world's biggest bakery," he says. "They've got Macs on the factory floor - how many places does that happen?""Apple needs to know that Hypercard has a big user base - people who would not be using Apple computers if it wasn't for Hypercard."He leans conspiratorially towards me and adds: "I've got a great source at Apple who tells me it would take one engineer just six months to carbonise this - yet it's not a priority. Why not?"Flickinger's comments sum up the air of devotion to Mac at this biannual Apple lovefest - and a distrust for all that is not Mac. In a PC-dominated world, this is a rare opportunity for Macolites to feel part of the majority and, there's a strong antipathy towards Microsoft, despite its position as number one developer for the Mac and its huge conference stall.That ill-feeling can catch you unawares, sometimes. Back at the Netters dinner, deep into their show of hands voting, compere Adam Engst - author of the bestselling Internet Starter Kit for Macintosh books - polls who uses which email program. Qualcom's Eudora gets a forest of hands, but I do not quite catch the note of sarcasm in Engst's voice when he calls out "Outlook", and I stick my hand up without thinking, owning up to using the Microsoft program.The jeers, some good-natured, ring out as the five of us who owned up quickly lower our hands, shamefaced. Thinking different, at least for these Mac veterans, goes far beyond your choice of hardware - it is a way of life.What Apple announced...Titanium PowerBook G4A lighter, thinner and more powerful remake of the PowerBook, Apple's laptop for the professional market. Key features include faster processors and a 15.2-inch wide screen TFT active-matrix display. The 400MHz version has 128MB RAM, 10GB hard drive, slot-loading CD/DVD-ROM drive, ATI Range Mobility 128 graphics card, 8MB of video memory, VGA and S-Video ports, 10/100Base-T Ethernet and FireWire and USB ports. It is available to order now from &#163;1,899 plus VAT. The 500MHz version has 256MB RAM and a 20GB hard drive.Power Mac G4Apple has "speed-bumped" its desktop G4 range after 18 months stuck at a maxi mum processor speed of 500MHz. G4s can now come with processors at 466MHz, 533MHz, 667MHz and 733MHz, with improved internal architecture twice as fast as before. All the G4s now boast CD-RW drives and the top-end machine comes with a combination CD-RW/DVD-R SuperDrive, which allows users to read and create CDs and DVDs, which can then be played back in consumer DVD players. Memory starts at 128MB, expandable to 1.5GB. There are new graphics cards options, including the Nvidia GeForce2 MX. Hard drives are available to 60GB. Prices start at &#163;1,199 plus VAT, and go to &#163;2,499 plus VAT for the top-end machine.Max OS XThe much delayed next- generation operating system will finally be released in its final version on March 24. The system is a complete rewrite of the Mac OS, based on a version of Unix, although it will run your old applications in its 'classic' environment.iTunesThe first of two big surprises in Jobs' keynote: software that brings Apple's customary ease of use to MP3 management. iTunes plays, creates and manages MP3 music files, allowing you to organise your digital music collection, search through it and watch dramatic visual representations of the tracks. It will also help you tune into internet radio.    With the top-end G4 Power Mac, iTunes will make 'burning' CD-ROMs a case of drag and drop. iTunes is available as a free download fromwww.apple.comiDVDThe second of the big surprises is iDVD - an application which makes creating DVD disks for playback on ordinary DVD machines very easy. Indeed, its drag and drop 'themes' for DVDs and general straightforward interface makes it look like a consumer product.It's just a shame that the only Mac it comes free on, or is guaranteed to work with, is the most expensive desktop Apple produces - the 766 MHz G4, with the all-important SuperDrive to burn those DVDs.
At around 5pm on Saturday, just as the UK football results begin to roll in, winners ribbons will finally be tied to the cup of another drawn out, arguably dirty, certainly boring competition - the quest for the US presidency.George W Bush will stand on the West Portico of the Capitol, at 12 noon Washington DC time, place his hand on the bible, and promise he will "faithfully execute the office of the president of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the constitution of the United States". The full text of the Oath of Office can be read atwww.presidential-inaugural.com, just one of the many websites set up to support and distribute information about the 54th inauguration ceremony and the swearing-in of America's 43rd president.The official site is atwww.inauguration-2001.org. Dubbya, getting into the spirit of addressing the nation, gives us a potted history lesson, before bringing his subjects bang up-to-date with the information that the inauguration is "the first one to take place in the 21st century and in this millennium".The theme for the inauguration is "Celebrating America's Spirit Together", and unlike exercising their right to vote against a right-wing reactionary with a penchant    for the death penalty, "all Americans are invited to share in this historic celebration". A brief history of inaugurations is on the White House site atwww.whitehouse.gov/WH/Family/html/inauguration_history.html.Bush really is a man of the people: VIP seating at the 20 minute swearing-in is a mere $2,000 per person. After all that official stuff, the new president will be driven through DC to the White House. A map of the route is atwww.afic.army.mil/Media/ParadeRoute.htm, part of the army's extensive FAQ pages about the inauguration.Official inauguration events are taking place all over the country. Check outwww.inauguralevents.comto see which of the 50 or so inaugural balls you will be missing over the weekend - perhaps the Black Tie and Boots Bash at $1,750 a ticket, or the "Smackdown Your Vote!" Wrestling Gala, at $350.If you cannot make it to DC for inauguration day, you can still take away an historic memento from the online souvenir site atwww.inauguralgiftshop.com. How about an inauguration ice bucket ($34.95), a packet of inauguration playing cards ($7.95) or an inauguration teddy ($12.95), proudly sporting the tacky golden inauguration 2001 crest? Then, of course, there's the personalised inauguration licence plate. The site states firmly: "Any inappropriate or offensive request   will be refused." Whether BUSH CHEATED would be accepted, it does not make clear.The day may not be all smiles and kissing babies for the new president. One thousand extra police officers have been drafted in to deal with the many anti-Bush activities taking place on the day. Indeed, the day has been awarded the coveted title of J20, taking its place alongside other anti-capitalist days of reckoning - N30, J18, S26.www.j20.orgtakes you to the Justice Action Movement which is helping to co-ordinate action against the ceremony and parade, and is providing non-violence training and legal support for the thousands of protesters expected. As long as people stay in groups of less that 25, the site claims, they cannot be arrested for peaceful protest.The Socialist International Action Centre atwww.iacenter.orgis linking up with the Revolutionary Anti- Authoritarian Block, to hold a Stop The Death Machine march on the morning of inauguration day, and has an informative, but possibly biased, Thirteen Reasons to Protest at Bush's Inauguration atwww.iacenter.org/j20_eleven.htm.A little less confrontational is the Voter March rally for rights and reform atwww.votermarch.org. The only protest with police permission, a mix of disenfranchised voters and electoral    reformists will parade to the Supreme Court, which became the focus for the legal jousting between the Republican and Democrat camps. Michael Moore, the US equivalent of investigative journalist/comedian Mark Thomas, is headlining the speakers -www.michaelmoore.comThe Supreme Court might turn out to become a flash-point on the day. The pro-Bush Patriots March, Celebrating Constitutional Victory rally is also taking place there. The call to action atwww.loudcitizen.com/million/index.aspchallenges the "anti-Everything organisations combining efforts and resources to protest Bush's Inauguration and publicly deem his presidency as illegitimate."Those who can tear themselves away from the UK footy results will be able to watch online as inauguration day unfolds. The main American news websites,www.cnn.com/USandhttp://abcnews.go.com/sections/US, have web video and rolling news on the day.Protesters are using their own alternative news site at http://dc.indymedia.org , featuring updates, images, streaming radio reports and footage - from an anti-Bush perspective, as it happens.&#149; Gideon Burrows is a writer on peace, the environment and 'alternative culture'. Visit him atwww.gidstar.freeserve.co.uk.
The Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, which ended last week, was not a place for Britons prone to a condition called "gadget envy". For, in a series of enormous halls, makers paraded the high-tech toys they plan to introduce into the market this year. The bad news is that by "market", manufacturers invariably mean the US. In many instances, European launches were not even on the agenda. So here is the best of this year's CES. Those of a jealous disposition had better look away now.Timex internet watchOK, so it does not exactly access full web pages, but this $99 timepiece works with Yahoo to deliver selected internet feeds (football scores, financial news, etc) direct to your wrist. It will also receive and store emails, although you will have to find a PC if you want to answer them.UK launch?Do not reserve a space on your wrist just yet. There are no plans for a UK version.Any rivals?Samsung touted the latest version of its watch phone at CES, but was not forthcoming about possible launch dates.RCA/Thomson MP3 playerThe latest contender for the world's smallest MP3 player,   the K@zoo, can be worn on your wrist or as jewellery dangling from your neck. Its storage capacity is a not-very-generous 32MB.UK launch?The Americans can buy the K@zoo in March for around $179. We will have to wait until the summer.Any rivals?Plenty. CES was full of MP3 players from top-end models from Panasonic and Toshiba, to the cheap and cheerful from the Far East.Dataplay discsDoes the world really need another small storage format for digital music, images, software etc? Dataplay thinks so. Its tiny disc can store up to 500MB, yet is very cheap, with blank discs for &#163;5.UK launch?Both Dataplay discs and devices are scheduled to reach the UK by early 2002.Any rivals?Take your pick. Iomega championed both its 40MB Hip Zip optical magnetic disc, and a 20 gigabyte portable hard disk system called Peerless. Panasonic was promising 256MB SD (Secure Digital) cards by the end of the year, Sony displayed plenty of new Memory Stick products and several companies displayed devices compatible with IBM's 340MB Microdrive.Iomega CD-R/ RW driveThe Predator could well be the coolest looking external CD-R/RW drive ever. Early models are USB-only ($269), although there is a super-fast IEEE1394 (Firewire) compatible recorder ($329) waiting in the wings.UK launch?You do not have to wait too long for this one. The USB version is expected in the UK in the spring.Any rivals?Sony unveiled its debut CD-R/RW burner, the $400 CRX10U-A2. It is   designed to work as a standalone portable PC player, too, and comes with rechargeable batteries.Echo CD/MP3 recorder/playerThe Echo is a CD player and a MP3 recorder/player that can archive on to a built-in 6 gigabyte hard disk, yet is small enough to fit in your pocket. It also features an integrated FM radio tuner, and has an option that lets you store a tune that the DJ has just finished playing.UK launch?Do not bet on it. The company,Echo Mobile Musichas not yet secured distribution in the US. Nice product though.Any rivals?IF CES is anything to go by, very soon almost every personal CD player will play back MP3 files stored on CDs.Motorola V series mobile phoneCould the V-66 be the Nokia-busting mobile phone that Motorola execs have been dreaming of? It is a classy makeover of the company's tiny V Series models complete with funky styling and strokeable silver finish.UK launch?We predict a spring/summer delivery date for the UK. The phone's spec has not yet been confirmed, though it should include a Wap browser and voice dialling facilities.Any rivals?Apart from a few new Samsung phones, Motorola pretty much had the show to itself.Philips Internet radio hi-fi systemThe $400 FW-i1000 is a bog-standard mini hi-fi system that is capable of one very clever trick. Once hooked up to a broadband connection it will pull in more than 1,000 internet radio stations.UK launch?The key word is broadband. Philips believes there are not enough punters with ADSL connections to merit a UK launch just yet.Any rivals?Internet radio was big news at CES with large companies such as RCA Thomson joining a host of small Far East brands in offering standalone units.Other CES highlightsSony MZ-R700DPCSony's first MDLP-compatible MiniDisc personal player/recorder. It can store up to five hours of music on one standard MD. Due in the UK in spring.Harman Kardon DMC 100DVD/CD player that also features a 30 gigabyte hard drive and broadband internet connectivity. It features software that enables owners to download and CD artwork and track information.Casio LK-40A keyboard that teaches you how to play music by lighting up the keys before you play them.JVC RS-WP1A CD-based portable music system built into a rucksack. Thomson showed an MP3 player integrated into a pair of sunglasses.
Play upThe music and comedy channelPlay UK(formerly known as UK Play) now has a website   designed by the team that created the Big   Brother site, if such things matter to you. Along with an interview with multiply-capable musician Moby, the site has an online game in which players get to target-shoot at various boy bands.Ride highCaroline Casey, a visually impaired Irishwoman and consultant with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting), has just set off on a 1,000km fundraising trip across southern India on the back of an elephant. As part of    what she calls the Aisling Project, Casey plans to raise &#163;250,000 for SightSavers International, the Protection of the Asian Elephant, and the Irish National Council for the Blind. In six months she has already drummed up &#163;130,000. To help, and to read her diary of her trip, visit theAisling Project website.TouchingIf you have friends or family who are blind, the humorously titledHotBrailleis a site worth a bookmark. It will   accept email letters of up to 500 words and translate them into Braille - in any one of 19 languages. Visitors to the site can learn more about Braille and see their own name in Braille characters.Down Time upAmidst the e-book hype, Eastgate, a literary hypertext publisher, remains one of the few companies to offer works that actually use their electronic format as a literary device. Along with some freely-accessible online works, essays, and links to just about everything to do with hypertext, Eastgate has added a new work to its online catalogue. They say Rob Swigart'sDown timeis "a collection of hypermedia short fiction exploring the psychic costs of life in the computer age".Good newsTheCyberNewseumbrings to the internet a range of special exhibits on journalism and the coverage of the news. Some of the exhibits need special plug-ins such as Shockwave, but they're worth the effort. Of special note is a section on news coverage of the space race, the Holocaust, presidential campaigns, the Berlin Wall, and a collection of Pulitzer prize-winning photographs from 1941 to the present. The bricks and mortar Newseum, a museum dedicated to the coverage of news, is based in Arlington, Virginia.B is for badBad Cinema Diaryis one of those websites where you pop in for a quick visit and find you are still wandering around an hour later. The site reviews more than 800 B-movies, independent and micro-budget films. As Bad Cinema Diary's creator says: "Spare yourself the pain and let me check them out first." Reviews are written with a perfect mixture of affection and alarm.Post scienceWebsites dedicated to various aspects of the history of    science are common enough, but how about the history of science as documented on postage stamps?Sci-philatelydoes just that. Astronomy, biology, chemistry, physics, Nobel prizes, genetic code, electromagnetic theory and more all get a look in.Stock jointAre you a dedicated follower of business? Track all the latest jitters in the stock market but with a Europe an focus, for a change, at Brussels-basedEuropean Investor. Along with the usual quotes and market news, the site lists the latest IPOs (initial public offerings of shares) and their cancellations, and online European brokers.New &amp; noted&#149; Make an on-line restaurant booking at any of six fish diners in London atwww.fishdiner.co.uk.&#149; Follow the massive Kumbh Mela Hindu festival in India onwww.channel4.com, which ties in with daily TV coverage of the event.&#149; AS Level students can find study help on a new BBC website, AS Guru,www.bbc.co.uk/asguru.&#149; California's latest attraction is athttp://disneyland.disney.go.com/disneylandresort/CaliforniaAdventure.Six of the bestWeird art sitesAliens and UFOswww.alienalley.comMuseum of Bad Arthttp://glyphs.com/mobaPayphones of the Worldwww.2600.com/phonesSpelunking artistswww.speleoart.netEye see youwww.imagesofeyes.comCompellingly badwww.badart.com
Gaming onlineIn your cover article on various forms of access (Online, January 11), you refer to "bandwidth-hungry applications such as internet audio and video, and online gaming". This shows a common misconception: gaming is not bandwidth hungry, and certainly not in the league of streaming video, which requires 128kbps connections to achieve acceptable quality.Most online games are quite happy with the bandwidth provided by a 56k modem or single-channel ISDN connection. The crucial factors determining quality of online gameplay, once you have a reasonable baseline bandwidth of 30-50kilobits/ sec, are lag and packet loss. These are not connected to bandwidth, although by happy chance the three generally improve in parallel.There are, however, notable exceptions to this rule: single-channel ISDN, while providing almost no bandwidth improvement over dialup, decreases lag hugely and also generally has less packet loss than flaky 56k connections.In contrast, satellite connections give excellent bandwidth (downstream, at least) but suffer from very large amounts of lag, due to the 	distance their signals travel. Thus - while they are ideal for the other "high-bandwidth" applications you mention - they are no use at all for online gaming.Adam Williamsonadam.williamson1@btinternet.comQuality issueThe article Service charge not included (Online, January 11) ducks the problem of deciding, in advance of connection, what quality of service might be provided by an ISP. Sales are made basically on price so staff happily quote the connection speed. They do not appear to understand that   data rates achieved in practice might not match up; technical support always says no figures are available.The sitehttp://webservices.cnet.com/bandwidth/default.asp?Start=1provides an estimate of what rate is being achieved at a given time. How it is measuring is not explained, but the values that result can only be regarded as comparative rather than absolute.I used it to monitor 40 	connections over a week in November. The results establish to my own satisfaction that the slowness of my own ISP during its "no telephone charge" period in the evening is not caused by a slowing of the internet. During the day, the average data speed recorded was 69.9 kbps. This fell to 37.1 during the evening, whereas my control "free" ISP averaged 71.4 in the evening.Adam Woodadam.wood@btinternet.comNever offRebecca St Johnson (Working IT Out, January 11) says that "the one thing that puts her off the PC is how long it takes to start up". The solution is simple: don't turn it off. Any modern PC can be safely left permanently on and will "sleep" when unused. I rarely, if ever, turn off my Apple PowerBook, even when travelling.Roger Houghtonrhoughton@cableinet.co.ukPoor choiceSteve Mathieson is right about the limitations of shopping comparison sites. For software, for example, one also needs to visit specialists such as Software Paradise.Sadly, the same is true of airfare comparison sites. Expedia is generally brilliant, and Deckchair.com is sometimes more flexible, but 	 	neither seems to search the cut-price airlines such as Easyjet, Go or Buzz, presumably because they can't sell their tickets. I think I'd be prepared to pay a small fee to a site that would tell me the best fare from any airline from a range of airports to a specific destination on a specific day. I'd know I had the best buy, and I'd avoid the frustration of having to enter the same details into multiple web pages. Does anyone know such a site?Frank Entwistleentwistle@clara.co.uk
Britain's cultural heritage will be given the Big Brother treatment under plans being scrutinised in the Lords today.Royal Shakespeare Company actors could be spied upon in rehearsals, and members of the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra overheard as they tune up, as part of a multimillion-pound venture which would see the cream of the nation's arts placed on the web.The scheme, brainchild of the culture secretary, Chris Smith, will do more than just allow the nation to be a fly on the wall as Britain's finest performers wrestle with their craft, however. "The key is interaction," said a ministerial aide. "You could have a master class on a particular speech from a theatre director, or a lesson in the violin from an orchestral member."Using a conference call technique, schools could wrestle with their interpretation of a Shakespeare play while benefitting from RSC actors or directors. Queries about the interpretation of GCSE and A-level texts could be emailed to thespians.The proposal for Culture Online, as it is provisionally   called, is contained in the culture and recreation bill, due to get its second reading in the Lords today, and the government is so keen on the plan it has already been granted &#163;5m by the Treasury.Around &#163;150m will be channelled into it over the next two years, and ministers envisage a pilot service could be up and running by late summer.Describing Culture Online as the "online equivalent of Channel 4", Mr Smith hopes the scheme - free to those downloading it - will bring culture to the masses.But his advisers admitted there were still issues to resolve, concerning copyright and royalties. Last night, a spokesman for the RSC, currently in negotiations with Equity, the actors' union, on the issue, said: "Obviously, people would have to be paid. But it's a new area, so we would negotiate a new contract."However, an Equity spokesman was aghast at the thought of rehearsals being given the Big Brother treatment. "I cannot imagine any actor or theatre director agreeing to have their rehearsals screened."And the shadow culture secretary, Peter Ainsworth, branded the scheme an "enormous waste of money".
Hold the FrontPageI have just started making my own web page and would like to use FrontPage Express. Currently, I use Internet Explorer 5, but   when I tried to install FrontPage Express from an ISP's CD, it wouldn't because it has to install IE4 with it. I also tried downloading it from the Microsoft website but they have removed it. Is there anywhere else that I can download it?Chris Uglowchris@uglow.swinternet.co.ukJack Schofield replies:FrontPage Express does seem to come and go. At the moment it is available, and free, for IE5. Use the Start button option to go to theWindows Update Centreand it should be offered as one of the programs available for downloading: the updated FrontPage Express 2.0 (1229K) is in the Internet Authoring section about half way down.It should also be possible to get it by running IE. In IE4, click on the Help menu and select Product Updates; in IE 5, click on the Tools menu and select Windows Update. However, FrontPage Express   has disappeared from the latest IE 5.5, and at the time of writing, Microsoft UK could not tell me why, or if it was going to be restored. It seems that IE 5.5 users who want to install FPE will have to try to uninstall it and go back to IE 5.01.There are, of course, dozens of HTML editors to download besides FPE. I likeSiteAid 2.1. The alternatives includeEvrsoft's 1st Page 2000andArachnophilia.As for downloading FrontPage Express from elsewhere, there are, as usual, hacked versions around, as a simple web search will reveal. I do not recommend this, as it can tend to lead to installation and update problems.Just stick to the faxI use Windows 98 at home and would like to have the facility to send and receive faxes. I understand it was part of Windows 95, but Microsoft took it off for Windows 98. I have tried to download it without much success. Can you help?Dave CallaghanDavid.Callaghan@rbi.co.ukJS:Although Microsoft Fax is not actually part of Windows 98, an installation utility is included in the Tools\Oldwin 95\Message\Intl folder on the CD, and Microsoft says it "will support running the version of Microsoft Fax located on the Windows 98 CD-ROM to the best of our ability".MFax (for short) needs a MAPI (mail application) to be installed first, so it is probably a good idea to install Windows Messaging. Find the file called wms.exe on the CD in the Tools\OldWin95\ Messaging directory, double-click it and follow the prompts.Now go back to where you were on the CD and double-click the fax program, awfax.exe, to install Microsoft Fax. For help, read the Wmsfax.txt file on your CD (orhttp://support.microsoft.com/support/windows/readme/98/w98wms-faxtxt.asp) and the Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q196624 athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q241/2/84.aspOutlook users (not Outlook Express users) may have problems. The solution seems to be to uninstall Outlook 97, 98 or 2000, install the fax software, then reinstall Outlook. Seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q241/2/84.asp.Time's upIs it possible to set a limit on the number of minutes/ hours that I can play Patience or Minesweeper on my computer, other than by using non-existent self-control? Also, a friend has FreeCell and I don't. Is there some way of sending a copy to my PC?Julian Dunneisendora@compuserve.comJS:I was going to suggest Time's Up! by theFresh Software Company, but it seems to have disappeared. However, one of the many parental control programs should do the job. They are all available in free trial versions.The best option may beCyberpatrol 4.01, which has now become part ofSurf Control. It is available in Windows and Mac versions but it is expensive at $49.95 a year. An obvious alternative isNet Nanny 4but you should read reviews of the others.If you have problems with Minesweeper then it is not a good idea to install FreeCell, which is far more addictive and a vastly better game. However, if freecell.exe is not   in your C:\Windows directory, it should be on your Windows CD. Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and double-click the icon for Add/Remove programs. Click the Windows Setup tab, then double-click the entry for Accessories, and put a tick next to Games. This should install all the games, including FreeCell.Interestingly, the FreeCell Links Page onGusworld) includes a link to download a copy of FreeCell from Microsoft.Virus warning!From time to time I receive warnings about new viruses from well meaning friends. Usually the email suggests that I forward the warning to everyone in my address book. I am reluctant to do this. What do you think?Alan Quilleyquilley@bigfoot.comJS:You are right. Every one of these I have seen has been a hoax, but you can check them first atwww.Vmyths.com
The government will examine the case of a British couple who bought American baby twins over the internet, the home secretary Jack Straw promised last night as he condemned the "revolting" international trade in children.Alan and Judith Kilshaw, from Buckley, north Wales, are at the centre of a transatlantic row after adopting six-month-old twins via a baby broker who had already placed the girls with a couple in California.They paid &#163;8,200 to an agency not realising that the other couple had already given over &#163;4,000 for the same babies. The Kilshaws are now applying for British citizenship for Belinda and Kimberley, who have a six month tourist visa."It's a matter of huge concern, I share that concern as a parent as much as a senior minister in this government," Mr Straw told Channel 4 news. "It is illegal, completely illegal, in this country for people to buy and sell babies or children, and that is entirely as it should be, because it is frankly a revolting idea."He added: "We shall be looking at precisely what happened in these circumstances and I will be consulting colleagues. Obviously, what happened, happened in other jurisdictions in the US, but nonetheless we need to look at the circumstances."Mr Straw signalled that the Home Office would have to consider the immigration issues since the children were brought in as visitors. Flintshire social services, which has responsibility for Buckley, is already looking into the adoption.Keith McDonogh, director of education and children's services, said: "We are continuing to make inquiries and have asked for assistance from the national assembly to establish the status of these children. The welfare of the children in this family will remain &#91;paramount&#93;."Adoption experts also expressed concern about the case. Felicity Collier, chief ex ecutive of British Agencies for Adoption and Fostering, said: "This case demonstrates why private adoption is illegal in the UK. We often hear criticisms by prospective adopters about the checks which are carried out before adoptive parents are considered suitable and comparisons are made far too often with the ease with which people can adopt in the US."Children have a right to live in secure and loving families. Adults do not have an automatic right to adopt. It is totally unacceptable to BAAF that children are sold to the highest bid der and it is vital that people who wish to adopt from overseas take proper advice."Michelle Elliot, director of the children's charity Kidscape, said: "This trade is immoral and should be illegal."Mr Kilshaw, 45, a solicitor, and his wife Judith, 47, bought the twins after IVF treatment failed and attempts to find a surrogate mother were unsuccessful. They believed British adoption procedures were "over-regulated". They have two sons, aged four and seven, and Mrs Kilshaw has a daughter from a previous marriage, but they wanted another girl   to complete the family. They paid baby broker Tina Johnson, of the Caring Hearts Agency in California, &#163;8,200 to arrange the adoption, unaware that Richard and Vickie Allen had paid her &#163;4,000 for the twins. They were already raising the girls and were going through adoption proceedings.When they discovered this, the Kilshaws fled with the babies and birth mother Tranda Wecker on a 2,000-mile drive across the US to complete fast-track adoption proceedings in Arkansas before bringing the babies to their farmhouse in Buckley. The couple are unrepentant and insist they were right to take the babies. Holed up with a Sun journalist at the Crabwall Manor hotel, near Chester, they gave brief interviews from their luxury room. "We have nothing to be ashamed about," Mrs Kilshaw said.Her husband added: "It was not up to us whom those children ended up with. It was up to their birth mother and she changed her mind about the Allens and decided she wanted them to live with us."We haven't done anything immoral or unethical. We have given two children who would not have a home a good home."Asked about the moral implication of buying children on the internet, Mr Kilshaw said: "We haven't bought them. We have paid a fee for a service - it is like a dating agency really. They have put people in touch with each other, but it is not as if we picked a child from a catalogue."The Allens have vowed to fight for the return for the twins and have asked the FBI to investigate. Mr Kilshaw said he would be happy to speak to the US police.Related articles17.01.2001: Two sets of parents paid. They both claim ownership17.01.2001: The route to adoption17.01.2001: Difficulties parents faceOnline debateTalk about itUseful linksABC Adoptions: online adoption resourcesAdoption-Net.co.ukBritish Agencies for Adoption and Fostering
The digital divide remains a deep class barrier in the workplace, according to a report published yesterday.A survey of 200 large firms across Britain, conducted by KPMG's legal arm, KLegal, found that 30% did not provide staff below middle management level with internet access. That figure increased to 40% when specialist information technology firms were stripped out of the sample.It had been thought that many workers from the 68% of homes the government has said are without internet access could log on to the web while at work. However, it is now thought that most of those who miss out on the internet at home are alsodenied access at work.Stephen Levinson, head of employment law at KLegal, blamed the reluctance to extend internet access to all workers on a string of high-profile cases of web misuse."Increases in regulation have created uncertainty about how to manage employee use of the internet and email," said Stephen Levinson, head of employment law at KLegal. "Our survey shows UK companies are adopting a far from uniform approach."The report found that employees are 40% more likely to be dismissed for downloading pornography than for sending offensive, defamatory, or harassing emails.Some 20% of firms admitted they monitored internet usage without telling employees.
Dot.com networking group First Tuesday is back on the market six months after being bought for an estimated $50m (&#163;36m) - and could be sold for about &#163;2m.Yazam, the Israeli incubator that bought First Tuesday in July, has decided to withdraw from its European operations after falling into financial difficulties.It is likely to put a "for sale" sign on First Tuesday, where it is expected to cut jobs.Yazam paid about &#163;2m of the First Tuesday purchase price in cash, and the rest in shares. It is said to be keen to recoup at least the cash element of its outlay from any buyer.Susan Kisch and Steve Carlson, organisers of the Zurich and Budapest First Tuesday events respectively, are understood to have expressed an interest in buying the group. David Jacobson, a Chicago-based franchisee, is also thought to have talked to Yazam about a deal.The decline in the value of the group that redefined the way aspiring entrepreneurs went about raising money and building contacts underlines how few dot.com start-ups are still attracting venture capital money.With an estimated 100,000 members worldwide it is thought that First Tuesday will continue in some form or another. "The network is too big to simply shut down," said a First Tuesday source. "Whatever the state of the stock markets, people in the new economy will still continue to want to gather and exchange ideas."A statement from First Tuesday yesterday confirmed that "immediate cost reductions" were to be implemented after a Yazam board meeting on Monday. John Browning, the only one of the four co-founders remaining at First Tuesday, is expected to leave the day-to-day management of the company, although he will continue to help organise London events.Nick Denton and Adam Gold, two other co-founders now based in Silicon Valley, have had little input since the sale to Yazam.Julie Meyer, the fourth and highest profile co-founder quit the group earlier this year after disagreeing with the sale. She now runs a venture firm called Ariadne Capital and despite speculation, is not thought to be preparing a buy-out bid for First Tuesday.First Tuesday started two years ago as a drinks party in a Soho bar, organised by the four friends who were intent on bringing a bit of Silicon Valley-style networking to London's fledgling internet sector.As the dot.com bubble inflated, First Tuesday mushroomed in size and holds events in 85 countries, generating revenues from sponsorship and matchmaking fees. The lack of funding being raised at the moment means the latter revenue stream has started to dry up.
The "old economy" is dead. Long live the "new economy". That was the cry from the host of Britain's top bosses who, over the past 18 months, abandoned jobs with big corporations making substantial revenues to join start-up firms often struggling to find their financial feet.Now slumping technology and internet share prices, combined with fears of a wider economic slowdown, have made dreams of instant riches a memory and brought a new reality to the sector.Despite that, those who jumped aboard the dot.com bandwagon remain upbeat."I'm loving it, absolutely loving it," said Dennis Malamatinas, the 55-year-old chief executive of troubled US e-tailer Priceline's European offshoot, who quit as boss of Burger King to take up his new role. "The speed of this business is in credible. We launched a new television advertising campaign on Monday and on Tuesday our traffic trebled. I've been running brands my entire life but never experienced anything like this."James Benfield spent 29 years with Marks &amp; Spencer running marketing, home shopping, stores and e-commerce before quitting 15 months ago and joining confetti.co.uk, a weddings website."If you are looking to get a broader business education there cannot be anywhere finer to get it," he said. "You go through private placement rounds, auditioning for IPOs and financial crises where you say that if you did run out of money it'd be sad because you've built a great brand. So you try and do something completely different with the business."Confetti did just that yesterday, going offline to publish a glossy wedding gift catalogue which customers can order over the internet, by phone or post."The beguiling promises of mass riches may not have materialised," admitted Mr Benfield. "But, as a test to see whether I can succeed in the world outside M&amp;S without all the natural advantages a blue chip organisation brings you, it has been a fantastic education."Former Asda boss Allan Leighton cited "learning" as one of the main reasons why he took the chairman's role at Lastminute.com into his portfolio of jobs.Some like John Pluthero, the Dixons strategist who turned Freeserve from an idea on the back of a napkin into a &#163;1.6bn company, have built business reputations on the dot.com boom.Not everyone has found the switch so rewarding. Martin Coles quit after eight years as head of European operations at the Nike sportswear group to run pan-European e-commerce firm Letsbuyit. Less than a year later Letsbuyit has collapsed and Mr Coles is out of a job.Tony Salter, former head of EMI's eastern Europe operations, suffered a similar fate when his music e-tailer, Boxman.com, went bust last year.Sir Richard Greenbury, chairman and chief executive of Marks &amp; Spencer until the summer of 1999, dipped his toe into the dot.com waters when he took on the chairmanship of a tiny AIM-listed software firm, E-comsport. It has been blighted by disputes over the direction the company should take.Jim Rose quit a senior position at United News &amp; Media in April 1999 to run auction house QXL.com. Analysts have been impressed by him, but integrating the numerous businesses QXL has acquired across Europe has been tricky and the company's share price has slumped 99% from its high.Robert Norton co-founded health and beauty website Clickmango.com with Toby Rowland after quitting as a Reuters journalist to work on the internet. It collapsed and they are looking for new ventures. "People perhaps overestimated the short term and underestimated the long term," he said. "If you're looking to make money right now there are a huge number of reasons why you should stay put in your old economy job rather than jump into a start-up. But I'm still a big believer in technology long-term. The internet is still in its infancy."The enthusiasm of Priceline Europe's Mr Malamatinas comes with a healthy dose of reality."When I quit Burger King I told my wife 'If nothing else, I want to have been a part of this revolution, whatever the consequences'," he said. "I'm incredibly upbeat about our prospects but if the worst really does come to the worst you can always go back to the old world."
A British couple is fighting to retain custody of two six-month-old girls after they paid 8,200 to an online California-based adoption agent for the twins.Alan and Judith Kilshaw of Buckley, north Wales, travelled to the US in November to buy the baby girls from adoption agent Tina Johnson after the couple saw her advertisement on the internet.But Johnson, who runs online adoption agency Caring Hearts, had previously sold the twins to another couple, Richard and Vickie Allen of San Bernadino, California, for 4,000. The Allens are now demanding that the Kilshaws return the girls.In what they say is an attempt to warn other prospective clients about the dangers of paying to adopt children abroad, the Kilshaws told their story to the Sun newspaper. They said that when they arrived in San Diego last year, they paid an arrangement fee to Tina Johnson and took possession of the twins, who they named Belinda and Kimberley.The twins had been put up for adoption by their natural mother, Tranda Wecker, 28, of St Louis, Missouri. Ms Wecker and Ms Johnson allegedly tricked the Allens into handing the twins back to Ms Wecker, telling the couple that the mother wanted a couple of days alone with her daughters to say goodbye.Instead, Johnson handed the babies over to the Kilshaws. When confronted by the Allens' in-laws, the couple fled with the twins and Ms Wecker to Arkansas, a state with more relaxed adoption laws than California. There they finalised the adoption before travelling back to the UK at the end of December.The Allens have contacted the FBI to investigate the matter. Meanwhile, the girls are living with the Kilshaws in Buckley on six-month holiday visas. The couple say they will fight to retain custody of the twins.Felicity Collier, chief executive of British Agencies for Adoption and Fostering, says: "This case demonstrates why private adoption is illegal in the UK."We often hear criticisms by prospective adopters about the checks that are carried out before adoptive parents are considered suitable and comparisons are made with the ease with which people can adopt in the US."She adds: "It is totally unacceptable to BAAF that children are sold to the highest bidder. It is vital that people who wish to adopt from overseas take proper advice before they enter such a minefield."Useful linksABC Adoptions: online adoption resourcesAdoption-Net.co.ukBritish Agencies for Adoption and Fostering
Litigants will be able to sue over the internet and judges deal with preliminary applications by email, under government plans unveiled yesterday to bring the Victorian county court system into the 21st century.People will be able to launch small claims by computer, filling in a claim form on screen and sending it through to a processing centre by a mouse click.A working prototype demonstrated yesterday by the Lord Chancellor's Department minister, David Lock, is ready to be put on a website. But ministers want to provide more back-up help for users before going live.Under the plans, outlined in a consultation paper, Modernising the Civil Courts, county court offices, where paperwork is processed, would be rationalised and centralised. The aim is to move as far as possible to a "virtual" or paperless court for the early stages of a case, though trials would still take place in a   courtroom. Many steps which now have to be taken by post, such as asking for a judgment against a defendant who has produced no defence, will be able to be done by telephone or internet.Through the internet and call centres, litigants will have 24 hours a day, seven days a week access to information about the progress of their cases and how to file a claim.People without access to a computer will still be able to use the internet system through the Citizens' Advice Bureau or libraries, and could   still go to a hearing centre in person or apply by post.Under a pilot scheme launched last July, judges in three centres - the court of appeal, Leeds and Cardiff county courts - are experimenting with video-conferencing for brief court applications, allowing lawyers and parties to take part without the need to travel to court.Video-conferencing was used for the first high court application to decide the fate of the conjoined twins Jodie and Mary, although the judge, Mr Justice Johnson, had   complaints about its efficiency.Other pilots planned include:&#149; A scheme at Preston county court, to be launched on February 5, to explore the use of email to reduce the need to attend court. Litigants will email the judge with interim applications - those that need decisions before the case goes to trial.&#149; Touch screen kiosks, to be launched shortly to provide advice, information and court forms at libraries in Telford and Madeley in Shropshire. They will include a video link   to the local Citizens' Advice Bureau so customers can access on-screen advice.Mr Lock said the county court procedures had not changed much in 150 years. Courts still opened from 10am to 4pm, the typical hours for Victorian businesses.County courts were "scattered through the country in a way which owes more to history than to logic or needs today", he added."We want to use internet technology to provide round the clock access. It's very important that we preserve the   best elements of traditional and face-to-face justice in our courts while at the same time accessing the benefits of new technology."London's 16 county courts may be rationalised down to about four. In other centres, underused courts could be closed and hearings held in rooms at magistrates courts, coroners courts or local council buildings.But Mr Lock denied that the exercise was about closing county courts and said the geographical spread of courts was unlikely to be affected.
Department of Health staff will be able to read these words without fear of the sack  - because technology "glasnost" in their section of the notoriously stuffy civil service now permits "free" use of the internet at work.An internal review has concluded that for the first time staff should be allowed to log on to the internet for personal use, such as on-line banking, or, for that matter, reading SocietyGuardian.co.uk.As  health secretary Alan Milburn launches his 500m IT strategy for the NHS, DoH civil servants have been told that the existing prohibition on personal use of internet use has been eased.A memo sent out last week says: "We have relaxed the current rules to allow reasonable personal use of DoH facilities, such as accessing the internet, provided they are used with discretion."It adds: "The guidance relaxes the department's current policy which has been to prohibit any personal use of IT facilities."In particular it recognises that there may be times when you need to undertake personal business when in the office, for example, on-line banking."But it warns that downloading video clips, music tracks, "offensive material" and "large quantities of personal material" is unacceptable, and warns that misuse could lead to the sack.  It also says disk drives and directories on staff PCs will be routinely monitored "You should not therefore have any expectation of personal privacy when using the department's IT facilities for personal use."The NHS IT strategy, called Building the Information Core, sets a target of giving net access to all NHS staff by April 2003, and warns that the NHS faces a "major behavioural, culture changechallenge" in becoming more e-savvy.A recent internal review of DoH plans for electronic government found that the department was generally unprepared to exploit the electronic revolution.It said: "The benefits of e-systems are not generally fully understood at senior management level."
The government has launched a 500m plan to wire up the NHS  to the internet revolution, with the aim of improving standards of care and speeding up access to treatment and health information.The four-year strategy promises a electronic booking system for appointments, electronic medical records, video and tele-consultations for patients, and electronically transmitted laboratory test results.All doctors, nurses and clinical support staff will be hooked up to the net within two years, while remaining NHS staff will have workplace access to the internet and email within four years. Both professionals and patients will have access to "trustworthy and clearly (NHS) branded advice and information" on  healthcare on the internet allowing staff to keep up to date with medical practice and enabling patients to be involved in their own care.The strategy, entitled Building the Information Core - Implementing the NHS Plan, promises a "vibrant, networked" NHS by 2005.But it warns that the NHS will have to undergo massive cultural change to the way it works if it is to take advantage of  the internet.It warns: "There is a major behavioural, cultural change and organisational development challenge in redesigning care services around the individual, and establishing a 'network NHS'.
  
"Everyone - individuals, multi-disciplinary teams and care organisations - will need to think through the way that they work."Ministers are convinced that increased use of electronic communications will cut out much of the delays and inefficiencies in accessing NHS care that frustrate patients.GPs will be able to book hospital appointments for their patients directly by internet at the time of their consultation, rather than though a protracted exchange of letters through the post.The strategy says this will give patients "more choice and convenience, with less wasted time through cancelled operations and improved management of waiting lists".Tele-links to hospital specialists from the GP surgery will allow patients to get on the spot expert advice on their condition, rather than having to travel into hospital.Laboratory test results will be ordered and received electronically, "giving patients less delay and worry and clinicians less bureaucracy with earlier diagnosis and treatment and improved outcomes".Electronic patient records - possibly held on "smart cards" - will be introduced, allowing staff access to individual medical histories "to enable them to provide the highest quality care when and where it is needed".Hospital trusts will be expected to provide varying levels of internet access to all staff, varying from desk top personal computers for medical secretaries to hand held mobile phones for community nurses.Health secretary Alan Milburn said the strategy would make technology central to patient care, rather than "something to be left to the IT specialists".Mr Milburn added: "Patients will see a difference. They will have access to quality and trustworthy information on personal care and local health services  They will make appointments quickly and conveniently through a national booking system."They will have easy access to their personal medical records. They will receive reminders before appointments and proactive calls to help them manage their medicines or treatment."They will have the confidence and reassurance that the professionals referring, diagnosing and caring for them are working with the best quality knowledge about their condition and treatment."
Big computer projects are risky. Studies show that anywhere between two-thirds and 90% of IT projects either fail or run late and go well over budget. Only a small minority are unqualified successes. The larger the project, the more likely the risk of failure.Few organisations are larger than the NHS, which today unveiled a 500m strategy to modernise its IT by 2005. The strategy, snappily entitled Building the Information Core - Implementing the NHS Plan promises that by 2005 we will have "a vibrant networked NHS".A blueprint for disaster? On the surface, the omens are not good.Apart from the size of the NHS, not to mention its past record in IT, there are two reasons to worry.First, unlike other big organisations such as supermarkets or banks, the NHS's head office cannot demand that every hospital or GP surgery install a uniform set of IT systems.Every NHS organisation, even down to individual GPs, has its own IT strategy and mixture of "legacy" computers which may or may not talk to each other.Second, healthcare everywhere is more difficult than other industries to computerise. Medical language is far more complicated and subtle to digitise than sales figures or stock inventories, and patients' bedsides are not good places to install computer terminals.The authors of the IT strategy know the risks, which presumably explains its low-key launch. But there are reasons for optimism. By the standards of Labour's grandiose scheme's to deliver e-public services, the strategy has been carefully thought out.It also builds on, rather than overturning, previous initiatives. For example, the target of all acute hospitals having electronic patient records by 2005 was set in the previous strategy, Information for Health, published in 1998.Some targets have even been scaled back: in 1998, ministers were talking confidently of connecting all GPs to NHSnet by March 2000: that date has since slipped to 2002.Technically, the strategy does not look particularly ambitious. One headline target, 2005 for electronically booked appointments, would appear painfully slow in other industries.Patients might wonder why the wait - after all, this is what happens every time a travel agency makes an airline reservation.In practice, it's all a bit more difficult. Even when the technology is sorted out, there are complex political questions. GPs are supposed to "request" appointments from specialists, who decide to allocate them according to available resources, not order them like cans of beans.There are also uncertainties surrounding the two tiers of electronic records envisaged in the strategy.By 2005, all acute trusts to hold electronic patient-records (EPR). Such "organisational" records are difficult enough to create - only a handful of hospitals in the world have them, and about one-tenth of NHS trusts have moved significantly down this path. (Their use by GPs became legal only in October last year.)However by 2005, the strategy envisages the NHS piloting a second tier electronic health record (EHR), a cradle-to-grave dossier of essential information available seamlessly to health professionals, the patients themselves, but not to insurance companies, police officers or journalists.Arguments about the security of electronic records have hamstrung healthcare IT for a decade, and are not about to go away. The strategy revives one possible solution, the idea of issuing patients "smart cards" as keys to their records.But here the strategy hedges its bets, saying that it awaits the outcome of two separate studies due to report by March.There are other reasons for caution. While the new money for IT is welcome, it will do no good if NHS organisations are not allowed to spend it.Today, procurements usually take two years or more, to the despair of IT companies, many of whom have left the market. The strategy's solution is to draw up national lists of approved systems, from which hospitals can pick without unnecessary bureaucracy.The snag is that such lists take years to draw up, with IT firms fighting like ferrets in a sack to get onto them.In the meantime, technology moves on and the targets loom closer. There are no quick fixes.
Britain's county courts face an overhaul, under government plans announced today to cut costs and modernise the court system by allowing litigants to settle civil lawsuits over the internet.The court service aims to "rationalise" its 222 county courts and replace some of their services with a new website to administer civil claims normally made in person or by post.The plans, unveiled today by the Lord Chancellor's department, will update a court system that has hardly changed since the 1840s. A consultation paper, Modernising the Civil Courts, proposes a future of "paperless court rooms", where evidence is submitted electronically and writs settled entirely online.Annoucing the plans, David Lock, a minister in the Lord Chancellor's department, said that the courts are "scattered through the country in a way which owes more to history than to logic or customers' needs today."Mr Lock said that the online system should result in cheaper and faster settlement of claims for litigants."We want internet technology to provide round the clock access," he said. "It's very important that we receive the best elements of traditional and face-to-face justice in our courts while, at the same time, accessing the benefits of new technology."Preston county court will be the first to handle claims online. From 5 February, litigants will be able to use the internet to file an initial application to the court.The Lord Chancellor's office plans to introduce further elements of the claims process, such as straightforward money claims, at a later date.In addition, two pilot schemes of electronic centres offering advice on the court system are being set up in Shropshire.Some county courts in towns and cities could be closed to make sure centres for legal hearing are better spread through England and Wales - for example, two of London's 16 country courts are just one mile apart.Meanwhile, courts backroom workers could be centralised to cut costs, says the report, meaning that fewer staff will be needed.People who do not have access to a computer could still use the internet system through the Citizens' Advice Bureau, libraries and digital television, or use the traditional application methods in person at new legal hearing centres in existing buildings such as magistrates orcoroners courts.Related storiesNet tightens around the hacktivistsDecember28 2000: Lawyers hail TV cameras in courtsUseful linksLord Chancellor'sdepartmentThe court service
Favourite sites?The Drudge Report.com is great for celebrity exclusives and the latest gossip. Beauty site Sephora.com is very rare because it's better than the shop it's based on. As well as selling products it has a great magazine and interactive tools such as a fragrance finder. You can also post questions to the site's beauty adviser.Last online purchase?I bought vitamins from health website gnc.co.uk. as part of my half-hearted attempt to be healthier this year. I forget to buy things if I'm busy, whereas this way I can do it the moment I think of it. The instant availability is appealing.Most recent technological faux pas?My five-year-old nephew having to show me how to get my new laptop to work. I was having problems getting through a security shield and he got me in within seconds.Main news source on the web?It used to be BBC Online. Up-to-the- minute news is a priority.Most persistent spam emailer?I'm lucky. I don't get many.Time spent on the web?I'm online virtually all day editing which unfortunately means I don't   get much time for surfing.Next boo.com?Anyone who believes in style over substance. I wouldn't wish it on anyone but the industry does seem to be more cautious now. Identifying and targeting a market has to be the first step and not an afterthought. I don't think boo really had a market. No matter how much confidence you have in an idea, the figures have got to add up.Least useful site on the web?Any that don't work and there are too many to mention.Most useful site?Scoot for cinema listings and Streetmap.co.uk which means never having to carry around an A-Z again.Which screensaver do you use?I don't. I find them too distracting.Most irritating thing about the web?When it won't let you access a site. You have to be very persistent to keep going back and most people give up. That's the worst thing about the internet and it's holding back progress. This problem really needs to be sorted out.Do you bother with old media?My background is in newspaper and magazines. The web won't ever replace them but you can have the best of both worlds.&#149; Maria Trkulja is editor of femail.co.uk which was relaunched this month
There were long queues at the immigration desk when I arrived at San Francisco's international airport on December 18 1999. Like thousands of other foreign workers converging on the city at the dawn of the third millennium I was about to join the internet industry. After working in British television documentaries for five years I was thrilled to imagine myself as a pioneer in a new medium, and I soon stumbled into a job at "user-generated" video site Eveo.com.Founded by French entrepreneur Olivier Zitoun, Eveo.com promised to revolutionise the entertainment industry by connecting film-makers directly with their audience via the internet. The company had raised more than $1m in seed capital with the slogan "Everyone's a director". Zitoun believed that the rapid growth of two industries, internet broadband and digital video, meant that millions of people would soon be making their own films, which they would be eager to distribute online. He spoke in charismatic terms about his desire to empower ordinary people to tell their own stories. Above all, as he said in an interview with film-maker community site IndieWire, "the internet is about people". I was seduced by the rhetoric.The Chocolate Building in San Francisco's Ghirardelli Square, an area thronged with seagulls and tourists, seemed an odd choice for the headquarters of an internet entertainment company. This feeling of oddity stayed with me as I walked into the Eveo office early last year, to face bare white walls and boxes of self-assembly desks. But as a newcomer to the brash culture of California start-ups, it was difficult to tell for sure that anything was wrong. I built my desk, plugged in my phone, and got to work.Critics of the internet gold rush have rightly assumed that one motive for dot.com employees was greed. But in late 1999 and early 2000, there was also a millennialist optimism sustaining the fervour of those who embraced the new technology. The promise of new technology is that it will improve the spiritual, as well as the material lot of humanity, and I am quite sure that, however naively, I invested Eveo with this world-improving faith. Along with the idea of working in a new medium, in a new century, came the thought that this was perhaps a new world. I was not alone in my optimism. At a company meeting, marketing manager Tammy   Karpanko, described Eveo as "video by the people, for the people". Linda Olszewski, a Dreamworks executive hired as fiction and comedy channel manager, suggested that kids in the ghetto might stop shooting bullets, and start shooting films.As documentary channel manager my job was to get hold of as many short videos as possible before the site launched on February 20. Zitoun gave me a small budget for commissions, and I made some films myself, but my main task was to encourage submissions from aspiring video-makers. The company promised to pay $100 for every video received before the launch date, regardless of quality, in the hope that they could sell some of these films to other websites, or even to television. It seemed unlikely, but I reminded myself that I was part of a revolution, and kept my doubts to myself. "You don't need to worry about that," the vice-president Marc Ruxin reassured me, when I asked him how the company intended to make money. So, like all the other workers joining start-ups without clear revenue models, and the investors who gambled on them, I allowed myself to believe that the traditional laws of economics had been miraculously suspended.The oddities multiplied. I tried not to worry, as Ruxin suggested, but it was difficult. In February I attended the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. The company had spent several thousand dollars on an advert in one of the festival catalogues. "A truly inspirational thought for genuine artists," the copy declared, "sub-five-minute shorts can now make you serious bucks." A company flyer depicted an Eveo logo in the style of the giant Hollywood sign in the hills above Los Angeles, a tactic so self-important that some people took it as irony.On my return to Ghirardelli Square, I expressed my concerns about the company's public relations strategy to Zitoun. He reassured me that it was early days. We soon began   receiving videos in the post. The films ranged from excellent 16mm shorts by young directors to amateur footage of students being sick. Many people in the company began to suggest it should encourage the good material, and reject the bad. Zitoun disagreed. Shortly after the site's launch in March, venture capitalists gave the company $15m. I started getting phone calls from angry film-makers who had not received their $100.Later that month, Zitoun rewarded our hard work with a company boat trip to Angel Island. It was during our games there that I had an epiphany about the way Eveo worked and why I had been feeling so strange. The games were random. People divided into small groups, which then divided into still smaller groups, before re-forming in new allegiances, with footballs and frisbees flying back and forth arbitrarily. It struck me that life in the office was scarcely different: emails flew back and forth, projects emerged and then vanished, people came and went without explanation or consequence. It was chaos.In April I helped to produce a DVD, featuring the best work on the site, which the company gave away as a promotional tool at the Cannes Film Festival. A few days after packing the discs into boxes and sending them out into the world, Karpanko received an anxious phone call from Max Frankston, a New York film-maker and winner of an Eveo contest for a short documentary he directed about his son, which was meant to feature on the disc. Frankston had invited relatives to watch the film at his home, and was calling Karpanko to say that he had received the "wrong" DVD.The disc had an Eveo label, and was packed in an Eveo box, but did not feature Eveo material. Instead, the DVD contained a hardcore porn film called Blackballers II, about a gang of black men who abduct and rape young white boys. Frankston was not alone in receiving Blackballers II, and Eveo film editor Marcy Charap spent several painful hours calling bewildered film-makers to apologise for the mysterious mix-up in the DVD pressing plant, which was never explained.I might have seen the funny side, but I'd started making promises I could not keep, to people I respected. The angry phone calls from unpaid film-makers got angrier. The oddities multiplied to a surreal level, and I sank into depression. In February, I began talks with Colin Luke and Adam Alexander of the UK indepen dent production company Mosaic Films. The talks were still continuing when I left the company almost five months later.In April I went to a film festival in Taos, New Mexico, and met Haskell Wexler, the Oscar-winning cinematographer of Days of Heaven. Listening to my pitch about global democracy, he agreed to give the   company his video about Gladys Knight and Burt Bacharach in Cuba. But I no longer believed what I was saying, and Wexler's generosity shamed me.Later that month, the Nasdaq slumped, and a string of internet companies went bust. But it was the end of the millennial optimism, not the stock market downturn, which   led to my resignation on June 30. Like the investors who lost their shirts on overvalued stocks in April, I lost my innocence about the corporate world, and my naive faith in the internet.Eveo survives today with a new business plan, based on licensing its services to other companies. But, for me at least, the idealism is over.
It had all started so optimistically, as cautionary tales usually do. I was called down from Glasgow, where I'd been editing the Scottish Daily Express, to become the first editor of the Daily Express website. My only instruction was to make it the best newspaper site in Britain - and money, it was implied, would not be an obstacle.Meanwhile in the London office, ambitious plans were taking shape for the new Express Digital Media division of United News &amp; Media, boosted by the promise of millions of pounds of funding within UN&amp;M's new new media arm, Xilerate.That was last summer. Last week, in the middle of winter, the tale came to its gory conclusion. Express Digital Media was closed down, leaving all 46 staff redundant and scrabbling for new jobs.So far, you may say, nothing terribly surprising in that. The world of web hasn't exactly had a great six months.But this tale had an extra twist. EDM and its constituent companies (Express.co.uk Publishing, Sportlive.co.uk, Allaboutparents and Companyleader) were sold by the new Express Newspapers owner, Richard Desmond, to a company controlled by his financial advisers, Seymour Pierce. For &#163;1. Finally, the liquidators were called in on Tuesday.This left all of us not just without work, but without redundancy, without our notice pay and without part of our salaries. Financial insult was piled on top of injury.The circumstances of this mess raise some important questions. The liquidation of the sites with few assets means, on the face of it, that neither Seymour Pierce, Express Newspapers nor indeed UN&amp;M (now United Business Media) has to pick up the redundancy tab. Instead the taxpayer, in the form of the admittedly tiny statutory redundancy from the Department of Trade and Industry, is having to pick up that bill. Is that really what the law intends to happen?The riddle doesn't end there. Just why did Desmond's Northern &amp; Shell buy us in the first place when he acquired Express Newspapers from Clive Hollick's UN&amp;M for &#163;125m in November? The websites only became part of the sale right at the end of lengthy negotiations over the newspapers.It's hard to escape the conclusion that this was simply a smart   move by the wily Hollick to offload the sites as his own company moved away from digital media - and one that perhaps caught Northern &amp; Shell flat-footed.That may explain why, within days of buying us, the new Express owners told us bluntly they wanted to close us down. Deeply disappointing though this was, we were at least promised redundancy and the honouring of our contracts.Such solace was short-lived. Two weeks later came the most baffling development of all. Late on December 13, we were informed that we had been sold yet again, this time to Seymour Pierce. To those of us who came into the media to work for, well, media companies, this was indeed odd. Even odder was that the name of our new company was SP Investments, registered in that well-known media heartland, Guernsey.The stated plan was that Seymour Pierce would find buyers for the sites, or pay us our redundancy. The process dragged on, Christmas and the New Year came and went, but still no news.Then, on January 5, a Seymour Pierce spokesman was quoted as saying that rumours we would go into liquidation were "bollocks".Unfortunate timing, perhaps, as later that same day, Seymour Pierce applied to put the websites into liquidation.So, here is another puzzle. Why did Seymour Pierce want to take on Express Digital Media? To sell the websites as going concerns, as they say? But why then did it not buy all our computers and servers, which Northern &amp; Shell insist are still theirs?S eymour Pierce has since said the whole EDM deal was a "gamble" which didn't come off. Thanks, guys, but in future we would rather you didn't gamble with other people's livelihoods.In the circumstances, it is perhaps not surprising that we have been tempted to describe what has happened to us as immoral, if not illegal. We are now talking to lawyers to see if we can challenge the deal which led to the liquidation of our websites.Our suspicion - denied by Northern &amp; Shell and Seymour Pierce - is that it was a cynical ploy to avoid paying redundancies. Sharp practice, as the senior Labour MP Robin Corbett has already described it.Battered we may be, but we certainly don't intend to walk away from this situation without a fight. We will be writing to the trade and industry secretary, Stephen Byers, and are busy contacting dozens of MPs. We also want to talk to financial regulators and key opinion formers in this area.No one should be put in this position again. If this can happen to us, it could happen to others. A cautionary tale indeed.&#149; Michael Streeter is the former editor of the Daily Express website
William Hewlett, the electrical engineer who in 1938 set up a tiny electronics company with David Packard in Palo Alto, California, that ultimately led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died yesterday aged 87.Not only did Hewlett and his partner establish Hewlett-Packard, one of America's largest electronics firms, in a barren, dusty area of northern California but they created a business philosophy that bucked the button-down approach of the day - the HP Way.The pair were committed to a set of corporate values that eschewed hierarchy, encouraging individual creativity and ideas, and the informal business leadership approach of 'management by walking around'.Hewlett was so averse to convention that he would choose to sit at the middle of the table during meetings, and pioneered the open plan office.With an initial investment of just $538, the company went on to develop many of the key technological innovations of the past 60 years, including the electronic calculator and some of the first PCs. Last year, Hewlett-Packard and its satellites had a combined revenue of more than $55 billion (&#163;37bn).'They created the first Silicon Valley company,' said Steve Jobs, founder and chairman of Apple Computer Inc. 'When David Packard died in 1996 it was the beginning of the end of an era; now this is the end.The two men founded Hewlett-Packard while they were doing graduate work at Stanford University. Initially they tried to sell a variety of inventions including a self-flushing urinal, a bowling lane foul indicator and a shock machine to help people lose weight. Their big break came when Walt Disney Studios asked them for eight audio oscillators, used to test sound equipment in the production of the movie Fantasia .In 1968, after the company had invented the HP 9100, the first desktop scientific calculator, it was Hewlett who issued a challenge to his engineers: design a version that would fit in his shirt pocket.The engineers answered in 1972 with the HP 35, the world's first pocket scientific calculator.Hewlett's informal approach to business was perhaps best illustrated by the story that in 1967 he picked up the phone to speak to a 12-year-old who was calling the company to ask for parts to electronic components. The boy was Steve Jobs.'Not only did he give me the parts, but the following summer he saw that I had a job in the division of the company.' Jobs said that the encounter changed his life and added that what he learned at the company became a blueprint for his own company.Hewlett, who was born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and moved to California when he was three, was an outdoorsman. He made a number of difficult ascents in Yosemite and was an ardent amateur botanist.In 1987, he became one of the nation's leading philanthropists. The Hewlett Foundation, which has an endowment of $3.5 billion, focuses on conflict resolution, education, environment, the performing arts and population issues.Hewlett, who at one time owned about 30 percent of Hewlett-Packard's stock and whose fortune was last year estimated at $ 9 billion, did not live a jet-set life.'We felt we were just ordinary people,' said his son, Walter Hewlett, recalled yesterday.
In the beginning, there was Microsoft, or at least it seems so, for this is the company whose short history is part of the memory of a generation and which has done more than any other since Henry Ford to shape the relationship between man and machine.Depending on your perspective, Microsoft is a post-industrial anti-Christ or the spark that ignited the engine of the American information economy. It says everything about man's ability to innovate and offers every reason to examine the creeping threat of globalism, multinational power and the basis of anti-trust legislation in the twenty-first century.Like AT&amp;T before it - under threat of dismemberment and constantly scrutinised by the courts - Microsoft has seen its stock price drop by 60 per cent in the past 12 months.Its leadership of the industry is under assault from new directions and by new technologies, and it is no longer so able to use its considerable financial and marketing muscle to the disadvantage of rival companies. This giant among software predators will have to be very smart and very fast to survive in the constantly connected world of multiple device types that will be tomorrow's wired generation.From modest beginnings, the company owes its success to the shrewd purchase of the Q-DOS Operating System from the Seattle Computer Company for the tiny sum of $50,000. This was swiftly turned into MS-DOS and licensed to IBM - and history was made. Ironically, Q-DOS was Microsoft's second acquisition. The first was a technology licence for an equally obscure operating system named Unix, acquired from AT&amp;T in 1980.Over 20 years later, the Microsoft team is rather larger than the one that could once fit easily into a small room littered with discarded pizza boxes and Coca-Cola cans. In the past 12 months the company, which boasts retained profits larger than the gross national product of many small nations, has been busier than ever; according to one report from Client Server News (CSN), it has made a total of '41 acknowledged acquisitions, investments and joint ventures'.Most of these investments, totalling around $3 billion, have given Microsoft access to interesting new technologies or guarantees that the recipient of Microsoft   largesse will continue to use the Windows platform in preference to any other.The many interesting investments and acquisitions in 2000 included: MongoMusic, DriveOff.Com Digital Anvil, Corio and Corel. However, Microsoft ended the year with the second- largest purchase in its history, offering $1.1bn in stock for accounting software company Great Plains Software.The deal, which is aimed squarely at rival giant Oracle's expanding applications software ambitions, will undoubtedly alter the enterprise software landscape as Microsoft seeks to assemble a line of financial and business software services, designed for web-based delivery through its bCentral portal.Microsoft's decision to expand into the application software business comes at a time when this market appears to be showing promise. Great Plains' closest rival is Sage Software, and the acquisition will allow Microsoft to integrate its forthcoming .Net platform with Great Plains' business management suite, placing it well to offer small business applications through the emerging Applications Service Provider (ASP) route to market.Microsoft's largest acquisition was its $1.5bn purchase of Visio in September 1999 for stock. At the time, Microsoft's shares were trading at $95. Since then, of course, the value of the stock Visio received has fallen quite dramatically, to $655m. Great Plains is taking the same risk, but it is arguably joining Microsoft's large extended family at a low point in the stock value and is betting on an improvement in Microsoft's fortunes.To understand why Microsoft is embarking on a course of retail therapy, one should understand that the company's business currently consists of three core product areas: desktop operating systems, desktop applications,   and server software. For the future, Microsoft's real ambitions lie in internet-driven services and applications, what it calls its .Net strategy. December's surprise profit warning confronted the company with the threat of declining personal computer sales and a slowdown in corporate IT expenditure, both coming at a vulnerable period in the company's history.A Morgan Stanley Dean Witter annual survey of IT spending at the thousand largest US companies, revealed that approximately 16 per cent planned to spend less on IT this year, and that 12 per cent had already reduced their spending. A further 14 per cent plan to adjust their spending depending on macro-economic conditions, waiting for the second half of the year to spend the larger part of their budget.As computer hardware prices fall, Microsoft has been accelerating its efforts to squeeze vastly more revenue out of every single PC sold. However, the evidence of the past 12 months suggests that this strategy is no longer working and that the Microsoft train is in danger of coming off the tracks.With its historical revenue model under pressure, Microsoft's new consumer and 'Software as a Service' model, the precursor of a more ambitious next-generation internet applications delivery strategy, is failing to shows signs of growing fast enough to balance its transition from a pure product to a services company.Microsoft's .Net strategy concerns itself with the next phase of the internet - moving away from simple web pages towards the concept of 'web services' or, in layman's terms, making the internet a two-way any time, anywhere, interactive and more integrated environment.In his visionary role as chief software architect, Bill Gates views the internet of today as relatively unsophisticated and unintelligent. In much the same way as Microsoft, through the arrival of its Windows Operating System, added a veneer of user-friendliness and intelligence to the PC, it now plans to build - and indeed own - a new framework of services, one that will sit on top of the internet and invisibly manage the increasingly virtual world that will surround every facet of our lives.The Microsoft Network (MSN) remains an important component of the company's overall strategy. While .Net remains either an inspired strategy or a clever exercise in smoke and mirrors, Microsoft still has ambitious plans for the MSN.Still a rather poor second, in subscriber terms, to America On-line, MSN is growing as a global business-to-business and business-to- consumer exchange, one capable of linking the services of Microsoft's many partners in a compelling collection of 'pay per view' style services. Rather like a Sunday boot sale, Microsoft owns a large playing field and is inviting its partners from across the commercial spectrum to set up shop inside MSN's global shopping mall.The breadth of Microsoft's ambition is so vast that grasping the bigger picture is as much a challenge to governments as it is to financial analysts. The past 18 months have seen extraordinary focus on the company's anti-competitive behaviour and its struggle to maintain its Operating Systems monopoly.But while the audience's attention has been on the court drama, Microsoft has been busy buying the twentyfirst century's technology high ground, consolidating its position on any and perhaps every potentially useful technology and platform that takes its interest - and this includes games, digital music, mobile telephony, publishing, television, cable services, software and much more.Microsoft is attempting to find the perfect wave to ride into the next decade but its greatest worry is the state of its surfboard. The all encompassing .Net strategy is not yet completely seaworthy, and this century's next great technology wave could just as easily swamp the company's ambitions as carry it to the same position of dominance it enjoyed in the last century.smoores@researchgroup.co.ukRelated storiesFirst extract from Ken Auletta's bookJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision
The feverish, rumour-fuelled world of internet bulletin boards has taken a sinister turn, sparking a police fraud squad inquiry.Last November someone posted on the bulletin board of venture capital fund 3i what looked like an official Stock Exchange announcement. It said that Mercury, the investment fund, had sold shares in Minmet, the quoted mining firm. This was important because Mercury's presence on Minmet's share register is a significant factor in persuading private investors to hold onto its shares.But the announcement was bogus. It had been cut and pasted from an announcement by a totally unrelated company. Someone had removed the original name, Pilkington Tiles, and replaced it with Minmet.The prank, believe Minmet executives, may have destabilised its volatile share price, which last year rocketed on   hopes that a discovery of gold in Brazil could see massive revenues in the future.This weekend, Kent fraud squad officers confirmed that they were investigating the case following complaints by Minmet, which has an office there and is quoted in Dublin.Minmet executives believe the perpetrator is part of a sophisticated 'deramping' syndicate out to sell short the company's shares in a bid to buy them at deflated prices. 'We've no doubt that this is   organised,' said chief executive Michael Nolan. 'We've been regularly targeted on bulletin boards.'Minmet has been one of the highest profile companies in Ireland. The possibility of the big Brazilian find turned its shares into some of those most talked about, even in UK internet chat rooms. The stock has recently fallen, although the company's recent results have been in line with its expectations.
Microsoft may be doomed to lose even if it ultimately wins in the courts, for the anti-trust case may rob the company of the drive and the passion that have contributed to its extraordinary success.The more Microsoft doesn't change, the more intense the cries for them to change become. The contradiction was not lost on senior vice-president Dick Brass: "The irony of this case is that the more we compete, the better for consumers. Yet the more we compete, the more we're attacked as ruthless. So you hurt the company if we're criticised, and you hurt the company if we don't compete."Government is now in Microsoft's rearview mirror. In the fall of 1998, a Clinton communications-policy strategist told me that government had already concluded the company had too much power, and thus Microsoft's future freedom to act would be thwarted."Microsoft has already lost this issue, and that's the biggest loss they've suffered. This case was supposedly about the browser. That's already happened. That's history. What Microsoft did to WordPerfect was what it desires to do with Windows 2000. They want to use it to control the house, to leverage itself into other markets, to control the entire information age."Following Microsoft are the more than 3m documents the Justice Department collected for the anti-trust trial. Those documents might be used against Microsoft in future lawsuits. Once judged guilty, a lower burden of proof is required in subsequent trials. As David Boies, the government's trial lawyer, observed: "In this trial &#91;Microsoft&#93; started from a presumption of innocence and were not able to prevail. Now in these private cases they start from a presumption of guilt."Armed with a federal court ruling, 129 lawsuits in 26 states and the District of Columbia were pending in October 2000. And in each such lawsuit, victors are usually entitled to triple damages. Defending against lawsuits is not an incidental expense. A senior Microsoft official estimated that the legal cost to defend Microsoft in Judge Jackson's courtroom alone could reach $100m.But now that Jackson had ruled, unless Microsoft is exonerated of all charges, the company will be compelled to sign a consent decree, stationing the government over its shoulder, perhaps to wonder why voice recognition, or Media Player, is going to be bundled in with Windows.Escape daily scrutinyThe Justice Department has placed Microsoft on notice. Microsoft executives will constantly live in fear of subpoenas. And while they wait for a final ruling from the Supreme Court, which could take years, they may come to second-guess themselves, to be less combative.John Malone, whose Liberty Media partners Microsoft around the world, described Gates in late 1999 as depressed. "He no longer looks forward to coming to the office." A reason Malone sold his cable company - aside from a desire to make a pile of money - was that he wanted to escape daily government scrutiny, which comes with any utility-like company."It will become clear to Bill that he can't win," Malone predicted. "It's the Lilliputians...This is about Bill Gates growing up and realising that, even for Bill Gates, government" is bigger.A year later, he concluded that Microsoft would never fully recover from this lawsuit. "They're in the barrel," Malone explained. "There's going to be a pile of civil lawsuits. Now, if you're Bill and his guys, you're all the time on defence, all the time giving depositions. You're just harassed to death. Your stock is in a funk. It's not so much that the world thinks you're the bad guys; it's that the perception is   that government regulators &#91;around the world&#93; will hold up any deal." Executives will say: "'If I do a deal with Microsoft it will take me two years to get it through regulators.'... Whether they win or lose on appeal, this is a setback."By mid-2000, the European Commission had launched investigations of Microsoft's practices on five different fronts, including whether it threatened to monopolise cable television in England, its pricing of Windows in France, and its efforts to leverage the Windows PC to gain power over servers. In China, the government declared that no foreign company should monopolise software and perhaps breach China's security. Henceforth, the government decreed, it would spurn Windows and instead back Linux as the operating system for China's computers.Inevitably, CEOs may make the choice John Malone said Rupert Murdoch did in April 2000. "Rupert wanted Microsoft to be the technology supplier for his satellite platforms around the world," Malone, who is News Corporation's largest outside shareholder, said."Yet in the end he decided he's better off with Nokia than Microsoft because Microsoft would bring controversy and introduce politics, and government would drag it along slowly, while Nokia is clean. It's very discouraging. If you're working at Microsoft you know you made the best bid, yet you lost it. It's extremely depressing to their enthusiasm."Bill Gates is not blind to the trial's toll on his company. He told me before the verdict, "no matter what the outcome, the lawsuit is a bad thing. The costs to the company and the taxpayers have been huge. The last thing any company wants is to be sued by the government".Before Greg Maffei stepped down in late 1999 as the senior vice-president and   chief deal maker for Microsoft, he said, "maybe, subconsciously, we shied away from things".Perhaps it is no accident that after investing in or acquiring a total of 25 companies in the first four months of 2000, since Judge Jackson's remedy verdict in early June this pace slowed dramatically, and Microsoft invested in just 16 companies over the next four months.Microsoft loses in various other ways. They have suffered a serious brain drain. From 1999 through the autumn of 2000, for example, an army of top Microsoft executives left the company to pursue other interests, including chief technology officer Nathan Myhrvold, group vice-president Paul Maritz, and the chief deal-maker Greg Maffei.'Sword of Damocles'And as a legal cloud hovers above Microsoft and it becomes a less cool place to work, it becomes harder to recruit the best and brightest. And it becomes more expensive. An employee who might have been happy to receive 50,000 share options, observed one former senior Microsoft executive, now wants 200,000. In April, when the share price dropped to $66.83 and made the higher-priced shares granted executives in the prior year worthless, Microsoft offered 70m new option shares to employees at that relatively low $66.83 purchase price.When Microsoft filed papers in May opposing a breakup, it warned that having this "Sword of Damocles" dangling over its head would prompt "irreplaceable employees" to flee.One sees Microsoft slippage when Case outdraws Gates in Davos; when such stalwart Microsoft allies as Dell, Compaq and Intel in January 2000 invested $57m in TurboLinux, a company pushing Linux   worldwide; when four members of the original team that created the Apple Macintosh form a company called Eazel to improve Linux so it can compete head-to-head on the desktop with Windows; when America Online strengthens AOLTV by investing $200m in TiVo, building into its set-top boxes such features as storing, pausing, rewinding, and replaying.Observed former Microsoft manager Rob Glaser, "because of this switch to the internet and because of the anti-trust trial, the aura of Microsoft as omnipotent has been shattered. This is no longer the Pax Microsoft era".In addition, the stock market seems to have punished Microsoft. Although the value of Microsoft's stock doubled between October 1997, when Justice first sued the company for violating the consent decree, and April 2000, the stock did plunge 43% between January 1 and April 25 2000. After the verdict, the stock and those of other hi-tech and dot.com companies seemed to enter a free fall. Microsoft's legal woes are blamed for helping unsettle the market.By late October 2000, Microsoft's stock price was stuck at around $60 per share, having lost one half of its value in just nine months. If the stock continues to lag, it might intensify pressures on Gates to drop his appeal, assuming that Justice and the states would agree and would bar evidence gathered in this trial from being used in civil lawsuits.To insist on fighting the lawsuit all the way to the Supreme Court, it will be said, will harm Microsoft shareholders, setting up a clash between two of Gates's core beliefs: his conviction that Microsoft is right and his awareness of his fiduciary responsibility to shareholders. For Microsoft, hindsight can lead only to regret. As time passed and government uncovered more Microsoft documents, government's remedy proposals could only harden, observed a senior Justice Department attorney. "As time goes on, we learn that there were lots of things we did not know in the spring of 1998. The differential in knowledge for the defendant is always greatest at the beginning of a case. They should have taken advantage of that. Microsoft saved us from ourselves. Why Microsoft didn't settle is a big mystery."Judge Jackson thinks he might know why. Looking back on the case and puffing on a pipe in his chambers in mid-July 2000, Judge Jackson said: "If I were able to propose a remedy of &#91;my own&#93; devising I'd require Mr Gates to write a book report." He'd ask Gates to review a recent biography of Napoleon. Why? "Because I think he has a Napoleonic concept of himself and his company. An arrogance which derives from power and unalloyed success, with no leavening hard experience, no reverses." Bill Gates, he implied, was not an adult.Even if Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer and Microsoft appear more grown-up, it is probably too late. Microsoft has been too consistently careless, offended too many with their brusque behaviour, denied too much. As Nick Carraway, the narrator of Gates's favourite novel (The Great Gatsby), says of Tom and Daisy Buchanan after Gatsby's death: "They were careless people, Tom and Daisy - they smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their vast carelessness."&#169; Ken Auletta 2001, from WORLD WAR 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies by Ken Auletta, published by Profile Books Ltd at &#163;17.99.Related storiesFirst extract from Ken Auletta's bookJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision
The US government yesterday staunchly defended the trial judge in the Microsoft antitrust case against accusations from the software company that he was biased and should play no part in any further proceedings.In its filing to the US court of appeals, the justice department and 18 states are taking issue with Microsoft's attempt to overturn the ruling that it broke the law and should be split up.In its own filing, Microsoft used post-trial comments by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson to reporters and in public lectures as evidence that he was biased against the firm.Judge Jackson has continued to make incendiary remarks in print, not least in the book on the trial written by Ken Auletta, serialised in the Guardian this week.In World War 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies, Judge Jackson accuses Bill Gates of being Napoleon-like in his arrogance and like other criminals in his   inability to see any wrongdoing. He is scathing about the company's behaviour during the 73-day trial.The justice department yesterday argued against each of Microsoft's complaints and urged the appeals court not to take "the extraordinary step of invalidating the judgment".Not only were many of Judge Jackson's comments justified by Microsoft's behaviour, it said, but he had also said some positive things in print about it - such as that he was "full of admiration" for its products.Judge Jackson's public statements have raised eyebrows in legal circles. Bill Kovacic, a professor of law at the George Washington University who has applauded Judge Jackson's handling of the trial, called his subsequent comments "a ghastly display of bad judgment" this week. "It's clearly the behaviour of a man who expects to have no further role in this matter," he added.Both sides appear before the court of appeals next month.Related storiesFirst extract from Ken Auletta's bookJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision&#169; Ken Auletta 2001, from WORLD WAR 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies by Ken Auletta, published by Profile Books Ltd at &#163;17.99 on January 15
&#149; During the first nine months of 2000, Microsoft invested in or acquired 42 companies; at this rate, they will exceed the number of deals they made in 1999. Everywhere one looked in mid-2000, Microsoft was positioned to pounce, with a $17.8bn portfolio of equity investments in a variety of companies and $23.8bn in ready cash and marketable securities to enter new ventures.&#149; The company previewed its Xbox, a new video-game console that could be linked to the PC or to a television and aimed at supplanting Sony's PlayStation2.&#149; Microsoft pursued Rob Glaser's RealNetworks by integrating for free its Media Player software into Windows both for the desktop and for servers.&#149; Mr Gates chased Palm and its more than 80% market share by introducing a new version of its Pocket PC software for hardware manufacturers such as Casio, now offering such enticing features as colour, a web browser and the ability to play music or video clips.&#149; For the first time in years Microsoft saw MSN's subscribers grow at a faster pace than AOL's - doubling in 2000 - although by the autumn of 2000 AOL had 25m subscribers to MSN's mere 3m.&#149; In June, the company undertook a radical companywide restructuring during the course of the trial, shifting the company toward what it called "next generation Windows services", aiming to promote a seamless Windows platform on any device connected to the internet, integrating all services and applications.&#149; Microsoft continued its spending spree -spending more than $2bn on joint wireless ventures worldwide, billions on new wireless devices, and hundreds of millions on web-hosting companies that deliver software online.&#149; Microsoft made big bets on cable. In concert with John Malone's Liberty Media, Microsoft set out to construct a global cable empire. Overall, by September 2000, Microsoft had made more than $11bn in broadband investments worldwide - including a $3bn stake in Britain's Telewest and a $500m stake in NTL, England's third-largest cable operation and an 8% stake in UPC, Europe's largest cable broadband company, whose reach stretched over 12 countries.
LinuxBill Gates is particularly concerned about Linux, an operating system pioneered by a Finnish engineer, Linus Torvalds. Linux proclaimed itself open to all, and was converting users and provoking considerable buzz.In full-page newspaper ads in May 2000, IBM hailed the free and open Linux operating system as "the fastest growing operating system in the world". Windows' market share in early 2000 dropped to 82%, with Linux and Apple each claiming 9%. With PC sales slowing, America Online and Gateway agreed in April 2000 to accelerate the move to the post-PC era by producing low cost internet appliances that will use Linux.RealNetworksRob Glaser joined Microsoft in 1983, and had been close to Gates before leaving to start streaming expert RealNetworks. In June 2000, Glaser and Apple's Steve Jobs announced that they would align their streaming media efforts and would jointly attack the number three streaming media provider, Microsoft. Later that summer, AOL agreed to broadcast RealNetworks audio and video software to its members.AOLAOL announced that it had purchased a stake in a voice recognition company, hoping to go head to head against Microsoft. And although Microsoft was a major investor in Japan's cellular telephone giant, NTT DoCoMo, America Online boldly aced out Microsoft in the summer of 2000 and induced the Japanese company to ally with AOL rather than Microsoft's MSN. DoCoMo agreed to assume a 43% stake in AOL Japan and to run the enterprise, and together they would provide wireless web access.NetscapeAlthough the browser wars now appear to be over - with Microsoft's market share surging to 86% and Netscape's plummeting to just under 14% - America Online announced in the spring of 2000 the debut of the new Netscape 6 browser, which Steve Case insisted was superior to Microsoft's.Should America Online replace Microsoft's browser when their contract lapses in January 2001, Netscape's share of the browser market would jump to 40%.
Bill Gates was angry when he arrived at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January 1998.His anger was palpable, and it surprised many who did not know him but knew well the multiple reasons he had not to be angry: the planet's richest man was the co-founder of Microsoft, a company that for 23 years had outflanked and outthought its competitors, a company whose Windows software now served as the essential code in about 90% of all personal computers, a company whose stock price made it the world's most highly valued.Unlike stock market meteors such as Amazon.com and Broadcast.com that produced paper billionaires but globs of red ink, Microsoft's profits, nearly $4.5bn, were twice as large as those of the world's largest company, General Motors.What's more, Bill Gates had come to look forward to this annual summit of about 2,000 CEOs and government, academic, and media leaders, who came to this tiny Alpine village for three to five days, dipping into seminars on topics from genetic engineering to Islam, listening to and giving speeches, maybe skiing, and, of course, scheduling one-on-one business meetings, all under the protective eye of the machine gun-toting Swiss army.Not President Clinton or the presidents of China or Russia or the CEO of GE or Warren Beatty was a bigger rock star here than Bill Gates. For the past several years, the coveted Sunday luncheon speech before the international press was reserved for Bill Gates. He enjoyed the attention, and the efficiency of Davos even more. At Microsoft, he carefully budgeted his time, allocating a set number of annual face-time hours to each senior executive and five speeches per year to software developers.For a busy executive, Davos was like one-stop shopping: in just a few days, Gates could assemble and speak with hundreds of his biggest customers, prearrange appointments to discuss deals, stack up private sessions with CEOs or   government chiefs, and gather in one room correspondents from the world's most prestigious publications.Yet whatever reasons Bill Gates might have had to be ebullient going into Davos were overwhelmed by his burgeoning sense that he was a victim. He believed Microsoft was the engine of the new economy. So why, he wondered, was the US government treating him like Al Capone?At the Sunday lunch, I was seated next to Gates at a table for 10 that included his wife, Melinda, and the then chairman and CEO of Coca-Cola, Douglas Ivester. Before the salad arrived, he had already berated me for a panel I'd moderated a few nights earlier called "Monopolies and Technology". He complained that I had allowed enemies of Microsoft to pummel his chief technology officer, Nathan Myhrvold. Gates was not mollified to hear that Myhrvold more than held his own in the exchange. Gates sat huddled over, his arms folded across his chest, his brown hair unparted, unwashed, and combed straight down like a boy's. He rocked back and forth in his chair, his eyes fixed on the floor.His manner was gruff, and he was either unwilling or unable to hide his rage. Melinda Gates, a personable former Microsoft executive, tried discreetly to capture his attention, but he would not look up. The eight other guests at the table stared at him in wonder. Suddenly,   his voice rising to a shrill pitch, Gates proclaimed, "Neither Nathan nor anyone from Microsoft will ever appear again on such a panel!" Those of us sharing his luncheon table in Davos were stunned by the rawness of the emotion Bill Gates couldn't contain, but we assumed he would compose himself for his eagerly awaited speech to a room filled with a worldwide press corps.And, indeed, after he was introduced, Gates at first skillfully camouflaged his rage. He fastened on his best CEO mask and, displaying a half smile, spoke calmly for about 20 minutes.He responded easily to questions from reporters about Microsoft's legal woes and about whom he saw as its potential business competitors. But then I rose and asked what could have been construed as an innocuous question: "Unlike other companies, Microsoft is now stalked by an 800lb gorilla, the government. And without passing judgment on the merits of the case, the government does have legitimate responsibilities: to seek to protect the public from monopolies, or from price gouging, or from invasions of privacy. What do you say to those who believe Microsoft has behaved arrogantly, as if the government had no right to ask questions?"Perhaps it was the word arrogant that provoked an eruption, for Gates plunged into a five-minute rant memorable less for what he said than for the deep hurt he betrayed. After curtly taking several more questions, Gates returned to the table and, hovering behind me, bellowed, "What do you mean arrogant?" Douglas Ivester's eyes widened, and the look on his face said: "This is not how Fortune 500 CEOs behave!" Melinda Gates looked stricken."Remember when you said neither Nathan nor anyone from Microsoft would appear on a panel again?" I said. "That was arrogant."Just as suddenly as it had erupted, the storm subsided, and the belligerent Gates became a vulnerable adolescent. "What should I do?" he asked plaintively, in a subdued voice. Like everyone at the table, I froze in awkward silence until the luncheon mercifully concluded.Although Bill Gates barely noticed, Microsoft's approach was isolating it from many of the corporate leaders gathered in Davos. At an annual Sun Valley retreat put on by Allen &amp; Company, News Corporation's Rupert Murdoch, NBC's Robert Wright, Sony's Nobuyuki Idei - among   others - were shocked during a Gates presentation when he boasted: "I'm going to destroy three companies: Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and Netscape."Everyone in this audience wanted to beat the competition - but destroy them? Gates seemed so, well, immature. To these executives, business was business; it wasn't personal.In 2000, it was apparent that, unlike in prior years, Gates was no longer the magnet at this event. Earlier that year Steve Case's America Online deployed $165bn of its "invasion currency" to gobble up the world's largest media company, TimeWarner. Case was the new rock star of Davos. It was Case that US secretary of state Madeleine Albright asked to be seated next to at a dinner Saturday night,   and Case that King Abdallah bin al-Hussein of Jordan was seated beside Sunday night.Case fielded most of the questions in Davos - as if the audience expected this from him. Gates seemed to sink back into his beige leather armchair, hesitant to contribute. Gates looked markedly older than he had the year before. His face was marked by more wrinkles, and the skin under his eyes sagged.I asked Case if he sensed a shift of focus away from Gates. He acknowledged he was now "a little more" like a rock star and that the spotlight of celebrity now pursued him. "It goes with the territory," he said. He was also struck that Gates, with whom he's been on panels and attended conferences and had more than a few fractious negotiations, was "a little subdued. He seemed to be going out of his way to be more of a statesman."Not for one minute, however, did Case believe Gates when he said Microsoft would stick to software. "It's highly likely that the destiny of our two companies is to duke it out for many years to come. We are wary of them. We don't see them as a software company. We see them as a to-the-death competitor. And they have determined, probably correctly, that if they want to be the most valuable company in the future they can't just be a software company."If Gates really meant not to be in the content business, said Case, "then he would have divested MSN and Expedia and all those businesses that are not software businesses". It is second nature for Case not to take Gates at his word.This lack of trust was increasingly mentioned by other companies who contemplated partnering with Microsoft. Even John Malone, who probably has as many joint ventures with Microsoft as anyone, thought Microsoft's aggressive culture could disadvantage them in the future. "They want to win," he said. "They don't want their team to win. They're not team players by nature. They're ball hogs."Surely trust was now a missing ingredient in the relationship between Nobuyuki Idei and Gates. Idei is a trained economist who pushes his company to spend about the same on R&amp;D ($3.7bn) as does Microsoft ($3.8bn).Idei still saw Microsoft as "the biggest competitor of Sony". The two corporations were engaged, he said, in a series of "regional wars, not a world war". They battled in the game market, battled in designing software operating systems for cable boxes, battled in e-commerce, would battle when he launched a Sony-branded portal, as he had in Japan, to compete with MSN and others, and they would battle when the new Sony PlayStation became an inexpensive operating system for all home appliances.Idei had a private meeting in Davos with Gates, as he did each year, but this year tensions flared. "He feels PlayStation is a real threat to them," Idei said. Microsoft aspired to provide the operating system for PlayStation, as well as for cable boxes or servers or PCs. Idei was unmoved.Idei thought Gates had reason to be unsure: "Microsoft is very uncertain about their future business model." In the two decades he had known Gates, Idei had never seen him so tentative. In halting English, this thin, taciturn man who wore a white silk shirt with a round collar buttoned at the top, said he thought Microsoft was slipping because their "business model is totally in danger.""Gates is an OS &#91;operating system&#93; dinosaur," he said, at a time when power is shifting. To get very large, companies required the right ideas, and Idei no longer thought Gates had these. "His mind-set is old," he said. He would no longer be able to license Windows as he once had."Bill Gates is the IBM of today _ He   wrote a book about the road ahead, but it is really the road back." Microsoft is losing good executives, he continued. Microsoft wants to build its model around MSN, but when they head overseas AOL, Sony, and others have huge head starts.Microsoft wants to find partners, but human relationships are not its core strength. "Microsoft's soldiers try to behave like Bill Gates. They act more important than you," said Idei, making it clear that this further poisoned partnership prospects. Idei still saw Microsoft and America Online as the two principal future competitors with Sony. He hoped to reduce the battle to a one-on-one fight, which meant he might partner with either foe, though he wasn't sure he could trust Microsoft. However, even if Idei succeeded in eliminating a major enemy, he knew others would surface.Big companies will be assaulted by hordes of what Idei called "ants" - by free-software programmers using Linux, by copyright pirates, by makers of portable devices that access the internet."A big company, like a dinosaur, will be eaten up by the ants," he said. Only the very large or the very small may survive, with those in between nibbled to death by the ants or crushed.Related storiesJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision&#169; Ken Auletta 2001, from WORLD WAR 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies by Ken Auletta, published by Profile Books Ltd at &#163;17.99 on January 15Read part three
When Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson picked up his copy of the Washington Post on April 19, he read of a visit Microsoft's chief executive officer Steve Ballmer had made to the paper the previous day.To a roomful of reporters and editors, Ballmer said: "I do not think we broke the law in any way, shape, or form. I feel deeply that we behaved in every instance with super integrity. I'm not saying we don't talk tough, that people don't get a little 'grrr' in their email and all that."They simply had bad social graces, he insisted. Microsoft's problem was bad manners, not bad behaviour.Judge Jackson was livid. "They don't act like grown-ups," he told me that same afternoon. He interpreted what Ballmer said this way: "We're a little rough around the edges, but you have to be tolerant!" Ballmer's interview proved to Jackson that "to this day they continue to deny they did anything wrong".Jackson appears a safe conformist, an upright member of the Rotary Club and the vestry of All Saints' Episcopal Church. At the end of his workday, he often races to catch the train in order to walk his dog. His taste tending to all things British, especially to the twenty sea novels of Patrick O'Brian.A few inches shy of six feet tall, from the neck down Jackson looks like a barrel-chested high-school football coach, his belly pressing against his belt.While Jackson can display a deep, authoritative voice, spectators usually have to lean forward, straining to hear; what most spectators cannot see is that he has a small flesh-coloured hearing aid in his right ear, which might account for his quiet voice.Jackson, 62, was the first judge appointed by president Reagan to this district court. He prides himself on being a straight-shooter and his contemporary heroes are blunt men such as John McCain and Barry Goldwater.Privately, Microsoft feared that Judge Jackson was a foe. He had made a number of pretrial rulings deemed hostile to the company.In 1998 Jackson had a knot of complicated facts to untangle: did Microsoft really gain on Netscape because Internet Explorer was technically superior to Netscape Navigator, as Microsoft claimed, or did Microsoft gain because they coerced companies, as Netscape claimed?This was no easy task for Jackson, who does not use email or a browser or a PC. Microsoft was convinced Jackson was uncomfortable with technology, and therefore it worried that he could not comprehend the case.Jackson also had the weight of history to think about. Jackson knew that this was the case of a lifetime. Jackson had presided over cases that attracted media firestorms, but none that might be deemed truly historic. "Many people have referred to it as the biggest thing since the   Standard Oil case," Jackson told me. "I don't know that. It is the biggest case I've ever had."The federal trial began in October 1998 and on June 7 2000 Judge Jackson issued his final judgment, ordering that Microsoft be broken up into two companies and imposing conduct restrictions on the company's behaviour for several years.Jackson ordered Microsoft to submit a plan not later than four months after the appeals process ended describing how it would split Microsoft in two. If an appeals court did not stay this order, in three months he would impose on Microsoft the various conduct remedies proposed by the government. In addition, Jackson refused to rely on CEO Steve Ballmer to appoint a compliance officer, as the government had proposed.Displaying his disdain for Ballmer, Jackson gave Microsoft directors 90 days to establish a compliance committee consisting of no less than three board members "who are not present or former employees of Microsoft", and empowering this committee - not the CEO of the company - to appoint a chief compliance officer to report to both the committee and the CEO.Although they had the barrel of a gun stuck deep down its throat, Microsoft remained strangely upbeat. Bill Neukom, the company's lawyer, told reporters he was confident Microsoft would win on appeal. This is, Gates told reporters, "the first day of the rest of this case".Throughout the trial, Jackson later told me, he could not get out of his mind the group picture he had seen of Bill Gates and Paul Allen and their shaggy-haired first employees at Microsoft.What Jackson saw there was not a portrait of a CEO and lieutenants who would create one of the world's most profitable corporations.Rather, Jackson said, what he saw was "a smart-mouthed young kid who has extraordinary ability and needs a little discipline. I've often said to colleagues that Gates would be better off if he had finished Harvard."Related storiesJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision&#169; Ken Auletta 2001, from WORLD WAR 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies by Ken Auletta, published by Profile Books Ltd at &#163;17.99 on January 15
Yahoo!'s profit warning has raised fresh questions not only about the future of dot.com companies but of the culture of the world wide web itself. Yahoo!'s shares fell sharply in after-hours dealing on Wednesday when the company warned of a significant deterioration in its prospects for this year. Yesterday its shares were trading at $25, a fall of 88% since their peak last year.Yahoo!'s deteriorating prospects is unsurprising in the wake of the sharp downturn in the US economy as a whole and the catastrophic crash in the dot.com area which has made some of the financial pages look more like an obituary section. But that will not stop the questions being asked. If Yahoo!, the most successful of all the web portals, cannot be turned into a prosperous business, what chance is there for the other dot.coms, most of whom, unlike Yahoo!, lose money on an unbelievable scale?One of this week's casualties, Mercata, turned out to be losing $36.1m (&#163;24m) on sales of only $6.3m. Mercata, like its troubled European equivalent, Letsbuyit.com, had the novel idea of grouping consumers together to negotiate lower prices. This is a wonderful way of harnessing the global power of the internet - in theory. In practice these companies underestimated the cost of marketing, delivery and servicing customers.If it turns out that hardly any of the new internet companies are able to derive finance from elsewhere (other than banner ads) to finance services like email, web hosting, chat rooms, search engines and all the other services we have been used to getting for nothing, then something will have to give.There are two reasons why these services are free. It is not that Microsoft and Yahoo! have turned into a web version of the Red Cross. It is, first, because they know that there are so many others offering similar free services that consumers would simply migrate to them as soon as any company started to charge. On the web the consumer is (still) king.The second reason is that no one has yet devised a successful way of enabling small payments to be made on the web. If that had happened at the beginning (as it did for a while on BT's Prestel service) things might have turned out differently. The next year or two should see a breakthrough in devising acceptable internet payment systems.What is likely to happen now is that lots more companies will fail and the bigger ones will gobble them up - and one another - in order to gain enough market power to start charging.This does not mean that the underlying "mutual" ethic of the internet is at risk. People, institutions and many companies will continue to exchange information and services for nothing. And the internet will continue to be a vital conduit for the vast majority of successful businesses.But it could mean the eventual end of the commercial free lunch. Yahoo! is already trying its luck. It has started charging punters who want to list items on its auction sites.Some people think the big dot.coms will be rescued by charging for streaming video commercials that web users would be compelled to watch for a few seconds before accessing what they want. There will be a lot of resistance to this. But the lesson of this year is that dot.coms, including Yahoo!, cannot live by banner ads alone. Something has to give.
Yahoo!, the web portal, was expected to give an update on the state of the online advertising market last night in keenly anticipated fourth quarter results.Investors were nervous ahead of the results amid signs of a sharp slowdown in the US economy in general and advertising revenue in particular. Almost all of Yahoo!'s top line sales come from advertising.Wall Street analysts have raised concerns that more than 40% of group revenue is derived from the struggling dot.com sector. Several have downgraded the company in recent weeks amid expectations of a weakening outlook.Since reaching a high of more than $225 last spring, shares in Yahoo! have lost more than 90% of their value. They were up slightly at midday yesterday at about $30.According to a First Call survey, analysts' consensus was that Yahoo! would report fourth-quarter earnings of 13 cents per share and revenue of about $315m.For the full year, revenues are expected to reach $1.1bn, up from $588m in 1999. Analysts also expect Yahoo!, one of the few profitable internet companies, to double annual earnings.In a research note published earlier this week, Henry Blodget, the once bullish internet analyst at Merrill Lynch, said he expected overall online advertising spending to be flat at about $8bn this year. This marks a sharp deterioration from his previously held view of a 30% growth rate.
Burntwood Grange Road near London's Wandsworth Common may not appear a likely location for an experiment in 21st-century shopping. But the leafy cul-de-sac is the site of a pilot scheme that, if successful, could alter the landscape of every street in the country.About a month ago, a number of smart aluminium boxes, roughly the size of picnic hampers, began to appear on the doorsteps of the road's 1950s townhouses. The boxes belong to Homeport, an internet start-up that thinks it has found the answer to the biggest problem in home shopping: how to deliver goods to our homes when we are out at work.According to the Post Office, home shopping on the internet is about to explode. A recent internal survey predicted that more than six million of us would have shopped online by the new year. In the run up to Christmas, the Post Office allowed 1,000 of its high-street counters to be used as pick-up points for goods ordered over the net. And if the postie can't help you, no worries: companies as diverse as Express Dairies and Pizza Hut are vying for a slice of the home-delivery pie.Still, the main thing restraining internet shopping is that most people want their goods at the same time - between seven and eight in the evening. But, for a part-time antiques dealer and full-time mother like Melissa Foks, being in at a set time is not always an option. So, although she had never shopped online before, she volunteered to be one of the first to try out the Homeport system.Homeport sells a small metal panel (measuring 12cm by 15cm) that is bolted to the side of your house. This houses three "ports" to which the cables that secure Homeport's delivery boxes can be attached.My Homeport was delivered last week. Four deep holes had to be drilled into the side of my flat, but the installation took only five minutes. I ordered aproximately &#163;60 worth of shopping via the internet, and when I came home from work the following lunchtime, an aluminium box was waiting for me.After about five minutes of fiddling with the controls, I managed to unhook the cable and carry my bounty upstairs. The company knew that I was a journalist writing about the Homeport, but the customers I have spoken to had few complaints. Like most of the best ideas, it's dead simple.Foks says she is quite proud of the Homeport that is bolted to the side of her house in Burntwood Grange Road. She uses a swipe card to release the cable and take in her goods. She doesn't own the box, and it is automatically taken away the next day after she has unpacked all her shopping.Foks was hesitant about using the Homeport delivery service at first - until one occasion when she was stuck in Exeter and used it to order the ingredients for a dinner party. "A box full of chicken breasts, sun-dried tomatoes and bottles of Rioja were waiting for me when I drove back," she says. The dinner party was saved and she was convinced that the Homeport was worth keeping.Homeport has been under development for three years. Initially the company built prototypes that involved complicated sets of padlocks and keys. But earlier this year it was introduced to card technology and its plan began to fall into place. An initial pilot scheme with fewer than 100 boxes has been running in London since September."There is quite a lot of inertia initially," says Mark Lunn of Homeport. "It takes quite a lot of time and effort to get people to have one fitted, and once fitted, it then takes quite some time to get them to actually order, but once you have used one, people seem to use it every   week." Only a third of people in the pilot scheme choose to order on the internet. The rest prefer phone and fax. About 10% have used the system for dry cleaning."We want to have an open system that can be used by many, many retailers and delivery companies," says Lunn. The company has already signed up with Jeeves of Belgravia, Food Ferry and Berry Brothers. Homeport started its first major trial with Sainsbury's on January 2. The scheme will be piloted in 50 postcode areas across London and the Thames Valley. An installation charge of &#163;30 will be waived for the pilot scheme.Apart from this fee, the use of the Homeport is free, save for the delivery costs that are usually added to online shopping bills. The retailers pay Homeport &#163;1 per delivery to use its boxes, and the hope is that the retailers will save money because they will be able to spread out deliveries through the day - or night - and, crucially, spend less time at each house. "They can double park, plug in and be gone in three minutes," says Lunn. Traditional deliveries take about 10 minutes while the driver parks, rings the doorbell and politely delivers the goods.Homeport's main advantages are that it is flexible and cheap to install. But it is only the first generation of home-delivery boxes. Already, other   more permanent boxes are being touted as potential rivals. Fellow start-ups Dynamid and BearBox are developing permanent cool boxes for the outside of houses. Both companies have tested 100 units each at homes around London in the run-up to Christmas and hope to launch fully by the spring.Of course, consumer confidence has to be built before any kind of secure box finds its way into every street in the UK. One obvious problem is security; another is getting the supermarkets to sign up. Sainsbury's has already announced a partnership with Homeport, but Tesco.com, the UK's largest online food retailer, says it is yet to be convinced that either home-delivery box system - removable or permanent - is reliable enough. Tesco claims that its customers (who spend around &#163;90 per shop) like to be around when their groceries arrive and, what's more, have built relationships with its delivery people.Whether we are really so fond of the man in the white van is debatable, but don't write off the out-of-town retail centre yet: the next big net retail scheme in the pipeline is rumoured to include drive-though pick-up points. As for Foks, she took herself and her two children to the supermarket last week "just for a change".Useful linksHomeporthomeDynamidBearbox
If the general election takes place in spring, as confidently predicted, it will not be an online contest. Too few party politicians are web- connected and a sudden explosion of political sites during the next few months is unlikely.The political parties all have official websites but their leading members do not. Only 16% of Westminster MPs have websites, an extraordinarily low figure given the government's (and the Tories') public enthusiasm for the medium. Though the Liberal Democrats, with four out of 10 of their MPs running their own sites, are a stronger presence, it is remarkable that their own IT spokesman has no online presence.The line-up in the Commons for MPs' websites is Labour 16%, Tories 12% and Lib Dems 42%. The nationalists at Westminster are 15-20% online. A Plaid Cymru   official's judgment that "for us the web has not superseded traditional forms of communication" seems to hold true for all the parties. Gender does not seem to be an issue: one in six women MPs have websites, the same proportion as their male colleagues.Our elected representatives' internet backwardness is demonstrated atwww.parliament.uk, a staid and starchy affair. The official House of Commons site lists    MPs contactable by email (many are not) and the minority who have websites. The list is badly out of date, an indication of the lack of enthusiasm of individual MPs   as well as Westminster's corporate lack of interest in web communications.Getting web addresses can involve a complicated journey via party headquarters and regional sites. And when you get there, few MPs' sites make anything like proper use of   the interactive properties of the web: to be greeted with a picture of MP, spouse and children and the recent utterances of party leaders Tony Blair or William Hague is not enough.Blair tells schools to get online but he is internet-invisible. Neither prime minister nor chancellor have their own sites, though of course Number 10's official site is state of the art (www.number-10.gov.uk).A not-for-profit company working atwww.faxyourMP.comoffers a way of sending comments to MPs for free, for the sake of lubricating democracy. It has to use fax because so few MPs can be emailed or have sites to which messages can be sent.It is hard not to convict some MPs of hypocrisy The public accounts committee regularly roasts Whitehall departments for their failings on the IT front. Yet barely one in five members of the PAC   have their own websites and its chairman, the Tory MP David Davis, is not even listed as having email.MPs who do try stand out. Labour MP Sally Keeble ( ww.cwd.co.uk/sally.keeble ) runs a formidable site with useful links and full contact information. Other Labour enthusiasts includeAustin Mitchell, who lets visitors see his prowess as an amateur photographer. Chris Smith, culture secretary is one of the few ministers with apersonal site. Fiona Jones, the Labour MP for Newarkwas alert enough to put a Christmas tree and seasonal greetings onher site.Among Tories Nigel Evans, the MP for Ribble, stands out for a website offering a free bottle of House of Commons whisky personally signed by William Hague as a reward for entering his online quiz atwww.nigelmp.com. Who could refuse such an offer? Colin Breed, the Liberal Democrat MP for SE Cornwall, is online atwww.forsiteuk.com/ColinBreedwith all the gen on the campaign for a bypass at Dobwalls. But in the neighbouring county of Devon, Lib Dem Nick Harvey has no site. Party HQ says it is   a matter for individuals.The creation of new representative bodies outside Westminster has had an energising effect on online politics.The Scottish parliamentoffers its members training in running websites and live webcasts of proceedings. The Welsh assembly, Scottish parliamentand the Northern Ireland executive all offer generic contact services for their members, along with biographical details and - something missing at Westminster - mugshots. Facial hair may have been forbidden by Labour's HQ at Millbank but, at least on men, it seems to be sprouting on the UK's periphery.But only a minority of members of the new assemblies and parliament have their own websites, among themGeraint Davies, the   Plaid Cymru aassembly member for Rhondda. Staff at PC's headquarters describe it as an extra means of communication but not transforming.Another is Roy Beggs, an Ulster Unionist member of the Northern Ireland Assembly who has an informative site,www.roy-beggs.fsnet.co.uk(He has gone online "to utilise modern methods to provide a responsive constituency service to all the people of East Antrim" .)As a group, Tory members of the Scottish parliament have got their internet act together atwww.tory.msp.org.uk. MSPDavid Mundellsays "the website is a good way of getting information out. The web will become increasingly important but will not replace traditional methods. Here in Scotland the most important medium is the local newspaper." But the web is an excellent way of getting through to young people, he says."Modernisation" has figured in Labour's rhetoric in recent years but it is no guarantee that Labour members will seize their net opportunities. Ideology and use of the net are not easy to correlate. Some reactionaries have good sites; many liberal modernisers are still, it seems, internet virgins.
Comparing is natural, asserts a recent advert for comparison shopping websiteKelkoo.com. It shows one child smugly      clutching a huge Christmas parcel with another bawling at the size of his more modest gift. But users of such sites      cannot assume they are getting accurate, unbiased information.Comparison shopping sites should be a boon for those wanting to buy online. Sites such as the UK'sShopSmart.com,      French rivalKelkooand recently-launchedEasyValue.com(part of the UK group that owns airline EasyJet) ask you what      you want to buy, then check its price at several online retailers.They then present you with a list of shops, their prices and delivery charges for the item, and in some cases      information on delivery times and an overall store rating. ShopSmart, which according to web ratings agency MMXI      Europe received 490,000 unique visitors last October, also offers reviews of items such as CDs. You can then click      straight through to your chosen shop, saving much mouse-work.It seems a great idea: but buyer, beware. Both ShopSmart and Kelkoo charge retailers a referral fee for that final      click- through. No one will reveal the exact value, but Alexander Broich, UK managing director of online book and music      retailer Bol.com, describes it as "more than pennies, but below a pound". Broich says he's happy to pay this fee,      because someone who has chosen Bol from the list is ready to buy. This makes it a more efficient way of snaring paying      customers than blanket advertising, he adds.Indirectly, the fees charged by the comparison engines are paid by customers. Of course that can be said of all kinds of      advertising, and retailers do not charge comparison site users more than those who come straight to their website. But      the fees do lead some retailers to reject the comparison sites.       "We try to avoid them like the plague," says Steve Bennett, chief executive of technology and music retailerJungle.com.But he adds: "You can't stop them coming to your site."       Both ShopSmart and Kelkoo list Jungle products. When questioned on this, Kelkoo admitted it was listing Jungle for free,      in the hope of cutting a deal with the Midlands-based retailer this year. ShopSmart said it does collect fees from Jungle,      although Jungle insists its deal with the comparison site has lapsed.Regardless of exceptions, the fees mean retailers      with the keenest prices may well not be in the comparison list.       And results differ widely. A search of these three comparison sites for two recently-released CDs produced no fewer      than five different "cheapest" prices. When asked to search for U2's All That You Can't Leave Behind , ShopSmart and      Kelkoo both identified 101CD.com as the cheapest retailer, at 9.99 including postage. EasyValue concluded that      CDShop.com was the cheapest, at 10.75 inclusive.These are not bad savings when compared with high street prices of 12.99 or 13.99. But an observant user of      Kelkoo's site might notice a small advert for retailer CD-Wow.com, selling titles including the U2 album for 8.99      inclusive."In some situations, we may not always have them in the comparison engine, but may build them up through other      promotions," says Brad Monaghan, UK head of commercial operations for Kelkoo, when asked why CD-Wow can advertise,      but not get listed in comparisons. Monaghan says Kelkoo restricts its comparisons to retailers that have passed      standards involving security of transactions and product guarantees - as well as a willingness to pay its fees, of      course. ShopSmart has a similar set of standards, and says it is aiming to cut the number of retailers it uses.Both      have removed retailers after receiving complaints. EasyValue says it would in principle.       There is something in this idea of quality control: CD-Wow delivered the 8.99 U2 album on the Wednesday morning      after a Friday night order, but it came from Hong Kong - and lacked a bonus track available to UK shoppers. To be fair,      CD-Wow did respond promptly to a complaint, offering a full refund with a UK return address.The three comparison sites came up with three different answers when searching for the Beatles' Christmas cash-in      compilation, 1 . Kelkoo said the lowest price was from Amazon.co.uk, at 11.47 including delivery - but Amazon's actual      total price is 11.73. ShopSmart recommended 101CD at 10.99, and EasyValue thought that CDShop was the cheapest      at 10.75. This time, EasyValue got its prices right, but it had incorrectly priced the U2 album from 101CD at 10.99 -      meaning price-conscious customers would have missed the best bargain and paid 76p more than they needed.The      difference may not be much, but what's the point of comparing if the prices used are wrong?       Both Kelkoo and EasyValue were thrown by postage and packing charges. Lyndon Hearn, head of technology for Kelkoo      UK, passed the query to the firm's team of checkers in Grenoble, and a few hours later called back with the answer:      Amazon.co.uk's list of delivery prices does not include VAT, hence the 26p discrepancy. "It just highlights the problems      we have on the internet," says Hearn, who corrected the glitch as a result of Online's query.The problem stems from one of the ways used by Kelkoo to gather prices. It prefers to collect the entire price-list      including delivery charges once a day, either through the retailer sending a file, or by Kelkoo reading a      specially-formatted web page on the retailer's site. "If the merchant has got some time for us and we've got a strong      deal, we do it that way," says Hearn.But with Amazon, Kelkoo uses software that browses its website as if it were a      customer gathering prices. This can lead to mistakes or no data if Amazon changes the format of web pages, or as in      this case where the rules for charging are wrongly programmed by Kelkoo.       EasyValue's mistake, which the firm says it is correcting, came from a similar assumption: its systems were set to      assume 101CD charged 1 postage on all items. In fact, as a special offer, the U2 album was free of delivery charges.Normally, EasyValue relies on software which scans the web pages of retailers - which Kelkoo has found the less      accurate way of gathering price information.       On the plus side, EasyValue does not try to insist that retailers in its comparison site pay referral fees. "The other      &#91;comparison sites&#93; tend to be walled gardens, as they only offer those with whom they have an agreement," says James      Rothnie, director of corporate affairs for EasyGroup.EasyValue plans to make money by providing enhanced listings to      those willing to pay fees, rather like bold-type entries in a tele phone directory.       EasyGroup, run by internet enthusiast Stelios Haji-Ioannou, has been famous for reducing prices at its airline EasyJet      partly by taking three-quarters of bookings through the web. The group's recently-launched car rental business      EasyRentacar only takes bookings online.In both cases, prices are reduced by cutting out travel agents, who charge      commission, and even telephone operators, who cost more for each transaction than a computer. So why is EasyValue      trying to make money from putting a layer back between the customer and the retailer?Rothnie says that sometimes customers need advice. This doesn't apply to booking a short flight within Europe, which is      why EasyJet doesn't deal with travel agents. "But if you're travelling to Australia and staying in hotels, then travel      agents can provide value, although they charge money &#91;through commissions&#93;," he says.       Automated shopping should have a great future, according to Ian Lynch, a director of analyst firm Butler. He says      shopping software agents, sometimes known as robots or bots, will negotiate with similarly computerised sellers to      strike the best deals, having been pre-programmed by their users."What's going to make them more interesting is when      they have game theory built in, so you can release a bot into an auction to act on your behalf," says Lynch.       A simple example can be seen on auction site QXL.com, where sellers enter both a start price and a secret reserve,      below which an item will not be sold. Buyers can enter a secret maximum bid. If another buyer bids for an item, the first      buyer's shopping robot matches the bid automatically, up to the maximum.       Jungle's Steve Bennett has an alternative vision, of comparison shopping sites acting like consumer champions. "If they      were more professional, placed test orders, and rated retailers' abilities, then we would be very interested," he says,      adding that price is usually just one factor when customers choose a shop.       Lynch believes sites charging referral fees will need to think again: "We don't think that's a sustainable business      model," he says.However, he admits the current generation is better than nothing. "As long as you don't expect them      to be 100% accurate, they are a useful aid."       The problem is that the advice of a comparison shopping site today may not be worth the pixels it is displayed on.      EasyValue's fee-free approach looks like the way forward, but customers need to remember that automated processes      for gathering information from retailer websites are fallible.
How do you think women's surfing habits differ from men's?This makes me think of the guys in my office who would quite happily sit playing on a Wap site for half a day trying to set up their Wap phones. I don't think any woman I know would bother doing that. A woman's view is that she'll use Wap when it works. Women are less tolerant in their surfing habits and less likely to meander around.How much will unmetered access change surfing habits in the UK?Not having to worry about the cost of surfing will benefit people who are cash poor and time rich such as students and children. Given that most people connected at the moment are ABC1 demographic then an extra 10 minutes online at the weekend isn't going to make that much difference.Is the net community generally less concerned with gender?The dotcom world tends to have teams who are younger and more liberal but at board level you can still find the old executives in grey suits. A lot of people feel everyone's taking the internet so seriously and trying so hard to make money out of it that a lot of the fun is going.Can portals and websites ever create a real sense of community?Definitely. You can have a global, single-issue community. What the internet does best is put one fanatical person in touch with another fanatical person, whether it's pigeon fanciers, kite flyers or whatever.How is the advent of broadband going to change things?It will enable internet publishers to move into the TV domain and it's going to allow a mass of richer content. So much of what we can do at the moment is limited to how long it might take to download.But it wouldn't suprise me if broadband ends up getting log-jammed too.Will internet access via TV and mobile bring about a shift away from the PC?Not really because PCs will continue to develop. The one thing that puts me off the PC is how long it takes to start it up. That's a real barrier to people using the net as a reference tool. Once you get a PC that you can switch on quickly it will complement TV. They'll have different types of content delivered in different ways. If the instructions are long and boring then blokes will be playing with it and if it's really simple to use then women will.Any favourite websites?It's a bit boring but I likeAmazonbecause I'm an avid e-consumer and there are so few decent sites.Googleis brilliant for finding specific information. Yahoo uses Google now and it seems to have the users' interest in mind. I use Jakob Nielsen'sAlert Boxa lot  for usability issues.For further information visit:www.icshowbiz.com
Bill Gates's office, housed in number 8 of the 45 buildings on Microsoft's campus, has few personal flourishes. At any other Fortune 500 company, it might house someone of the rank of, say, vice president for community relations.The desk is a slab of plain oak, and the only pictures on a wall are two framed covers from the Economist given to him by his sister Libby: they show a diagram of an Intel chip and a chart describing the bandwidth of various radio frequencies.His PC is a Toshiba laptop with a docking station and two oversized monitors (one screen is separated into four quadrants, which stream information from selected websites all day).A nubby grey upholstered couch rests on a beige industrial carpet in front of a square maple coffee table surrounded by four chrome-based, green and blue wool-covered Breuer-style chairs.The only ostensible personal touches are several family pictures on a credenza behind his desk and a single picture of a doe-faced Gates beside Paul Allen, encircled by the handful of employees who helped launch Microsoft. This familiar picture, with its innocent faces, speaks to a basic Microsoft contradiction. On the one hand, it captures the youthful zeal, the idealism of people who embraced software as a tool to change the world, to do incredibly cool things. Less apparent in those unlined faces is the competitive zeal that helped trigger a government lawsuit.On this day in the middle of the anti-trust lawsuit, Gates wore a handsome, royal blue open-necked dress shirt buttoned at the sleeves and embroidered with WHG, navy slacks, unpolished black loafers, and clear-framed oval   glasses. His skin was the colour of an eggshell, a pallor born of having spent too many hours indoors.The previous afternoon, Melinda Gates had given birth to their second child, a son, and Gates had spent part of the day at the hospital. On the day I saw him, Microsoft would announce the birth; yet even though I was not a stranger, Gates uttered not a word about this happy event.With Gates, impersonal behaviour is the norm. Visitors are often amazed that he fetches a soda for himself and neglects to offer one to them. Upon greeting me, Gates plopped on to one of the chairs, leaned forward and folded his arms across his thighs, and began rocking rapidly back and forth, slapping the carpet with the soles of his loafers, creating the impression that his body was a metronome.As Gates rocked back and forth in his chair during my visit, he was as agitated at what he thought of as the ludicrousness of the government's case as he had been a year before. "There is no monopoly," he told me. "Even with all the great people we have we face probably more intense competition now than ever before."Did he sometimes feel, as a friend had said, like Joseph K, accused of crimes he did not comprehend? "I don't know Joseph K, sorry." On being told that Joseph K was the main character and victim in Franz Kafka's The Trial, Gates said, "He sounds like my kind of guy!"The Justice Department believed Microsoft was a monopoly whose intent was to hurt Netscape. They believed Gates and his employees often behaved like thugs. Now, a year after he had failed to reach an out-of-court settlement that could have avoided this trial, did Gates regret having gone to court?"I wish we could have settled. I wished that at the time. I wish that now." The stumbling block, he said, was that he   couldn't go back to the government for permission each time he wanted to add a new feature, just because a competitor like Netscape whined about it. What about coercion, I asked - the charge that Microsoft muscled Intel to stay out of the software business? "I don't know what muscle means," he said.What if his daughter came to him some years hence and asked, "Dad, how do you explain some of these e-mails and things like the threat to cut off Netscape's air supply?"Gates was composed, but he answered in a shrill voice. "A great lie! A great lie!" he cried out. "An unbelievable lie!" It was secondhand hearsay, he said. His voice rising, yet controlled, he went on, "Did anyone utter those words? Our e-mail, every piece of it has been searched. I wish we had found somebody who had said it. Then we could take him out, and we could hang the guy, then we'd say, 'OK, mea culpa. We found him - the guy who said I'll cut off your oxygen'.""First of all, there's no law against saying that. Second of all, I never heard anybody say it. Third of all - hey, if there's any company that you know damn well whether it was said or not, this is the company. Every piece of e-mail I have ever sent for the last 10 years has been read and read, and if there is any way that people can misconstrue any statement that I've ever made it has been done. You look at any e-mail sent by me or received by me and tell me what it is you think is at all inappropriate?"Microsoft executives don't see themselves the way they are portrayed in a   courtroom 3,000 miles away. By contrast, to a monopolist who has the luxury of sitting back and behaving in a leisurely fashion, Microsoft executives feel embattled.Dr James Allchin, who supervised Windows, said: "I feel like we're on the brink of disaster every day. If you're reading newspapers and watching what's happening - new devices, new operating systems, attacks that claim intellectual property means nothing - it's like a massive attack all the time."External threatsHe worried about an attack from Sony and its "fixed game machines, because they're growing up", about cable boxes that could control all home electronics, about handheld personal digital assistants that can perform multiple tasks, about open-source software, about the "megaserver threat" posed by an AOL online operating system where "once you're in an AOL environment, you're in it holistically", about how the distinction between hardware and software companies blurs as Intel and Dell and IBM invest in software, and AT&amp;T is now a cable and an internet-access as well as a telephone company.Microsoft in 1999 spent an extraordinary $3bn on research and development. This represented about 17% of its revenues, a figure that dwarfs the 6% IBM spent, or the 10% of revenues expended by such companies as Intel and Sun.A sizable portion of this budget is earmarked for pure research - for recruiting and funding the best physicists and mathematicians and electrical engineers to   undertake theoretical work that does not have a clear product payoff. In an era when such theoretical research is usually sacrificed as impractical and companies strive to cut costs and drive up their stock price, Microsoft is a rare oasis.It is also, needless to say, a place seeking to dominate the realm of new products: an electronic encyclopedia on Africa, Encarta Africa; browsers for wireless devices; web television, which brings e-mail and the web to television sets; PCs that accept voice commands and translate handwriting into type; PCs in cars that function as radios and CD players; and navigation devices that offer voice instructions.Rick Thompson, vice president of the hardware group, described his 225-employee division as "my own little sandbox". Most of their research efforts fail after they come to market. "It's a lot like the movie business. There are a lot of flops."Doug Heinrich, who is director of business development and is working on speech and handwriting recognition, said the plan was to include at least some of these innovative features in a version of Windows 2000.At Microsoft, what the US government calls "bundling" is referred to as "integration", and not without reason. Integration lets programs running on Windows interact seamlessly, allowing users to switch back and forth with greater speed and ease than ever before.Microsoft claims such additions serve consumers. The US justice department claims they were intended to solidify Microsoft's monopoly. They probably do   both. After all, Microsoft benefited consumers by reducing the price of browsers, and at the same time they undermined Netscape.Microsoft executives see themselves as upright, public-spirited citizens. Three quarters of all Microsoft employees made philanthropic gifts that were matched by the company, resulting in up to $30m in corporate donations to support homeless shelters, zoos, and efforts in 20 cities. Another $70m-$100m of software was donated by Microsoft to schools and libraries.While Gates's company has been quietly generous, Gates himself was at first reluctant to part with his money. Like his friend Warren Buffett, he said that philanthropy takes effort and time, which he didn't have. He was planning to wait until he was old and then would give most of his fortune away.In the last several years, Gates has dramatically altered this stance and become the world's foremost philanthropist, having by January 2000 pledged $21.8bn to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, making it the world's wealthiest charitable foundation.In today's currency, Rockefeller's donations would have totalled $6bn and Carnegie's $3bn. Both Buffett and Gates Senior attribute the change to Melinda, who has more time to devote to charity. "Melinda has spurred him," said Buffett.Cynics attribute these gifts to a Gates public-relations offensive designed to offset the black eye he has received from the trial. While press considerations may have been a factor in the timing of some gifts, that's a pretty steep price to pay for publicity.At Microsoft, executives and programmers speak of their work with genuine reverence - they can be as pious as mullahs or priests. When Ben Waldman, who oversaw relations with Apple, is asked to describe the culture of Microsoft, he says with utter solemnity, "People are very passionate about creating great products... We do things to help people solve problems."New frontiersWhat is surprising is that one would be hard-pressed to find an employee who frankly admits that Microsoft is a for-profit company in the business of making money, not a beneficent foundation serving the public interest.Yusuf Mehdi, who directs marketing for Windows, talks of his work as if it were the frontier of medical science. "There's the same feeling you have in college - I can do something great!" How did he square these sentiments, I asked, with the sometimes John Gotti-like behaviour described in court? "What I would say is that a lot of this legal stuff comes from competitors, not from end users. What the trial is is sensationalist bits and pieces. The trial was supposed to be about bundling. I'm not saying we're not aggressive. We get after it. But it's in the interest of doing what's best for customers."Such sanctimony is common at Microsoft, from Bill Gates down. "What we aim to do is to make tools to make people's lives better," Gates once told a congressional hearing. There is a tendency at Microsoft to talk about consumers, not profits. No doubt, Microsoft could not recruit the best and brightest without conveying a belief that it is waging a holy war to better serve consumers, improve computing, do 'cool' things.But it is weird that Microsoft executives rarely speak of fat profits or rich stock options, although executives in their twenties drive BMWs and those in their thirties establish private foundations and often retire, and Microsoft hogs as profit an extraordinary forty cents of each revenue dollar it collects. Jean-Louis Gass&eacute;e, the CEO of rival software firm Be, once likened Microsoft's behaviour to that of believers in a religious order, "The Jesuits have this concept of holy effrontery - in defending their cause it's OK to use any means."Related storiesJanuary 4 2001 Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimNovember 28 2000 Microsoft says trial infected with errorJune 8 2000 What once was unthinkable is now a court order'Useful linksNews of the lawsuit from Microsoft.comThe San Jose Mercury's trial specialThe US Department of JusticeJudge Jackson's final decision&#169; Ken Auletta 2001, from WORLD WAR 3.0: Microsoft and its Enemies by Ken Auletta, published by Profile Books Ltd at &#163;17.99 on January 15Read part two
Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, has been derided as a "dinosaur" by rivals and an arrogant "miscreant" by the US judge which ordered the break up of the company.In an exclusive serialisation of his new book, World War 3.0: Microsoft and Its Enemies, starting in the Guardian today, Ken Auletta, examines the steps leading up to last year's landmark decision that the software giant was guilty of breaking US anti-trust laws and should be split into two.Several competitors attack Microsoft in the book. Nobuyuki Idei, the head of Sony, says, "Gates is an OS &#91;operating system&#93; dinosaur ... He wrote a book about the road ahead, but it is really the road back."Rob Glaser, a former Microsoft executive, tells Mr Auletta, that the Seattle-based company is "the IBM of today" - referring to the mainframe computer group which lost out to nimbler rivals in the 1980s.Microsoft has appealed against last year's decision by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson. In astonishing comments at this stage of the case, Judge Jackson describes the appeal court judges as "supercilious" and lacking trial experience.The book also contains exclusive comments from Richard Posner, the anti-trust expert appointed to mediate between Microsoft, the US government and 19 US states. The government files its case in the appeal tomorrow.
October 28, 1955William Henry Gates III born in Seattle1975Harvard sophomore Gates and school chum Paul Allen write a software language for a personal computer and establish a company, Micro-Soft1979Rechristened Microsoft with 28 employees and $2.5m in sales, head office moves to Seattle. Gates rebuffs bid from billionaire Ross Perot1980Develops MS-DOS (Microsoft Disk Operating System), licensing it to IBM for the first PC1983Microsoft unveils its first   Windows operating system, using the point-and-click commands of a mouse1986With 1,400 employees and revenues of nearly two hundred million dollars, Microsoft's stock is sold to the public. Bill Gates becomes a billionaire1988Microsoft becomes the world's largest software company1990Windows 3.0 proves to be an instant success. Microsoft's revenues climb above one billion dollarsAugust 1995Microsoft introduces its own free browser included with each copy of WindowsDecember 7, 1995An alarmed Gates announces that the Internet compels Microsoft to alter its business model, and henceforth   Microsoft will become internet-centricMay 1998After settlement negotiations collapse, the justice department and 20 state attorneys general file a lawsuit charging Microsoft with antitrust (competition) violationsOctober 1998Federal antitrust trial begins in Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's court and is expected to take six weeksDecember 31, 1998Microsoft's profits of nearly $4.5bn are twice those of the world's largest corporation, General MotorsNovember 5, 1999Judge Jackson concludes that   Microsoft was guilty of holding monopoly powerJanuary 14, 2000Bill Gates steps down as chief executive to become chief software architect. Steve Ballmer takes over as chief executive and presidentApril 3, 2000Judge Jackson, after four months of mediation, issues his conclusions of law, finding that Microsoft violated the US's antitrust laws. Microsoft launches an appealJune 7, 2000Judge Jackson issues his final judgment, ordering that Microsoft be broken up into two companies and imposing conduct restrictions on the company's behaviour for several years
The free lunch is finally over: Britain's 18-month long free internet bonanza is finally coming to an end. Most users could be picking up the tab for their surfing by the end of the year.The message, coming from industry experts and the ISPs (internet service providers) themselves, might come as a surprise. If you have not been following the City pages, you could be forgiven for thinking that Britain's ISPs are in good health. Everywhere you turn, from the smallest corner shop to the biggest supermarket, there are offers of free internet access, usually with low-cost calls and free web space and often with software to surf the web safely.But, even for the biggest players in the internet access game, the rules are changing. The two business models that support most ISPs are now seen as badly flawed - even before the ill effects of the dot.com downturn are taken into account.  The most recent, and high-profile, ISP failures have centred on unmetered internet access. Breathe.com called in the receivers in December, shortly after suspending its offer of unlimited internet access for life, for a one-off payment of &#163;50.The company was thought to have signed up 50,000 users in the nine months the service ran but, despite collecting &#163;2.5 million from them, did not have enough cash to continue.   Earlier, AltaVista confessed that it had not connected any of the thousands who had applied for its unmetered service - despite claiming it had 100,000 users. The cost would simply have been too high. The problem for these ISPs, and others peddling unmetered internet access, was simple: they were offering the online equivalent of as many free lunches as you can eat. The ISPs found that UK users have a voracious appetite for the internet - and that BT, which controls the local network, had no intention of offering them a wholesale flat rate deal.Without that, the ISPs were still being charged by the minute by BT, while having only a low, fixed income from users. All that is about to change. AOL has led a campaign to persuade Oftel, the telecoms watchdog, to force BT to offer unmetered wholesale packages to ISPs.After months of lobbying, a new system called Friaco (Flat Rate Internet Call Origination) is in place, and it means ISPs know, for the first time, their telecoms costs will be fixed. AOL has already launched a &#163;15 a month deal that gives 24-hour unmetered net access, and other ISPs are beginning    to roll out rival packages.Matt Peacock, director of corporate communications for AOL in the UK, says market research that AOL conducted in February 1999 pointed to massive unfulfilled demand for unmetered internet access. "We wanted to find out why mass-market internet penetration was not happening in this country," he says."We didn't understand why, because market conditions in the UK are very similar to the US - a literate and, in global terms, affluent population with high credit card penetration and a willingness to adopt new technology fairly quickly.  "Yet internet penetration was much, much lower than in the US. It still is. More importantly, of those online their usage was hugely lower. Usage was a quarter of that in the US, and without usage you don't have a medium."Our research led us to the immediate conclusion that what was needed was flat rate_ if you get rid of the fear of the phone bill, if you kill off those big fat 25-page phone bills from BT full of 0845 numbers." Oftel's backing for Friaco could have a major impact on the way the UK uses the net,    adds Peacock. He says that AOL users in the UK now behave in a very similar way to their US cousins - in stark contrast to when they were paying by the minute. Within three days of the deal being launched, he says, UK users of AOL were using the service as much as their US cousins, for just over an hour a day on average. And one of the most important factors for AOL is that many of the users are "newbies" - first time users of the internet."The unlimited plan has seen the fastest uptake of any AOL plan in history, certainly in Europe. We are experiencing record growth. And a lot of these are new users; they are new to the medium, and coming because of flat rate. This is true mass market." But why have we not all signed up to free ISPs? It seems we are wary of 'free' ISPs that offer free internet calls but which, too often, have resulted in poor service, high help line charges and complex membership conditions - such as the need to change telephone company.Some industry figures reckon this consumer caution, coupled with the opportunity to wave goodbye to high internet phone bills,    could mean that subscription-based unlimited connections will become the most popular method of accessing the internet within a year. Alan Randall, sales and marketing director of independent ISP Supanet, says his company has been preparing for the return of subscription-based services since the middle of last year."We've been testing a number of packages over the last six months or so, in terms of subscription-based, unmetered, unlimited access, and we will launch some new packages in the near future," he says.  "You will see different types of user emerge. There are going to be lots of similarities with the mobile phone market, in that people will fall into categories. You will end up with three core products - free access, unmetered, and DSL (broadband) and there will probably be one or two customised packages falling in the middle."Subscription-based ISPs are not new, of course. One of Britain's oldest ISPs, Demon Internet, started out with a "tenner a month" service with local-call charges, which it still provides today. And, predicts Randall, there will be a move back to subscription services."We all know nothing is free - why would anybody provide free telephone lines for the internet and not   for speech, after all?" he asks. With the market moving back towards monthly charges, the rash of free ISPs which sprang up in the wake of Freeserve's launch in 1998 will have to change their tactics, or battle it out with many others for those remaining internet users who do not use their connection enough to justify a subscription fee for unlimited use, or broadband. And there are doubts about how lucrative a market these reluctant surfers will be.Free ISPs today rely on a cut of telephone charges, but across Europe those charges have fallen by as much as 50% in the past two years, and are likely to fall further as former state monopolies - including BT and Deutsche Telekom, of Germany - have their grips loosened by regulators.For that reason, Hellen Omwando, associate analyst at research company Forrester, says that all free ISPs are now realising their business models are "unsustainable"."A lot of them, as a result, are moving into the portals business," says Omwando. "By doing this they are providing gateways for consumers to access content_ they are looking to make money from advertising."For those who are looking to remain in the ISP business, there are the possibilities of providing broadband connections - faster links to the internet that will almost certainly be paid for by subscription fees."Broadband is certainly a technology which will offer some differentiation between portals," says Omwando. "The problem is ISPs may not even have the money to invest in broadband networks."The best recourse for some ISPs is to get bought out by a strong portal player - one which started out as purely a portal and has strong advertising revenue - or to get bought out by a telco &#91;telecoms company&#93; which is looking to gain access to consumers."Another option is to go niche - to focus on a particular content category or audience segment, because you cannot compete with the big players."The consolidation Omwando talks of has already begun: Freeserve's &#163;1.6bn sale to Wanadoo, of France, and the expected   auction sale of LineOne to a foreign bidder is proof of that. Other ISPs have already moved to get out of the ISP business altogether, and have 'gone niche' by concentrating on their web content. Virgin.net is in the process of demerging its 600,000 member-strong ISP business to cable operator NTL, while its portal relaunches and focuses on entertainment, leisure content and e-commerce.Meanwhile Bluecarrots, which launched in autumn 1999, stopped promoting its ISP after only three months to concentrate on creating a buying community, giving its users free shares and cashback on transactions they make with partner e-commerce firms through the site."We're moving towards a portal approach," says Steve Masters, online director of Bluecarrots. "We're trying to distance ourselves from being a dial-up service because we felt we could do a much better business if we dealt with anyone online, regardless of where they dial in."We were never going to compete or survive in the long term if we only gave membership to people who dialled into us, because there are so many ISPs out there. Just getting someone to come to your website is a different matter altogether."But, while Bluecarrots has   moved to get out of the ISP business early, shifts to the portal and content businesses are unlikely to save all those free ISPs who do not upgrade to subscription models. E-commerce and advertising revenues - on which some free ISPs pin their hopes - are unlikely to be huge when they are catering for infrequent, pay-per-minute surfers. And even if they did get a slice of the pie, the total online advertising market in Europe is thought to only be worth around &#163;630m. Even if advertising-hungry giants such as Yahoo! and MSN were taken out the equation - and they get a huge cut today - there would not be much for each of Europe's estimated 4,000 ISPs.All this means that, a year from now, there will be far fewer ISPs to choose from, with the market dominated by a few big, pan-European players. No one has put it more bluntly than Nick Backhouse, the finance director of Freeserve, when he was presenting the company's last set of quarterly results in December. "Eighteen months ago, people were asking whether we were going to buy any of the 300 ISPs in the market, but we answered that we could acquire users cheaper through organic growth," he said. "Those ISPs are now being condensed to four."Three flavours of net accessThe power user: unmetered broadbandTechnically adept, and experienced with the internet, these users will be willing to pay around &#163;40 a month for high-speed access to the net, initially running at around 10 times the speed of today's fastest dial-up modems. The big attractions are likely to be bandwidth-hungry applications such as internet audio and video, and online gaming. Their most likely connection of choice will be ADSL - although BT's roll-out of the service so far has met with a mixed response, including a lot of gripes about the quality of the service and telephone support. Great promises are also being made for cable internet, but the roll-out has been painfully slow and doubts remain about how speedy connections will be. In the future, watch out for even faster versions of ADSL and wireless broadband.The regular user: unmetered dial-upThese users will pay around &#163;15 a month for unmetered access to the internet of up to 56kbps. There are already variations on this - AOL offers 24-hour, seven days-a-week access for &#163;15 a month, while other ISPs, including ClaraNet, offer cheaper deals for unmetered access at evenings and weekends only. Experience here and in the US suggests these users are likely to become far greater users of e-commerce once the meter has stopped ticking, and are also more likely to explore interactive areas of the net such as chat and homepage creation.The occasional user: metered dial-upFree ISPs will not vanish, but their market might become more specialised. New users, those reluctant to pay a monthly subscription, or those who do not use the net enough to j ustify the expense, will use the remaining free ISPs for their connections. With the meter ticking for every minute they are online - as it does for most users in the UK today - they will be the lightest users of e-commerce and streaming media. Worse, free ISPs, desperate for revenue, could start bombarding them with on-screen advertising based on monitoring of the users' surfing habits, making navigating the web a tedious business - and raising concerns about online privacy.
One of the internet's major strengths has been its vast resource of text- based information. Over the past five years this has been enriched with a wider multimedia content including video clips. Frequently these clips had to be downloaded on a 56kbps modem - a slow and frustrating process.Streaming was developed to alleviate this agony. It takes a variety of forms including audio, video, text or animation. Original tapes or film are transferred into digital files   within the computer. The challenge is to take these large media files and push them through a small amount of bandwidth, a process that has been likened to a snake trying to swallow a weasel.This is done by encoding the files into streaming formats developed by firms like Microsoft, Real Networks and Apple and loading them on to a server for delivery to the internet. Playback occurs as the first data packets arrive at the PC rather than being delayed until all the information has arrived.New businesses are    springing up to provide the expertise to help others get the maximum quality out of streaming technology. Groovy Gecko encodes videos for companies such as sportswear manufacturer Umbro, hosts streaming media on 600 servers throughout Europe, sets up live webstreaming events   and acts as a consultancy for institutions such as the Arts Council. It is headed by Craig Moehl, who is an evangelist for the emerging format."Productions like Big Brother and Jailbreak are invaluable in getting people using and getting comfortable with the technology," says Moehl. "But we don't necessarily want to watch TV on the web since the technology isn't mature enough. We need to use it for particular applications. Nichecasting is fantastic - personalisation is the key."This view is echoed by Chris Frampton, founder    and CEO of MediaWave which has pioneered streaming "on-line" productions since 1995, including the recent live Fat Boy Slim and Madonna: "Niche is king! The market for the future will be the ability of   internet broadcasters to satisfy the demands of niche audiences - whether these are followers of fishing, cooking, exhibitions or snowboarding!"According to Frampton, "the outstanding benefit of    the technology we will be using in the future, which, for now, we can call the internet, is that it completely frees the broadcaster from the time constraints and demands of scheduling multi-interest   programming on a very limited number of channels. If you look at the BBC, every programme has a website and every website has content that the Beeb will never have time to broadcast."Jason Thomson at NMR,    which offers streaming media consultancy, installation and support services for companies like Abbey Road Interactive and Channel 4, stresses the importance of designing projects with the web in   mind: "It's important not to have too much movement or too much information to convey. One has to balance up something that is poor quality but with compelling content against something that is specially designed. People will look at amateur footage of the Kennedy assassination but for extended viewing one needs to go for quality."Thomson points out that, ironically, people are shooting on high quality broadcast cameras rather than camcorders in order to get the best possible quality for the web.Where is the technology now? It isn't yet fully mature. Despite rapid innovation, it can still be a frustrating experience. Occasionally it is necessary to download the latest players, mostly free, but still time-consuming.Broadband links are subject to net congestion just like the lowly 56kbps modem. Picture quality even at the highest resolution can be decidedly uneven.Some of the most    interesting things are happening on radio where, because the audio signal takes up such a small amount of bandwidth, quality can be high and net congestion is far less of a problem. Internet stations likewww.puremix.comare starting to offer personalised selections for individual listeners.But every so often the medium takes off and there is something on the screen which is genuinely gripping, whether it is a live webcast like the Madonna gig, a news item from BBC or finding out yet more information on Channel 4's Big Brother residents. Currently the three tenors are putting on a tremendous concert onwww.msn.co.uk/page/11-588.asp.And for the future, in Frampton's words, "For live events, the delivery of the future will be cable, ADSL and satellite. And the potential is vast - unlimited."
