"Now you can use Blogger right within Microsoft Word. Just download and install theBlogger for Wordadd-in and a Blogger toolbar will be added to Word allowing you to: Publish to your blog; Save drafts; Edit posts."Comments:Over at Jupiter Research,Michael Gartenbergsays:Let's see, there's the Google toolbar for IE, there's Google Desktop Search (which works rather well with all of MSFT's desktop applications), Google Earth (Windows only) and now Blogger for Word. It seems rather than introducing their own browser, operating system or applications for the moment, Google is making sure all of their stuff works seamlessly with the most popular platform and applications out there. Where is the MSN Spaces tool for Word?Microsoft geek bloggerRobert Scoblereplies that this is what platform companies are about:That's why I was at Google today. Does that make Google sexier than Microsoft? Yes! But, then our Office users today have an application that they can use that they couldn't have used Office for yesterday. I think that's called a "win-win-win." Google wins. Microsoft wins. Customers win.PS, Google isn't the only one who can play this game. I work with developers big and small to see if we can make you rich and famous. Who's next?
"Ericsson and three Taiwan-based companies, Sunplus Technology, Aiptek International and Everelite Technology, have jointly developed a mobile IP camera for the mobile surveillance market, according to sources at the companies. The product will initially be available in the Taiwan market starting from September, with worldwide sales to be launched later," reportsDigiTimes.comin Taiwan."The mobile IP Cam can deliver 1-megapixel solutions in 3GP format to a 3G handset without connecting to a PC system, and perform remote surveillance with a built-in motion detection sensor that is able to deliver alerting messages in MMS and SMS, said sources at Ericsson Taiwan."
A new Windows worm has been hitting unpatched Windows 2000 computers en masse - and causing blushes at several media organisations along the way. The basic effect is not damaging, but irritating: it forces the computer to repeatedly shut down and reboot.Associated Press - which was itself struck by the worm - is saying the following:A computer worm unleashed over the weekend infected more computers on Tuesday running Microsoft operating systems, with Windows 2000 users most seriously affected. The Zotob worm and several variations of it, known as Rbot.cbq, SDBot.bzh and Zotob.d, infected computers at companies such as CNN, The Associated Press [and] The New York Times.CNN announced live on air that its systems had succumbed to the worm."The prime distinguisher of this outbreak is that some of the world's most trusted media has been hit," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos. "In the case of CNN, millions of viewers were able to witness the damaging affects of the worm live on air."Ouch indeed.
We all know about the demands now being placed on energy provision across the globe. And we're all aware of the problems caused by the dumping of rubbish, and what to do with landfill. Now, according toWired News, somebody's worked out a way of using one to help with the other.In Bangladesh, a non-profit organisation -Waste Concern- is already helping turn organic waste into fertiliser. Now they want to use the noxious methane fumes released on the immense 50 acre Matuail landfill site to generate energy.With 80 percent of the city's waste comprised of organic matter, all that festering garbage releases copious amounts of methane -- a greenhouse gas more than 20 times more destructive than carbon dioxide.The organization hopes to take over operations of the vast Matuail dump site, installing a complex system that will capture methane before it is released into the atmosphere. The gas would be diverted to generators, and the resulting electricity would be sold to Dhaka's utility provider.Once running at capacity, the system is expected to produce 3 to 4 megawatts of power -- enough for about 3,000 U.S. households, or about 50,000 of their Bangladeshi counterparts.It might not solve the problem of landfill exactly, but it's an innovative way of coping with the situation.
Last week'sEIEFhas certainly provided enough food for thought on the gamesblog this week, but games rarely provide much for educationalists to chew on. To focus on this issue, Dan Singer put an excellent panel together during last Friday's session, including Ray Maguire (Senior Vice President and Managing Director, UK, Ireland and Nordic - Sony Computer Entertainment Europe), Claus Due (Market Development Manager - Electronic Arts), Adrian Hall (Head of Multi-Media Resources - ICT in Schools DfES), Ben Sawyer (Digital Milland theSerious Games Initiative) and Jeff Woodya (COO,Immersive Education). It addressed many important questions - in terms of cultural acceptance, government funding and policy implications - for the future of interactive entertainment.As moderator Adam Singer said, this was the carrot juice session: not necessarily the nicest-tasting but certainly the one that did the attendees the most good. It was most encouraging to hear the Government's perspective, as well as to find out what the major players in entertainment have to say about the potential of learning from games.RayGames are good for you? Well, they are if you make them to be good for you.clip about the forthcomingEyeToy Kinetic, the virtual personal trainer, created in association with Nike Motion Works. It is an innovative fitness product, which incorporated general fitness, posture, breathing, body toning, hi energy aerobics, self-defence disciplines, holistic breathing. It's a lead and follow paradigm, like most aerobics studios. Importantly, users use the EyeToy camera to check their position.We're about fun. We know nothing about fitness but loads about games. If you want to do something like this you need to have a credible product, so we've had experts on board from Nike Research Labs to ensure everything's correct. With this product you've got some elements of a game like scoring and competition; it'll push you. It's a fun product that can do you good.What are the gaming techniques that something like this would give me that Jane Fonda doesn't? This product gives feedback, which stationary, passive entertainment can't do. We've got all these moves which are carefully scripted so it allows for comparison. We mapped out where the body has to go to do some of these activities and we've created a way to do that.When we think about whether or not games are good for you, we slip into the stereotype of the gamer. We need to move away from that. The contemporary idea is that he's got spots, he's lardy, he won't get a girlfriend. That's not our gamers anymore. They're 8 - 50. We've got a gamer that's in his 90's! All gamers have different requirements, but ultimately, gaming's about sociability. It's about social interaction. We've probably done more for the family, getting them together than any product in the past decade.ClausWe try to look at educational and teaching parts of games. Internally, we get the feeling that there's so much in games that isn't used today. It's clear that we know how you engage the kids by looking at how motivated they are and how active they are when playing games. If this can be combined with teaching, we've got a great product. We don't want this to be an EA thing only, but an industry thing.There seems to be a reluctance to take commercial success with games into the classrooms, which I agree with. When I look at what happens with schools, the games that are chosen to come into the classroom are commercially successful products. These things need to be left alone on the shelf.Adam Singer, moderatorDo you see the education in its broadest sense over the next 10 years growing to be a major part of our business model?ClausIt's too early to say, but we have the strong belief that in 10 years from now a great part of all education will be part of interactivity. Pilots, doctors, business schools are working with interactivity to simulate the world. If we can be the jump-starter to help kids work actively with the power of the computer and to uncover the logic behind programmes, we've done our part.AdamBen, aren't we put off by the word serious?BenNo, I'm responsible for it, I have to try and defend it! I've spent a long time trying to come up with a definition: "seriousness" is part of the game; it's not all of it. All games are serious. It can be a game developed by a developer or someone else that's uses it for another purpose than entertainment. It can be a project development team hired precisely to develop skills.If it weren't for the commercial elements of the industry it wouldn't exist. Serious Gaming can be the use of an off the shelf game, like Civilization, repurposed in the classroom with a curriculum. That's the definition of serious games. What I've defined doesn't involve learning.We have to see the development of games as a craft and a trade with skills that have built up over 20 years. People want learning, visualisation and communication to work like it works in games. Is this industry prepared to service that request? We want to make these two worlds come together. This is bigger than learning or K-12. I'm glad we have Sony here to focus on the health element. The Games for Health Summit that's taking place in the States in September will get tremendous media coverage because of products like Kinetic, and support for the cause from big names like Sony.A lot of people talk about the digital divide; that divide is between those who get it and the generation that doesn't. How will we cure Hillary Clinton?Just let it go. If we build it up and do it right, they'll come to us. She's not an ignorant woman, she understand that the future of education and learning is interactivity. We're training FDNY with interactive technology. When they start celebrating learning in games, she'll get over it despite their problems with coffee.Adrian. I head the multi-media resources unit which covers kids between 5-16. In a year past in November, [Secretary of State for the Home Office]Charles Clarkeput together a games summit. Since then, we've been looking at the potential of how the education and games can work together. Where are the gaps in games software market and, for example, the foreign language market? The answer to this question wasSonica, an interactive product designed to teach Spanish using dance mats and other interactive elements.Sonica was developed for a fraction of the budget of traditional game content. The research is showing that games can offer catalyst for active learning, that we do require support for teachers, and they can motivate and engage disengaged pupils. The full results of this research will be announced and released at the end of September.We keep looking at innovation in the games industry and how the two sectors can work together. First and foremost, we are working with trade bodies likeELSPAto ensure that parents are aware of the age ratings. This is a great opportunity to change the way children learn. There will need to be changes in the curriculum, but it's worth looking at to see what the future is.The Ministry is a huge spending power in the UK. It has completely built companies. The games industry has the ability to make a sector. Will you be as aggressive to drive this forward?Thus far, it's invested £330 million to decide what software teachers want to buy. The money has gone directly into schools throughE-Learning credits. Development funds are a potentiality, and we'd like to invest in the future again.JeffCould this be a significant economic force? Will Immersive do a hostile takeover of EA in the future?What does games have? Fantastic technology, excellent production values and an understanding of how to engage an audience in anything. We can do all these things with any subject. One key issue: accuracy is important. I have a worry about the commercial game off the shelf being plonked into a school. It could work, but it doesn't work enough. It's short-changing the learners because the developers need investment to bring this kind of technology into classrooms to engage students in alearningenvironment.We have a product calledMedia Stage, which encourages complete free will in media production. Over the next few years the ability to sell commercial products to education alumni will be huge, especially if we produce quality, good for you interactive experiences. If you look at the 7,000 schools we're in at the moment, that's 4 million end-users that EA and Sony are going to want to deal with.AdamJeff, is there a cultural divide between education games companies and games companies developing for entertainment?JeffI think so, but the skill sets that are the same. It's all the same stuff, but the mindset is different. It has to be about the development of the individual, rather than pure fun.ClausI agree to some extent. There's plenty of room for everything in the market. The benefit of having a commercial product in schools is that the investment can be solid. It's not like edutainment, where products weren't a good investment because they were about learning rather than about fun. What works for fun and good games, we're aware of, but we need to speak to academics and educationalists to develop appropriate games for learning that are both intelligent and fun.
One of the leading lights of the open access movement - dedicated to making academic research freely available to everyone over the internet - has joined the ranks of the traditional publishing world.Jan Velterop, publishing director of pioneering open access publisher BioMed Central is joining Germany's Springer, the world's second largest producer of scientific journals, as director of open access, heading up its fledgling open access publishing arm."I'm not going to the dark side," he said yesterday. "Parts of the dark side, including Springer, are seeing the light."The move of such a high profile figure from the open access movement marks an endorsement of Springer's foray into open access and could present a challenge to the market leader in scientific journals, Reed Elsevier. Open access publishing relies upon the author of a research article paying for it to be published and preserved on the internet so anyone can view it for free.Several traditional publishers, which make their money from journal subscriptions, have experimented with the concept. A year ago Springer decided to augment all its 1,250 journals with "Springer Open Choice". Under this project, any author whose paper is accepted by one of its journals can also publish via open access for a fee of $3,000 (&pound;1,659).Under the Springer model the finished article remains subject to full copyright protection but the author may also post their own version of the article on their personal homepage or institutional website, a process known as author self-archiving.While Reed Elsevier has so far shied from dabbling in open access publishing, it has accepted this alternative version of open access and allows researchers to place articles previously published in its journals on their own websites.Author self-archiving is becoming increasingly prevalent among academics keen to share their findings with as wide an audience as possible.
Just when academics were beginning to get to grips with blogging, along came podcasting.A new but increasingly popular medium, podcasting allows people to download audio files from the internet and listen to them on an MP3 player wherever and whenever they like.Universities in America and Canada are beginning to integrate the technology into coursework as well as using it as a method of communication with each other and the outside world.The word podcast itself is a combination of the word broadcasting and the name of the popular Apple MP3 player better known as the iPod.But you don't need iPod to podcast. In fact, podcasts can be used with a variety of digital audio formats and play on many MP3 player or portable digital audio devices as well as most computers.The heart of the podcasting movement may be rooted in the world of blogs, but while blogosphere has grown largely on the written word, podcasts add a soundtrack. What also makes them unique is that they are sent directly to the people who want them.In the academic world, podcasts are giving departments, staff and students the freedom and informality of tone impossible in scholarly journals or even the student newspaper.Officials at Canada's McMaster University are using podcasts to attract potential students as they seek to boost their recruitment drive, telling students what is on offer at their campus, using a medium to which young people can relate.At the ivy league Georgetown University, researchers are using podcasts to publish their findings, reaching millions of listeners all over the globe. Other institutions, like the University of Florida, are earning extra money from adverts broadcasted on podcasts.At Oregon State University, postgraduate students are presenting their thesis not on projectors but on streaming audios via podcast."The podcasting project is helping our community in a new world of grassroots media creation and new channels for sharing ideas," says Sam Stern, the dean of the faculty of education at the university. "It is part of our intention to help learning get beyond some of its traditional areas."A spokesman for the University of Florida expressed a similar sentiment."On a large campus like ours, it is important to provide as many options as possible to our students, faculty and staff to receive university news," he said. "For many, podcasting will replace the more traditional communications tools in use today. It's definitely the wave of the future."This belief is shared by many academics, especially the increasing numbers of the Atari and Apple II generation now taking up teaching positions across American universities.Many of these young academics find it easy to introduce the technology to a new generation of students weaned on the internet and iPod.Casey Alt symbolises this movement. A 1999 Stanford University graduate, Dr Alt is Duke University's administrative director for information science and information studies. He believes that podcasts and other digital media are already fundamentally transforming the way American academic institutions function and will continue to do so at an accelerated pace."Many people in academia have begun to recognise that the average first-year student shows up to his or her first day of classes with more tacit digital literacy than many of their lecturers combined," Dr Alt says. "They have started designing mechanisms for harnessing those capabilities by building them into the pedagogical and research processes."Students are as keen as their lecturers on the capability of this unfolding technology. Tiffany Chen is a theatre student at Duke who had never heard of podcasting before her professor introduced her to the technology."Students can choose when and where they want to listen to podcasts, and I get to present my theatre work straight to the public," she says. "Podcasting also gives another impetus to make a good product beside grades."While the fanfare may not be as loud as it is now America, some British academics are quietly embracing the technology.Geraint Johnes is one of the world's pioneering academic podcasters. He used podcasts as a learning tool in economics during the last academic year at Lancaster University's management school.To create the podcasts, he recorded a series of three-minute clips based on topics in his final year undergraduate human resource economics course. These were recorded as .wav files using the Windows sound recorder, and then converted to mp3 files.Students were then given the web address for the internet feed. To retrieve the podcasts, he asked his students to to install a podcast receiver on their computer."Podcasting is neat in the sense that it offers the chance to be a push technology," he says. "The podcasts just arrive on the students' machines without them having to go looking for them. Of course they still have to make the choice to listen to them.""That's where technology ends and pedagogy comes in. You have to give some though about how you integrate the podcasts into the course."As some academic blogs have been abused, Prof Johnes says he does not foresee similar problems with podcasts as long as they are prepared by academics for the consumption of students."Academics are used to publishing, they know the implication of speaking out of turn and they know what libel is," he says. "The thing is to educate people about what is and what is not acceptable in a public forum.
Still having problems downloading mobile games via GPRS? Or maybe you haven't bothered trying yet? Don't worry – the mobile entertainment industry isn't going to give up on your customthateasily. At this year'sGames Conventionin Leipzig, four companies –Blue Cell Networks, e-Plus,July Systems, andTHQ Wireless– will be showing off a new "on-the-spot" download solution. It's a 2.2 metre high illuminated blue column that beams games and other entertainment content to Bluetooth phones within a 30 metre radius.The manufacturers are hoping that highstreet electronics retailers will put these Beamzone hotspots on the shopfloor, giving consumers easy access to mobile content without the costs and frustrations of downloading stuff over the air. There's also talk of pushing free content, news and offers at passers-by, although presumably potential customers will have to opt-in somehow.Beamzone sounds like a pretty good idea for the industry – not only does it make games easier to actually get onto the phone, it also provides mobile content developers and publishers with a space within the traditional retail arena. And surely a physical presence in a shop is better than having to parade your wares on the Internet or via network provider portals where visibility isn't always easy.So will this tempt the 95% of phone owners who haven't downloaded a mobile game yet? Or will Beamzone just be something else to knock over in Dixons, causing those embarrassing alarms to go off? It's difficult to say. At least this way developers have more chance of capturing unwary browsers who may not even realise they own bluetooth-capable phones.But let's not draw the emphasistoofar away from making the games more attractive. I mean, we're not giving up on the whole killer app idea yet, are we? Surely, if there's something out there that's absolutely unmissable to the wider public, then eventually the wider public will stumble upon it? Like they did with The Shawshank Redemption. And Suikoden. And international test cricket.Clever distribution models will only get you so far. Content, as Bill Gates oncewrote, is king.
Students at Oxford University have set up what is believed to be the first ever online marketplace exclusively for students, in a bid to relieve some of the financial pressures of student life.The website,www.boso.co.uk, which stands for buy and sell online (BOSO), allows students with a valid university email address to buy and sell items that they no longer need, from gowns and textbooks to kettles and toasters.The brainchild of Oxford undergraduates and cousins Kulveer and Harjeet Taggar, the website is not currently run for profit, and is free for all students to use."It seemed ridiculous to us that every year thousands of freshers were buying loads of stuff brand new, whilst thousands of graduates had no further use for those same items," said Harjeet."We really hope that providing a real secondhand marketplace for students can go a long way to easing some of the ever-increasing student debt that we have to cope with."BOSO was set up and financed through the Young Enterprise Scheme, which is run by Oxford Entrepreneurs, the student society for entrepreneurship.The society, of which Kulveer is the outgoing president, aims to "encourage and support student entrepreneurship by providing inspiration, education, networking and the chance to learn by doing at the University of Oxford and beyond".The site is now run by a group of 11 people, all of whom are - or were - students at the university and were recruited through the Oxford Entrepreneurs society.It is proving very popular with the students; set up eight weeks ago, the site has just under 1,000 members selling conventional items, such as textbooks and computer games, as well as the less conventional - such as old milk, currently going for &#163;2 - to their fellow students.BOSO has been a particular help to international students, who need somewhere to offload their bulkier items before flying home. Now, however, people are using it to sell their services: this month someone advertised a service delivering roses anonymously to people's pigeonholes for Valentine's Day.Currently, the services offered by the site are only available at Oxford; however, the infrastructure is in place to expand the services of the website to other universities, the idea being that eventually there will be one national site which can be filtered by the different universities to suit their specific needs.However, despite any ambitions the team may have for expansion, Harjeet says they have no plans to attempt to make a profit from the project."It's about providing a useful service - not making money out of students, in fact, we hope this will help people manage their money better."
Digging around the deep, dark world of internet statistics - you know, just the usual kind of thing for a Tuesday afternoon - I came across some numbers forwhich languages are spoken by internet users.Interesting, I thought: we hear a lot about the incredible growth of the web in China, but can figures for language help us gauge what impact that country is having on the way the web is growing as a whole?And, on closer inspection, it made for thought-provoking reading.Late last year, according to the stats, the worldwide internet population stood at 812 million people. Last month it stood at 938 million: that's fast growth. But it's clear that with each passing day, the traditional grip that the English language has had on the web is sliding away.If my figures are correct (the usual proviso) then since October 2004, the proportion of English speakers on the internet has dropped by three percentage points, to 32%. In the same period, the number of Chinese-speaking surfers increased by 18 million, or 17%, to 124 million: holding them steady at 13% of all internet users.Most languages are just about holding their place - Japanese, Spanish, German, French, Korean and others are all relatively stable in percentage terms. But in sheer weight of numbers, nothing can outstrip the increase in Chinese.And of course, in terms of potential growth, China again trumps the English-speaking world. More than a fifth of the world's population speak Chinese, whereas English is spoken by around 17% of the world's population. How much longer can the language of Shakespeare continue to punch above its weight?Of course, it's not all bad news for Anglophones, of course. Some emerging markets are English-speaking - including, for example, India and some parts of Africa - which means that the decline will be slowed up. But the message is clear: the balance of power is shifting.
This warning came in to us from Sony last week, and may worth noting if you spot very cheap camcorders for sale.It has been brought to our attention that counterfeit Sony Handycam camcorders are currently being sold on eBay, other websites and by a small number of street sellers. We are making every effort to remove these from the web,but cannot stop the cameras being placed in the first instance, or remove them as quickly as we would like. We are also communicating with the Trading Standards Authority regarding the sale of counterfeit products in street markets.We would encourage your readers to always check that they are purchasing a genuine Sony product (reference the Sony website atsony.co.uk) before purchasing a 'bargain' camcorder.Of course, it's a general rule for purchasing on the web - if something looks too good to be true, it often is: check carefully and make sure you're buying the genuine article.
Just saw this one hidden deep inside the Financial Times, but it piqued my interest by dealing with two companies I'm overly interested in: Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and the search engine firm Blinkx.News Corp is in negotiations to buy Blinkx, a privately held internet search company based in San Francisco, according to people close to the world's fourth-largest media group. [...] Last week Rupert Murdoch, chairman and chief executive, said the company was prepared to spend as much as $2bn on internet acquisitions. He acknowledged that the company was in advanced negotiations to acquire a search engine, but did not disclose its name. Some News Corp sources said the talk were not quite as advanced as Mr Murdoch suggested and could still break down.FirstMurdoch buys MySpace, now he's looking at Blinkx - a very good, fast developing engine that is, unfortunately, somewhat unloved. It certainly shows an aggressive attitude towards the search market from the man who ignored the web for years, and could prove a fantastic buy.Related:Victor Keegan on Blinkx.
At last week'sEIEF, some of the top names in interactive comedy came together to discuss a question gamesblog has considered in the past: why aren't games funny? Beyond the reasons that have beenproposed, the panellists suggested a few new reasons why the belly laffs don't translate into interactivity.According to Neil Richards fromThe Mustard Corporation, one of the major problems is that games are compared with TV and film, which is measurably funnier than computer games. In TV and Film, scriptwriters pen 10-15 scripts before the final draft is approved and the actors lay down their lines. In games, the script is the last thing to be laid down, and usually – not exclusively – it's done by the person who's not doing anything at that particular moment. They're not specialists, the directors of the game aren't specialists, and there's no comedy timing expertly inputted by an editor in the cutting room.There's an issue of method as well. In the games industry, scripts are done by committee, a reflection of the democratic nature of interactive entertainment. According to Richards, team-writing is the death of comedy. Lest you Simpsons/Friends/Seinfeld fans come down on his logic, apparently in such situations one or two people nail down the comedy nugget, andthenthe team comes in to flesh it out.Most of all, he argues, publishers don't take risks, which means that games companies start their comedy games in the wrong place – a place of high financial output, driven by the vast expense of keeping a games company running when out of the games cycle. That kind of hysterical environment doesn't produce cleverly crafted comedic results.Richards' biggest beef is with the camera, which is understandably placed for the gameplay perspective. Unllike in traditional media, it doesn't move to where the comedy is, a technique used to localise the viewer's/player's attention. Furthermore, the developer has no control over the course of the game, the pace through which the player completes it, and what (or when) the player pays attention to.He thinks that in-game comedy will never be little more than passing nugget in the story before the player moves on to the next scene.Dave Green, founder of internet zineNeed To Know, approached the question from the perspective of the very casual browser-based comedy games market. As Games Ed of Channel 4's interactive comedy website, he pointed out that the funniest games on the web are few and far between. It's easier to find the weirdest. He was particularly complementary about the extremely bizarre "Nigella Bites!".A few final thoughts on the subject from the session:Comedy is an exciting way lower budgets are able to break through to an audience in a way that blockbusters aren't.Gameplay itself is almost deliberately opposed to comedy. What happens in comedy is that either you experience frustration or your expectations are fulfilled. In comedy, your expectations are supposed to be subverted. This would be terrible for gameplay.Create situations in which drama arises, not place drama at the centre.
After the obvious rush job that wasWind Wakerit should be seen as positive, but news that the newZelda gamehas been delayed until 2006 is still a blow. Twilight Princess was a highlight of E3 and looked set to be the biggest game this Christmas. Not now. But if the extra development time means Twilight Princess can get to within touching distance of the mightyOcarina of Timethen the delay will be worth it. Nintendo said: "Our development team has decided to take extra time to add some incredible new elements to The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. As a result, the game will now launch in 2006 globally. We recognise there may be some disappointed fans; however we firmly believe this additional time will result in a more enjoyable gaming experience."
A new online database will allow teachers to gain instant access to the A-level marks for every individual question answered by their pupils when results are released on Thursday.The revolutionary exam system, designed in the wake of the 2002 exams crisis, allows teachers to log on to a database containing the results from Edexcel exams taken at 5,000 schools and colleges by over 933,000 students across England, Wales and Northern Ireland.For the first time, teachers will be able to instantly see what marks their candidates have got in every individual question answered. The secure website also allows teachers to compare their pupils' and classes' marks for every question with the national average or the national average for comparable schools.They will also get access to the chief examiners' reports for every subject and marking scheme. It is hoped that by making available all the details on the day, any students worried by a result will be able to have their minds put to rest straight away.Teachers are allowed to check the new results service for concerned pupils and their parents and from next year Edexcel wants to be running pilots for pupils to log on and use the system themselves.Edexcel has used online marking methods this year which allows the logging of results and therefore the instant publication of much more detail on the website. The managing director of Edxecel, Jerry Jarvis, said: "Post-results enquiries are far quicker. Schools benefit from the additional management information we are sharing with them - on results day, nearly a month sooner than they would usually have it."This really is useful to schools and our aim is to enable teachers to help target students' learning to where it is most needed."Mr Jarvis insists that the access to the data will put any worried students' mind to rest but others suggested that it could also fuel concerns about results. Martin Ward, the deputy general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, said: "If students are in any way dissatisfied with results, they want as much information as possible. Edexcel may find they will get more queries and requests for re-marks as a consequence of this information."Barry Sheerman, the chairman of the Commons education select committee, said that ever since the exams crisis of 2002 when a massive re-grading process was ordered, there had been greater demand for transparency in results."I think this technology is with us and ... the demand for transparency is with us. Employers and universities want to see marks, it will make selection easier and more perceptive. Any time you change anything in education it will lead to queries and resolutions but I can't help but think that greater transparency is a good thing."The government is preparing a pilot of publishing students' individual modular marks to universities to help them select the top candidates. If the pilot goes well the scheme will be adopted across England, Wales and Northern Ireland from 2007.All the major exam boards are trailing the online marking and data capture used by Edexcel, which remains ahead in its development. It is owned by Pearson which has previously adopted the technology in America.
According toGamespot, Vivendi has penned a deal with the estate of thriller writer Robert Ludlum to create games based around his novels, including The Bourne Identity and Covert One. Clearly, this is a response to the success of Ubi Soft's Tom Clancy titles, and it could well be that the airport novel conversion is going to be the next big money-spinner in the industry. Games designer and blogger Greg Costikyan is skeptical about Vivendi's choice of author, though,pointing outthat Ludlum readers are usually in the 50+ age-group (not a key videogame demographic), and that the works are cerebral spy thrillers rather than hi-tech shoot-outs.Anyway, if this is to be the latest 'me too' licensing craze, it'll be interesting to see who gets chosen next. Perhaps Dick Francis will inspire a series of games that combine third-person action adventure with the odd Final Furlong-style horse race mini-challenge. I'd also love to see a Jackie Collins translation, probably combining The Sims, The Movies and Hot Coffee into one daft overblown sex comedy.Any other suggestions? I think we can get a top five together and really help the industry in its noble quest to make more money out of other peoples' ideas...
Just at the time that we reported on the latest developments atWikimedia, a mini-saga has played itself out on Wikipedia regarding something elsewe've written about: the BBC's new alternate-reality game Jamie Kane.Background: Somebody jumped on Wikipedia and added an entry forJamie Kane, the fictional pop star who is at the heart of the Beeb game. It was pure biography, with no mention of the fact that he was a fictional character in a game - and could be seen as spam (bad) or viral marketing (worse).It went through the usual Wikipedia editing routine, then somebody found out that at least some of the information had been posted from inside the BBC. That set off alarm bells with many - getting picked up by Slashdot andBoingBoing(headline: BBC punks Wikipedia) - and withthe crowd crying "foul play": the suggestion that the site had been manipulated by the corporation was pretty quick.Fast forward a day or two, and the story seems over. Some clever fellow has re-written the article as a straightforward encyclopedia entry; the user involved has said he's not from the BBC but he's sorry anyway; someone else from the BBC has said they added a page but not as any official drive; the BBC themselves has said they had no part in it. Somewhat amusingly, those conspiracy-theorist readers who had amended the entry to shout about the BBC's alleged interference and vandalism had their own edits removed, as unduly interfering vandalism.So what's the story here? Certainly not "Wikipedia users catch dodgy article"... after all, that's just the users doing their job. I don't even think it's "news organisation tries to manipulate Wikipedia", since it seems pretty clear that the Beeb had nothing to do with it. So really, it's "some people have to learn to use Wikipedia... but basically, the system works". I'm not going to ask them to hold the front page, but it is a pretty good example for newbies of how the community self-corrects.[As a side note, BoingBoing's Xeni Jardin quoted an anonymous email from someone who says they "work at a company that uses Wikipedia as a key part of online marketing strategies. That includes planting of viral information in entries, modification of entries to point to new promotional sites or "leaks" embedded in entries to test diffusion of information". Nowthatis a story.]
Not so happy now? Photograph: AFP/GettyThere's been a lot of talk about the potential for a Google backlash. But what about one of its biggest rivals, Yahoo? Some - including Ben Hammersley inthis very organ- have said Yahoo may be poised to capitalise on any failure by Google. Others, however, disagree.An article from this week's Economist [reg only] carries a salutory lesson for Yahoo, in which it tries to work out the company's business plan and is, essentially, left shrugging its shoulders.The organiser split the students into teams, which began by delivering a brutally honest analysis of each firm's position and then did battle. Yahoo, its team thought, is in essence a smorgasbord. "I don't have to be the best at everything; I just have to be good enough for you," said the team's presenter.Google's team, by contrast, was confident that it alone was the true technological innovator. The MSN team, predictably, talked about "leveraging Windows", which excited nobody. And the AOL team began its presentation by saying that "we are fortunate just to be invited to the party". In the end, Google won and Yahoo came last.It's strongly worded stuff, eventually claiming that Yahoo has "old-media plans for the new-media era". I certainly think there's value in the idea that any company should concentrate on doing one thing very, very well. The problem with Yahoo is that its historical role - organising the web - simply does not exist any more. Look at its recent developments: the phenomenal purchase ofFlickrwas combined with the rather less exciting Yahoo 360 blogging platform. Yahoo Mail has been on the back foot ever since Google got into the webmail business. And now they've spenta billion dollarson trying to get a good slice of the action in China by buying a business-to-business, erm, business.Perhaps Yahoo is undergoing an existential crisis: we should take it to the library and hand over the collected works of Sartre.
While he was out and about, MS bloggerRobert Scoblenoticed a vending machine that sold iPods and other Apple accessories - the picture'shere on Flickr.Sometimes you have to wonder how much small change people carry around in their pockets.
At theEIEFlast Thursday, a panel of leaders in the online game space got together to debate the sociability of interactive entertainment. It was an enlightening talk, and the overall contention was that the future of computer games is reliant upon, well, sociability. The aim of the game is to become the modern "third place", to replace the pub in our lives.Among the folks debating this were Jeremy Gaffney from NCSoft (Lineage, City of Heroes), Philip Rosedale from Linden Lab (Second Life), Jeff Pabst from Microsoft (XBox Live) and Sampo Karjalainen from Sulake Corporation (Habbo Hotel, Virtual Magic Kingdom). Certainly these figures – bar Microsoft - represent a series of titles which consistently breaks the boundaries of the traditional demographic, which is in and of itself a welcoming aspect for the games industry. Sadly, none of them were British. A tangential question – if China's government is pouringphenomenal amounts of cashinto online games development wouldn't it be nice if the UK supported its own MMOG industry?Online games – are they the new playground? Will they replace the pub as our social hub?Jeremy:In Korea, the gamers play online games together. It's a social replacement. It's a way for non-social people to socialise. They've even started developing games for bored girlfriends of the guys who're playing Starcraft with their mates.Ian (Sharpe – Moderator):Your user bases are very different.Philip:There's a tight demographic who're playing these games. We're hoping to push that towards a broader and broader experience. What happens online is that people invest in themselves; with that foundation, it's not surprising that these things appeal to a broader audience.Jeff:The demographic for the console is what it is. The popular genres on Live are targeted to that demographic. However, even within that standard demographic, we see different people playing in different ways. People will hook up on Live to play games across the continents, but the chat is as important as the game. In fact, it's much more about the socialising than the game.Sampo:The 1st time you try one of these spaces it's an amazing experience, especially when you get that moment when you realise that there's another real person on the other end. While our demographic is still tight like Philip said, once people engage with that experience, they love it. We need to get the people to try it first.Jeff:It's the same thing with Live. The "experience" isn't something that you can show in an ad.Philip:Playing through these games is part of a nuanced emotional discovery. That makes it difficult to market. Second Life is compelling. The ideas are more complex and layered so people can't find out about it through the traditional channels.Ian:What's wrong with the first life?Sampo:It's about keeping in touch. It's another element which keeps the communication channel open all the time; the technology is already being used as part of social interaction. Outside of games, teenagers are using things likeSkype. They've got many identities, many means of socialising. Online is just one of them.Ian:But is it a good thing? On one hand we're talking about a new level of sociability, and on the other end it's sociopathic.Jeremy:Yes, there's the experience of the kid dying after 3 days of playing a game. There is such a thing as too much! But in Korea, where this happened, they also have a word for dying after spending three days straight at work.Philip:These things can make us stupid or smart. Success in online environments can be directly competitive, and creative, from creating things to creating guilds, which then create other things.Jeff:You do see users getting creative with the game, but this is something we see outside as well. Modding tools have come out of the user-base, which reflects those elements that people create in the real world. One example is MotoGP. People create skins and shells for their motorcycles in the same way people do in professional and amateur motorcycle communities. These in-game communities are analogous to the similar modding community offline.Philip:What you can get out of these social online environments is unique and something special. I'll give you an example. One of our residents, Bhodi Silverman, created an in-game group calledVERTU. She had events in-game, and people would gather together and do things. Then, she thought to put a donation box at one of these in-world events for a real world cause. The first was for the EFF. In the space she collected $2,000. That was around $2 real dollars per person for the EFF. I think that the behaviour online is more supportive than in real life.Ian:There are norms in real life. How do you try to introduce real world social norms into a space when players are there to break them?Sampo:Especially with teenagers, the social norms are much more direct. They've started to create their own new social norms.Jeremy:I see these games as large-scale social experiments. Our social experiment is an authoritarian dictatorship. You wouldn't want to go to Disneyland if there was crime rampant there. It's a place to go for entertainment. We try to keep that park-like space. As you start seeing the things you don't allow, that's when you start clamping down. If you allow one person to be a jerk who pushes 10 people away from our world, we'll boot the jerk.Philip:There are consequences in virtual worlds. What happens there is that there are very interesting excursions into understanding social behaviour. If things get really bad, we have a judiciary made up of Second Life residents. We see a whole lot of emerging common law. I don't think people would have come across some of these decisions and would have necessarily learned the methods of solving them in the real world.Ian:What's the future?Sampo:It's going to be more about the social experience, and openness. Some of the development companies focus on Human-Computer interaction. I think that's so 20th century. We need to focus on the human–to–human interaction.Jeff:More things will happen and people will have more choice. As we move forward, we want to develop a platform which will appeal to both users and creative partners. Our killer app now is voice. There's more emotion with voice, and I think the social experiences people will get through chat software and voice interaction will change the nature of sociability in these game spaces.Ian:How does this become mainstream?Philip:The key to the mainstream is not the content, but in the time-requirement. It takes a lot of time. If we make interfaces better, allow people to jump in and out, we may see the mainstream in these worlds in the future.
Internet auction sites such as eBay are having a growing impact on the economy and could provide a welcome boost to consumer confidence, a report published today says.The Centre for Economic and Business Research (CEBR) believes the power to sell unwanted or unused goods online has increased the value of the average household's assets by over &pound;3,000."If people realise that they have sellable goods sitting in their cupboards, it ought to increase consumers' confidence just like any other unexpected boost to wealth - such as a building society demutualisation windfall," said Laura Phaff, a CEBR economist and one of the report's authors.The report estimates that more than &pound;4bn of trading is likely to be conducted on eBay alone this year - the equivalent of 1.3% of total retail sales - and that 50,000 Britons are drawing an income from online trading.Online auction sites are being used to sell an increasingly wide and bizarre range of goods. A grilled cheese sandwich bearing an image of the Virgin Mary, someone's virginity and a 90-strong symphony orchestra have all appeared on eBay.However, the CEBR believes success of auction websites may not show up in official statistics because of the difficulty in recording internet trading figures.Meanwhile figures from the Confederation of British Industry today suggest that tough trading conditions for smaller manufacturers have continued, as both orders and output fell for the second quarter in a row. The CBI said during the three months to the end of July more than a third of smaller firms saw their orders fall, while 22% reported an increase.
"Music copied onto blank recordable CDs is becoming a bigger threat to the bottom line of record stores and music labels than online file-sharing, the head of the recording industry's trade group said Friday," according toAP."Burned" CDs accounted for 29 percent of all recorded music obtained by fans in 2004, compared to 16 percent attributed to downloads from online file-sharing networks, said Mitch Bainwol, chief executive for the Recording Industry Association of America.The story reckons this will lead to more copy-protected CDs, "regardless of the potential for consumer backlash".
The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday August 21 2005In the article below, we were wrong to describe magistrates as 'state employees'. Magistrates are, in fact, independent, unpaid volunteers.There have been blogs about political conspiracies, Hollywood tittle-tattle and care of cats. Ellen MacArthur wrote one as she sailed round the world. Now a new phenomenon is taking over the blogosphere. Underpaid and overworked public sector staff are writing about their daily lives spent trying to keep Britain operating smoothly.Ambulance staff, police, magistrates and other state employees are dealing with daily pressures by turning to blogging to describe their frustrations, and sometimes triumphs. They often disguise their identities to avoid giving offence or sparking libel proceedings.A paramedic who goes by the name of Tom Reynolds has created one of the most popular. His blend of black humour, sadness and philosophical insights has created an enormous following in Britain. Last month he wrote of a girl who died unexpectedly despite attempts to resuscitate her. The last thing he saw in hospital was her family crying. 'I wasn't feeling anything. I was blank, and not because of shock. I think it's because by my fourth night shift the ability to care about anything leaves me.'Reynolds, who works in the London area, told The Observer: 'Blogging lets me put down my ideas, and then I can receive rapid feedback from my readers in my comments area. In return I can answer their questions. It has turned writing into a two-way flow of information. There is also a fair community built up between bloggers. Placing your thoughts in the big wide world has taught me to examine what I am thinking in a way most people would probably never explore.'Worldwide, there are now more than four million blogs - online diaries - where people post their thoughts about anything from politics to housework. Some attract thousands of visitors each day. There can be dangers, however.Bookshop assistant Joe Gordon became the first Briton to be sacked for blogging activities earlier this year when Waterstone's in Edinburgh dismissed him for 'gross misconduct' and 'bringing the company into disrepute'. He called the bookstore 'Bastardstone's' and made fun of his sandal-wearing boss.One police officer, known only as Brian, describes himself as a response team officer working 'in a Small Corner of The Throbbing Metropolis'. He told The Observer: 'I thought non-police people might want to know what it's actually like, beyond what's on the rolling news channels and in the tabloids.'Another site, mentalnurse. org.uk, gives a blackly humorous insight into life on the wards. 'Our ward was on a very tight budget. There was a ban on overtime, agency staff could only be used when regulars collapsed from exhaustion. We were bemused when workmen from the estates department came round and replaced all the pictures on the walls. "How much," I asked, "is this costing ?" "&pound;2,000," I was told.'Suw Charman, a seasoned blogger, said the difference between writing a blog and keeping a diary is that you can attain enormous levels of intimacy without giving away your identity. 'Blogs give you a window into a life you would never otherwise see.'A spokesperson for the NHS Confederation, which represents more than 90 per cent of NHS organisations, said: 'We view the rapid increase in of health service bloggers as a positive development because they are writing about the real life of the NHS, not the often unrealistic portrayal of the health service in TV dramas.'Lives onlineTom Reynolds's Random Actsof Reality (The life of an ambulance paramedic)I got sent to a call, 'Male collapsed'. As I enter the flat there is a partially dressed man on the floor with a woman kneeling over him. At least she is honest.'He's clucking, because he used to inject, and now smokes heroin. We had a fight - now he's acting strange.''Clucking' means that he is withdrawing from heroin.'Is he on methadone?,' I ask.'Yes, but they don't give him enough,' she replies.http://randomreality.blogware.com/Tales from the Chalk Face(The life of a teacher)On a PE cover on a hot, sweaty afternoon, I began to notice how the students interacted while playing softball.I don't know if Wayne Rooney is totally to blame, but the current fashion for Premiership football players to dispute every decision made was evident. Luckily, I was merely there in a supervisory capacity, as a student teacher took the lesson.'http://talesfromthechalkface.blogspot.com/&#183;Compiled by Andrew Wander
Microsoft has won a ruling from the US patent office saying that the software giant filed for patents on key technology used in the iPod five months before Apple.Apple intends to appeal the decision. However, if unsuccessful Steve Jobs's company may be forced to pay royalties to Microsoft on every sale. Since the machine and its variants account for 75 per cent of all MP3 players sold in the US (Apple has shipped 21.8 million iPods since October 2001), the potential financial liability is significant.Apple rejected Microsoft's claim. 'Apple invented and publicly released the iPod interface before the Microsoft patent application cited by the patent examiner was filed,' the company said in a statement. Microsoft's claim centres on the work of John C. Platt, a senior researcher in the Knowledge Tools Group at Microsoft Research. In May 2002 he filed a patent for AutoDJ, 'a system for automatically generating music playlists based on one or more seed songs selected by a user'. Platt's application was rejected in December 2004, but it was amended and later approved. Apple's own request, filed by Steve Jobs and other officials in October 2002, was rejected by patent officials last month.For legions of Apple fans, Microsoft's claim is merely evidence of its competitive character. Earlier last week Microsoft 'declared war' on the iPod and promised a series of competing devices.By next spring, said Erik Huggers, head of Microsoft's Digital Media Division, 'there is going to be a whole line-up of products that can compete with Apple in industrial design, usability, functionality and features.'But it is going to take a lot to dethrone Apple, say industry analysts. 'Apple won't sit on its laurels and I expect we'll see another iteration of the iPod for the holiday,' says Michael Gartenberg, of Jupiter Research. 'Unless Microsoft is really willing to spend the time and effort to get behind a player or a select group of players, it's not going to happen.' The iPod sold 6.2m units last quarter alone and generated over $1.1bn in revenue for Apple.On Friday, a Microsoft spokesman did not rule out the possibility that it might end up licensing the disputed technology to Apple. He said the companies maintain a 'good working relationship'.
The instructions were simple enough. 'You are invited to anonymously contribute a secret to a group art project. Your secret can be a regret, fear, betrayal, desire, confession or childhood humiliation. Be brief. Be legible. Be creative.' Apart from those instructions and an address in Germantown, Maryland, the postcards Frank Warren had printed out were left blank. It was November 2004, and Warren was about to make his contribution to a Washington DC art exhibition. He distributed the postcards at bookstores, theatres, train stations and restaurants. Some found their way inside the pages of books in the local library.It was a few days before the first secrets found his mailbox. For the first few weeks, only one or two would arrive, but slowly more began coming. By the end of the month, 150 postcards had turned up at his Maryland home. The exhibition closed, but the postcards kept coming. Each postcard that arrived was different and yet the same. They were all 4in x 6in, homemade but artistically ambitious, and all sent by people Warren did not know.Each day more postcards came, bearing anonymous admissions, prompting Warren to set up an online gallery to display the most provocative, profound and artistic. Each week he would reflect upon the secrets and try to share a representative sampling of what he had received. News ofwww.postsecret.comtravelled quickly across the internet. To date, the site has had upwards of 5m hits, and Warren estimates he has received 3,000 postcards from anonymous confessors across the United States and around the world. From its modest origins in a Washington art gallery, Warren's creation is the internet's worst-kept secret.Postcards have always fascinated Frank Warren. As an 11-year-old boy growing up in the Seventies, he once sent a postcard to his parents while at summer camp in California. Thanks to the sluggishness of the postal service, the card did not arrive until the young Frank was home. 'There was something magical about reading something that was from me, but also not from me,' he recalls, 'something unsettling to be holding something in my hand that seemed to be coming from the past.'The sensation of dislocation and the suggestion of the magical possibilities of postcards stayed with him. He eventually left home, went to college, got married, became a father and started his own business. As he moved on in his life and moved around the country, his interest in postcards followed:'I liked what they represented metaphorically, the idea of being away from home and trying to communicate with somebody close to you but not with you. I like the fact that when someone sends a postcard it is utterly exposed: it can be read by anybody between where it starts and where it ends up.'Geographically, the postcards that arrive in his mailbox come from across the world. Emotionally, they originate from a place populated by the regretful, the confused and the guilty. Couples struggle with the knowledge that their marriage has been emptied of love; grown men mourn for the time they did not spend with their parents; employees worry that their jobs are killing their souls. The same themes recur like untreated wounds: regret, unfulfilled relationships, childhood abuse and self-doubt. 'Sometimes I think my fiance isn't the one,' sighs one postcard, while another sadly admits,'I know he doesn't love me any more.' The words are scrawled over a wedding photograph in which both the bride and groom's faces have been scratched away. The image is as powerful as the words. A photograph of a smiling man holding a baby is accompanied by the words, 'I'd sell my mind, body and soul to the devil for one more day with my dad.' A photograph of an old woman - maybe ripped from a catalogue or possibly the real person involved - is accompanied with: 'I wish I had called and visited my grandparents more when they were alive.'When they are not regretting what they didn't do, the faceless confessors are regretting what they are doing. A blurry outline of a wage-slave with briefcase floats in the middle of one card whose sender has written, 'I don't know what I want but I don't want this.' Another person complains: 'I work so much I am not a person any more. I am a machine.'Whether it is online diaries or websites such asgrouphug.us, those who want to confess past or present misadventures find that in cyberspace there's always someone to hear them scream. In some ways, postsecret.com is merely another addition to the chorus of confession that pervades popular culture. But what makes it such a compelling site is the meld between art and emotional honesty. Because Warren insists each postcard is personalised, each confessor has to spend time with their secret, planning the visual imagery to frame the revelation. The end results, described by Warren as 'graphic haikus', are often heartbreakingly powerful. Scrolling through the site is like walking past a crowd of strangers and being able to peer deep into their souls; it is an emotional x-ray machine which reveals what we most wish to conceal.'All art is a kind of confession,' suggested writer James Baldwin, and the works on postsecret.com are in the tradition of artists such as Kahlo and Emin, and writers such as Dave Peltzer: those who sought redemption in revelation, driven by the urge to, in Baldwin's phrase, 'vomit the anguish up'.Some of the secrets are shocking, some sad and others silly. Warren says that when he selects which to feature on the site, he opts for those 'which reveal ourselves in our entirety: the sublime, the horrifying, the erotic and the ghastly. I read the postcards daily, and a week later a group will emerge. I don't pick them, I listen to the secrets and they pick me.' For its founder, postsecret.com offers a 'non-judgmental environment, an opportunity to give voice to the voices that are not usually heard'. At 41 years old, married for 16 years, with a 10-year-old daughter and a successful business in medical research, Frank Warren was inspired by the twin muses of 'a tedious job and insomnia'. But there was also another reason. 'I didn't think I was interested in secrets,' he explains, 'but as the postcards started arriving I realised that in part I must have created this because I had my own secret, something that had happened to me a long time ago and which I had not told anyone. One day I wrote it down and mailed it, and by writing it down I physically let it go.' It was included on the site.The appeal of the entire project is the vicarious thrill of delving deep into other lives. Like the celebrity magazines which claim to reveal truths about celebrities we will never know, the postcards intimate that we know something secret about the senders but their anonymity protects us from truly feeling close to them. That is what makes them closer to art than simple confessions.Scrolling down the secrets, familiar structures emerge in the telling. Some come at the reader like the opening lines of a short story or song: 'I still haven't told my father that I have the same disease that killed my mother.' Others are like aphorisms: 'I make everyone feel that I like to be different but really I just don't know how to fit in.' And then there are the confessions that come with guilty punchlines: 'I say I don't like the food but really I hate Hooters because I'm gay.' At first sight, the honesty is bracing - these are people who appear to be willing to emotionally strip themselves in front of the world. But the demands of making an artistic postcard mean that the revelation needs to be planned and designed and considered: it is more burlesque than streaking.The success of the site has already attracted interest. Several exhibitions have been scheduled and a book based on the postcards is planned for next year. Warren has refused all offers of sponsorship and merchandising because he wants to retain the purity of the site. 'I feel like it's a mission and it's something I need to pursue,' he explains. 'The project gives me a deep sense of satisfaction and I am very protective of the secrets that are sent to me.' But for all the project's success, some are wary of what might happen should it become too well known. One visitor emailed Warren saying he hoped 'Oprah doesn't hear about this site'.Each day, 40 or 50 more postcards arrive in his mailbox. They are all eventually stored in lockable, stainless-steel boxes. 'It is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution,' wrote Oscar Wilde, but some of those sending their postcards seem to be putting their faith in Warren. His Maryland home has become, for some, a confessional safe house, an inverted Pandora's Box where the sins of the world are daily delivered to be assessed by the keeper of secrets.'Why do they send them? Some people seem to be asking for absolution,' says Warren. 'I started to understand that when someone shares a dark secret, they lighten their load. But the other person walks away a little heavier.' Priests and psychologists have contacted him to praise his work, which he describes as 'the answer to an agnostic's prayers'. Frank Warren now probably knows more secrets than anyone on the planet. The responsibility for maintaining the project has forced him to spend more time on his site than on his job; these days he refers to himself as 'an accidental artist'.Those who send their secrets to Frank do so in the hope that by giving them to him they can be freed; for those who visit the site, the experience of reading the postcards, in the words of one contributor, 'saves me and kills me in the same instant'. And for Frank himself, who like the faceless confessors remains virtually anonymous, the project has turned him into a fisherman of secrets. 'I see strangers differently now,' he admits. 'If I am walking down the street, in a bookstore, in a packed cinema, I tend to feel more connected to the people around me, more interested in wondering what they are not revealing.'For the anonymous contributors to postsecret.com, for the millions visiting it, and for Frank himself, the most profound realisation that comes from peering so deeply into the troubled souls of the postcard-senders is simply this: that the things that make us feel so abnormal are actually the things that make us the same.
The front cover shows Jennifer Aniston in a floaty pyjama top and nothing else, as photographed by Mario Testino in Malibu. Inside are glossy adverts for Giorgio Armani, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Chloe, Burberry and Prada. So why, amid Vanity Fair magazine's pungent mix of glamour and politics, has space been found for two computer geeks number-crunching in a barren office in Estonia?The answer is that Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis are billed as 'Two Wild and Crazy Moguls ... the elusive entrepreneurs who are transforming the way the world communicates'. They are credited with one of the biggest shake-ups of the &pound;166 billion global telephone industry since Alexander Graham Bell made the first call in 1876. No phone is safe from their ambition to replace traditional fixed-line networks with Skype, a service that allows people to speak to each other over the internet - free.Zennstrom, a 6ft 4in Swede, and Friis, a 6ft 5in Dane, are pictured reclining amid the mirrors and cream leather sofas of the fashionable Kingly Club in London. Their dress is smart casual: snappy suits and tieless, open-necked shirts. The multi-millionaires are 'equipped with boyish energy and one lazy eye each', spending their time in London, Luxembourg and Skype's technical HQ in Tallinn, Estonia. But Vanity Fair's profile opens with the cool Scandinavians surrounded by the Ferraris, yachts and boutique streets of Cannes.Zennstrom and Friis are presented as the embodiment of 'geek chic', a niche that has always eluded Microsoft tycoon Bill Gates, but which the next Dr Who, David Tennant, has declared he is aiming for. A new book, Geek Chic, by Neil Feineman, claims: 'After decades, if not centuries, of persecution, ridicule and never, never getting the girl, geeks are hot. They are on the cover of magazines, win awards at the Oscars and the Baftas, eat at the best tables of the best restaurants, and park their Ferraris in front of their million-pound houses. They are the geeks, and their time has come.'Zennstrom, 39, and Friis, 29 ,tick a fair number of the above boxes. Jo Mosaku, a key business adviser to the two after they launched Skype two years ago, said: 'They are technology freaks and not the kind of guys who seek publicity, but a Vanity Fair shoot in Cannes gives them a broader appeal. We drink beer in the Electric and play pool at the Elbow Room.'Zennstrom and Friis - the brains behind the music download business Kazaa, which they left in 2002 because of legal actions launched by the music industry - have earned comparisons with two of their heroes, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the multi-billionaire founders of internet search engine Google. Like Google, their idea's simplicity and obvious consumer benefits have rapidly turned the small start-up into a runaway success. Fortune magazine's list of the most powerful people in business ranked them number one in a sub-group dubbed 'The Disrupters', mavericks with ideas that 'give corporate titans the cold sweats'.Skype software turns a computer with a broadband connection into a telephone, making it possible to speak via a headset - free - to anyone in the world who also has Skype, as long as their computer is switched on. Zennstrom said last month: 'I think charging for calls belongs to the last century.' For a small charge, usually a few pence per minute, users can also sign up to dial traditional phone numbers anywhere in the world.Skype software has been downloaded 148 million times in more than 210 countries. When it notched 10 billion minutes of worldwide call time in June, Friis noted in a blog: 'Skype was released in August 2003. We hit 1 billion minutes served in July 2004. Now, it's 10 billion minutes in June 2005. So it took roughly the same time to get from 0 to 1 billion, as from 1 billion to 10 billion. Does this mean we'll be able to celebrate 100 billion next May? Who knows?'
"Imagine if your next Mac cost you only $300, and ran faster than any G4 or G5 you've ever used. That future may already be unfolding: Hackers have found a way to bypass a chip designed to prevent the Mac OS from running on non-Apple PCs, which are often cheaper than Macs," reportsWired News."The hackedOSx86bypasses a chip, the Trusted Platform Module, or TPM, that is intended to prevent the system from running on ordinary PCs."
"Stung by a publishing industry backlash, Google has halted its efforts to scan copyright books from some of the nation's largest university libraries so the material can be indexed in its leading internet search engine. The company announced the suspension, effective until November, in a notice posted on its website just before midnight Thursday by Adam Smith, the manager of its ambitious program to convert millions of books into a digital format," reportsAP.According to the story, Google now wants publishers to "opt out" by letting the company know which books it doesn't want scanned. That doesn't satisfy the Association of American Publishers:"Google's announcement does nothing to relieve the publishing industry's concerns," Patricia Schroeder, the trade group's president, said in a statement Friday. "Google's procedure shifts the responsibility for preventing infringement to the copyright owner rather than the user, turning every principle of copyright law on its ear."
Nintendogs Nintendo DSUnlike the ceaseless demands and charmless electronic bleeps of the 1990s virtual-pet craze that was Tamagotchi, Nintendogs is a product for the new millennium, replacing the slightly freaky-looking blinking pests that plagued classrooms and offices at the time, with a group of disarmingly sweet and interactive puppies. Scratch them under the chin using the DS's stylus, or toss a Frisbee or balloon into their midst and watch the simulated canine frolics commence. However, as well as simply playing with and feeding your tiny charges, you can train them to do tricks and respond to commands, allowing you to win dog shows and eventually save up for new pooches. Three versions, each featuring a different set of breeds, due here in October.
MeteosNintendo DSThere's something very wrong with replicating whole console games in portable format, mainly because handheld games tend to act as brief time-fillers to be played between other activities rather than endured for immersive, hours-long, RSI-inducing periods. That the puzzle game Meteos can be enjoyed in both long and short sessions is a testament to the awesomely addictive simplicity of its play mechanic: blocks that fall Tetris-style from the sky are then dragged into horizontal or vertical lines of three or more to launch them off the screen. While easy to pick up, discovering the game's surprisingly subtle depth is where it really pays off. Like Zoo Keeper before it, this is perfect handheld gaming that appears to appeal equally to boys and girls.&#183;Nintendo, &#163;30Sid Meier's Pirates!XBoxSid Meier's Pirates! lets you amass infamy and fortune on the high seas not only via tough cutlass work and packing the cannons with grape shot, but also through strategic trade and currying favour with various nations' outposts (by sinking the boats of other pirates and any other nations who get in your way). This gives you complete freedom either to pursue the quest to avenge your parents' death or simply wander around plundering Spanish galleons and seducing governors' daughters. Described like that, the pirating life sounds like a pretty good one, and initial impressions of the game back this up with lightweight but fun mini-games and a pleasantly open-ended feel, even if it's never quite Grand Theft Galleon. Surprisingly soon though, the never-ending round of the same mini-games - including ship-to-ship combat, a rhythm-action style dancing game to impress governors' daughters and some simplistic duelling - begins to feel very boring indeed. Also available on PC, the Xbox version comes with the addition of dull four-player boat battles, but the package lacks enough sparkle to sustain interest and will only disappoint would-be simulated buccaneers.&#183;2K Games, &#163;40
Atcoppersblog.blogspot.com, the author, a low-ranking British police officer, and fan of the NRA magazine American Rifleman, hopes his site will "stop people calling the police". Sometimes he's funny, though: recently he listed the top 10 best things about his job including, at No 3, "Aggressive old people".One of the best occupational blogs online israndomreality.blogware.com/blogthe diary of Tom Reynolds, an Emergency Medical Technician for the London Ambulance Service who details his often-harrowing life at the end of each shift. Almost as frightening, but without the death isReffing.blogspot.com, which documents the indignity of being a park football referee.Meanwhilecancergiggles.blog-city.comis a valiant attempt to wrestle some humour out of being "a very nearly dead person".
Saturday August 6A week without ScobleCyberfashion revisitedSunday August 7Citizen journalism is deadMonday August 8The death of filmSpace: the forgotten frontier?Tuesday August 9Trust in the weblogGoogle: we don't like you using GoogleWednesday August 10Top 10 dotcom flopsApple fails to patent iPod interfaceThursday August 11Berners-Lee on the read/write webIt's just like 2000 never happenedMSN now has its own bloggersFriday August 12Intel moving to M designCan you Digg it?Jerk-o-meter can monitor phone responses
MondayNo more terror for SCiNot so goodIndie mechs us happyTuesdaySony vs Lik-SangIf looks could killWednesdayEA in 'relies on sequels' shockerEA &amp; futurelabRockstar does it againThursdayReviews beginning with MGreat game, odd nameFridayStories, truths and eroticism - can videogames deliver?Run to the hills
"Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are developing software for cell phones that would analyze speech patterns and voice tones to rate people - on a scale of 0 to 100% - on how engaged they are in a conversation. Anmol Madan, who led the project while he pursued a master's degree at MIT, sees the Jerk-O-Meter as a tool for improving relationships, not ending them. Or, it might assist telephone sales and marketing efforts," reportsAP.For now, the Jerk-O-Meter is set up to monitor the user's end of the conversation. If his attention is straying, a message pops up on the phone that warns, "Don't be a jerk!" or "Be a little nicer now." A score closer to 100% would prompt, "Wow, you're a smooth talker."However, the Jerk-O-Meter also could be set up to test the voice on the other end of the line. Then it could send the tester such reports as: "This person is acting like a jerk. Do you want to hang up?"
"What's Digg? Digg is a technology news website that combines social bookmarking, blogging, RSS, and non-hierarchical editorial control. With digg, users submit stories for review, but rather than allowing an editor to decide which stories go on the homepage, the users do," says the site athttp://digg.com/.A reader recommendation is a digg.The top story at the time of writing is"Google CEO Uses Yahoo Email Address.. Still". It turns out that Google's Eric Schmidt still lists his address as EricSchmidt1@yahoo.com at his personal home page,http://www.ericschmidt.com/.
If any confirmation was needed that the PSP is more than just a games machine - as if that wasn't enough - comesnewsthat live gigs byIron Maiden, INXS and Bob Marley are being released for the system. Quite what relevance these artists will have for your average PSP owner is hard to gauge and it does make you wonder what other elderly/classic (depending on whether you readMojoor not) musicians we can expect on the PSP.OMDon UMD anyone?
Intel junked its plans for further Pentium 4 designs after the M (Banias) chip, designed in Israel, arrived in the Centrino wireless chipset. Now it's planning to announce future dual-core Pentium chips based on the Banias line of designs. According toCNet:The new chips will start to emerge in the second half of 2006 and sport, among other attributes, greater energy efficiency and better manageability, according to sources familiar with the company's plans. The chips are code-named Merom (for notebooks), Conroe (for desktops) and Woodcrest (for servers).Intel CEO Paul Otellini plans to provide details about the new generation of chips on Aug. 23, the first day of the Intel Developer Forum, which will take place in San Francisco.Merom (named after a lake in Northern Palestine through which the Jordan flows) must be another design from the lab in Israel. Conroe is in the old tradition, being named afterLake Conroein Oregon, but Woodcrest is a bit of a mystery.The new chips have been public knowledge since March, at least, and were confirmed by Intel at a financial analyst meeting in May. See:Future Intel Chips Signal Design Shiftfrom IDG News Service, dated May 10.Merom is the fourth generation of the Israeli series, Banias having been followed by Dothan and Yonah.
Seeing Freddy Flintoff hitting a six or Jason Robinson scoring a try clothed in your brand is no longer enough for mobile phone companies.Sponsoring England's national sports teams is now about obtaining exclusive digital content for customers that generates extra income.Five years ago, mobile phone operators judged the value of sponsoring a team by how many times players wearing their brand appeared in the media.Today, it is based on how much extra call revenue they can make from customers downloading ringtones, wallpaper, score updates and game highlights.By offering unique content, mobile operators can tap into fans' passion for their sport, and combat the increasing fragmentation of the media. "Through content deals mobile phone companies can engage with consumers in a much more intense and meaningful fashion than conventional advertising," Phil Carling, vice-president of sports marketing company Ocatgon, said.O2 and Vodafone have reaped the benefits of their longstanding relationships with rugby and cricket respectively, securing mobile content rights as part of broader sponsorship deals.O2 has been sponsoring the England rugby team since 1996. The long association paid off when England won the 2003 Rugby World Cup. Mr Carling estimates the win boosted the media value of O2's sponsorship by 25%.Other companies decided they too wanted a slice of the action, but O2 had already negotiated its sponsorship for another four years."A lot of companies have been trying to get involved in rugby after the Rugby World Cup, but we've been there through the good times and the bad," O2's head of sponsorship Paul Samuels said.Under the terms of the new &#163;12m deal, O2's sponsorship was expanded to cover all the teams in the premiership competition, access to the players and, importantly, the mobile content rights.O2 customers can download exclusive behind-the-scenes footage, have rugby news, scores and post-match commentary text-messaged to them, and view match highlights. Mr Samuels said customers were willing to pay 25p for each SMS and &#163;2.50 for rugby team ringtones. Vodafone 3G customers can watch video highlights of the Ashes series on their mobiles for the first time this summer. The official sponsor of the England cricket team since 1997, Vodafone secured the 3G content rights last month as part of a &#163;16m deal.The appeal of mobile sports content really becomes apparent when games are close - like the final 15 minutes of the second Test last Sunday.Neither O2 nor Vodafone will reveal how much money they are making from content rights associated with their sports sponsorships. O2 expects mobile content revenue from its rugby and football deals to grow 20% in the next year.A Screen Digest report on European sports rights released yesterday said the mobile was developing into "a genuine business offering incremental revenues to &#91;sports&#93; rights holders"."One could conceive that mobile handsets could almost replace TV as the key source of income for rights holders," Mr Carling said.
Traditionally they are seen as having a negative impact on learning, but mobile phones and similar devices are now being used to facilitate learning in a move away from traditional teaching methods.Mobile phones have become a ubiquitous, unavoidable part of daily life, with an estimated three out of every five children under 15 owning one. But instead of teachers continually trying to fight the distraction as the phones find their way into classrooms, the idea now is that they get students to use them for learning.The proposed adoption of these devices in learning comes largely as a result of the m-learning project completed by the Learning and Shills Development Agency (LSDA), in which they used hybrid phone/personal digital assistant (PDA) devices in an effort to teach and motivate young adults who are not in employment, education or training.The project involved using quizzes and games to test certain skills and knowledge. Phones were sometimes used in collaborative work and the "media board", which allowed tutors to set up a picture or map on a website, and gave pupils the chance to go out, take pictures and send messages that were then uploaded on to the website. On their return to the classroom, students would then work on their website. The project was very successful, with figures showing that 62% of the students felt more keen to take part in future learning after trying mobile learning.According to the LSDA, mobile phones can have a positive impact on learning, particularly for students who find traditional teaching methods difficult to deal with. Jill Attewell, the programme manager for the m-learning project, points out that "most kids have a mobile phone and it's already a big part of their lives. So, if we can use that enthusiasm to get them involved with their learning activities, it can only be a good thing." Schools in the UK have already started to take advantage of their pupils' fascination with all things digital. Wren's Nest primary school, located in the west Midlands, has implemented a project where pupils are given PDAs. So far, it's proven successful.Elsewhere in the world, the Danish Ministry of Education is helping to fund a two-year project in a school using mobile phones as part of a drive to increase the performance of academic underachievers. After noticing how absorbed the pupils were by sending text messages at break time, despite having difficulties with reading and writing, the teachers are now encouraging them to use their phones to take notes in lessons and to send SMS messages to other students.As well as helping to engage reluctant learners, a key function of mobile learning is its mobility, allowing students and teachers to interact with each other wherever they may be. Coventry University is currently experimenting with such functions as filming their lectures and streaming them onto the course website so that the students can download the videos onto their phones, meaning they are literally able to "learn anywhere". Media studies students at the university have also been using their phones as key tools for activities such as filming interviews, and are even able to put together their final projects, all on their mobile phone.Its not just schools and universities who are finding mobile phones a useful tool either. BBC Bitesize, the revision programme with an audience of over 650,000 GCSE students, provides revision materials via mobile phones using a downloadable Java game and SMS text messages, and many modern language courses now send their students frequent vocabulary messages, which also act as reminders to revise.Of course, the world of mobile learning is not without its downsides. Many people still have concerns about the health risks posed by continued use of mobile phones, and there are various issues relating to network coverage and loss of connection. However, Ms Attewell is confident that a couple more years' development will "wipe those issues away".A further problem is the reluctance of schools to veer too far away from the National Curriculum; schools are judged on the outcomes of tests such as SATs, GCSEs and A-levels, and may well be cautious about jeopardising those results.The good news, however, is that the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA), which maintains and develops the National Curriculum, has shown its support for ICT initiatives such as m-learning.At the behest of the Department for Education and Skills, the QCA is funding an ongoing project, called eVIVA, to provide onscreen tests for Key Stage 3 pupils studying ICT. Students develop an online portfolio and annotate evidence of their learning in ICT using PCs and mobile phones. The QCA has hailed the project a success.
It seems thatAdam Singer, member of the Ofcom Content Group and Group CEO of MCPS-PRS Alliance, has delivered a provocative speech at the Edinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival. According to a press release sent out last night by the show's PR agency:Singer said: "Games are going through a struggle to find a voice. Film took its time to develop a language. Film started its life in slot machine at the end of piers. The growth of game and their containment in arcades, on platforms or cartridges is analogist to the early box containment of films. Broadband is to games what projection was to movies."To date, the games industry has positioned itself as the "teenage rebel" of the entertainment milieu. In order to move into mainstream acceptance, games have to become more than just a form of entertainment. As Singer suggests: "The definition of a medium is to be able to communicate three things; stories, truths and eroticism. If you can't do all three things, then you're not a medium."Discuss...There's certainly a lot to pick apart there. I'm not sure, for example, that broadband can be adequately compared to the projector. In terms of acting as a delivery format (I don't think the multiplayer element can effectively come into play in this comparison), all broadband can do is make content conveniently available for download – whether you buy a game on a DVD or pull it from a website via a high-speed internet connection, it's still the same game, the same experience. The movie projector, however, completely changed the way movies were viewed and made - it had a palpable effect on the artform. Perhaps broadband will open the doorway to the delivery of episodic content, but I can't see that being the catalyst to transport gaming into the mainstream.And that list - stories, truths anderoticism- can an artform never succeed without sex? And should we even be worrying about this whole issue ofgames as art? Should we just give up on the wonky pipedream of competing with the movie industry?And how unfair is it that I'm on the beta testing list for Football Manager 2006, and yet I can't get near a PC until sometime next week?
There are, according to recent figures, more than 35 million web users in the UK today. More than 15 million British homes have internet connections and, thanks to faster broadband technologies, we are living in a radically different world from that which was predicted.The world wide web has changed millions of lives in little more than a decade. For some it has changed fortunes as well: this week was the 10th anniversary of what is widely acknowledged as the beginning of the dotcom boom - when the web browser firm Netscape floated on the US stock market before ever turning a profit. That sparked a technology goldrush that has transformed modern communication. And while much of the boom was hyperbole, one rock solid fact remains: none of it would have happened if it was not for Tim Berners-Lee.Sir Tim, named last year as the greatest living Briton, is rightly heralded as the godfather of the web. It was he who, as a physicist working in Switzerland, turned the internet from a disparate collection of academic and military computer systems into an international network. Without his input, arguably, the world would be a far duller place. The global village would still be under construction, technology would still be the preserve of an elite, and revolutionary companies such as Google, Amazon - and even easyJet - would not exist.Born 50 years ago in East Sheen, south-west London, Sir Tim's early life seems unremarkable. His parents were mathematicians and worked on Manchester University's Mark I, one of the earliest computers. He recalls conversations with his father about why computers could not emulate the human ability to understand links between different objects. After schooling in Wandsworth, the young Berners-Lee went to Queen's College, Oxford, where he read physics and emerged in 1976 with a first-class degree. By this time he had rejected his Church of England upbringing, which he says "relieved a great tension".His early career quickly focused on software development, and those who worked with him speak of a quiet, determined thinker. He was, they say, a clever, self-effacing man whose excitement about his work spilled out in rapid-fire conversations. "He's a splendid and very intelligent man," says John Poole, who employed Berners-Lee at his company, Image Computer Systems, in the late 1970s. "There are three parts to him: he is amenable and easy to talk to; he is very clever; and he is very dogged. Those things together are what has made him a success."Berners-Lee - TBL or TimBL to his fans - began working as a consultant at Cern, the European Laboratory for Particle Physics in Switzerland, in 1980. The internet had already existed in some form for more than a decade, but while an individual could drill into the various computer networks (mainly located inside universities), it was almost impossible for the systems to talk to each other. So Berners-Lee created a prototype information management system. It was, however, more or less obsolete when he returned to Cern four years later as a fellow.By 1989, Cern had become the largest internet site in Europe, and Berners-Lee finally saw a way to turn his vision into reality. His idea was to allow computers all over the world to talk to each other using a language of his own devising. That language, Html (Hypertext markup language), quickly became common currency among designers, programmers and webheads.On August 6 1991 he put the first website online, marking the birth of the world wide web. Its impact has been astounding: from the highs and lows of the dotcom bubble, to the arrival of internet in the home, in offices and even on the move. The scope of success has surprised even him."He is a great visionary, but not actually always that good at explaining it," says Wendy Hall, head of the school of electronics and computer science at Southampton University, of which Sir Tim is chairman. "He is very technical, and always happiest when talking to other techies. All he really wants to do is write code, but now he has to go and meet world leaders and business people."I don't think he realised what they were doing at Cern would change the world this much. I think this is as big, if not bigger, than the printing press."Marc Andreesen was one of those who understood Berners-Lee's vision and leapt on the opportunities it offered. Andreesen saw the need for software which could easily read and display the world wide web, and subsequently built the Mosaic and Netscape web browsers. Ten years ago this week, Netscape Communications made its explosive debut on the US stock market."Back then the key technical people didn't want the internet to become easy to use or graphical, because that would pollute the environment," says Andreesen, who later sold his company to AOL for $10bn. "Only smart people could use the internet, was the theory, so we needed to keep it hard to use. We fundamentally disagreed with that: we thought it should be easy to use."Without Andreesen and Netscape, our experience of the web would be vastly different. But without Berners-Lee, we would have no Netscape.He remains modest about his achievements, and says he was just one of a number of people pioneering these technologies. Important figures in the history of the internet, such as Ted Nelson, Doug Engelbart and Vinton Cerf, had all begun exploring similar ideas, and Berners-Lee took many of them on board to create the web.But it was more than just a case of right time, right place. His biggest gift, many claim, was the decision to make his invention free for all. There were no patent dues, no royalties and no restrictions: it was an open book. "What impresses me was that he was not in it for the money," says John Poole. "That's his background: the academic side. His dream was a free interchange of information, and he stood by his principles."The ensuing years have been tumultuous. It was not part of the vision to encourage a dotcom boom, which saw big business, stock markets and venture capitalists trying to make hay during the late 90s. Not everybody shared Berner-Lee's vision of a cost-free web, and when the money deserted the industry in 2000 it seemed the web might face an insurmountable backlash. But now that countries such as China and India are switching to the web the excitement is growing again - witness Yahoo's $1bn purchase this week of a stake in the Chinese web retailer Alibaba.Sir Tim now works for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and runs the World Wide Web Consortium, which he set up in 1994, and oversees the development of approved standards. "He is terribly protective of the way the web is developed, and protecting its evolution," Professor Hall says. "He can be a bit of an autocrat - if Tim doesn't like something, it doesn't get in - but he's passionate about openness and freedom."One of his earliest ideas was the "read/write web", where users could change websites as well as observe them. The proliferation of weblogs, and particularly the success of the user-edited encyclopedia Wikipedia, prove that democratising the online space can have wide-ranging and legitimate uses.When he is not enforcing web standards or driving his clapped-out Volkswagen, Sir Tim, who was knighted in 2004, is developing the next phase of his vision: the "semantic web". This is essentially a way to let computers draw links between disparate pieces of information. Understanding context is the primary advantage of the human mind, and the battle to bring that ability to machines is the same one he discussed with his father all those years ago.Sir Tim is a fiercely protective family man. Eschewing most requests for interviews and public appearances, he devotes as much time as he can to his family - his second wife, the American computer programmer Nancy Carlson, and their two children.He is also an active member of the Unitarian church, having returned to religion after the birth of his children. "Why does everybody do this?" he asks on his website - and, in attempting to explain, he draws parallels between his church and the web. Both are, he says, decentralised and respectful organisations with a higher purpose.Life in shortAge50FamilyMarried with two childrenEducationEmanuel school, London; Queen's College, OxfordCareerTelecoms engineer (1976-78); software engineer (1978); consultant, Cern, Geneva (1978-80); founding director of Image Computer Systems (1981-84); Cern Fellowship (1984-94); developed global hypertext project which became world wide web and designed URL (universal resource locator) and HTML (hypertext markup language)PublicationWeaving the Web (1999)AwardsOBE (1997); KBE (2004)Quote"Legend has it that every new technology is first used for something related to sex or pornography. That seems to be the way of humankind"
MSN, the Microsoft Network arm of the giant software publisher, now hasfive real-life bloggers, who are blogging on its hugely popular MSN Spaces site. The topics are Lifestyle, Sports, Music, Technology and TV. OK, they are called "filters," but they are still blogs. This is obviously just an experiment, so it will be interesting to see how it goes.Although one of the newer blogging systems, MSN Spaces now hosts more than 18 million blogs....
Next year, if a bright idea takes off, your mobile could spontaneously offer you cheaper calls. New operators are planning to put low-power transmitters in railway stations and shopping centres. When your mobile gets within 200 metres, it will pick up the new cell, you can roam to it and the provider will give you mobile calls at the price you would expect to pay for landline calls."We're champing at the bit," says Martin Wren-Hilton, chief executive of Coffee Telecom. "It's a great opportunity for consumers to have more choice." Coffee has been developing the service at its Richmond office for the past two years, says Wren-Hilton, a 39-year-old entrepreneur who is said to have had a hand in the creation of mobile phone top-up cards.The service is similar to BT's Fusion, which lets a cellphone roam to a Bluetooth base station and (in a future version) a Wi-Fi hotspot. But, unlike Fusion and other "fixed-mobile convergence" services, it uses the same GSM technology as your existing phone service - and it works with existing handsets.Independent micro-cells have not been possible before, because the GSM radio spectrum is licensed to the big operators. Sometime in the next year, however, Ofcom, the regulator, will auction off enough spectrum for small operators such as Coffee to do their own thing.When radio spectrum was allocated for phones, a small gap - known as a "guard band" - was left between the frequencies used by mobiles and cordless phones. "We're able to release that spectrum now, because technology has moved on," explains Ofcom spokesman Simon Bates. "Today's GSM mobiles and Dect cordless phones can deal with the interference. We propose to release the guard band to the market as quickly as we can."It's Ofcom's first "technology neutral" auction. Whoever gets the licences - for two bands at 1.78 GHz and 1.88 GHz - can use any technology, as long as they keep the power below 200mw. Earlier this year, Ofcom's review of spectrum management decided that licence holders should be given a free hand to use any appropriate technology, as long as it does not interfere with users on neighbouring frequencies.In this case, however, there's little doubt how the spectrum will be used. There are tens of millions of GSM phones out there, ready to receive the signals without modifications. While 200mw isn't enough power to set up a new national network, it's fine for short-range cells.Wren-Hilton's proposed "Coffee Zones" would connect calls through an IP network to the telephone system. Calls to other Coffee users would be free, making Coffee a bit like Skype for your mobile. Calls out to other phones would cost about the same as those made on a BT landline. Outside the Coffee Zone, your phone reverts to its normal mobile service.Business services could be even more interesting. The Coffee base station will hook up directly to the office phone system, so workers' mobile phones will become office phone extensions. This could eliminate one of the biggest and most annoying items on corporate phone bills: the cost of mobile phone calls made while in the building."Coffee Telecom is the first of a new breed of fixed-mobile players," says Wren-Hilton. "Customers will pay a high amount for full mobility, and smaller amounts for calls on the Coffee network."But the details need to be right. "Technologically, if the service is going to fully work, it will need the co-operation of the mobile operators," says Amit Nagpal, senior consultant at Analysys Consulting. "I'd be very surprised if mobile operators were very keen to work with Coffee."Wren-Hilton dismisses this objection. "Our feedback, based upon discussion with the operators, is that in the long run they have more to gain than to lose, through roaming arrangements with us," he says.Coffee's plans are evolving as these discussions continue. Early accounts of its service describe users manually re-setting their phone at Coffee Zones, but Wren-Hilton promises a slicker service based on a Coffee SIM card. "Users will get two numbers, one mobile and one geographic, based on a choice of 30 dialling codes," he says. "It is like a portable landline, with cheap incoming calls."With a mobile operator as a partner, Coffee-enabled phones will be able to move smoothly on to the mobile network outside the Coffee Zone, says Wren-Hilton. The details of the pricing will involve many trade-offs. If users set up call-forwarding between their fixed and mobile Coffee numbers, they get one number, but will have to pay roaming charges when they receive calls.However, all this is in the future. First, the auction must take place - and the date has still to be fixed. It won't be a high-rolling affair like the 3G auction of 2000, says Bates, because it is most likely to be a single-round, sealed-bid auction. It will allocate between five and 10 licences, each of which will allow a provider to set up micro-cells anywhere in the country.As part of Ofcom's hands-off approach, the licence-holders will be required to agree terms among themselves for access to the 16 channels available when zones overlap. If they don't sort out a code of practice, Ofcom will have to step in and enforce one.Coffee doesn't expect to lose out in the auction, and Ofcom's Bates thinks the process is likely to get the spectrum into use. "Every bidder will look at their business plan and bid on what it's worth, not what they think other people will bid, or other unhelpful criteria," he says.BT has expressed interest but made no commitment. "We're assessing this, along with other spectrum possibilities announced by Ofcom recently," said a spokesman. "There are limitations to this spectrum because it's narrowband using GSM."Other people who might want a licence, or a zone from an operator such as Coffee, include hospitals, museums, sports grounds and university campuses. Visitors to an art gallery could, for example, switch to an internal museum service and get an audio guide on their headphone, while football and cricket grounds could run their own commentary with local information services.So far, this whole development is exclusive to the UK market. However, other European regulators have Dect guard bands to dispose of, and will be watching to see how it works out.It could have a big impact on the voice on Wi-Fi market. Vendors are planning to sell complex dual-mode devices that can roam between cellular and Wi-Fi networks, in order to deliver the same benefits as Coffee."Voice over Wi-Fi is a niche play," says Wren-Hilton. "There's a list as long as your arm of reasons why it is bad. There's security and battery life, but the biggest issue is operating in unlicensed spectrum, with a poor failure mode. When Wi-Fi is congested, the whole thing collapses like a pack of cards."Coffee is never going to compete with Wi-Fi's real strength, of course - fast data. Wren-Hilton promises that GPRS will be available, and email will work, but he isn't going to offer a laptop card for Coffee. "We would rather give a good user experience on a BlackBerry, than a bad experience on a laptop," he says.So if your mobile offers you Coffee next year, think about taking up the suggestion.
Internet portal Yahoo! has paid $1bn (&#163;560m) for a 40% stake in China's second largest online retailer, Alibaba.Under the terms of the deal, Yahoo! is folding its existing Chinese operations into Alibaba, which runs an auction site that competes with eBay in China.Alibaba also runs websites that connect small and medium-sized businesses with wholesalers and manufacturers and helps them to trade goods."Yahoo's investment underscores our long term commitment to the Chinese market," the company's chief executive, Terry Semel, said in a statement. "We believe the combination of Yahoo and Alibaba is the best approach for Yahoo to win in this region."China is the world's second biggest online market after the US, with 120 million users expected by the end of the year.The country's leading search engine, Baidu, sparked a frenzy when it listed its shares in New York last week, as the share price rose more than 350% in the first day of trading.Western internet firms that have bought into the Chinese market include auction site eBay, the retailer Amazon.com and job search company Monster.com.Up until now Yahoo!'s main China business has been its search service, second only to Baidu, which was acquired when it bought the local site 3721.com for $120m two years ago.The company's approach to Alibaba is said to have been brokered by Japanese bank Softbank, an investor in Alibaba and a partner in Yahoo! Japan.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Sony Ericsson's W800i, the first of the big three music phones (Motorola/Apple and Nokia are set to deliver the others), arrives in the stores tomorrow via Orange, though other networks will offer it soon.The phone, a revamp of the K750i with more prominent music-playing facilities, scores highly for its superb battery life (Sony Ericsson claims 30 hours if you only listen to music, but we made it more like 20 while playing MP3s) and a reasonably generous 512MB of storage. The interface is simple to use and the phone includes a radio, access to tracks downloaded via Orange's Music World service and a two megapixel camera.Sound quality via the on-board speakers lacks presence and serious music fans will want to replace the set's accompanying earphones. Annoyingly, users have to load the clunky Disc2Phone software on to their PC before they can transfer tracks to the handset's Memory Stick. There's no disputing this is a great all-round handset and the best music phone so far, but it still leaves rivals plenty to shoot at. It is available from free depending on your contract.www.sonyericsson.co.ukwww.orange.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The government's internet regulator, Ofcom, recently heralded the arrival of "broadband Britain" as part of its quarterly audit of the UK's media landscape. The number of subscribers with high-speed internet access, it said, had overtaken the number of traditional dial-up subscribers for the first time. Some 8.1m UK households - nearly 30% of the population - now have a broadband subscription: a fifteen-fold increase in just three years.The speed at which broadband has taken root marks an astonishing turnaround. Broadband Britain is growing at the fastest rate in the G7. But compared to broadband's real pace-setters, Scandinavia and the far east, Britain remains stuck somewhere in the middle of the grid. The race leader, by some distance. is South Korea, whose thirst for high-speed internet bandwidth is matched only for by its appetite for red hot spicy food.Of the 16m Korean households, at least 78% have an active broadband connection - more than twice that of the UK. More than 12m individual broadband lines feed a country of 48 million people, pumping data between four and 100 times faster than typical broadband connections in the UK. According to recent reports, Koreans spend more than 20 hours a week surfing the internet - more than twice as long as Britons - and online shopping accounts for 12% of retail sales.A recent global survey by Chief Executive magazine estimated that nearly 10% of all broadband connections - and a staggering 30% of wireless hotspots - are located in South Korea. Ofcom's claim, therefore, that the 30% reach of broadband means Britain is "accelerating into the digital age" needs putting in perspective. In terms of both speed and reach, team UK is not catching up - it is in danger of being lapped.The rate at which data flows through the internet is measured in megabits per second (Mbps). Most domestic broadband subscribers enjoy rates of 1Mbps. The standard South Korean connection is routinely four times that - and can be as much as eight times that. Even 100 times faster - 100Mbps - is becoming increasingly common. Chin Daeje, South Korea's communications minister, recently predicted that 70% of the population would enjoy rates of 20mps in about two years, and that by 2010, "the bulk of Korean households" would have 100Mbps. Few doubt his word.So what exactly happens when you plug a whole country into a superfast internet connection? "People are obsessed with internet in Korea," says Jee Hyun Oh, a native of Seoul now studying in London. "It is like an addiction to cigarettes or drugs. You can do it everywhere: in a hair salon or clothes shop or restaurant ... Some salons have a computer just for customers to use while they are waiting."Much has been made of the partnership between South Korea's government and private sector telecoms companies to lace the country with an enviable fibre optic network. Korea, spurred by the deep recession triggered by the IMF crisis of 1997, embraced the internet "because they sensed the older economic model had failed them," says economist Dominique Dwor-Frecaut.But why is the internet so popular in South Korea? Some say it is because the internet is not Japanese. Sales of Sony PlayStation consoles, for instance, are feeble in Korea, while PC games are very popular. This, says Miss Oh, is perhaps the real reason why Koreans took to the internet so readily: it's a rapacious appetite for computer games.In 1998, a real-time strategy computer game called Starcraft went online in the US and quickly spread to Korea where it remains a popular pastime, enjoying televised tournaments and top players who have become household names. But as the addiction took hold, millions of users soon began to face large internet bills - the creeping toll of all-night sessions on metered dial-up connections quickly made it cheaper for the legions of bedroom addicts to subscribe to broadband. "&#91;Take-up&#93; was so sudden after that," says Oh.South Korea's appetite for broadband may have been fed by Starcraft but it soon tasted more wholesome succour. When a wave of corruption scandals rocked the country in 2002 the internet soon became a political tool. With the traditional media still dominated by the ruling party, Koreans, particularly young people, looked to the web as a way of upending the establishment. Many believe that this movement led directly to the election of the current president, Roh Moo-hyun.The whiff of political scandal still clings to South Korea's ruling elite, but few doubt that the internet has changed the wider society for good. Korea's newspapers are already clicked-out by upstart websites, such as Oh My News, and the younger generation are busy reshaping the old craft. The kind of "citizen journalism" that so formed our perception of the London bombings has long scooped Korea's mainstream media. Oh My News, for example, receives nearly 70% of its copy from 38,000 civilian hacks. Many see the influence of the US beginning to wane, as Koreans search elsewhere for their daily fix of news and comment.The speed at which Korea has raced down the information superhighway shows little sign of slowing. Last week, the government announced the latest phase of its broadband adventure. So-called ubiquitous communications, or "u-Korea", will cover most urban areas and major highways with wireless internet bandwidth by June next year.Will the internet on the freeway at speeds of 60km per hour be fast enough to keep up with Korea's astonishing thirst? Probably. One thing the Koreans can't sort out is the traffic on their roads.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Down at Yahoo headquarters...MAN IN COMBAT TROUSERS: Hey everybody! Pull on yer dancing shoes, and put that Spice Girls record on. Tonight we're gonna party like it's nine-teen-ninety nine...WOMAN IN SHANIA TWAIN T-SHIRT: Dude, I'm in. I Kiss You!MAN IN COMBAT TROUSERS starts dancingCONFUSED ONLOOKER: Erm, what's with the '99 vintage behaviour, guys? Why are you doing this?DANCING LOON: Why? Why? Because Yahoo'sjust spent a billion dollarson a Chinese web retail firm, that's why... Bring back the good old days!ALL: Huzzah!
Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras have become the most widespread form of surveillance in Britain. Their output usually provides the first pictures of criminal suspects, such as with July 21's failed attempts to bomb London's public transport system.However, with new software techniques such as facial recognition, is it possible for the authorities to use these CCTV networks to track people's movements automatically?"In highly controlled circumstances, with a very small database of faces, &#91;facial recognition&#93; looks promising," says Peter Sommer, a senior research fellow at the London School of Economics. This makes it a realistic - if expensive - way of controlling access to an office, but the wider applications could still be some time away. "When you can't control the angle and the lighting, and when you're looking at databases of thousands of people, the statistics fall away," he adds."You have to get a person to pose in front of a camera for a given time," says Mick Napier, CCTV manager of the British Transport Police (BTP). "Most of them have a very high false alarm rate, and are as yet not quite up to being field-proven or useful."The need for close-ups means facial recognition is more likely to work at slow-moving locations, such as passport control or customs. "In a mass transport situation, it's still hit and miss," says Napier. BTP tested facial recognition software at Leicester Square underground station a couple of years ago, using cameras near the top of escalators to get close-ups. But even then, "it just wasn't that good," he says, especially as it required large amounts of equipment.There are about 6,000 cameras on London's Underground, a number which will double by 2010. A Transport for London (TfL) spokeswoman says software analysis of camera output was tested two years ago at Liverpool Street underground station, to look for unattended bags."It didn't work on the Underground," she says. "CCTV is monitored by station control assistants, who spotted things faster than the software. The control rooms are very good at spotting things which are untoward, even a local ticket tout. That's what they are trained to do."Dr Sergio Velastin is a reader at Kingston University's digital imaging research centre, and is also a director of Ipsotek, a firm designed to commercialise CCTV image analysis technology. Through the university, he was involved with the Liverpool Street trial.Although unwilling to discuss that trial, he says that movement analysis 
software has improved recently. "It's not so much doing things humans cannot," he says. "The role of the computer here is to deal with the high volume of visual information, which we don't know if it's relevant or not, pick things up and say &#91;to an operator&#93;, you make the decision."Velastin says that movement analysis is well-suited to an underground station platform, as people and objects have no reason to be present for more than a few minutes, so software can compare what is stationary to an image of the empty platform. "If someone leaves something behind, we can pick that up," he says.The same technique could be used in closed areas where any movement is suspicious, and in spotting people moving in the wrong direction on escalators or in one-way corridors. "Context is king," says Velastin.Neither kind of software is in use on Network Rail's newly-upgraded 2,500-strong CCTV system covering its 10 mainline stations in London, which also takes input from a further 500 cameras owned by train operating companies. Last month, Siemens Electronic Security (SES) completed a &pound;17m upgrade of the system, installing new cameras and overhauling the technical infrastructure.Camera output is stored at each station, where it can be viewed live or after an event with no interruption to recording, and is also sent to a BTP-operated facility with about one petabyte of storage (1,00GB), using one gigabit fibre-optic links, and is retained for 31 days in both locations.Jim Kennedy, project manager for SES, says facial recognition and predictive movement technology are still fairly new: "When emerging technologies first appear, they tend to be unreliable and expensive."Network Rail and SES are considering the use of automatic number-plate recognition technology for cameras monitoring taxi ranks and access roads to stations.LinksBritish Transport Policewww.btp.police.ukTransport for London's CCTV planswww.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/press-centreNetwork Railwww.networkrail.co.uk/stations
Text on railsI am writing a book and want to use my daily train commute as writing time. So I'd like a small, light laptop/PDA with a reasonable-sized keyboard. The only thing I need it to do is act as a word processor - no connectivity, no snazzy programs - but I would like it to have a USB port so I can save stuff on to a thumb drive. I would like to spend less than &pound;500.Jane PerroneJack Schofield replies:Manufacturers have spent more than 20 years trying to produce something suitable, and earlier efforts include the Tandy 100, Clive Sinclair's Z88 and Amstrad's NC100 Notepad, plus more innovative chording devices such as the Agenda. The best of the bunch was the Psion Series 5, but it is now obsolete, and has an unfortunate tendency to break. In a previous answer, I suggested the Nokia 9500 Communicator would be the next best thing, or even better. Sadly, I found the keyboard unsuitable for serious text production, so the Series 5's best feature has been lost. The Palm OS-based Dana wireless notebook seems to do what you want at a reasonable price (www.portabletechnology.co.uk/x361.html), though at 12.4 x 9.3in, it is not a pocket-sized PDA.I have tried PDAs with add-on keyboards and found them incompatible with commuting. However, you can use a stylus instead of a keyboard, and do it standing up. You could try a PocketPC such as the Dell Axim 50 or 50v with Fitaly keyboard software (www.fitaly.com/wince/pocketpcfitaly.htm). It's possible to enter text at up to 80 words per minute.Online datingWhy is the online version of Online almost two weeks out of date?Dennis WoodJS:It isn't - it's usually updated more than once each weekday. If you are not seeing the latest page, you are probably being served an out-of-date version from a cache held either on your own computer or an ISP's server. Forcing a browser refresh (press Ctrl-F5) makes it fetch the current page. If not, you can always check the latest version by accessing Online via an anonymous proxy server such as Megaproxy or IDzap.Remote controllersNorton Internet Security keeps saying an attack has been prevented by BD Blade Runner 0.80a. It appears particularly virulent when I try to search for "blade runner" on sites for an answer. However, Norton AV scan and Microsoft AntiSpyware sweeps discover no mystery files on the hard drive. I'm running XP SP2 with firewall enabled.Phil ShreeveJS:BD Blade Runner 0.80a is a backdoor Trojan program that attempts to open port 5400 so that a hacker can take control of your system remotely. It is also known as Win32.FC.h and Win32.Joiner.Y.utility, so you may have more luck searching for these. Either way,www3.cai.com/securityadvisor/virusinfo/virus.aspx?ID=31322may solve the problem.There is so much malware around that not all anti-virus programs recognise all threats, especially if they are Trojans or spyware programs. This makes it vital to get a second opinion from time to time, for example by getting your PC scanned online at Housecall (http://housecall.trendmicro.com/) and possibly TrojanScan (www.windowsecurity.com/trojanscan/). I'd also recommend installing a better firewall than the one supplied with SP2. Zone Alarm, Sygate Personal and Kerio all have free options.Security lapseDifferent websites often ask for slightly different password formats, some are case-sensitive and others aren't, and they ask different questions. I am now getting confused by the plethora of different access information I am carrying round in my head, but in these days of identity fraud and other scams, I know the last thing I should do is write down any security information.Andy CrossJS:There are lots of small programs designed to store passwords safely. Search Google for the words &#91;password keeper&#93;, which happens to be the name of Gregory Braun's shareware Password Keeper for Windows (www.gregorybraun.com/PassKeep.html). There are lots of alternatives atwww.nonags.com/nonags/orgmisc.html.Backchat&middot; Tom Fox asked for an animated cartoon-making program for Windows. A small British start-up company, Dakine Wave, has developed VirtualStage (www.dakinewave.com/virtualstage/), which seems to fill the bill. Pat Doyle, an ICT teacher, says she "teaches animation to nine-to 11-year-olds using Microsoft Gif Animator, available free on the internet". Christopher Whalen suggests Jasc Animation Shop, from the makers of Paint Shop Pro. Dylan Banarse says there's a "free 3D modelling package that accompanies the Children's BBC Series Bamzooki on BBC2 (http://bbc.co.uk/cbbc/bamzooki). Although primarily designed to enable kids to create artificial creatures, the toolkit provides simple building blocks that can be easily assembled in 3D to create almost anything. The software is easy enough to be used by 8-year-old kids, yet sufficiently sophisticated that it is also being used to teach degree students."&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Jeremy Clarkson and I seem to have something in common: we've both been laid low partly by our laptops. Physically, if not financially, he's much worse off than me. According to his column in The Sunday Times, he's visiting an osteopath for a slipped disc, whereas I'm just having physiotherapy for a cricked neck. But in a world where Wi-Fi and notebook computers are replacing wired desktops, this is very likely to become an increasingly common problem for computer users over the next few years.Clarkson got the same instructions as me: sit up straight. When computing, you should try to keep your ears, shoulders and hips in line, with the top of your computer screen just below the height of your eyes."Fine, but I use a laptop and if I get the screen high enough, I can't see any of the keys," wrote Clarkson on the subject.As a touch-typist, I don't need to see the keys, but any laptop with a fixed keyboard makes it impossible to get both the screen and keyboard in an ergonomic position at the same time. To do that, you need to plug in either a separate monitor or keyboard.My problem arose partly because of the perfectly natural tendency to use the fastest machines around, and both my newest computers - an IBM ThinkPad X31 and an Apple iBook - were notebooks. Both have Wi-Fi, too, and if you work at home, you get extra points for staying-home time.As a result, I've spent too much of the past 18 months slumped over a notebook rather than sitting upright at a desktop. This helped accustom my upper spine to being in a bad position. Then I woke up one morning with a cricked neck, and the pain didn't go away in a couple of hours, it got worse. And worse. Soon, the only way I could raise my right arm was if I lifted it with my left.As someone who has read more than one book on computer ergonomics, I was surprised to find my physiotherapist so hostile to notebook PCs. With the keyboard at the correct height, I felt my typing position was comfortable, and my posture was not particularly different from the one used when reading books.However, keen readers can change their posture at frequent intervals, holding the book in a different position. That's much harder to do with a notebook computer, and I haven't been doing it. Nor have I been taking 10-minute breaks every hour, which is something that I tell everyone else to do.Notebook computer ergonomics are dreadful, and the built-in keyboards have become far worse as notebooks have become thinner. Few, if any, now offer keys with a decent amount of travel.There are solutions. For example, if using a notebook for any length of time, buy a "notebook riser" or ergonomic stand to lift the screen, or a docking station, and plug in a separate keyboard and mouse. Wireless versions are a good idea. As I can testify, the alternatives can be extremely painful.&#183;Visual Ergonomics in the Officewww.office-ergo.com/setting.htm
