Express is on the cardsMy new laptop has a port for an Express card. What can I use it for?Howard GoodmanJack Schofield replies:ExpressCard is a smaller, smarter and faster format for plug-in cards, and is intended to replace the PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) and PC Card (CardBus) slots in notebook computers. The new format is sponsored by the PCMCIA, and aims to provide the same sort of benefits as the PCI Express expansion slot in a desktop PC: seewww.expresscard.orgfor details. ExpressCard is used in several Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook and Toshiba notebooks, as well as a few Sony and NEC models. Not many cards are available in the UK, a rare example being the AverMedia AVerTV ExpressCard TV Tuner, which provides a stereo TV tuner and video capture device for about &pound;65. Memory cards, Ethernet, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth cards, smart card readers and similar options are on the way. If buying an ExpressCard, look for an "energetic orange rabbit". This logo shows that an ExpressCard has been tested at an interoperability event and rated compliant. So far, more than 50 products have passed. The rabbit is intended to show that a product doesn't just meet the specification but works with other ExpressCard designs in real life.Broadband speedsI have used Dan Elwood's speed test, a PC program, and ADSL Guide (http://tinyurl.com/iq9w) to test my broadband speed. My line was shown to be capable of 6.5Mbps by the BT automatic test prior to upgrade. Using the above tests I have achieved over 5Mbps, but generally the speed is around 2-3.5Mbps. BT's online test site - used as part of its fault reporting process - gave a meagre 2.1Mbps. How can I convince my ISP there is something wrong? My next door neighbour, also an Eclipse 8Mbps customer, gets even worse results.John LoaderJS:The new "up to 8Mbps" services don't guarantee any particular speed, and the way the technology works, you are never going to get more than 7.15Mbps (seehttp://tinyurl.com/m5mva). This can be further reduced by the distance from the exchange, the quality of the wiring, your router and PC software set-up, and contention at the exchange. The contention ratio for home users is still 50:1, and the exchange capacity will not provide 50 users with 7Mbps at once, so 3.5Mbps could be considered reasonable. Try the line at about 4.30am, when there will probably be few users, except for the file-sharers. If you get 5Mbps or more, there's probably not much wrong with your set-up. And if an ISP is not swayed by the "meagre 2.1Mbps" you get from BT's test site, they are unlikely to be persuaded by alternative test results.Backchat&middot;Duncan asked about backing up his 250GB music collection online. On the Ask Jack blog, ohPollo has suggested the MP3tunes.com Oboe music locker (www.mp3tunes.com/cb/about/) which provides unlimited storage for $39.95 a year.
It's Google Press Day in the Mountain View Googleplex, and I'm in London, so I thought there might be some news floating around about Google Notebook, Google Co-op, Google Health, Google buying the state of California etc. However, Om Malik says Google's Wi-Fi isn't working, and thewebcast feedisn't working either: it says Connecting, but it never does. (Hey, thank goodness I don't have to depend on this stuff actually working!)Still,Valleywagis doing its best to blog the event, andGoogle's Matt Cuttsis putting up some more serious stuff.Update 1: There's also apress releaseand aCNet story.Update 2: Danny Sullivan at Search Engine Watch haspublished the slidesfrom the show.
Sony finally unveiled its much-delayed PlayStation 3 yesterday but, with a price tag to match the game console's formidable technology, parents are being warned to start saving for Christmas.The console, which will be in shops across Europe on November 17, will cost &pound;340 for a basic model and &pound;410 for a version with a bigger hard drive. "This Christmas season is going to be insanely expensive," said Paul Jackson, a videogame analyst at Forrester Research.The console was slated for release this spring. But problems with manufacturing and cost have pushed back the deadline. The delays have only succeeded in creating more excitement among children and other PlayStation addicts."The awareness and desire for it is still growing - it's one of those slow-burning pesters," Mr Jackson said. "There's a good chance that if they can get it right, it will be the biggest game console launch ever."For parents the cost will not stop at the price of the console. The PS3 ships with one controller and while the price of additional controllers is yet to be determined, it is likely to be considerably more than the &pound;15 charged for PS2 ones. Games are likely to cost at least &pound;40 each.Frances Walker of the Consumer Credit Counselling Service, Britain's leading debt charity, said the PS3 could lead to another credit crisis for some families. "The best thing is for people to ... just be upfront with their children about whether they can afford a new PlayStation," she said. Parents should consider telling their children they will buy a console when the price drops.But Sony will be hoping that loyalty to PlayStation - it remains the most trusted brand with British youngsters - will help it succeed. "We are really trying to push what this machine is capable of," said Phil Harrison, vice-president of Sony Computer Entertainment. The company said it would have 4m units ready by Christmas, and a further 6m by early next year.The launch marks the start of what could become a vicious format war between the Blu-Ray Disc technology used in PS3 and the HD DVD format backed by Microsoft.The other big competitor in console gaming, the GameBoy manufacturer Nintendo, said last week that its upcoming console would be known as "Wii" (pronounced "wee"). The announcement caused a mixture of bemusement and amusement among observers, but the product, which could go on sale this summer, is expected to be much cheaper than rivals and focus on innovative gameplay.
So what do you know about E3? Tell us!
More stuff you'd be playing at E3 if it weren't for the fact that you are stuck at work, trying to download videos of the event without enraging your system administrator...SegaLike Nintendo, Sega is going through something of a renaissance at the moment, liberally pebble-dashing its stand with lip-smacking goodies. And, also like Nintendo, there are lots of familiar brands in the mix. Sonic the Hedgehog is being reinvented for the next-gen era in a realistic human environment - the game's large cast mixes old faves with newcomers. Let's hope they don't go gritty and urban, though - I can't bear the thought of Tails in a pimped Imprezza, blasting gang members with twin Mac-10s. Golden Axe is also making a next-gen return, this time as a PS3-only action RPG from San Fran codeshop, Secret Level.Due for release in July, Super Monkey Ball Adventure will bring a narrative element to all the simian rolling fun, while the Wii-exclusive Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz stays with the familiar mini-game recipe, but adds loads of new concepts forthatcontroller. Sega Rally will also make a next-gen return - it'll be interesting to see how this previously arcade-style take on rallying will adapt to the post-McRae era.Other familiar favourites include Medieval II: Total War, spanning 450 years of bloody European history, and Phantasy Star Universe, bringing the distinctive feel of the Dreamcast favourite to a new MMORPG-obsessed era. The PS2 action adventure romp Yakuza should also garner some interest. Finally, Full Auto 2: Battlelines is a multiplayer combat racing game for PS3 - has there been a decent one of these since Twisted Metal?(I've covered Virtua Tennis 3 and The Club already...)Queue factor:9Most exciting offering:Sega RallyYawn inducing tie-ins:This isSegaSample press release nonsense:"revolutionary dynamically deformable terrain, proprietary next-generation graphics and bone-jarringly realistic physics..." (Sega Rally) Try reading that out loud.SonyGreg was highly critical of company's big pre-E3 bash, but, on paper, thislookslike a reasonably enticing line-up. Forget PS3 for a minute, there's God of War II on PS2, boasting brutal new combat moves and a fresh set of astonishing mytholological ultra bosses (old favourites like Cyclops and Cerberus, the many-headed hell hound, will also return). We're promised more puzzles too. There are some interesting bits and pieces on PSP as well including Gangs of London, the mission based crime thriller from the London Town studio, Killzone Liberation the third-person post-modern blaster from Guerilla and LocoRoco the cutesy tilting and bumping puzzler that wants to take on DS at its own offbeat casual-friendly game. There's a new version of Lemmings too.As for that new console. well... There's the tech demo of Gran Turismo HD running in the seemingly impossible 1080p resolution and at 60 frames-per-second (the game was also in briefly playable form at the Sony conference - here's someonegetting a bit over-excitedby it). There's revenge-fired fantasy adventure Heavenly Sword from Ninja Theory, which features 'physics-based combat' - i.e. you can hit people with tables - 'devastatingly explosive bazookas'. The FPS, Resistance: Fall Of Man, should be fun - it's an apocalyptic sci-fi romp from Insomnia the Ratchet and Clank boys. There's also Warhawk, a nice-looking return for the old PlayStation flight combat title. For some reason Eye of Judgement sounds good - it's a card trading game where you hold actual cards up to the PS3 camera to trigger onscreen battles. PS3 SingStar is on the showfloor, too, showing off its new downloadable song concept. Will I be able to download talent as well?Sony is also showing off a bunch of other PSP goodies including the Location-free TV tuner thing, a new Platinum range and anew Ceramic White version of the hardware...Plenty going on then - perhaps the stand itself will allow gamers the chance to experience PS3 away from all the triumphalism of that conference...Queue factor:10Most exciting offering:Anything next-gen and playableYawn inducing tie-ins:NopeSample press release nonsense:"Players must learn, develop and master more than 800 motion captured moves as they progress from street battles to the world championships, gaining style and respect as they battle their way around the world" (B-Boy) Dirty Dancing meets NFS: Most Wanted...Square EnixThe RPG veterans are more-or-less a one trick pony this year - well, two tricks if you include Dragon Quest. Before setting up stall, Square Enix has an astonishing eight Final Fantasy titles in its hand baggage, the key newbie being Final Fantasy XIII on PS3. Subtitled FABULA NOVA CRYSTALLIS (Latin for 'the new tale of the crystal') it is actually three separate games - Final Fantasy XIII, Final Fantasy Versus XIII (a sort of dark alternative to the other FFXIII) and Final Fantasy Agito XIII, the latter appearing on mobile phone. No info yet, but this is a typically grand gesture from the company.Game Boy Advance owners will get their slow-to-upgrade mitts on Final Fantasy V Advance and Final Fantasy VI Advance - both remakes of the original titles with a few modern twists, new dungeons and new character classes. Another remake, Final Fantasy III, is even more enticing - this originally Japan-only incarnation will be appearing on DS with re-modeled 3D visuals and a few gameplay tweaks to take the unique abilities of the console into account.Actually, the two most appealing titles as far as I'm concerned have nothing to do with Final Fantasy. Dawn of Mana on PS2 and Children of Mana on DS - are two interesting takes on the legendary Mana series. the former is a 3D action adventure promising to somehow capture the atmosphere of the previous titles. The latter is closer to an action RPG structure, but innovates in its own way with four player co-op or vs play over Wi-Fi.Queue factor:9Most exciting offering:Hmmm, could it be FF XIII?Yawn inducing tie-ins:The only yawns will be frorm people who don't like Final FantasySample press release nonsense:"The game is set in the kingdom of Slimenia, a peaceful land that is suddenly invaded by a mysterious cartel called "the Plob," who then proceed to kidnap all the slimes in the capital city of Boingburg." (Dragon Quest Heroes) Has someone on the dev team been using marker pens in an enclosed environment?UbisoftThere's been loads of pre-E3 excitement surrounding Ubi's Red Steel, an innovative (at least on paper) Wii shooter that makes full use of the motion-sensing controller for both gun and sword play. Twisting the controller sideways, for example, turns the onscreen gun on its side to, while pulling back reloads. Meanwhile on PS3,Assassin's Creedis the crusade-era stealth adventure from the Prince of Persia team, while Xbox 360 gets Enchanted Arms an traditional-sounding RPG by cult Japanese developer From Software.Two Tom Clancy titles, Splinter Cell Double Agent and Rainbow Six Vegas, will be making the sojourn to LA. I thought the latter was going to be a daring combination of squad-based combat and poker sim, but actually it's all based around a terrorist siege in the gambling Mecca. Oh and one of Gamesblog's favourite designers, Michel Ancel, is back with his old mate Rayman. Rayman Raving Rabbids is the zaniest title in the series so far according to the press release. That's some boast...Queue factor:7Most exciting offering:Red SteelYawn inducing tie-ins:Open SeasonSample press release nonsense:"It's a riotous romp in the great outdoors for kids of all ages when a rowdy brood of forest animals turn the tables on unsuspecting hunters." (Open Season)VivendiClearly relying heavily on Scarface, Vivendi has only a smattering of original content on its stall. World In Conflict is a PC strategy game from Massive Entertainment, set during the chilly days of the cold war. Based around a concept conjured up by "Cold War authority and best-selling author" Larry Bond, it promises 3D destructable environments and furious team-based action. Fans of paranormal shooter F.E.A.R will no doubt want to spend a few moments with the Xbox 360 version of the game, due out this Christmas. There's also Timeshift, the sci-fi FPS from Sabre Interactive that lets you pause, rewind and replay action - did they get that idea from DAB radio?Queue factor:4Most exciting offering:perhaps they have something to show behind closed doors?Yawn inducing tie-ins: Scarface:The World is Yours, Miami Vice, EragonSample press release nonsense:"5 0 Cent: Bulletproof G Unit Edition is the ultimate fusion of music, gaming and video entertainment" (50 Cent Bulletproof G Unit Edition) Go away you horrible man.
Here'sa video of Bill Gates showing off Microsoft's new 'Live Anywhere' service - a multiplayer gaming infrastructure that embraces Xbox 360, Vista PCs and mobile phones. Technology Blog has collated some infohere.So will we see games that actually play acrossallformats. The demo shows Xbox 360 vs Vista, but can mobiles fit into that mix? Microsoft's E3 conference press release certainly suggests this is the case:"Spanning Windows Mobile®, Java and BREW-based handsets, the world-class mobile games service will give gamers on-the-go access to cross-platform gaming communities at any time, from any location. By this time next year, users will be able to send messages, access friends lists, download the best of mobile game content, and sample, purchase and play favorites such as "Bejeweled," "Zuma" and "Hexic" as part of the integrated gaming world."An integration between Xbox Live Arcade and mobile phones makes great sense. The former provides an easily accessed mainstream portal for casual and retro titles - these are the sorts of games that would do astonishing business on mobile if more people knew how to download them. Or just if more peoplecared. The Xbox connection may provide that added stimulus...
The $499 version of the PlayStation 3 is taking a beating on the games sites, being described as "gimped" or "retarded," while Wired says it'scrippled. In its bid to avoid losing too much money on each console it sells, Sony may have cut the specification a bit too much. According to a press kit spec sheet (from Penny Arcade viaKotaku), it's not just a matter of reducing the 60GB drive to 20GB. The "Tard Pack" system also lacks a memory slot, Wi-Fi and the HDMI port for an HDTV. Kotaku says:With the PS3's graphical prowess on display at E3 looking sadly analogous to the 360's rendering abilities and the Wii likely to price at less than half of what a jacked PS3 costs, not to mention that there will only be a million consoles available worldwide in November, it certainly appears that Sony is doing absolutely everything to foul up this launch.AsGamesIndustry.biznotes, the full-price PS3 may also have suffered cuts. It says:The 60GB PS3 will come with a single HDMI port -- and not two, as the prototype shown at last year's E3 suggested. The prototype also featured three Ethernet ports and six USB ports, but the console unveiled yesterday has just one Ethernet and four USB ports.At 1up.com,John Davisonsays Microsoft is winning E3 so far, and says of the PS3:As of right now, pre-show, and without having got my hands on it properly -- it scares the shit out of me. So much of the games industry is based on the foundation laid down by the PlayStation brand, and the assumptions that publishers make about selling (lots of) games on Sony's platform. To see them roll out an absurdly expensive system that's not discernably that much more impressive than the 360, with a bunch of derivative-looking, mostly adult-themed games is giving me some cause for concern right now. Perhaps I'll feel better once I've got my hands on Resistance or Warhawk but that's not going to do anything for my doubts about the gimped 20GB pack and its missing HDMI ports, memory stick slots, and Wi-Fi connectivity.Since Davison is 1UP's editorial director and oversees titles including the Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine, he has good financial reasons for being worried.Comment: By the time the PS3 appears, Microsoft hopes to have about 160 Xbox 360 games and an installed base of 10 million consoles. It will also have done adie shrinkon the chips, so they will be much cheaper to make. It should therefore be in a position to cut the Xbox 360 price to $300, so PS3 buyers will be faced with paying twice the price for a machine that apparently doesn't perform better. And while it will have an expensive Blu-ray drive, the average buyer has no Blu-ray movies and no HDTV to play them on.This is extremely important in several hundred countries such as Chile, the Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Poland, Slovakia and South Africa, where Microsoft is launching the Xbox 360, even if it doesn't bother the average San Franciscan games blogger.If Microsoft can also get Halo 3 -- previewed at E3 -- on sale for the PS3 launch, that could swing a lot of sales. Instead of paying $600 for a PS3, buyers could be tempted to spend $300 on an Xbox 360 and wait for Sony to cut the PS3 price to $300 -- which eventually it will.In the Xbox v PS2 war, Microsoft lost billions because it had to include a hard drive and was unable to charge a higher price, even though it was offering a significantly more powerful system. When it comes to Xbox 360 v PS3, it is the PS3 that is much more expensive to make (Cell processor, Blu-ray, hard drive). If the PS3 cannot demonstrate its superiority -- and clearly there's nothing like the gulf there is between the Xbox and the PS2 -- then how much of a premium will Sony be able to charge?
"Guardian Unlimited has won the best online newspaper award for the second year running at the 10th International Webby Awards," reportsThe Guardian(with comments on theNewsblog). The Washington Post won the People's Vote in the online newspaper category, as shown in thefull awards list.As Wired News noted (Usual Suspects Dominate Webbys), the winners were mostly familiar -- Google, the BBC and NPR, Flickr, Yahoo, The Onion, PayPal etc.As Wired News didn't note, the list is mostly American, because of the language requirement. ("While non-English speaking Web sites are not explicitly forbidden, sites must be accessible to our predominantly English speaking judges," saythe rules.) Since there are already 65 categories, it's surprising that there isn't a Best Foreign Language Site for the ones in Japanese, Chinese, Korean, French, German or Spanish, etc, like the Best Foreign Language Film category in the Oscars.
It may be cycling's most sensitive subject. Its sore point. I'm talking about the contact between you and your bike - and I don't mean your hands. The arrival of spring, May bank holidays, the longer evenings: all bring the opportunity and incentive to do longer rides. But there is a price to be paid for the pleasures of getting outward bound. Not to be indelicate, but you are likely to get a sore bum.The good news is that it will pass. In my experience, one's perineum rapidly transforms itself into a piece of old boot leather. Just keep riding, and it gets more comfortable, not less.And the bad news? Well medical experts are queueing up to tell us chaps that cycling is basically DIY castration in slow motion. Ever since 1997, when a certain Boston urologist and now sexual health guru, Dr Irwin Goldstein, drew a link between bicycle saddles and impotence, there has been a host of studies purporting to show that riding a bike compresses a perineal sheath known as Alcock's canal (I'm not making this up), restricting blood flow to the penis and causing pudendal nerve damage. Possible symptoms: penile numbness, erectile dysfunction, impotence, infertility ...Definitely in the category of bad news, if true. My standard response is that the propagation of the species does not appear to have ended around 1900, when biking really took off. In fact, today, it is a podium cliche that professional cyclists brandish their latest bambino as they collect their prize. No obvious infertility issues there - and think of all the miles in the saddle they do.The fascinating thing, though, about this panic is that it mirrors a similar hysteria (I use the term advisedly) about the damage the bicycle would do to women. In the 1890s, it was women whose sexual health came under scrutiny. Certain physicians and self-appointed moral guardians were anxious that the effect of sitting on a saddle might ruin women's "organs of matrimonial necessity", as one writer charmingly put it. The bicycle would vandalise the reproductive apparatus of the "weaker sex". Paradoxically, others were nervous that female "scorchers" - speedy riders - might experience inappropriate sexual arousal from friction with the saddle.What we read here is an unsavoury confection of fantasies and anxieties about the New Woman. Is it possible that - under the guise of fearing for his sexual wellbeing - what is actually feared is the New Man? The apparent solicitude for the fin-de-si&egrave;cle female cyclist masked hostility and rage: worry about fertility was in reality a desire to castrate. Is the metrosexual man on his bike so disturbing a social figure that what is wished for is his emasculation?Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear MattThe quality of my cycling has been greatly improved first by buying a track pump and then a chain bath. Cycling with fully inflated tyres and with a regularly cleaned and relubricated chain gives a dramatically improved ride. Is there any other cycling lifestyle upgrade I can make? (Obviously, I wouldn't cycle without mudguards and a luggage-carrying system.)Tim Thornton, via emailFirst, you earn serious brownie points. It's amazing how many people pedal around on semi-flat tyres and with squeaking, rusty transmissions. Ditto, full marks for mudguards and a carrying system (even if it is panniers). I assume you also have a good, breathable waterproof jacket. After that, you're getting into real refinements.Humdrum I know, but a saddle upgrade is worth thinking about if your old one is getting tatty or wasn't much good to begin with. The other addition I like - if you have a bike with drop handlebars - is fitting auxiliary brake levers. These allow you to brake effectively with your hands comfortably on "the tops". These are cheap (&pound;15-&pound;20), but worthwhile.Email your bike related queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
Catch the official E3 Spore trailerhere. This is why we have to find it in our hearts to forgive EA for FIFA Street.
ModelVolvo C70 T5 Coupe ConvertiblePrice&#163;29,475Top speed150mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.6 secsConsumption31mpg (combined)Emissions217g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelTrinny WoodallOn the stereoJack JohnsonEn route forFulhamThey'd rather walkVictoria BeckhamThe latest version of the Volvo C70 coupe comes with a retractable steel roof. What larks! At the touch of a button, the boot lid launches itself skywards and the roof rears up, splits into three segments and peels off towards the back of the car. At which point anyone familiar with that recent Citroën television advertising campaign may experience a momentary spike of panic, fearing that the car is about to transform into a robot - with you still wrapped in it.Reassuringly, the Volvo C70 settles for merely turning into another car - a rather beautiful, clean-lined cruiser. Not as impressive a mutation as Citroën's breakdancing automaton, perhaps, but still pretty magical, and probably more useful in the long run. The roof-removal process takes 30 seconds from start to finish, which is a lot quicker than doing it yourself with an oxyacetylene torch and a Philips screwdriver. True, there is quite a lot of clumping and thumping involved, particularly when the boot reconstitutes itself in the closing phase and a noise is heard, as of someone rear-ending the car at approximately 25mph.But, hey, you try putting a big metal roof in a small cupboard without anybody knowing you are doing it. There have been convertible Volvos before, but never one with an electronic metal roof, and the breakthrough inspires Volvo to come over all Fotherington-Thomas in the promotional literature. "Say hello to the clouds and listen to the crickets; smell the grass along the roadside. Take comfort in the leather seats and fill your lungs with nature's scent. Savour the moment while it lasts, you're singing a verse in the song of life."Not all of which is possible, obviously, on, for example, the Balham High Road, south London. Still, no matter where you drive it, the C70 puts you just one keystroke away from access to the fundamental human pleasure of fizzing about with your head in the air, an experience otherwise only reliably obtainable at funfairs.It's also quick, smooth and magisterially quiet. Let's repeat at this juncture that the C70 is made by Volvo. The point needs underscoring because the association of Volvos with fun and responsiveness is not automatically made. People invest in a Volvo much in the same way that they take out a life-assurance policy: because it seems to make a certain, robust kind of practical sense. Except, of course, that taking out a life-assurance policy can seem to be the slightly wilder and more carefree thing to be doing.In any case, legendarily, Volvos are themselves believed to be a species of life assurance. The company's single most valuable selling point is its reputation for safety. It is the acknowledged master of the airbag and the crumple zone. Its products attest to many, many accumulated years of Swedish caution. Its crash-test dummies are, surely, the best in the business. And, it goes without saying, the safest. If I were a crash-test dummy, I'd want to work for Volvo.Which only makes the very notion of a convertible Volvo the more contradictory. Volvo is, surely, the spiritual home of the family-hugging cocoon and the bombproof child-lugger - not of the devil-may-care danger wagon. Never forget that, in a Volvo, the default setting for the headlamps is on all the time. So, a Volvo convertible ... well, in some respects, you would no more expect Ferrari to put their weight behind a people carrier, or Lamborghini to start developing forklift trucks.Inevitably, though, Volvo stresses that the C70 is a convertible that majors in reinforcement. It's the convertible that it's OK to crash. Obviously, not even Volvo can guarantee occupants' immunity from the effect of objects dropping out of the clear blue sky. (Surprisingly, a Volvo-approved anti-acorn mesh is unavailable as an option.) Nevertheless, the car does contain the world's first "door-mounted inflatable curtain", which, in the event that the C70 is attacked from the side, explodes upwards, providing duvet-style relief from the worst of the impact.Furthermore, Volvo would like you to know that, if you roll the C70, those side pillars, in all their hydro-formed, high-strength glory, are so permanent that archaeologists will be digging them up and marvelling at their intactness for centuries to come.It may not be as slick as a Mercedes coupe, then. And it may not be as light to the touch as a BMW coupe. But it has got an electronic roof, and it's probably safer than the house you live in. And, on top of that, it is, surely, the first truly good-looking Volvo for at least four decades, possibly more. That's more than enough breakthroughs for one car.
And speaking of conferences, the firstSex in Gamesevent is set for next month. The organisers have announced theline-upof speakers and sessions which will span two days at the beginning of June. Looks like a stimulating series of panels and lectures which I expect will transcend the tongue-in-cheek titles and descriptions. Seriously, the line-up looks great.
Dear MattThe quality of my cycling has been greatly improved first by buying a track pump and then a chain bath. Cycling with fully inflated tyres and with a regularly cleaned and relubricated chain gives a dramatically improved ride. Is there any other cycling lifestyle upgrade I can make? (Obviously, I wouldn't cycle without mudguards and a luggage-carrying system.)Tim Thornton, via emailFirst, you earn serious brownie points. It's amazing how many people pedal around on semi-flat tyres and with squeaking, rusty transmissions. Ditto, full marks for mudguards and a carrying system (even if it is panniers). I assume you also have a good, breathable waterproof jacket. After that, you're getting into real refinements.Humdrum I know, but a saddle upgrade is worth thinking about if your old one is getting tatty or wasn't much good to begin with. The other addition I like - if you have a bike with drop handlebars - is fitting auxiliary brake levers. These allow you to brake effectively with your hands comfortably on "the tops". These are cheap (&pound;15-&pound;20), but worthwhile.Email your bike related queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
A morning that started with Shigeru Miyamoto conducting a virtual orchestra ended with Bill "Bill" Gates introducing the Halo 3 trailer. Yes, today was when the A list hit town.Nintendo started the day with a typically excitable press conference. The focus was obviously on Wii, but the DS got near equal billing. Still, it was Wii we all came to see and most left desperate to get the innovative controller in their hands. The playable footage shown only reiterated what we already knew, namely that Nintendo has opted out of the graphics race in the traditional sense. But, after years of press conference one-upmanship, it took a minute to register that the graphics - think solid Gamecube quality, so perfectly acceptable - were not the main focus. A hands-on play is essential - for once the marketing guff is accurate - and that will have to wait until tomorrow.Key titles displayed included the new Mario game - Super Mario Galaxy - which looked delicious. As did Zelda: Twilight Princess for Wii and Gamecube (the former makes use of the controller). Other titles included Excite Truck and the Wii version of Metroid. But it's all about playing, so opinion will have to wait until the show starts tomorrow.Leaving Nintendo and entering the Microsoft event was like going from a family birthday to a bachelor party. Launching straight into the visceral Gears of War - as unsubtle as the name suggests - was a piledriver that emphasised the differing philosophies between the two.Microsoft's conference was a confident affair, with the company clearly emboldened by Sony's problems. Highlights included "Live Anywhere", an exciting/slightly worrying attempt to extend Live's features - tags, friends list, multiplayer gaming - across Vista PC's and Windows mobiles. Quite how this will pan out remains to be seen, but Gates' presence only emphasised how important gaming has become to Microsoft. In fact a sizable part of the event was given over to Vista.The other main announcement was the new GTA game appearing on 360 at the same time as PS3. So clearly the focus is still on the core 18-35 male gamers - think aliens, violence, big guns, gruff anti-heroes - despite the announcement of some new retro classics on Arcade (Pac Man etc) and a demo of Viva Piñata that showed some attempt to widen appeal. And, when you throw in the AV enthusiast friendly HD-DVD drive, wireless headset and steering wheel, there's little doubt that the 360 is still a boys toy.Sony dropped the ball yesterday and Nintendo and Microsoft have reacted positively. Both are targeting different markets - Live arcade aside - with Nintendo's decision to chase the masses an experiment that will be watched by all in the industry. But now the talking stops and from tomorrow it will be hands-on time. Expect impressions throughout the next three days.
Yes, it's the time of the year when many thousands of videogame professionals - and games journalists - descend upon the 540,000 sq. feet of the Los Angeles convention centre for three days of electrifying excitement. And sweat.Here, the throbbing masses wander through the heat and blaring noise, queuing for hours to catch the best video trailers or simply buzzing from demo unit to demo unit like portly electro-bees. Not going? Don't worry, here's a guide to what all the key players are planning to unveil on the packed showfloor. Of course, there will be further revelations and secret behind-the-scenes showings, but this is the stuff they've declared at E3 customs.Simply surround yourself with baying, whooping Americans and read on...ActivisionThe old-timer has a bustling quota of next-gen goodies including Call of Duty 3, set during the Normandy Breakout, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, an action RPG with 140 Marvel Super Heroes and Super Villains, and Tony Hawk's Project 8, on which there is very little information. They also have Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam which is head-to-head racing on skateboards for Wii and DS, oh yes and Enemy Territory: QUAKE Wars, which is Quake, but with team-based strategic gamplay. It uses id Software's new MegaTextureTM rendering technology, but is actually developed by Splash Damage.Queue factor:6Most exciting offering:Call of Duty 3, I supposeYawn-inducing movie/TV tie-ins:X-Men: The Official Game, Over The HedgeSample press release nonsense:"Delivers the rush of unrelenting battle and breathtaking action of the Allied offensive that changed the fate of the world." (Call of duty 3)AtariA distinctly backwards-looking line-up from the floundering giant. Alone in the Dark is coming to Xbox 360 courtesy of Eden Studios. Battlezone is coming to PSP promising quick messy hover tank battles in futuristic environments. Slightly more interesting is the PSP-only, Dungeons and Dragons: Tactics, a turn-based RPG for up to six wi-fi players from Kuju Entertainment. There's more D&amp;D action in Neverwinter Nights 2 on PC - the plot is ruthlessly generic (evil armies, an ancient relic, a lone hero who must sav..zzzzzzzzz), but Obsidian will no doubt perform a competent exhumation on the brand. There's also the urban PSP mini-game epic Hot PXL, which I had a laugh at last week and Test Drive: Unlimited for Xbox 360 and PC, which offers M.O.O.R.TM: Massively Open Online Racing.Queue factor:5Most exciting offering:Hang on, I'll have another readYawn-inducing movie/TV tie-ins:Arthur and the MinimoysSample press release nonsense:"Heart-stopping survival experience realized through the use of state-of-the-art real-time physics and unprecedented environmental interaction." (Alone in the Dark)EADo you like heavily licensed sports titles? Well, you've come to the wrong place! It seems NFL 07 and the PSP title NASCAR 07 will be the only playable EA Sports titles at the show, although the latest Tiger Woods and FIFA titles will be hawked behind closed doors. This leaves plenty of space for other offerings like the new Army of Two, a two-player strategic shooter threatening to 'throw gamers into hot spots ripped from current day headlines'. Sort of Ikari Warriors with GSCEs. I wasn't sure about Battlefield 2142 when I first heard about it (the realistic settings of Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 2 have been so rich and compelling for team-based action), but then I read that players are "armed with a devastating arsenal of hi-tech weaponry, including assault rifles, cloaking devices, EMP grenades and sentry guns" Cloaking devices?! Sentry guns?! Where do I sign up?Spore will be there of course, looking worthy and clever. Crysis is the new FPS from Crytek of Far Cry fame - the plot sort of starts off seriously with military tensions between America and North Korea but then an asteroid hits earth and cracks open revealing an alien attack force. Er... okay then. Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars on PC promises to take gamers back to the roots of the series. Which is a more attractive way of saying, "we f**ked up the other sequels".Queue factor:8Most exciting offering:Spore, naturallyYawn-indusing tie-ins:Lord of the Rings: Battle For Middle Earth, Spiderman Returns, Def Jam Fight For New York: The TakeoverSample press release nonsense:"With all-new speed blurring, realistic spark and smoke effects, and camera shakes, get your adrenaline pumping and experience the all-out drama and intensity of 190-mph racing" (NASCAR 07)EidosSlim pickings quite frankly. Hitman: Blood Money will be worth a look, but Just Cause, Rogue Trooper and Urban Chaos: Riot Response will find it tough to draw in the punters. Reservoir Dogs should provoke some interest, though - if only because you can play as Mr White and slice peoples' ears off. They also have Lara Croft's Poker Party on mobile. Steady boys, I don't think it'sstrippoker... That'snextyear...Queue factor:4Most exciting offering:Reservoir DogsYawn-inducing tie-ins:erm, Reservoir Dogs, Rogue TrooperSample press release nonsense:"We are proud to be working with one of the most original films to be released in our lifetime on a gaming format"MicrosoftBill Gates turned up to declare that Xbox 360 will have a 10 million-unit head start by the time PS3 arrives and more than 160 games by the end of the year. He also showed off Halo 3 in which Master Chief returns to, "finish the fight, bringing the epic conflict between the Covenant, the Flood and the entire human race to a dramatic, pulse-pounding climax." Other Microsoft Studios newcomers include Fable 2 and Forza Motorsport 2. The company is also showing off Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent, Alan Wake and Shadowrun - a cross-platform multiplayer title for Xbox 360 and Vista-powered PCs. This one exploits Microsoft's new 'Live Anywhere' multi-platform online gaming initiative, which will also run to mobile phones.E3 goers can also expect to see the Xbox 360 RPG, Blue Dragon, from Hironobu Sakaguchi and Mass Effect, another RPG from Bioware. I like the sound of Crackdown, "a free-form, persistent playground where a citywide fight against crime requires a new kind of hero". It's by Dave Jones, the founder of DMA and creator of GTA. There's more from Japan in the shape of mass brawl sim, Ninety-Nine Nights by Tetsuya Mizuguchi and Q Entertainment, and Keiji Inafune's Lost Planet, a sci-fi shooter set in a frozen wasteland. Finally... Sonic the Hedgehog on Xbox 360...Queue factor:9Most exciting offering:Hello?! Halo 3!Yawn-inducing tie-ins:None!Sample press release nonsense:"Alan Wake" introduces a deeply engaging and suspenseful storyline in a free-roaming open world that invites players to unravel the riveting plot and experience intense combat that combines the use of light with more conventional weapons." (Alan Wake)NintendoLike the fabled Ferrero Rocher ambassador, Nintendo is really spoiling us this year. There are loads of Wii titles on show including Disaster: Day of Crisis, a panic-inducing survival game filled with natural disasters and rogue agents - sounds like Man City's season. There's also Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves, Project H.A.M.M.E.R (smash giant robots! With a hammer!), Super Mario Galaxy (Mario! In space!) and Legend of Zelda: Twightlight Princess.Elsewhere, we have enticing DS treates like Children of Mana, the riddle-filled spook adventure, Hotel Dusk: Room 215, Yoshi's Island 2 and Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. Wait there's more. Excite Truck, a loooong overdue Excitebike sequel on Wii and Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis sound fascinating, the latter featuring a level design option and the return of Pauline, the girl from Donkey Kong! It's the least likely comeback since Noel Edmonds.Finally, GC isn't left out - it gets, among others, Super Paper Mario (pictured above). All in all, it's as though Nintendo has been tuning into the brainwaves of a generation.Queue factor:10Most exciting offering:Too may to choose fromYawn-inducing tie-ins:Nintendo doesn't needother people'slicensesSample press release nonsense:"Their leader, an ex-CIA agent named Commander Kahn, scans the world for cries of help. When he finds one, he dispatches the agents, who assist their targets by performing a song and dance." (Elite Beat Agents)
Photo: EngadgetEngadget &amp; Joystiq's live coverage of Microsoft's Xbox 360 E3 event ishere....2:51 pm- "By next month, we will have sold over 5 million Xbox 360 consoles. More than the original Xbox, the PS1, the PS2, or any other console at that stage in the lifecycle." The sales slide ain't half bad -- Tufte would be proud. The Xbox 360's sales curve is steeper than the competition and steeper than the iPod, a device many consider to be the gold standard of consumer electronics devices.Bill Gates popped up for his first E3 appearance to announce Live Anywhere, and a games vision for integrating Xbox gameplay with Windows Vista (with DirectX 10) and mobile phones. To quote the press release:The new online network will provide Windows Vista and Xbox 360 gamers with a consistent experience, with one gamertag, one set of achievements, one friends list and voice communications between all Xbox Live members. Bringing the Live Anywhere vision to Windows means that millions of gamers worldwide can access all the best elements of Xbox Live whether they're playing on an Xbox 360 system, a Windows-based PC or their mobile phone.And from a different press release:"By opening the Xbox Live entertainment network to the entire universe of Windows and mobile gamers, we're creating unparalleled gameplay opportunities that will drive incredible growth of the online community," said Gates. "Our vision is to deliver consistent, compelling experiences that make it easy for consumers to jump in and play, from any device at any time. It's a vision that only Microsoft can deliver."Update: Keith Stuart has postedMicrosoft goes 'Live Anywhere'on our Gamesblog.
Photo: EngadgetNintendo has just finished its E3 press conference, as reported live with pictures byJoystiq and Engadget. It was based on the oft-repeated mantra that "playing is believing" -- a direct counter to the idea that "seeing is believing" because the Wii's graphics aren't up to Xbox 360/PS3 levels."Okay, the name ... we want to thank everyone that had good things to say about it ... both of you," quips Nintendo superheroReggie Fils-Aime.It seems the Wii will be out in the fourth quarter: no date, no price.
I've been contacted by the folks atCasting Unlimitedwho are seeking interesting folks for their forthcoming documentary on the Xbox360 for Microsoft. From the blurb:The documentary is about the impact video games have had on all aspects of our lives. We want to tell the story of the gaming revolution through the eyes of the people involved. We are particularly looking for passionate gamers with interesting lives outside of video games.Specifically, they want to hear from:people who have a serious passion for video games and importantly, interesting lives outside of gaming. The director has specifically asked for footballers, this could be professionals through to aspiring stars at academy level. We would also love to see sports stars from all varieties of sporting backgrounds, be this cricket, rugby, golf, motor sports or extreme sports. Other interesting angles would be DJ's who use their Xbox to store or edit music, Singers or members of bands, basically anyone in the public eye who as long as they play video games we would love to consider them.If you're interested, contactSeanorMark.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's stupidly early, I'm wide awake and it is smoggy and miserable outside. Good job then that today's first conference is Nintendo, where game skies are always blue. I'm leaving shortly but wanted to quickly gather what people are expecting from today's events. Me, I'm forecasting Wii-fever and a handheld-related surprise from Microsoft. Plus lots of whooping and hollering (Nintendo) and a stack of execs clad in beige chinos and black polo shirts (Microsoft).
"Windows Live™ Messenger will be the next-generation MSN Messenger. It will have everything you already love about Messenger--your contact list, emoticons, and instant access to your friends via text, voice, and video--plus new ways to connect and share documents with almost magical ease. As always, it will be free to download Messenger and use most of its features," says Microsoft.Download the beta here(IE only).The most interesting feature is Sharing Folders:Sharing Folders will be a new and simple way for you to share personal photos, documents, and files with your Messenger contacts. You will be able to create a Sharing Folder by simply dragging files onto a contact name in Messenger. This will create an exact copy of the files on both you and your contact's computers, and create a Sharing Folder that can be accessed from Messenger, and on the desktop.The WLM team's blog ishere.
Time magazine's Lev Grossman has hadan exclusive playwith Nintendo's Revo^h^h Wii games console and its revo^h^h TV-style controller.Nintendo gave TIME the first look at its new controller--but before I pick it up, Miyamoto suggests that I remove my jacket. That turns out to be a good idea. The first game I try--Miyamoto walks me through it, which to a gamer is the rough equivalent of getting to trade bons mots with Jerry Seinfeld--is a Warioware title (Wario being Mario's shorter, fatter evil twin). It consists of dozens of manic five-second mini games in a row. They're geared to the Japanese gaming sensibility, which has a zany, cartoonish, game-show bent. In one hot minute, I use the controller to swat a fly, do squat-thrusts as a weight lifter, turn a key in a lock, catch a fish, drive a car, saute some vegetables, balance a broom on my outstretched hand, color in a circle and fence with a foil. And yes, dance the hula. Since very few people outside Nintendo have seen the new hardware, the room is watching me closely.It's a remarkable experience. Instead of passively playing the games, with the new controller you physically perform them. You act them out. It's almost like theater: the fourth wall between game and player dissolves. The sense of immersion--the illusion that you, personally, are projected into the game world--is powerful. And there's an instant party atmosphere in the room. One advantage of the new controller is that it not only is fun, it looks fun. When you play with an old-style controller, you look like a loser, a blank-eyed joystick fondler. But when you're jumping around and shaking your hulamaker, everybody's having a good time.
Wondering what the map of Britain, Europe, the rest of the world will look like when the icecaps melt? Don't worry, there is (inevitably) a Google Maps page that shows how the coastline will look at various sea-level rises. Try it out at Alex Tingle'sFlood Maps page(suitable background music: Peter Gabriel's "Here Comes The Flood". Here's theMIDI file. Here's thelyrics. Now go find your house).A couple of things to consider, given Guardian Technology'sFree Our Datacampaign:the elevation data comes from Nasa - not a British organisation last time we looked. Why do they have betterpublicly availabiledata for UK elevation information for floods that anyone can use than any British organisation? We did write about theNorwich Union flood map by postcode system- but that's not publicly available.isn't someone at theMet Officeor itsHadley Weather Centreor theEuropean Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecastingworking on something similar, and if so, why isn't their work publicly available? This is quite rough-and-ready, but we'd all like to know how things could pan out with sea level rises in the next 50 years.Google maps. They may be OS data (would anyone at Google care to confirm?), but wouldn't it be nice if it was a British company taking advantage of free data to build a map, rather than a US-stock-market-enriched company?Alex, who lives in Harrow, doesadmitthat the data aren't perfect:I myself have a concern about the accuracy of the data. If you look at central London, you'll see that it doesn't flood, even at +14m. I think that might be caused by NASA's measurements being skewed by the heights of the building.But the enthusiasm of people commenting at his blog shows there's a lot of passion for this idea.
Joystiq has announcedthat a major US television network is to broadcastMajor League Gamingtournaments. Will someone please explain to me why this will be good TV? Computer games aren't meant to be watched, they're meant to be played. Even in arcades of the 1980's, people weren't standing around watching someone do some fly moves on StreetFighter because s/he was a particularly radical player, they were waiting for him/her to fall on his/her face so they could have a go.Extra points to the person who's able to convince me that televised gaming tournaments are worthy of tuning in. Until then,"a series of seven, hour-long shows" (to air on Saturday mornings this fall) featuring competitions between gamers in games ranging from Halo 2 to Super Smash Bros. Meleesounds even worse than Celebrity Get Me Out of Big Brother Survivor Idol 2006.
Sony held its pre-E3 press conference yesterday, and SCAA president and chief executive officer Kaz Hirai gave launch details.Tom's Hardware reports:According to Hirai, the console will be introduced on 17 Nov of this year. The PS3 will come standard with a hard drive - in combination with a 20 GB version, the console will cost $499; with a 60 GB version, the price climbs to $599. Hirai promised that there will be two million consoles available at launch. Another two million will ship until 31 Dec 2006. Two more million - for a total six million consoles - will have shipped until 31 March 2007, Hirai said.Tom's Hardware noted that the press conference for the long-delayed PS3 was delayed "for almost an hour and demonstrated what appeared to be sometimes very rough and early demos of next-generation gaming titles".Reporting for our Gamesblog, Greg Howson called it a"muddled mess"and put European prices at €499 and €599, andwrote:Of course it was all too good to be true. The playable PS3 titles shown at today's event looked no better than Xbox 360 and you could hear a thousand gamer hearts break in the audience. ... The wow-factor so evident last year was nowhere to be found this [time].Comment: Reality bites: last year's "wow factor" had a lot to do with a Killzone demo that took months of work to pre-render, and that the bulk of the games press was naive enough to think really represented real-life gameplay. Plus, of course, the PS3 hardware specs that Sony overhyped in exactly the same way it overhyped the Emotion Engine in the PS2. Fool me once...Still, it will be interesting to see how far Sony goes in repeating the Xbox 360's global launch, at a higher price, and only a year later. The numbers are very similar, so desperate shortages of PS3 consoles are guaranteed. Will Sony copy Microsoft's production cock-ups as well?
Jetlag means I'm not entirely sure what day it is, but what was Sony's excuse? Today's conference was a muddled mess that essentially confirmed widespread rumours of a problematic PS3 launch build-up. The games shown were of varying quality, with perhaps only Heavenly Sword really showing the undoubted potential of the PS3. But even that failed to match the expectations of the audience, whose hopes Sony had so cleverly risen last year. Even though we all knew Killzone and the other stunning titles shown last year were videos we wanted to believe that PS3 could offer something similar in a playable form. Sadly, on today's evidence, 360 owners shouldn't worry about missing out, as the PS3's visuals seem broadly similar to their machine. Impressive then, but not the leap we had truly hoped for.Elsewhere the conference did at least give us some hard facts. The launch date - 17th November in Europe and US - and price - 499 and 599 euros, probably subtract 100 off each for the eventual price in pounds. Two prices you say? Yes, like the 360, the PS3 comes in two flavours, one with a 20 GB hard drive and the other with a 60 GB. And like the 360 this is only likely to confuse the consumer and annoy developers who have to aim for the lower spec."Online gaming is as essential as the air we breathe" was one quote, and there was much talk of the network. A shop page was shown that was reminiscent of Live Arcade although its integration into Singstar, complete with community elements, suggested it could go much further than the 360.More gimmicky was the use of a PSP as a real-time wing mirror for the F1 PS3 game. Of course, there is potential here, but you got the impression that Sony has got a nice tech-what the-hell-do-we-do-with-it problem. I still have high hopes for the PSP/PS3 linkup though, if only for the potential of play on train, continue on big screen at home.The biggest surprise was the controller. Not the style - which was revealed beforehand to anyone who watched the "hand-cam" shots used to prove the games shown were actually being played - but the motion sensor inclusion that lets you control by tilting the pad. A rather unconvincing demo was shown with the developer of Warhawk playing his game in a style familiar to anyone who has ever handed their pad to their parent. Quite how sensitive and practical this will be remains to be seen. Despite the undoubted technical achievement of putting this all in a traditional sized dualshock pad you couldn't help think Nintendo, even if the controllers use different technologies. There was even an Xbox style button in the middle of the pad. Imitation is the sincerest form etc, but from a company who lead the games industry to such a degree it was surprising to see this amount of respect for their competitors.It wasn't quite all PS3 though. Don't forget PS2, said Sony, but the subdued reaction from the audience suggested everyone already had. Sony will be supporting PS2 for years to come, with God of War 2 etc, but tellingly no PS2 games were shown in action with Sony preferring to show PSP, a format far less suitable for showing on a big screen.I'll blog up some hands-on impressions after the show starts on Weds, but for now I'd say the happiest people in LA tonight are those who work for Mr Gates.
Of course it was all too good to be true. The playable PS3 titles shown at today's event looked no better than Xbox 360 and you could hear a thousand gamer hearts break in the audience. Yes, there were some highlights - Heavenly Sword's glorious animations and Eye of Judgements eyetoy style monster card game - but expectations were so high that the impressive, but familiar if you have a 360, graphical reality meant it was hard to hide disappointment. The wow-factor so evident last year was nowhere to be found this. Main announcements:Launching Nov 17th in Europe and US (week before Japan)20gb version (499euro) 60gb (599euro)Controller is traditional PS Dualshock pad with bells on, including motion sensitivity.Full impressions to follow later.
Jeremy Dyson, novelist and one of the Dark, Disturbed Geniuses behind the League of Gentlemen, started it all. I was busy congratulating him on being from Leeds, when he pointed out that Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia, had failed to include him in its list of famous people from the city. (Not, of course, that he takes any notice of that kind of thing.)Since it would be just too embarrassing for a novelist and DDG to start editing Wikipedia on his own behalf, and it was clearly a scandal that the great man was not in his rightful place alongside the cyclist Beryl Burton, John Craven from Newsround and the lavishly rewarded disc jockey Chris Moyles, I offered to do the job for him. Which was when I caught sight of an option on the left-hand side of the page marked "random article".This has now become my favourite waste of time. Ever. Better than watching Jeremy Kyle, than staring out of the window, half-finishing a sudoku, having pointless phone conversations with friends, checking the listings for reruns of Bewitched - better than any of the multiplicity of displacement activities. I may never do any work again.I already knew about the wonderfulness of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger's fantastic non-profit-making system for anybody in the world to share knowledge with everybody else, so I cannot believe I missed random article, spending valuable time making coffee and mooching around the kitchen wondering if there were any digestives left when I could have spent the day splashing happily about the world's pool of useless information.Simply click on random article, and the page you are reading is replaced by another entirely unconnected article from Wikipedia's 3,800,000. And when they say random, boy, do they mean random ... Click.Jumenbu, fortress of the Ming Great Wall Shanxi section, in Datong City, Shanxi province, China. Click.Certificate of Entitlement, a scheme instituted by the government of Singapore to curb car ownership. Click.Guaco. Like huaco, guao, vejuco and bejuco, terms applied to various vine-like Central, South American and West Indian climbing plants reputed to have curative powers. As its strong stems are also used for flagellation, the word "bejuco" also means whip. Click.Marie Taglioni (1804-1884). Famous Italian ballerina of the romantic ballet era. Born in Stockholm. Click.Yuki-Wappo. Extinct language family of Eastern California. May be the only languages that are truly indigenous to California. Click.Lanny Barbie, born August 29 1981. Canadian porn star and model. Piercings: clitoral hood, navel. Click.Chung King Can Suck It. Limited-pressing coloured vinyl album by New York City hardcore band Judge. Click.Operation Culverin. Abortive second world war operation through which Allied troops hoped to recapture the northern tip of Sumatra. Click.Ben Thompson, 1843-1884. Gunfighter, associate of Wild Bill Hickok and Wyatt Earp. Born in Knottingley, West Yorkshire [less than 20 miles away from famous Leeds novelist Jeremy Dyson].And so the morning passes; from clitoral hoods to homegrown gunfighters. My new favourite waste of time. (Title of a 1986 hit for Owen Paul - real name Owen Paul McGee, born Glasgow, May 1 1962)
There's a definite buzz around the Sony conference this afternoon, though that could be due to the copious amount of chocolate and energy drinks doing the rounds. Sony will be hoping this enthusiasm continues through the next couple of hours as they show playable PS3 games for the first time. Can they match the hype they created last year? I'll be blogging after the event with my first impressions and the event starts in about 30 mins.
Finally, there's a good reason to upgrade your TV and start saving for PS3 - Virtua Fighter is coming exclusively to Sony's next-gen powerhouse. Featuring 17 characters, including newcomers El Blaze (Mexican, Lucha Libre fighting style) and Eileen (practices monkey kung fu. Yay), VF5 will introduce a new 'Offensive Move', which allows you to approach and attack opponents from the side. As in Virtua Fighter 4, gamers will be able to earn in-game cash to buy customisations for their characters.The game will be shown at E3, apparently, where show goers will be able to ask themselves the pertinent question - are fighting games still relevant in the next-gen era? Once, they were showcase items - Tekken, Toh Shin Den, Virtua Fighter, Soul Calibur - now they seem like faded hobbyist esoteria. Like the films of Woody Allen. Or speedway racing.Only joking, VF5 is going to be brilliant. It's due out in 2007.
Worldwide PDA shipments grew by 6.6% to 3.65 million units in the first quarter of 2006, according to aGartner Dataquest report. This was due mainly to the 30.8% growth Research In Motion's sales of BlackBerrys -- not including sales of BlackBerry 71xx models, which Gartner classifies as smartphones.Palm's PDA sales fell by 25.2%, not including sales of 581,000 Treo smartphones, which are now its main business. "Palm PDA shipments are at their lowest level since 1998," says Gartner.The main Windows Mobile suppliers, HP and Dell, saw sales plunge, but Windows still grew to take more than half the PDA market -- 52.6% -- for the first time. RIM OS was second at 25.5% followed by Palm OS (13.4%), Symbian (3.6%) and Linux (1.2%).
Having transferred files from Works Suite 2000 to Works 7.0 I have encountered a problem. In the Works 7.0 spreadsheet, when I save and close the files then reopen them, all the page breaks have disappeared. I have tried to solve this even, in desperation, by starting completely new spreadsheets, but all to no avail. I find it very frustrating. What's the solution?" Mary PebbleAny suggestions?
I get more questions than I can answer, and very often I don't know the answer -- and it would take too long to find out, compared with the number of people the answer is likely to help. Often these are questions about very specific Windows problems, likethis one from Mary Pebble. In general, I think it's better to take these to the company's user forums or even to Usenet (eg via Google Groups). However, I have opened a new section called Any Answers, where other readers can answer them, or at least suggest a better place to ask. Any help you can offer will be much appreciated.PS: My apologies for the late start: I was away from Wednesday and failed in my good intention to set this up before I left....
How was your weekend?
First, note that as with so many legal cases that they think it's all over - but it isn't yet: Apple Corps (I'll just call them "Corps" and "Computer" here, OK?) is going to take this to appeal. If either side doesn't like that result, it could go on to the House of Lords. Costs are already £3 million for the combined sides, and rising.Now, why did the judge rule in favour of Apple Computer? We're still waiting for the detailed ruling, but one person who was there says that Justice Mann favoured the argument put forward by the company that the iTunes Music Store is a data transmission service. This always seemed the most likely way that the company would squeeze out from under the agreement signed in 1991 (when Steve Jobs wasn't at the company) which prohibited it from "selling music".Here's arelevant quote about the 1991 agreement(which hasn't been made public, except in parts through court documents):In 1991, Apple Corps sued Apple Computer again, alleging that by adding sound to computers, the computer company was in violation of the 1981 agreement. This time Apple Computer paid $26.5 million. The computer giant agreed that although it may be involved in digital music, it would not package, sell or distribute any physical music materials, such as CDs.Simple question: does Computer package, sell or distribute any physical music materials? That's the crux of the whole argument. And the answer has to be no. When the iTunes Music Store tells the hard drive on your computer to rearrange some of its bits, there's nothing physical being passed. Just instructions. In theory, Computer could sell songs by having semaphore teams and someone standing by your computer, adjusting the 0s and 1s on the platter in just the right way to create a copy of the song that's at the Store. It wouldn't be elegant or quick (possibly this is why they don't use it) but it would be the same process, in principle.While some people might think of judges as fuddy-duddy, I've always respected their ability to (1) master vast areas of law (2) cut to the quick of an argument and pull apart the tangle of a dispute. And Mr Justice Mann has shown himself to be far from fuddy or duddy. He owns an iPod, and knows all about what's going on.That doesn't of course preclude the Court of Appeal disagreeing entirely and striking down his judgement. It'll be interesting to see what happens. Still, the judgement has blindsided plenty of people; one analyst I spoke to on Friday was certain that Computer was going to lose - "I don't see how they can win," he insisted. Some were thinking that Computer would hive off the iTunes business into a subsidiary, which could operate at arms length and (perhaps) be free of the restrictive agreement. (Personally, I thought that the "data transmission" argument held a lot of water. It's nice that a judge agrees with me, but that's probably more of a coin-flip than anything.)One more thing: wouldn't it make more sense for Corps to concentrate on selling music online? They could have saved themselves £1.5 million in legal costs already, and maybe made a few pounds on the side. Just a thought.Related:Apple Corps loses court battleiTunes wins apple logo casePrevious Apple coverage
Jasjeet Sekhon runs somebenchmarks of Linux, Mac OS X (Tiger) and Windows XPrunning statistical software on a 2.16Ghz Intel Core Duo MacBook Pro. There are also links to the AnandTech articles,No more mysteries: Apple's G5 versus x86, Mac OS X versus LinuxandNo more mysteries, part two.
"A man is fixing his slate fireplace, the walls are a muted pistachio, the furniture is mainly brown, there's a 50in plasma-screen TV. We could be in a hotel lobby. But the real Newmark is starting to poke through - and he's a nerd. When the phone rings it says: "Craig, there is a call for you; Craig, there is a call for you." His mobile phone plays the theme from Monty Python. On the wall is a poster for the film Blade Runner. There's a lot of sci-fi on the bookshelves. Homer Simpson's yellow head sits on the banister," reportsThe Sunday Times.Newmark is the founder of the phenomenally successful online classified-advertising site Craigslist. He's short, awkward, pudgy, balding and 53. Newmark calls his girlfriend the Girlfriend, as if he's never had one before. ("I got the Girlfriend tickets for that show, which gave the Boyfriend good Boyfriend points," he confides.) Eileen Whelpley, aka the Girlfriend, is a technical designer for Gap and a talented flamenco dancer. She hates being called the Girlfriend and is unafraid to tell Newmark so - or me. She insists her correct name is used in this piece.And so on....
10.35am:Apple Computer has beaten a court challenge from the Beatles' Apple Corps company over allegations of trademark infringement by the iPod maker.The high court in London has ruled that Apple Computer was not infringing upon an agreement by selling music via its iTunes Music Store.10.40am:That's a surprise result, as far as I was concerned. Somebody asked me what the result was likely to be on Friday and I was fairly convinced that Apple Corps would win, but not emphatically. Looks like I was wrong.I'm on the move today, but we'll try and keep on top of the story as much as we can.11.10am:Looks like it's going to cost Apple Corps a few quid, too. From the Press Association:Lord Grabiner QC, representing the US company, asked Mr Justice Mann for £1.5 million interim payment for his side's costs, which could top more than another million. Apple Corps must also pay its own legal costs, which would be a similar amount.11.30am:My colleague Patrick Barkham, who was at the high court and has been following this case, says the judgment was "really technical" and that a lot of people were surprised at such a definitive outcome.Related:Charles Arthur on the resultMoreApple coveragein our archives.
I was alerted toA Force More Powerfulby an NPR webcast from last month (listenhere). The game, designed by the leader of the non-violent protests which helped to defeat Slobodan Milosevic, challenges players to resolve conflict without violence. From the release:Game play involves the player's side (the movement) and an opponent (the regime). The regime is created by the designer of each scenario, and controlled by the game's artificial intelligence (AI). The player takes charge of the movement's material and human resources, assesses the strengths and vulnerabilities of the adversary as well as those of the movement, then chooses goals, strategies and tactics.As the producer of the film of the same namy says in the NPR coverage, the crux of the game that makes it so effective in comparison with the film is that the player is in charge of the decisions and ultimately how the conflict plays out.
I'm currently working on a research project that includes a brief section on the cultural implications of gaming. So while I was mulling over this and bouncing some ideas off friends, I discovered that the US - that bastion of political paradoxes - is currentlyactively trying to preserve video game culture(while at the same time vilifying it).TheLibrary of Congressis a governmental organisation which, like theBritish Library, records the publication of media. It's a treasure trove of everything that has a US copyright, including - from 2000 - digital media. Now, according toGamePolitics, games are going to be included in its stacks, thus ensuring their place in the cultural heritage of America.I'd like to point out that there ain't no Tomb Raider game in the stacks at St. Pancras (though you can find the film script, the official Lara magazine, the official film magazine and the film companionin its catalogue). Yet, there have been other great examples of how video games have contributed to the UK's culture, and how its cultural mainstays have tried to give something back.HardwareIn America, where I grew up, we didn't have gaming PCs like the Sinclair Spectrum or the BBC Micro. We had home consoles like the Atari, Intellivision and later Nintendo. To that end, we never had a bedroom programmer culture, which the UK is famous for, and which the UK industry is based upon.Because of their programmability, home computers encouraged the development of countless games with huge leaps of innovation. The results are a disproportionate number of computer game developer brother teams who honed their skills and made their names (and later their millions) because of the support the British public gave to the newfangled microcomputer.SoftwareI don't need to list the countless worldwide hits that have come from the UK. OK, I will, as the readership of the gamesblog is 60% non-British (believe it or not). The companies that have emerged out of UK games history include Rockstar (GTA), Rare (GoldenEye, Metroid, Banjo-Kazooie), Core (Tomb Raider), EIDOS (Hitman), Codemasters (Operation Flashpoint), Lionhead (Fable, Black &amp; White), Bullfrog (Populous), Acclaim (Turok), Blitz (Dizzy), Climax (Sudeki), Sony London (SingStar, EyeToy), Relentless (Buzz!), etc etc etc etc...RespectWhile we don't yet have a wing for UK games at the British Library, there are plenty of forward-thinking curators at some of the most respected cultural institutions who have celebrated games.The Barbicanled the way withGame Onin 2002, now a worldwide travelling exhibition. Game On was the first major UK exhibition on the history and culture of videogames. An updated Game On is set tore-launch later this year at the Science Museumwith the assistance of Nintendo.The London-based international digital arts festivalonedotzeroincorporated gaming into their essential programme in 2001, when it introduced lensflare, "a unique compilation of the world's greatest games animations projected in a cinema environment" (said sleazenation). For the next few years it was curated by Emily Newton Dunn, who incorporated the best of in-game action into themed programmes.TheDesign Museumhas never been shy about celebrating British gaming culture, nominating Rockstar (GTA: Vice City) for Designer of the Year in 2002 and hosting the BBC's Great British Design Quest for The Culture Show in 2006, when Tomb Raider and GTA were both nominated for the prize.TheInstitution for Contemporary Artsin London has recently teamed up with Sony to bring the art to the people, on their handheld PSPs.ICA The Showisa bi-monthly video magazine conceived by the Institute of Contemporary Arts for the PlayStation ®Portable exploring the working methods, philosophies and styles of film makers, artists, designers and musicians.Interested PSP owners and art enthusiasts can download the latest episodes from its website, where it promotes the use of the new technology, bringing the content of the gallery to gamers' pockets.Finally, theEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival(which, in full disclosure, I was involved with before I became too busy with my PhD) is the first games festival in the world with a cultural slant - away from the consumer-driven or hardware-tipped culture of most games conferences. Nicely, it's become part of the Edinburgh Festival fringe family, along with the TV festival, the book festival, the film festival, and other bastions of cultural currency, like opera and dance.HonoursThe Queen's even handed out knighthoods to some of the UK's gaming greats, includingJez San(2002),Peter Molyneux(2004) andIan Livingstone(2006)And the latest news on the table is that theBritish Academy, responsible for the BAFTAs,has made games its "third arm", giving equal weight to the interactive medium as it does to film and tv.Games contribute financially and culturally to the UK. Public broadcasters, government departments, universities and museums all view them as assets of cultural significance. There have been attempts to create an archive of computer games material, but to date these have been the products of communities of fans. Surely the UK should follow the US' lead and create a national archive of digital entertainment materials.
A high court judge will rule today on the latest battle between the big apples - the Beatles' Apple Corps v Apple Computer.Apple Corps claims the US company breached an agreement not to sell music when it launched its online iTunes Music Store.Geoffrey Vos QC, for Apple Corps, told the high court in London in March that to call it an electronic device was a "perversion" of the agreement.Mr Vos chose a 1978 disco hit to demonstrate how to download from the site. As it reverberated around the courtroom, he pointed out how many times "apple" appeared on the screen.
Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble has just given ablast of publicitytoCroquet. This is an "open source software platform for creating deeply collaborative multi-user online applications," and it's built onSqueakand TeaTime.The best guide to the background was Alan Kay's brilliant ETech keynote in 2003. If you missed that, there's Lisa Rein's wonderfulTour Of Alan Kay's Etech 2003 Presentation. It's worth the trip for the Ivan Sutherland clip on its own.There's also aStanford talkfrom April 2003.The Croquet site has a new SDK 1.0 Beta for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
"Windows Live QnA gives us an opportunity to showcase unique knowledge - provided, filtered, rated and approved by human beings - not available anywhere else. QnA allows people to ask questions of their knowledgeable friends, family, classmates at school, professional and community peers in a way that others around the world can benefit from the answers. We want to build the biggest, friendliest and most helpful community of smart humans the world has ever seen. Some people will love the fame and recognition that answering questions will bring them; others will appreciate getting answers quickly and easily," says theLive QnA blog.It's the Microsoft answer toYahoo AnswersandGoogle Answers, and other sites such asWondir.
Richard MacManus says there's " a plethora of product lists and data about web 2.0 companies on the Web now," and he's made a list of themhere. Bob Stumpel'sEverything Web 2.0looks pretty comprehensive, but there's a yard of comments adding more....
Chrysler 300C&pound;25,750Top speed:143mphMiles per gallon:35Good for:Uncle SamBad for:Auntie Vera'Cross-over thinking' is a buzz phrase in motoring circles. It allows car makers to pitch themselves at two or more possible buyers at the same time. If you've ever bought a penknife you'll be familiar with the concept: 'Oh look, it's for farriers as well as people who like to snip the corners off their juice cartons.' So you have 4x4s which are sold as 'handling like saloons' (the Nissan Murano, for instance) and family saloons sold as high-performance scream machines (Subaru's Impreza, the Mitsubishi Evo). Chrysler has also got in on the act with its 300C. It's an executive car which behaves like a truck.From the front, the 300C is all chrome and aggression - an American football offensive linesman with all the subtlety of John Prescott. Its thigh-high wheels bulge out of the bodywork. The doors are vast - huge slabs of metal topped off with a thin strip of glass. Sitting in it is like putting on a fat suit. You have an overwhelming sense of the weight of the car bearing down on the road. Hit the throttle and there's a delay before the huge beast starts to creep forward. Stand on the brakes and you feel yourself grinding to a stop. To power this highway heavyweight requires all 3,000cc of its V6 engine. The car can also be fitted with a 5.9-litre V8 hemi, but that really is a truck engine so you may as well buy a 12-wheeler. Three-quarters of the cars sold will be diesels, which turn in a not too greedy 35 miles to the gallon. Fire up the engine in the V8, however, and you'll see even hardened Texans go weak at the knees.Inside, as if you couldn't guess, the 300C is a grand slam of leather and yet more chrome. Switches come encased in rubber and seem ready for use by the potato-sized fingers of the fat cats who'll feel this car is their due. In fact, the one thing about the car which is not as big as you'd expect is the price: &pound;25,750. Big though that number is, it seems almost a bargain if you buy your car by the tonne. The interior finish is not all it could be, however. Some of the plastics are flimsy and the dampers fitted on ashtrays and cup holders are a bit abrupt for a prestige car.The 300C harks back to the glory days of the Chrysler Corporation. The 300s were part of a so-called 'letter series' of luxury cars built between 1955 and 1965. The cars all had 300 horse-power engines and each year's model used a new letter of the alphabet, reaching 300L by 1965, after which the model was dropped. Recently, Chrysler breathed new life into the 'letter' cars and, in 1999 launched the 300M. But the corporation then decided to mess with anyone who has a tidy and ordered mind and jumped back to C. This caused outrage among Chrysler literati - especially as the car also no longer had a 300bhp engine - puttering along with a mere 218.The 300C is set for a big future: it's (relatively) cheap price tag and over-the-top looks have made it a hit with the hip-hop crowd. When the car was first unveiled, rapper Snoop Dogg apparently left a message for Chrysler's chairman: 'What I gotta do to get that brand-new C outta you?' Indeed ...martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Jeffrey Toback, a Democratic representative in New York's Nassau County Legislature, charged in a complaint filed Thursday that Google has been taking in billions of dollars by allowing child pornography and 'other obscene content' operators to advertise their sites through sponsored links, which are tailored to a user's search terms and automatically accompany search results. The suit was filed in the New York Supreme Court," reportsCNet.Well, that's one way to grab the headlines. There's also a reply:A Google representative said Friday that the company prohibits child pornography in its products and removes all such content whenever the company finds or is made aware of it. "We also report it to the appropriate law enforcement officials and fully cooperate with the law enforcement community to combat child pornography," spokesman Steve Langdon said in an e-mail.Langdon pointed to the content policy for Google's AdWords sponsored links service, which broadly prohibits "promotion of child pornography or other non-consensual material." Langdon also noted that Google offers a filtering tool called SafeSearch that aims to block offensive content in search results.Toback also "co-sponsored a law designed to protect teenagers from tanning beds and has planned this year to pursue a ban of toy guns in the area."
Inspired by the TV show Pimp My Ride, at an estimated cost of some &pound;12.39 the master chefs atpimpmysnack.comhave constructed a huge Walnut Whip - many times bigger than the original. This is just one of many giant-sized snacks constructions on the site. Some more successful than others - the enormous Malteser and the Creme Egg both look well minging.Other snack sites of note:www.snackspot.org.ukcontinues to keep readers abreast of new developments in the world of cakes and biscuits;weird-food.comhas a great gallery of fizzy pop from Asia (mouse wine anyone?);foodisart.co.ukwill make you a chocolate chandelier;museum.woolworths.co.ukhas a nice section on the history of pick'n'mix; andtaquitos.nethosts over 1,000 reviews of crisps including no less than 100 different types of cheese puffs.
TuesdayAlternative funding models Part 1Id goes retro for mobileIndustry report yields few surprisesWednesdayAlternative funding models Part 2E3 coming soonGet BlitzedThursdayAll your games are belong to Wal-MartCool urban violence set to hit videogames (again)Wii meet againFridayWhere are the ugly avatars?Sega joins The ClubOff to E3
PlayStation 3, Wii, Halo 3, Burning Crusade, Spore, Twilight Princess, Okami, Lost Odyssey, LocoRoco - yes, E3 2006 is shaping up nicely. I'm flying off to LA this weekend and will be blogging from the show next week. The fun starts at around midnight on Monday (UK time) with the Sony conference and continues with Nintendo (5.30pm Tuesday, UK) and Xbox (9pm Tuesday, UK). Hopefully this year will see better wi-fi coverage than last, although I doubt it. The show itself starts on Weds morning, with food supplies at the cavernous conference centre normally depleted by 11am. Will Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo "win" E3? Does it matter? We'll find out next week.
Google's AdSense bloghas announced that Google will pay $2 for referrals that lead to Google Pack downloads, and $1 for Picasa installations. "To display Pack and Picasa referral buttons on your site, all you have to do is select Referrals from the AdSense Setup page of your account, and then select the product of your choice," it says.Google also pays US publishers $1 the first time a user installs Firefox with its Google Toolbar.
