The tragic events around theIndian Ocean yesterdaywere enough to sober even the most festive reveller. The Guardian's South Asia correspondent, John Aglionbyfiled an audio reporton the devastation, while the web is full of good reporting and information on the tragedy (have a look throughGoogle News).The Times carries agood explanationof some of the geographical reasons that the earthquake proved so devastating, while the International Herald Tribune explains how peoplesent the news to their families using the web.Elsewhere, Microsoft bloggerRobert Scoblewas taken to task byDare Obasanjofor questioning the lack of blog reports when such a disaster was in progress."There's remarkably little blogging going on about the earthquake," wrote Scoble. "It's really disappointing. Citizen Journalism is really failing here. Almost no first-hand reports."Actually, despite the insensitive timing, it raises an interesting question about how and where weblogs really have the power to work. There has been a lot written about how the first-hand accounting of blogs was a major turning point for citizen journalism in the wake of the attacks on America on September 11, 2001. But here, in the face of a much more immediate and all-encompassing disaster, reporting is left to Big Media organisations: people on the ground aren't blogging because they are either more interested in surviving or don't have the technological ability to get on the web. There's a lesson here about how citizen journalism will find it tough to replace well-funded media.It's just another reason to remember how lucky those of us not affected by such disaster really are. Those wanting to help could try contributing to the Red Cross'emergency appeal.
It may be the thought that counts but when there is cash to be made from unwanted Christmas presents, festive etiquette is easily forgotten.With the wrapping barely ripped from Christmas gifts, recipients had logged on to eBay to sell the good, the bad and the downright awful.Among the putters and PlayStations on screen yesterday were a pair of ostrich egg earrings with a starting bid of 50p, some small plastic toys from (pulled) office Christmas crackers, and a wall clock in the shape of a tyre with a starting price of 1p and a scathing sales pitch: "Brand new hideous clock. This clock would make any house look crap. Buy it for someone you don't like."Alongside a selection of tasteful ties and designer socks, there is a sparkly men's thong, size XL, which the seller says is too small. By late yesterday the festive underwear, with tags attached, had attracted no bids. There had been a handful of bids, however, for someone's brother-in-law, pictured and posted on Christmas day with a starting bid of 35p.It has been estimated that the cost of unwanted Christmas presents reaches around &#163;1.3bn each year. Research from the Abbey bank found that smellies and bubble bath top the list of unwanted gifts (48%), closely followed by novelty themed Christmas presents (30%), ornaments (23%) and the old faithful sweets and chocolates (18%). Lack of usefulness and sheer bad taste were blamed for most unwanted gifts.It was in the festive season of 1999 that eBay first hit on the idea of auctioning off unwanted Christmas gifts, launching a special trade-me zone on its UK website on December 28. Site officials said they had been inundated with requests for a special unwanted gift section. This year the site will launch a free-listing day on January 8.While etiquette experts recommend accepting dodgy gifts with good grace and effusive thanks, others say there is no shame in exchanging or offloading them for something you really want.Sien Trang, of AuctionAssist, a leading eBay trading partner, said selling unwanted gifts was something Britons were becoming more comfortable with."In the US it is quite a mature concept, it has been going on for a very long time," he said. "It's only starting to make headway here. Culturally, people are a lot more conservative. It has the potential to be quite explosive once people accept that it is something that you do."Richard Hyman, chairman of the retail consultancy Verdict Research, says the internet has proved a godsend in bringing together buyers and sellers of unwanted goods."Clearly a lot of people do get unwanted presents," he said. "The thing is that Christmas is a time when people feel obliged to buy presents for other people. Almost by definition they are not needs. More than half of what we buy in the shopstoday is wants-driven, not needs-driven, because we have already got most of what we want."Fortunately, I have not yet been given a clock in the shape of a tyre."
Britney Spearswas the most popular query on Google this year, ahead of rivals such as Paris Hilton, Christina Aguilera and Pamela Anderson. These took the first four places, according to Google'sZeitgeisttracking.In the UK, the most popular queries in 2004 were: (1) BBC News, (2) Big Brother, (3) CBBC and (4) Autotrader, though Britney was top of the women's list.Further, according toFashion Monitor Toronto,Curious BRITNEY SPEARS, the first fragrance by internationally acclaimed music star Britney Spears was the #1 beauty product sold onAmazon.com, which is linked through Sephora, for the month of November," announced E. Scott Beattie, Chairman and CEO of Elizabeth Arden. "Additionally, it is currently the top-selling fragrance in US department stores."The collection includes Deliciously Whipped! Body Souffle, Lather Me Up! Shower Gel and Write On! Perfumed Shimmer Stick.
Leonardo DiCaprio  has one, so does  Cameron Diaz;  Sting and Will  Smith stepped out  of one at this  year's Oscars, and Downing Street  has ordered seven for its staff ... It  probably comes as a surprise that  the marque du jour among the  A-listers is a Toyota. More surprising  still, it's an environmentally  friendly electric car with a beating  heart that has more in common  with milk floats, golf buggies and  airport-concourse cruisers than  with its petrol-powered rivals.The stars who want to wear (or  drive) their ethical colours, face a  tricky double dichotomy: on one  hand, you can't be a friend of the  Earth and a fossil-fuel-burner at the  same time; on the other, if you opt  for some crackpot hippy wagon,  you'll see your street cred wash away  faster than Heat can spot a new  boob job. Now, thanks to Toyota, the  life of the caring celeb is a lot easier.  The Prius is a green car with  red-carpet appeal.The Prius, which last month was  named 2005 European Car of the  Year, is officially the world's cleanest  family car. Its hybrid engine uses  self-generated electricity to power  the car up to 30mph (making it a  zero-emissions vehicle in the city)  and, when more power is needed, it  switches to a 1.5-litre petrol engine.This gives phenomenal fuel  consumption (65.7mpg) and carbon  dioxide emissions of 104g/km  (which in motoring terms is little  more than a case of bad breath). On  top of that, the Prius can cruise at  100mph (though as a green you'd  never break the law in such  outlandish fashion) and can reach  62mph in a nippy 10.9 seconds.The secret to Toyota's Hybrid  Synergy Drive is that during  deceleration, the electric motor  operates as a generator to help  recover energy that would  otherwise be wasted. This means  the Prius never needs to be  'plugged in' as is the case with  most conventional electric cars.All this is welcome news for  manic organics, but where the  Prius also scores is that its ethical  credentials are just the tip of a  stylish package. It's big and roomy  with a curved roof, glass rear-end  and a distinctive silhouette. It's  futuristic in its detail. There's no  keys, no handbrake, no instrument  panel. Everything from music to  climate control and satellite  navigation is conducted via a touchscreen  panel. This means the  central console is almost worryingly  free of buttons and knobs. A  minimalist's dream of smoked  plastic and digital read-outs.  Driving it takes a bit of getting  used to. The engine doesn't so  much roar as whir, the super-light  steering and incredibly quite  travelling environment makes you  forget you're in a car - more like  taking your duvet out for a spin.At £17,545 there are cheaper cars  on the road - but it's congestion  exempt in London, qualifies for  a £700 Powershift grant and  obviously has very low running  costs. You could work out exactly  how much these savings could be  offset against its higher purchase  price - but that would be to miss  the point. The saving you're making  by buying a Prius is far greater ...Me and my carSusie Honnor, 51,  Nissan FigaroI had a whole string of cars  that took one-way trips to  the dump. Then I came  across this extraordinary and  beautiful thing. It was love  at first sight, even from the  other side of the dual  carriage way as I made my  way to the garage. Figgy is a  dream in every way.You have to get used to  people turning heads and  staring. Some slip away in  embarrassment, others, not  so shy, tell you how lovely,  pretty, sweet, different and  unusual she is and how lucky  you are. 'What is it?' they  ask. 'A Nissan! Oh yes, you  can just make out the  name.' One man saw me go  into the Co-op in St Just and  waited in the rain until I  returned, he had seen a  Figaro in a film just last  week. Another dog-collared  gentleman and secret  admirer (not of me I hope)  followed me out of B&Q;,  'Does it live in Totnes?'  'No,' I replied. 'Ah then,' he  said, 'it must come from  Bovey Tracey.'People send me cards  and cuttings featuring the  mighty Figaro, including a  framed page from an  American in-flight magazine  as a 50th birthday pressie  and, oh yes, do I want to  swap cars with Rachel  Stevens? Apparently, she  wants a Figaro. I am a  teacher in Exeter, and even  the most streetwise teenage  boys think it's just 'cool'.  I love my car and it's good to  be noticed.&#183;Love your car? Contact us atmartin.love@observer.co.uk&#183; Braking newsWe all know tiredness kills.Yet research by Confused.com shows that more than 3m of us admit to dozing  off at the wheel. The car insurers recommend turning up the  music, winding down the window and ... giving yourself a slap!
Better late than never dept: Linus Torvalds gave CNet an interview,here. It's billed at Torvalds: A Solaris skeptic, to make it sound newsy, but Linus's view of Solaris x86 isn't of much interest (he hasn't tried it; he has no plans to try it). His view of innovation is more interesting, and he cites Sir Isaac Newton on 'standing on the shoulders of giants' and making incremental improvements on concepts and ideas of others.To invent something totally new and different just because you want to do something new and different is in my opinion, the height of stupidity and hubris. Linux is doing great things exactly because Linux isn't throwing out the baby with the bathwater, like so many projects tend to want to do. The NIH syndrome (Not Invented Here) is a disease.What Linux myths or misconceptions do you find particularly galling?I don't get upset that easily, so I can't say that there is any in particular that I find galling. One myth that I find interesting, but which has nothing to do with Linux or even the IT sector in particular, is the myth of how a single person or even a single company makes a huge difference in the market. It's the belief that things happen because somebody was visionary and "planned" it that way. Sometimes the people themselves seem to believe it, and then the myth becomes hubris.I have to continually try to explain to people that no, I don't "control" what happens in Linux. It's about having an environment that is conducive to development, not so much about any particular leader. And I think that is true in most cases, be it the "great sport coach" or the "great spiritual leader."A more alert interviewer could have asked him for some examples.....
Well that's it from us for 2004. Until the 4th January I'll be doing all the festive stuff - drinking, eating, watchingSaints, arguing with my uncle about thePoll Tax(long story), and, most importantly, ploughing through my pile of unfinished games. This year they includeRome: Total War, Sudeki, Chronicles of Riddick, Pikmin 2 and Metroid Prime 2 - my favourite kind of Christmas list. Of course, January will be the usual wasteland for new releases so best enjoy it while it lasts. Have a great Christmas and a thumb-twiddling New Year. See you in 2005.
The Online retailer Ocado today said it was planning  a flotation in the summer of 2006 - a move that would establish the company as one of Britain's most successful online retailers.Flotation is expected to bring a £100m windfall for Ocado's three founders, who are all former Goldman Sachs investment bankers."We hope to be in a position to look at broader financing options, which will include a listing in approximately 18 months time - by which time we certainly hope to have created a significantly more valuable business," Jason Gissing, the finance director and one of the co-founders, said.Ocado, Britain's third-largest online grocer, which was set up six years ago, sells food from the supermarket chain Waitrose, and is expected to be valued at around £350m by the time it seeks a listing.Mr Gissing, Tim Steiner and Jonathan Faiman stand to gain the huge windfall from selling their 27% stake in the company.It is unclear whether Ocado's largest shareholder, the John Lewis Partnership, plans to cash in on its 43% stake by selling shares in any flotation. The partnership, which owns Waitrose, is believed to have so far invested £85m in Ocado, with further financial support coming from Jorn Rausing, the boss of TetraPak, and the investment banks UBS and Goldman Sachs.Flotation would allow the group to expand more rapidly as it plans to extend its coverage from 30% of the UK to around 70% over the next five years. Ocado generates £135m of annual sales by distributing food from its warehouse at Hatfield, Hertfordshire.In the last year, it has seen its sales grow by 200% and its service is available to more than 8m households across the south-east, London and the Midlands. Most recently, it has expanded into the north-west to reach homes in areas such as Cheshire and Lancashire.The company has yet to make a profit, and last year posted pre-tax losses of £41m.  However, it is said to be weeks away from operational profitability, and is poised to overtake J Sainsbury as the country's second most successful online retailer.A September poll by the consumer magazine Which? rated Ocado as the best online food retailer, with eight out of 10 customers describing its service as "very good".It claimed top spot ahead of the Waitrose Deliver service and equivalent facilities from Iceland and Tesco.
The European commission has turned down the latest appeal from Microsoft for urgent talks on a negotiated settlement in their six-year battle over the software group's dominance of the market.Instead, officials are considering a fresh assault on the American software group over its Windows XP operating system, it emerged yesterday.It is understood that Microsoft approached the commission late last week. - just before the EU's second highest court, the court of first in stance, on Wednesday rejected the group's appeal for sanctions imposed in March to be suspended pending a hearing of the full case in a few years' time.Neelie Kroes, the new competition commissioner, flatly rejected the Microsoft request and stepped up pressure on the group, which has paid a record &euro;497m (&#163;349m) fine for abusing its dominance, by saying she was pursuing a complaint about XP. Microsoft is now building an updated version of this known as Longhorn. The complaint was originally filed by the Washington-based Computer and Communications Industry Association which has since withdrawn it following its $20m (&#163;10.4m) settlement with Microsoft.Nokia, the world's leading mobile phone-maker, which quit the CCIA in disgust at the settlement, is determined to make the complaint stick. This concerns the "bundling" of XP with other software programmes ensuring their inter-operability with both word processors and mobile phones.Microsoft has said it will immediately comply with the EU's "remedies" in the earlier case by making available a version of Windows stripped of its Media Player audiovisual software and posting on a special website some of its secret protocols to enable rival operators to build server programmes that are inter-operable with Windows.It is considering an appeal against this week's court decision and Horacio Gutierrez, one of its most senior lawyers, insisted that the ruling by the court's president, Bo Vesterdorf, made it more confident it could win the full case. The commission disputes that and is more determined than ever to bring Microsoft to heel over its efforts to squeeze out competitors.Mr Gutierrez called for "a face-to-face, constructive dialogue" between the parties.The commission separately, said it would mount a full-scale 90-day investigation into a proposed joint venture among German media groups, Bertelsmann, its Gruner &amp; Jahr unit and Springer for rotogravure printing, including a new plant in Britain, which would make it the biggest in Europe. It turned down a request from the German cartel office to take over the case on the grounds that the venture "might" significantly impede effective competition, including on a cross-border basis.Ms Kroes, meanwhile, stepped aside because of her previous directorship in P&amp;O Nedlloyd of the company's joint venture with ECT to build a new Rotterdam container terminal. The venture was approved instead by Jos&#233; Manuel Barroso, the commission president - the first time he has intervened because of Ms Kroes's conflicts of interest caused by her extensive business past.
In this time of goodwill to all men spare a thought for the less fortunate this Christmas. The Beebran a piecetoday about the growing number of "game widows" - women taking second place to their partner's consoles. The article suggests that it is online games that are the most addictive - and after a few hours of laggy, but still damn fine, Pro Evo 4 last night I can see their point. Still, it's all about balance right? Any gamer who lives with their partner knows the score. Cook dinner, wash up and then grab an hour's guilt -free gaming. I feel sorry for those who can't justify 17 hrs of GTA as "work", like I can. Ah, if only Aleks was here to argue that game widowers were a growing trend too...
ViaSlashdotcomes this (rather garbled) report fromXinhuawhich reveals the extent of the Chinese government's crackdown on websites.China has closed 1,129 pornographic web sites since the nationwide crackdown began this July, according to Internet Society of China (ISC).Since the web site www.china.cn was opened June 10 by the ISC [Internet Society of China], it has received 95,000 reports of pornographic and other illegal web sites. The related departments have closed 1,278 illegal web sites and 114 sites promoting gambling, superstitious activities and cult propaganda according to the information provided by the informers.The numbers seem a bit hard to decode, but the is this: lots of sites have been closed. The report doesn't say what the reasons were, apart from the 114 gambling, superstitious and cult propaganda sites (presumablyFalun Gongrelated).At the same time, a new "self discipline pact" has been brought in to curb search engines from indexing illegal material:The new regulation, promulgated by the Internet Society of China (ISC)... bars search engines from collecting, disseminating or linking to any websites with pornographic, illegal or inappropriate content.Search engines must not provide services or set up any contacts with any of these illegal websites."The ISC should make sure that the self-discipline pact is wellimplemented to further crackdown Chinese web porn and promote a healthy environment on the Internet", said Cai Ming, deputy director of the State Council Information Office.
If only all worms and viruses could be killed this quickly: Santy, which exploited a weakness in the bulletin board software phpBB was spotted doing its dirty work...The worm uses the Google search engine to try and find vulnerable bulletin boards on the web. According to some reports, Google has started blocking the worm's attempts to replicate.How will Google commence such blocking? Will sites using phpBB forums find themselves missing from the latest Google Index? Hopefully not.(fromSearch Engine News Journal)But was swiftly put to bed, reports theComputer Business Review:The Santy worm stopped spreading after Google Inc disabled web searches that looked like they had been generated by the malicious program, which was responsible for defacing tens of thousands of PHP message boards. But Santy's source code has been published, making it more likely that a variant could appear over the coming days and weeks.I wonder about SERJ's statement that sites using phpBB would "hopefully not" find themselves missing from the Google search.After all, what's more important: the security of web users or the search rankings of bulletin boards that have chosen to use a flawed piece of software?
There will be relief in the office of Neelie Kroes, the newly installed competition commissioner in Brussels, after the European court blocked the latest attempt by Microsoft to wriggle out of anti-trust sanctions levied on the firm by the European commission.Having been found guilty in the spring of abusing its dominant market position in Europe, the American software group wanted to suspend sanctions while it took its case to appeal.As well as a &euro;497m (&#163;350m) fine, Microsoft has been ordered to give competitors better access to its software code so they can build applications that work properly with Windows. Impor tantly, it has also been ordered to offer computer manufacturers the chance to use a version of Windows without an embedded Windows Media Player.Suspending these orders while the legal case dragged on for another two, three, or maybe five years, would have made the commission's entire investigation pointless. With its free Media Player, Microsoft is busy doing exactly what it did in the browser and word processing markets: snuffing out the competition and stifling innovation.It is also heartening that the court ignored the fact that two of the main complainants over Microsoft's commercial behaviour - the networks group Novell and the Washington-based Computer and Communications Industry Association - recently withdrew criticisms.They did so after receiving payments from Microsoft. The CCIA reportedly received more than $10m (&#163;5m), some of which was allotted to Ed Black, the trade body's outspoken president who has been a fierce critic of Microsoft.Microsoft has said these deals were "forward looking" - aimed at avoiding future conflicts in the computing industry and not linked to the EC case. Confusingly, Mr Black has said the payment simply allowed the CCIA to get out of some very expensive litigation. He has declined to discuss how much money went to him personally. This is a man who described Microsoft as a "rapacious monopoly that should be broken up".Despite the oddness of all this, there has been very little debate about the ethics of a corporation, with crushing market power, buying off its critics.At the very least, this case would seem to be a sharp reminder that we do need regulators that are both well resourced and thoroughly independent. But then, of course, we might change our tune on the issue if and when a cheque arrives from Microsoft.War in the airBoeing yesterday won another serious order for its new 7E7 passenger jet, the Dreamliner, on which the American aircraft manufacturer is hanging its future.Japan Airlines have placed an order for 30 planes, with options for a further 20, in a deal worth a total of $6bn at list prices. It brings the number of Dreamliner orders this year to 112, compared with Boeing's target of 200.Even with a few more orders likely to be announced before December 31, that target will not be met but the aviation industry is already focusing much more on what happens in 2005 and 2006.On Tuesday, 10 days after getting the nod from its shareholders to offer its new A350 aircraft to the market, Boeing's arch-rival Airbus found the first customer for a plane that promises to compete with the 7E7 head-on. Spain's Air Europa has indicated it will buy 10, with options for two more.Airbus is now up and running in a sector where its battle with Boeing is already causing political turbulence.Until Airbus announced it was considering launching the A350, the struggle between the two companies had focused on their respective views of the way that market would develop.Airbus developed its superjumbo A380 believing the answer to air travel congestion was bigger planes; Boeing, originator of the jumbo concept, thinks more people will want to fly direct to their destination rather than take a big jet to a major centre then fly on in a smaller one. But the A350 has changed the game. If Boeing is right, it now faces stiff competition. If it is wrong, Airbus cleans up.Cash takeJohn Stewart, the canny Scotsman who used to run the Woolwich and is now charged with sorting out National Australia Bank, is not having a good start to his festive season Down Under. NAB, accident-prone at the best of time, is facing a &#163;22m bill for the robbery at Northern Bank in Belfast.Despite having clinched a deal this month to sell its Irish operations to Danske Bank of Denmark, NAB is left with the hole because the transaction does not go through until next year and, as luck would have it, NAB did not have any insurancefor a heist of this kind.Having so much cash in one place - even this close to the heavy spending Christmas and new year period - was clearly unfortunate and apparently unusual. Similar raids at other banking groups might be difficult as they outsource their cash distribution and keep cash in smaller quantities.At least Mr Stewart can take heart from the fact that the robbers are stuck with a huge wodge of cash - Northern Bank branded notes - that will be difficult to spend.
It was supposed to be the future of journalism, but yesterday Slate, the online magazine owned by Microsoft, was sold to a rather more traditional publisher, the Washington Post.Its editor Jacob Weisberg, said: "We just came to the realisation that at this stage in our growth and the development of the magazine, it made sense for us to be at a more traditional media company."The price is thought to be &#163;8m-&#163;11m.Slate will keep most of its staff and its editorial independence. To underline the point, it ran a front-page article yesterday attacking a Washington Post piece on the murders of mothers, and Mr Weisberg wrote in an editorial: "Slate is not going to be merged, submerged, bent, folded, spindled or mutilated."Slate was established in Seattle eight years ago by the former New Republic editor Michael Kinsley, who has since returned to traditional journalism. Its aim was to outflank and complement traditional newspapers by providing high-quality opinion and news   coverage. Backed by the Microsoft owner Bill Gates's money, it signed several star writers.But the marriage of a content provider and a software provider was never an easy one. Mr Weisberg said yesterday that it was difficult to engage freelance journalists for Slate because "a company like Microsoft isn't geared to write a check for $400".Mr Gates professed himself pleased with the sale and the experiment."Mostly I'm really proud of Slate's pioneering role in online journalism, and confident it will continue to lead the way," he wrote in an email statement yesterday."As one of the early - albeit minor - participants in Slate's diary section, I'll always feel incredibly close to it."Graduating to media ownership seemed the obvious next step for Slate, and I'm confident it will thrive wonderfully under the Post."Slate attracts 5m to 6m readers a month, although estimates vary. The same studies suggest that the Washington Post's website attracts an equal amount of internet traffic, if not more.  MSNBC's cable television network.
It's gr8 news 4 skools. Claims that the explosion in text messaging among children is eroding youngsters' literacy skills appear to be unfounded, according to research.A study comparing the punctuation and spelling of 11- and 12-year-olds who use mobile phone text messaging with another group of non-texters conducting the same written tests found no significant differences between the two.Both groups made some grammatical and spelling errors, and "text-speak" abbreviations and symbols did not find their way into the written English of youngsters used to texting.According to the author of the research, the speech and language therapist Veenal Raval, the findings reflect children's ability to "code switch", or move between modes of communication - a trend familiar to parents whose offspring slip effortlessly between playground slang and visit-the-grandparents politeness.But the study did find that the pupils familiar with text messaging wrote significantly less when asked to describe a picture or an event than those who did not use mobiles, potentially fuelling concerns   that the quality and expressiveness of children's writing could be at risk even if their spelling is not.The study, conducted at the the department of communication and science at City University in London, comes amid growing concern in some quarters over the potentially damaging effects of new technologies on children's ability to communicate effectively using conventional means.According to the mobile telecoms consultancy Mobile Youth, 700,000 (20%) of primary school children own mobile phones and the under-10s are the fastest-growing section of Britain's mobile phone market.The leap in the popularity of mobiles and text messaging among children and teenagers over the past five years has prompted concern that pupils' literacy skills could suffer.Texting puts a premium on speed and concision, leading to the creation of a host of abbreviations and acronyms incomprehensible to the untrained reader, together with symbols or "emoticons", such as smiley faces, to express emotions.Chief examiners' reports on trends in public examinations have begun to note instances of texting language in exam scripts. Some cases - includ ing a 13-year-old Scottish pupil who wrote an entire description of her summer holidays in text-speak - have provoked concern among some teachers.But despite widespread speculation there is little research into the potential influence of texting on children's writing.According to Mr Raval's small-scale study, which focused on 20 youngsters, children have developed an ability to switch between two forms of language when texting or writing standard English.Pupils were given a spelling test and conducted two writing exercises designed to replicate situations where they might normally text, such as describing something they had done the previous day, held in formal classroom conditions.Mr Raval said: "The fear that has been put across in the media is that children don't understand the need to code switch - that is, switch between standard English grammar for an exam or essay and what is acceptable when you are communicating on a social level. In fact, they are capable of that switch, just as bi- or tri-lingual children might speak English at school and a mother or father tongue at home."While the text-experienced   children wrote much less than those without mobiles, concision was not necessarily a bad thing, he argued. "Whether that is a positive or negative effect is up for debate. It depends on the situation or the subject studied. A science exam might require brief answers which might not be appropriate in a literature exam."A spokesman for the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, which oversees public examinations, said the authority was interested in the research, and believed more   investigation was necessary into the effect of texting on written communication.It was important that children could communicate in a range of ways "depending on the communication channel they were using", he said.A National Union of Teachers spokeswoman welcomed the research, saying abbreviation used in texting could even boost literacy skills by helping children to learn about how words divide into syllables.SMS: A textbook casePart of an essay written by a Scottish 13-year-old secondary school pupil - and its translationMy smmr hols wr CWOT. B4, we used 2 go 2 NY 2C my bro,   his GF &amp; thr 3 :-@ kds FTF. ILNY, its gr8.Bt my Ps wr so {:-/ BC o 9/11 tht thay dcdd 2 stay in SCO &amp; spnd 2 wks up N.Up N, WUCIWUG -- 0. I ws vvv brd in MON. 0 bt baas &amp; .My summer holidays were a complete waste of time. Before, we used to go to New York to see my brother, his girlfriend and their three screaming kids face to face.   I love New York, it's a great place.But my parents were so worried because of the terrorism attack on September 11 that they decided we would stay in Scotland and spend two weeks up north.Up north, what you see is what you get - nothing.I was extremely bored in the middle of nowhere. Nothing but sheep and mountains.
Microsoft yesterday failed to suspend anti-trust sanctions ordered by the European commission and must now disclose secret protocols of its Windows software to rivals and market a version of Windows without its Media Player.The EU's second highest court dismissed Microsoft's application - part of a six-year battle between the software group and the European authorities - in its entirety.Bo Vesterdorf, president of the court of first instance, said the group - founded by Bill Gates - had failed to prove it would suffer "serious and irreparable damage" if the sanctions or "remedies" were implemented at once.His decision means PC manufacturers will be offered stripped-down or "degraded" versions of Windows without the Media Player music and video software next month and these should be available in European shops from February, according to Horacio Gutierrez, a senior Microsoft lawyer.Mr Gutierrez said the technical protocols - not the secret source codes - required by rival operators wanting to provide work group servers that are interoperable with Windows would be posted on a special company website for licences immediately.The commission found Microsoft guilty of abusing its dominant position on March 24, imposing a record fine of &euro;497m (&#163;347.3m) - or 1% of the group's cashpile - which was paid on June 29.Four days previously, the software company had appealed to the court to suspend the EU's remedies pending   the outcome of the full case, which could take place in 2006 or later.Senior commission officials, industry groups supporting rival operators and lawyers acting for Microsoft's competitors hailed yesterday's decision as a stunning victory for consumers and for innovation.Thomas Vinje, a partner at Clifford Chance - which advised the Computer and Communications Industry Association - said Mr Vesterdorf had "sent a clear signal that Microsoft is not above the law and cannot continue abusing its monopoly power to the detriment of consumers and competitors".Dave Stewart, deputy general counsel of RealNetworks, Microsoft's last substantial legal opponent following a spate of settlements, said: "Anything that helps create a level playing field is good for us."But others favourable to the Microsoft case, such as the Association for Competitive Technology, argued that the court ruling would have "dangerous repercussions" for small software developers, consumers and innovators.It represents a substantial success for the commission, which suffered three stinging defeats at the hands of the Luxembourg-based court in 2002 and 2003 when it reversed rulings by the then competition commissioner Mario Monti against agreed company mergers.Michael Reynolds, a former legal adviser to Sun Microsystems, which settled with Microsoft, said the precedent would strengthen the commission's arm in acting against dominant companies and provide a fillip to Neelie Kroes, Mr Monti's controversial successor who has signalled a drive to stamp out cartels and block anti-competitive mergers.Mr Gutierrez told the Guardian: "We will not come out of today feeling that we won but we don't feel the commission, conversely, can come out claiming it won ... We are quite optimistic we might win the main case as the president has framed the substantive questions in exactly the way we would like."Microsoft has two months to appeal.
"America Online is testing a Web-based e-mail service that will compete with Yahoo Mail, Microsoft's Hotmail and Google's Gmail," reportsCNet.Right now, the beta service is available to AOL subscribers only, but it will eventually be offered for free to the public, the company said on Wednesday. The service, dubbed "AOL Mail on the Web," is expected to officially debut early next year for members, and later in the year for the public."This is paving the way for our free Web mail service that we will be offering to a wider audience in 2005," AOL spokeswoman Jaymelina Esmele said.
Here's some news likely to bring festive cheer to the hearts of veteran Amiga gamers everywhere. UK mobile games publisheriFoneis putting the finishing touches to its faithful Java translation of classic puzzler Lemmings.Due for release early next year, the game will feature 28 levels, and all the lemmings types from the original title. There have been a few compromises: the number of onscreen lemmings has been reduced from 100 to 25 and graphical tweaks have proved necessary to cope with the smaller screen size. However, the animation has actually been improved, and there is talk of providing further downloadable levels.I'll have more information on this in early january. For now, gaze at the screenshot and let it take you back to a time when preventing dozens of tiny critters from falling down holes wasthepremium gaming experience.
HMV has linked up with Microsoft to produce an online digital music service that will spearhead the high-street music retailer's push into the download market.While digital music players are expected to be a big seller this Christmas, real mass-market take-up is expected next year as more people get access to   broadband internet. HMV, which is investing &#163;10m in its digital music platform, said yesterday it hoped to have a service up and running by the second half of 2005.But the company's tie-up with Microsoft means the HMV download service will not be compatible with Apple's iPod, which is the best-selling digital music player.Instead, customers of   HMV's portal will have a choice of more than 75 portable music players, including models from the consumer electronics groups Philips and Sony. Some of the players that will be able to use the service, once it is launched, are considerably cheaper than an iPod.In spurning Apple's music player, HMV joins a list of download sites that have chosen to support more   open online music standards. Last month the supermarket group Tesco decided to use Microsoft's media technology to power its downloadable music centre on Tesco.com.The two companies are working on a customisable jukebox, which customers can use to store music bought from HMV or other online shops alongside their own music collection.Yesterday's announce ment that HMV and Microsoft will jointly develop an online music download service leaves the music retailer free to open negotiations with music labels about offering tracks from their artists. The cost to download a track or album has yet to be decided.News of the tie-up helped HMV shares add 8.75p to 254.75p. Although the company is selling internet   downloads through a deal with On Demand Distribution (OD2), the internet music provider co-founded by the former Genesis front man Peter Gabriel, the new Microsoft-powered site will be HMV's main push into downloadable music.While global recorded music sales are expected to fall next year, there are signs that legitimate digital downloading of music is increasing rapidly.
Yes, I know it's a day late, but I've been struck by an annoying lergy. Unfortunately the announcement of the Christmas number one hasn't made me feel any better. Like its predecessor last year, the underwhelmingNeed for Speed: Underground 2scooped the title. Of course, when it comes to total sales GTA: San Andreas is likely to triumph, despite only achieving number two in the Christmas countdown. Elsewhere the cracking WW2 shooterCall of Dutyand bland film tie-in Incredibles complete the top four. The full list is below, but does the Christmas number one in games actually matter?Official ELSPA Entertainment Top 20 Software Chart (all prices) - week ending 18 December1 (1) Need For Speed: Underground 2(PS2, Xbox, PC, Gamecube)2 (2) Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas(PS2)3 (3) Call Of Duty: Finest Hour(PS2, Xbox, Gamecube)4 (4) The Incredibles(PS2, Xbox, GBA, Gamecube, PC)5 (5) FIFA 2005(PS2, PC, Xbox, GBA, Gamecube)6 (6) Prince Of Persia: Warrior Within(PS2, Xbox, Gamecube PC)7 (9) Pro Evolution Soccer 4(PC, Xbox, PS2)8 (7) GoldenEye: Rogue Agent(PS2, Xbox, Gamecube)9 (8) The Getaway: Black Monday(PS2)10 (13) The Simpsons: Hit and Run(PS2, Xbox, PC, Gamecube)
Today'sFTcarries a story about corporate weblogs, which is subscription only for web so I'll give you the basics here.[Weblogs'] popularity among internet users is now spurring companies to experiment with blogs as a way of communicating with employees and customers...Companies that use blogging to communicate with outsiders, including investors, customers, suppliers and the media, must place considerable trust in their writers. As well as posing a risk to corporate reputation from critical postings, bloggers may inadvertently reveal sensitive information or cause legal problems through libel...[JP] Rangaswami [chief information officer, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein] points out that blogging has a number of advantages over more traditional collaborations tools, such as email. "While it can be a broadcast medium, email is not "all to all". With blogging, I can look at the entire conversation set - it's searchable, recorded and shareable with a wider community."Some companies are certainly switching on to the idea of weblogs as high-value marketing and information tools. As long as firms realise that the value lies in some form of anti-corporate honesty, I think the risks are not as high as they might believe.
The excellent grumpygamer.com has posted anappropriately cantankerous polemicon that long-held myth that the videogame industry is now bigger than the movie industry. We can argue all we like about it, but Grumpy has come up with the raw stats to support his assertion that videogames do, in fact, fall way short.It's always been an arbitary assertion in any case. What does 'bigger' actually mean in this context? Bigger in terms of profit, or cultural impact, or audience sizes? And why did it ever matter to people?
Microsoft today suffered a decisive rebuff when an EU court rejected its attempt to delay sanctions in a landmark EU antitrust case.The 91-page ruling, by the Luxembourg-based European court of first instance, means the software giant must immediately yield some trade secrets to competitors and produce a version of its Windows operating system stripped of features that play music and video.The court decision marks a big setback for Bill Gates's empire, despite Microsoft's recent success in reaching a settlement with four of the five key players in the EU case.Novell and the Washington-based Computer and Communications Industry Association - a long-time critic of Microsoft - pulled out of the case after reaching deals with the company. Earlier, Microsoft spent $2.4bn (£1.2bn) to settle claims by Time Warner and Sun Microsystems.RealNetworks, which makes a rival to Microsoft's digital Media Player application, is its last big commercial opponent in the case. "Microsoft's application for interim measures is therefore dismissed in its entirety," Judge Bo Vesterdorf, the president of the court, said.The EU welcomed the decision, saying the ruling would force Microsoft's immediate compliance with its March ruling."Implementation of the commission's March decision will not only benefit consumers of computer products in terms of choice of media players on computers and choice of work group servers, but also stimulate innovation," the EU spokesman Jonathan Todd said. "Today's order is important because it preserves the effectiveness of antitrust enforcement, in particular in fast-moving markets."Microsoft said it would look closely at the order before deciding on its next step, but would comply fully with the court order when it came into force."While the court did not find immediate irreparable harm from the commission's proposed remedies, the court recognised that some of our arguments on the merits of the case are well-founded and may ultimately carry the day when the substantive issues are resolved in the full appeal," a company statement said.The full appeals process could take up to five years. Microsoft reiterated its desire for settlement discussions, but EU officials said a court ruling in their favour would make it unlikely that antitrust regulators would reopen talks. "We are not in the process of renegotiation," Mr Todd said.Such talks had failed to make headway after EU antitrust regulators fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (£347.4m) for abusing its monopoly of the Windows operating system to push the company's video and music features.Dave Stewart, the deputy general counsel for RealNetworks, said the company would "continue to cooperate with the commission's efforts to stop Microsoft's unlawful attempt to control how music, movies and other digital content will be delivered in the future".Microsoft has fought tooth and nail in both the US and the EU for the right to incorporate new features into its Windows operating system.The danger to the company in the EU case is that it sets a precedent for similar lawsuits. The EU's success in this landmark case would limit Microsoft's ability to "bundle" as much software into its operating systems as it would like.
Spending Christmas at a relative's house this year? The chances are you have been banned from packing your games console. Even surreptitiously slipping a GBA or freshly imported PSP into your luggage may be frowned upon. Christmas, your partner may well explain, is a time of traditional family games, such as Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit or trying to stop granddad drinking his own body weight in cheap port.Which means your only gaming outlet this year may well be your mobile phone. And to ensure you're adequately entertained over the festive weekend, here are eight excellent new downloadable Java games, which should be available through most major phone network portals by Christmas. Priced between £3.50 and £5, they'll all provide a few hours of respite from the chaos.Micro MachinesIfoneFantastic mobile conversion of the old Codemasters classic. Race teeny toy cars around a kitchen table and various other over-sized locations. The memories will flood back.Midtown Madness 3Energetic little conversion of the Xbox hit with you driving around Paris delivering things and crashing into others cars. Great therapy if you ever actuallyhavedriven around Paris.Prince of Persia: Warrior WithinGameloftAnother absolutely stunning platform adventure from Gameloft. Hours of varied, superbly designed gameplay and some gorgeous visuals. Contender for game of the year.Blade TrinityMformaExtremely playable overhead-viewed shooter based around the plot of the movie. Has the look and feel of a classic Amiga blaster. High praise indeed.Zoo Tycoon 2In-FusioCute, lovable strategy title where you care for a range of animals while ensuring the punters are entertained. A surprisingly thorough conversion of the PC hit.Vans Skate and SlamGameloftThe best skating title on mobile phones and another technical tour de force from the Gameloft chaps.Sensible SoccerKuju WirelessThe best mini footie sim – especially if your handset has a joystick-style controller as the code cleverly supports diagonal movement.Playman Winter GamesMr GoodlivingImmaculately produced sports title with challenging biathlon, slalom, ski jump and Bobsleigh events. The controls are perfect and the cartoons visuals work well.
Sony is taking legal action after the discovery of a ring of PlayStation hardware pirates, reportsReuters.com.Sony Corp. said on Wednesday that a Hong Kong court had issued an injunction against two companies the company had accused of piracy involving its PlayStation game consoles.Furusawa [a spokeswoman] said the lawsuit sought damages and the freezing of the companies' assets...Guo [another spokeswoman] said she could not comment on a Financial Times report that said a probe lasting more than five years by Chinese authorities had uncovered a web of subcontractors making pirated PlayStation consoles and parts, with the capacity to make up to 50,000 units a day.
Wait til the tabloids get hold of this. The Guy Game is an Xbox and PS2 trivia title that rewards correct answers with photos of topless girls. Unfortunately, according to reports yesterday, one of the young ladies used in the game was 17 (and therefore underage) at the time of production and she's suing the developer as a result of her 'humiliation, embarrassment, and shame'. Headhereand/orherefor the full story.
HMV is hooking up with Microsoft to invest £10m in launching a digital downloading service in the second half of next year.The music retailer  is planning to distribute the hardware and software required to use the music download service via the company's website and its 200 stores around the country.The service will feature a customised jukebox as part of a package of software HMV is developing in partnership with Microsoft.The new service will be joining an increasingly crowded music downloading market, competing against rivals including Apple's iTunes and Microsoft's own MSN Music.HMV is expecting to spend around £10m launching the service, including capital investment and marketing costs."We have a unique opportunity to leverage the HMV brand, customer base and our store network to establish a strong position in the newly emerging market for paid-for music downloads," said Alan Giles, the HMV group chief executive.Alistair Baker, the Microsoft UK managing director, said: "The partnership extends to the development of the player, which will be constructed by a joint team from Microsoft and HMV, combining the industry knowledge of the HMV team with the software development, product expertise and consulting skills of Microsoft."HMV said its download software would be compatible with the Windows Media audio standard and usable with more than 75 portable digital music players currently available. The retailer is also planning to start selling digital music players in its stores.The new venture comes just weeks after BT teamed up with Blueprint, a company formed by a group of technology experts and former record label executives, to launch a new global music downloading service.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Delhi high court granted bail yesterday to the head of eBay's Indian subsidiary, an American citizen who was jailed in connection with the online auction of a sex video clip involving teenagers.Avnish Bajaj, the head of Baazee.com, India's most popular shopping portal, which is owned by eBay, was arrested on Friday after the sale of images showing classmates at a New Delhi high school engaged in oral sex. His arrest drew the interest of the US state department and a rebuke from officials in India's technology industry.The court granted bail to Mr Bajaj but asked him to surrender his passport and not leave the country without the court's permission, the Press Trust of India said.Police said they had arrested Mr Bajaj because he violated a law which makes a criminal offence out of "publishing, transmitting, or causing to publish" obscene material. But eBay said it was   "outraged" by the arrest. The sex video sale took place without the knowledge of company officials, it said.The seller, a student at a college in Kharagpur in eastern India, violated the policies of Baazee.com and was deleted from the website as soon as the company became aware of the incident, eBay said. The 17-year-old boy who used a camera-fitted mobile phone to film himself and his girlfriend in an act of oral sex and then circulated the images to his friends was arrested on Sunday and ordered to be kept in a rehabilitation centre.
"C Ronson'siPod hoodiehas all the features of its life-sized original yet scaled down to keep yr MP3 player or phone lookin' spiffy!!! Blue or pink."Yours for $24 but sold out.
"The Washington Post Co. announced Tuesday that it has agreed to purchase online magazine Slate from Microsoft. In a deal that had been rumored since at least mid-November, the Post will take Slate off Microsoft's hands for an unspecified amount of money. The online magazine, which produces original editorial content on popular topics such as politics, has been controlled by the software giant since Slate first began publishing in 1996. According to Nielsen Net/Ratings, the magazine had 6 million unique users in November 2004," reportsCNet."In aletter to Slate's readers, [the editor, Jacob Weisberg] promised that the acquisition would not result in major changes to the publication. He said all of the magazine's senior editorial staff and writers will remain. He also thanked Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates for keeping the publication afloat even when its business prospects were not entirely promising."
Walmart.com has announced the Balance notebook computer running Linspire's version of Linux for $498. According to a brief inCBS.MarketWatch: "The machine, which comes with a 14.1 inch screen and a VIA C3 1.0 GHz processor, would be suitable as a second or third home computer, the companies said."
Not sufficed with replicating real-worldmarkets, politics and governance, virtual worlds have also been mucking around with family rituals too. Marriage has been part of the fabric of in-game society for titles likeThe Sims Online(a pdf byMemoryCardblogger Mia Consalvo) andStar Wars Galaxies, and has existed since the early Multi-User Dungeons ruled the internet waves. However, a marriage contract hadn't been incorporated into the game mechanics until Korean international best-sellerRagnarok Onlineintroduced the ties that bind as a legal in-game construct a few weeks ago.The honeymoon perior is over now, according toGameinfowire.com. Apparently, in response to overwhelming player demand, divorce has been added into the experience. It's now as official and as pricey as the real thing. A foray into the divorce court will set the players back 2,500,000 "Zeny" (between $12.50-$21.25 by today's calculations).I expect that when the more prurient institutions notice what's happening in the virtual city, they are going to take umbrage with this.
Walk into any of those new gadget shops that line highstreets everywhere nowadays and you'll find shelves filled with retro gaming joypad toys, each packing dozens of Atari 2600, Mega Drive and coin-op classics onto a single controller that plugs staight into your TV. Well, now there's a Commodore 64 version, created by a lone programmer and already a best-seller over in the States. Have a look at ithere. You'll also find an interesting story following one woman's quest to understand vintage gaming hardware. There's a film script in here somewhere.
There has been a lot of coverage over the Motion Picture Association of America'sdecision to go to war with BitTorrent, but the question has been how they would deal with the filesharing network.CNet reportson a weakness in the system that the MPAA seems to be exploiting:"BitTorrent "hubs" that publish lists of movies, TV shows and other free downloads suddenly went dark this weekend, in a major victory for Hollywood that highlights vulnerabilities in technology behind the world's busiest peer-to-peer network.Last week, the Motion Picture Association of America launched a series of worldwide legal actions, aimed at people who ran the infrastructure for BitTorrent networks being used to distribute movies and other copyrighted materials without permission.The MPAA's actions have put pressure on a short list of large Web sites that had served as hubs for the BitTorrent community and that had operated for months or even years. Many of those sites have now vanished almost overnight, including the SuprNova.org site that was by far the most popular gathering point for the community, serving more than a million people a day, according to one academic study.
To complete a very aggresive year for the videogame mega-corp, EA plans to purchase a 20% stake in Ubisoft at a reported cost of between $85 and $100 million. Gamesindustrybiz.com has thefull story, which includes an interesting quote from EA CEO Larry Probst given at this year's E3 back in May:"I'm not sure that it's going to be us acquiring other companies and I don't think that anyone's going to acquire us in the industry, but I think you're going to see consolidation in the next three to five years, where there are fewer competitors to us in five years than there are today"'Fewer competitors': was that a forecast or a threat?
Mobile phone fishing titles are hugely popular in Japan, and soon we will get to find out why. Online gaming speciliastKayakhas just announced Bill Dance Bass Fishing, a realistic angling sim complete with competative multiplayer modes. The press release states:"Our mobile game lets players pick their line weight and lures to test their skills against various conditions ­ water depth, water clarity, time of day, wind and temperature ­ while getting tips from Bill Dance on how to improve their efforts."Bill Dance, by the way, is a broadcaster and famed fisherman.The online mode will allow a variety of over-the-air competitions. According to Kayak's PR man Brian Baglow, "Since it's part of the Kayak system, it's very simple to plan and host tournaments, where multiple players can compete against each other in either a single competition or as part of a larger series of elimination events. It also boasts Kayak's regular features like Buddy lists, so you can fish with your chums, swap messages with other players, etc".Unfortunately, unlike similar fishing games in Japan, it won't be GPS sensitive, so the weather and time of day aren't specific to the user's real-world location. However, Baglow assures me that this is something the company could instigate later on.Mobile fishing: fun, convenient and you don't have to sit at the side of a canal all day with your hand in a bucket of maggots.
To the Indian schoolboy, it must have seemed like an ingenious if indelicate use of new technology.But when the 17-year-old used his mobile phone camera to record his girlfriend giving him oral sex he could have had little idea of the far-reaching global consequences.By yesterday, his ungentlemanly act had provoked a scandal that was dominating every Indian newspaper, the chief executive of a major company had been jailed, and a major diplomatic row was brewing between India and America, with Condoleezza Rice reported to be at the fore.The boy himself has been tracked down by police, faced court yesterday and has been expelled from his school.The trouble started a few days after the teenager made the recording, when someone tried to sell a video clip of him and his 16-year-old girlfriend on the Indian online auction siteBaazee.com. The firm is a subsidiary of the US auction gianteBay.On Friday detectives arrested Baazee.com's chief executive, Avnish Bajaj, a US citizen and Harvard graduate. On Saturday a court bundled him off to jail for a week.Yesterday the police arrested the 17-year-old boy as well.Both he and his girlfriend were students at the elite Delhi Public School, one of India's most prestigious institutions.He appeared in a packed juvenile court yesterday - with his face covered - and has been put in the care of a Juvenile Welfare Officer until he appears again tomorrow.The case has gripped India, a largely conservative country where anything more revealing than a wet sari is generally regarded as culturally unacceptable.More surprisingly, though, the scandal also appears to have provoked the interest of one of the world's most powerful women.Ms Rice is understood to have telephoned the US ambassador in India, David Mulford, about the case.The Bush administration's national security adviser and future secretary of state has let it be known she is furious at Mr Bajaj's humiliating treatment. He is, after all, a US citizen."The US embassy is following this case very closely. There is high-level interest in Washington regarding the case," an embassy statement issued over the weekend said.Mr Bajaj is currently locked up in Delhi's Tihar Jail, India's most infamous prison. He is sleeping on a floor with 70 other untried defendants.Last night Baazee.com said it was outraged by Mr Bajaj's arrest, not least because he had volunteered to fly to Delhi from Mumbai to help the police inquiry.The firm said it had taken the video off its site as soon as it became aware of it. Ebay Inc has also condemned the arrest as "outrageous", while India's powerful software industry lobby group has called for Mr Bajaj's immediate release."In such a situation, the arrest and detention of Mr Bajaj is uncalled for and not expected in a mature democracy like ours," the National Association of Software and Service Companies said.The case has even been debated in India's Lok Sabha, or lower house of parliament.The rightwing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - which ruled India until last year and takes a tough line on immorality, especially when it comes from abroad - has condemned the US "interference". America should not meddle in India's internal affairs, BJP MP Lakshman Singh said.Yesterday Delhi police officials defended their action.They were merely upholding a comparatively new law preventing the spread of pornographic material, they said. The boy was arrested on Sunday night following a week-long hunt. He had returned to Delhi from a pilgrimage to Nepal with his mother, they added."His arrest is key in this case of pornographic images being transmitted to many places. He is the one who started the process of such images being transmitted," Kamal Kant Vyas, additional deputy commissioner of police, told Reuters.The boy is expected to be charged under the Information Technology Act, passed in 2000, which deals with pornographic materials and their electronic transmission.The images were copied on video and put on Baazee.com for sale. Many people received them on their camera-enabled mobile phones, the deputy commissioner said.The circulation of the explicit images has sparked concern among parents and teachers about the increasing use of mobile camera phones by students in city schools across India.Few could have predicted a case like this, though. India is the world's fastest-growing market for mobile phones, with the current 45 million users expected to double in a year.The police also arrested an engineering student from a top college in eastern India last week, saying he had posted the video clip on Baazee.com.Yesterday Pawan Duggal, a supreme court lawyer and cyber law expert, told the Times of India that India's new IT law was "full of loopholes"."I have highlighted these loopholes several times and I believe the government is in the process of plugging them," he said.Though public transmission and sale of pornography is a crime, possession and viewing is not. Pornographic videos - often of dire quality - are available in most Indian cities, where there is a flourishing underground trade.
As mobile gaming sheds its cottage industry status and evolves into a major electronic entertainment market, so the big fish swim in to swallow the minnows. For the last few years it's all been about small developers dealing with local network operators and games aggregators. Now, suddenly, those studios are being bought up by large companies looking to gain an international presence.Last week, German mobile games publisherElkwarewas bought by US technology firmInfoSpacein a deal worth $26million. The same company also acquired UK developerIOMOat the beginning of December - about the same time as another US giant,Sorrent, was shelling out foranothertalented UK studioMacrospace. This process of consolidation will be familiar to veteran gamers who saw dozens of UK companies like Ocean, Bullfrog and Gremlin assimilated into larger corporations during the mid-nineties. It's natural, but is it good for mobile gaming?Some within the industry fear it'll spell the end of creativity, with European outfits put to work on either converting endless movie and TV licenses for their respective territories, or relentlessly spewing out sequels to successful brands. Bullfrog, for example, more or less died as a creative force after being acquired by EA in 1995 and put to work on sequels to hits such as Dungeon Keeper and Theme Park.The developers involved are quick to deny this however. John Chasey, MD of IOMO paints a positive picture of his company's purchase: "The deal means that IOMO can concentrate on developing the titles it has made its name with and has greater financial backing to do this as competition in the mobile sectors heats up. In addition, we will be able to take advantage of the distribution network that InfoSpace already has in the US."InfoSpace has also pioneered a form of massively multiplayer online gaming competition in partnership with mobile games services company, Atlus Mobile. The resulting 'For Prizes' series of games has attractedhundreds of thousands of gamersin the States who compete for cash prizes, by getting the highest scores on mobile games like Tetris and Boulder Dash. IOMO will now be able to include 'For Prizes' competition elements in its range of titles.John Ozimek, Head of Communications at UK developer Macrospace is similarly keen to stress the bonuses of consolidation. "If it's done for the right reasons these deals can only help creativity. We have to be realistic; in order to create great games and expand as an industry, proper funding is essential, and right now most of this capital is coming out of the US. Mobile is like a microcosm of the bigger games industry, and in the same way, Europe has fantastic line-up of small but talented developers and the US is much better at turning this into something that will sell a million copies!"And again, there's more to the deal than pure cash. From Macrospace, Sorrent gets a very highly respected developer with some innovative online multiplayer technologies and a strong distribution network in Europe and South East Asia. From Sorrent, Macrospace gets a range of new brands to play with including Fox Sports, Atari, and classic Bitmap Brothers series' like Speedball.Clearly, though, the importance of securing financial backing is a key element in the move for most of these developers. The mobile games industry is yet to produce a reliable revenue stream for smaller companies, so being bought out by a nice big corporation at least provides some security.So are there any other tasty European companies left for the taking? Well, there are rumours that EA may well be eyeing up its mobile game distribution partner, Digital Bridges, for possible buy-out at some later stage. DB has produced excellent mobile conversions of EA licenses like Tiger Woods PGA Tour and FIFA Football, and the two companies recently re-affirmed their close relationship in an enthusiasticpress release.John Chasey reckons there are plenty of other potential targets, too, especially with the increased globalisation of the industry: "Morpheme has always impressed with its creativity, and than there are people like Mr Goodliving, Distinctive Developments, CocoaSoft and Handy Games who continue to make great games. I think many of the deals in the coming year will be less about the games and more about the access to operators in emerging markets like China, Taiwan and South America."Indeed, just three days ago, Chinese new media company Tom Online bought an 80.6% stake in Indian mobile games outfit Indiagames for $17.73m – mostly to take advantage of the latter's global partnerships and distribution channels within mobile gaming.Globalisation. However you feel about it, it happens. Nothing stays local for long. I'm just interested to see how a global market takes to titles like IOMO's hilarious new beat-'em-up, Pub Fight, where you play an embattled publican defending his establishment against skins, goths and hippies. Will this mean anything outside of the UK? And if not, will itreallyhave a place in InfoSpace's release plans? We'll see.
In September 2001, a young Iranian journalist, Hossein Derakhshan, devised and set up one of the firstweblogsin his native language of Farsi.  In  response  to  a  request  from  a  reader,  he  created a simple how-to-blog guide in Farsi, thereby setting in motion a community's surreal flight into free speech; online commentaries that the leading Iranian author and blogger, Abbas Maroufi, calls our "messages in bottles, cast to the winds".With an estimated 75,000 blogs, Farsi is now the fourth most popular language for keeping online journals. A phenomenal figure given that in neighbouring countries such as Iraq there are less than 50 known bloggers.The  internet has opened a new virtual space for free speech in a country dubbed the "the biggest prison for journalists in the Middle East", by Reporters sans Frontieres (RSF). Through the anonymity and freedom that weblogs can provide, those who once lacked voices are at last speaking up and discussing issues that have never been aired in any other media in the Islamic world. Where else in Iran could someone dare write, as the blogger Faryadehmah did, "when these mullahs are dethroned ... it will be like the Berlin wall coming down ..."?In the last five years up to 100 media publications, including 41 daily newspapers, have been closed by Iran's hardline judiciary. Yet today, with tens of thousands of Iranian weblogs there is an alternative media that for the moment defies control and supervision of speech by authoritarian rule.      Even though the subject matter of many weblogs may seem tame by universal standards, most surpass the limitations imposed by state censorship. There is an endless variety of bloggers who are fans of everything fromHarry PottertoMarilyn Manson.Yet to find these digital depictions of youth culture superficial would be to forget that self-expression is a rare privilege in Iran. These commentaries vividly bear witness to a reality that Iranian youth are almost fixated with the culture they are being deprived of. They offer a glimpse of a society where, for some, David Beckham, lipstick and St Valentine's Day celebrations have become cherished symbols of freedom.Like an invisible conveyor belt running through the rejections of the ministry of culture, banned material eventually ends up on the internet. In Iranian blogsphere you can even download hand-typed abstracts from the Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie, who was the subject of a fatwa, or death order, issued by the late Ayatollah Khomeini.While for some blogging allows them to revel in the forbidden, for others it's a way of organising action and spreading the word. As RSF's 2004 Internet Under Surveillance report states: "Weblogs are much used at times of crisis, such as during the June 2003 student demonstrations, when they were the main source of news about the protests and helped the students to rally and organise".In the aftermath of last year's earthquake in Bam, with well over 20,000 deaths, the Iranian weblog community was totally immersed in the currents of a national disaster. Bloggers were busy through a variety of non-government organisations sorting out their own collections points and the transportation of aid; notifying their virtual community of the whereabouts of survivors relocated to hospitals in urban centres; organising hospital visits, charity sales and recruiting volunteers.In April 2003, when Sina Motallebi, a web-journalist, was imprisoned, Iran became the first government to take direct action against bloggers. Sina's arrest was only the beginning and many more bloggers and online journalists have been arrested since.  As RSF puts it: "In a country where the independent press has to fight for its survival on a daily basis, online publications and weblogs are the last media to fall into the authorities' clutches ... through arrests and intimidation, the Iranian authorities are now trying to spread terror among online journalists".Recent reports have also suggested that the authorities are seeking to implement a national intranet, which would separate Iran from the world wide web. But technological trends may be working in favour of free speech, as even China has not been able to fully contain the free flow of information.Paradoxes seem central to Iran, where a political ethos of education for the masses has forbidden all forms of free expression. It remains to be seen for how long a small group of ageing clerics can impose their designs of a radical state on a predominantly educated society where 70% of the population under 30 has no memory of the revolution.Iranian weblogs allow us to eavesdrop on the personal conversations of a closed society, providing a unique momentary glimpse into the inner struggles that a burgeoning young population face, the steady shift of an ideological state, and a revolution within the revolution. As the political satirist and star of Iranian blogsphere, Ebrahim Nabavi, puts it: "After 25 years fortunately we have exported our revolutionary ideas  to  the  whole world ... Europe, America and Asia ... but we have exported all of  it ... so there is none left at home ... but the leaders of our country  cannot  be  bothered to announce this to the world".&#183;N Alavi author of IranBlog was born in Iran. After attending university in the UK and working in the city of London and academia she returned to her birthplace working for an NGO for a number of years. Today she lives in the UK.
The great library of Alexandria, it is said, came to be one of the world's greatest stores of learning by requiring visitors to the city to hand over books in their possession to be copied. More than 2,200 years later, and the internet search engine Google is borrowing the trick: making digital copies of the contents of some of the world's great libraries, including the Bodleian in Oxford, the New York public library, and the universities of Michigan, Stanford and Harvard. Google last week announced that it plans to spend $150m to scan the collections and fashion them into a global resource.A further group of international libraries, including the mighty US Library of Congress, has also announced more modest plans for publicly available online archives, while other digital players, such as Microsoft, will be looking on with interest. When they are completed, these new digital libraries will be an astonishing feat. They open up the possibility that anyone with an internet connection, anywhere in the globe, can call up and search within each text to discover and use the fruits of the world's knowledge. The description of any book as "out of print" will no longer be relevant: in time any book will be available - on a screen as a hard copy reprint by one of the specialist firms now springing up.None of this will happen quickly: the dull, manual process of scanning each page means that it will be a decade before 15m books from the libraries in Google's partnership are online. Nor have all the technical issues been settled: "future-proofing" is tricky, as evidenced by the BBC's 1986 Domesday Project, a digitalised version of the great book set on laser discs: what was cutting edge in 1986 was unreadable by 2000. Digital preservation seems an unlikely heritage issue to raise at this stage, but otherwise the time and energy spent by Google and others may yet go to waste.
Ah the poor folks beholden to the Microsoft mogul. You've been taunted, and teased while the Sony-dominated world screams of GTA: San Andreas delights. Well, the carrot (or rocket launcher) that's been dangling before your eyes is about to get within grasping distance.IGN(viaJoystiq) has word that GTA: San Andreas is coming to a PC or Xbox near you next summer.Soon you too will be able to kick and punch and shoot and drive and discover and learn and be amazed by Rockstar North's incredible world. Bet the graphics will be better too. One recommendation from this PS2 player, though. Plan to take at leastat leasttwo weeks off. This baby isHUGE. Have you seen the size of thestrategy guide? There are 272 pages! I thought it was a phone book!No word yet on internet connectivity via PC or XBox Live.
We know that Intel is taking over HP's processor business -- including the Fort Collins design team -- but it's quite hard to figure out what it means. It's important because it was a co-operative deal between HP (which developed the PA-Risc architecture) and Intel that produced the next-generation Itanium family.The original idea was that everything would move to Itanium, which would replace both PA-Risc and Intel x86. Unfortunately, real customers don't like architectural changes, no matter what the fanboys say. Real customers mainly want the bodged-up old stuff, maybe a bit faster and cheaper but still compatible with their huge installed base. So Intel's chances of forcing them on to a new architecture pretty much vanished when AMD bodged up its 64-bit extended version of the decades-old x86, and Intel was obliged to follow.HP is still committed to Itanium, of course. AsComputer Business Reviewpoints out:HP's commitment to Itanium, regardless of all the naysayers, is precisely as strong as the unavoidable fact that its HP-UX, OpenVMS, and NonStop operating systems are only going to be available on Itanium chips in Integrity systems in the not-too-distant future. In early 2005, HP will roll out production versions of OpenVMS for Itanium, and later in the year it will follow with variants of the NonStop servers running on Itanium.In sum, HP needs Itanium to consolidate its own legacy of incompatible systems from HP, DEC and Tandem. How much Intel needs Itanium is another question. It could either follow the successful route of the DEC StrongARM chip, which turned into the Intel XScale, or the doomed route of the DEC Alpha.The one thing we know is that the next Itanium won't be the Tukwila version being developed by the former DEC Alpha team: it has been cancelled.The Inquirer has some interesting speculation by Charlie Demerjian onM++, Tukwila, Project Z et al, which concludes:One thing that Intel desperately needs to do, and donow, is to assure partners and customers. We hear that SGI is scared white right now, the purple colour drained from their cheeks. HP appears too busy plotting the next colour iPod by Apple to sell, but we assume at least a few people there are not ecstatic. Intel needs to show everyone with a stake in the IPF infrastructure that there is a plan, and a solid plan at that, beyond M++. There were two named projects beyond Tukwila on the roadmaps, Sot and SoT2, are they still there?If there is a confidence inspiring roadmap that makes the rounds over the next few days, we are ready to believe everything is well. But barring that, we fear the worst.
"A group of artists in Poland has taken the cacophony of blips, boops and beeps created as players bash buttons on Nintendo's handheld Game Boy console to a new level," reportsBBC News."The Gameboyzz Orchestra Project has taken the game sounds to put together music tunes they have dubbed 'blip-pop'."Think of it as Donkey Kong meets Norman Cook, or maybe Tetris takes on Kraftwerk."
Macworldis reporting a strange legal move by Apple:Apple is suing anonymous individuals who it accuses of leaking details to the Web of its unreleased products.The company filed suit in the Santa Clara County California Superior Court on December 13. Apple describes itself as a company driven by innovation. "The protection of our trade secrets is vital to our success".It's taken from aReutersreport, which says Apple is acting because "an unidentified individual, acting alone or in concert with others, has recently misappropriated and disseminated through Web sites confidential information about an unreleased Apple product."I know Apple are a secretive bunch (Apple, bunch - geddit?), but this is a step too far.Meanwhile there's another analysis of whether iPod could fully revive Apple in the Knight Ridderstable of papers. Despite running through the arguments fairly competently, it starts out questionably:With its hip new ads and even hipper marketing deal with rock band U2, the iPod has revived Apple Computer's image as a cutting-edge company.Who on earth would call U2 hip (apart from late 30s middle of the road rock fans... oh) - and surely Apple has retained its image as a cutting-edge company throughout most of its history... certainly since iMac. The iPod's different, though, because it brings Apple technology out of the computing arena and into the far wider electronics market.
A Rice University computer scientist and two of his students have discovered a potentially serious security flaw in the desktop search tool for personal computers that was recently distributed by Google," reports theNew York Times:"The glitch, which could permit an attacker to secretly search the contents of a personal computer via the Internet, is what computer scientists call a composition flaw - a security weakness that emerges when separate components interact."The program looks for traffic that appears to be going to Google.com and then inserts results from a user's hard disk for a particular search. They found that it was possible to trick the Google desktop search program into inserting those results into other Web pages where an attacker could read them."An attack would require a user to visit the attacker's Web site first, and any type of Web browser could make a user vulnerable. Google said there was no evidence that any such attacks had occurred. "For their part, Google said they had already been made aware of the problem and were distributing a repaired version.
The head of a popular Indian online auction site owned by the US giant eBay Inc has been arrested over the sale of a video showing a schoolgirl and boy involved in oral sex.Avnish Bajaj, the country manager of Baazee.com, was arrested on Friday after he was called in for questioning from Baazee's office in Bombay. He will be held in custody until December 24."He was arrested for allowing the sale of the video. He has been charged under the Indian Information Technology Act which prohibits transmission and sale of obscene data electronically," a police spokesman said.Baazee said the case was "baseless" as the company had taken the video, offered by a seller, off the site as soon as it became aware of it.If convicted, Mr Bajaj, a US citizen, could be jailed for up to five years or fined 100,000 rupees (&#163;1,170) or both.Last week police in Delhi arrested a student on suspicion of selling the video on Baazee. Newspapers have said about seven or eight people bought copies of the video using the site.A Baazee spokeswoman   said the company was shocked at the arrest. "We have been cooperating with Delhi police since they contacted us on Thursday. It is distressing that the police have chosen to misdirect their energies towards Bajaj and not to the thousands of small sellers in Delhi and other places where these and other clips are being sold."Public transmission and sale of pornography is a crime in tradition-bound India, but possession of porn and viewing it in private is not.  Reuters, New Delhi
The group, or sub-species, of men which women find most perplexing is 'modellers'. Adults who, rather than grappling with the niceties of the grown-up world - Pinot Noir, harmless flirting, growing shallots - have opted for the safety of the toy room. Plastic soldiers, train sets, balsawood boats. They are the large men who tackle life with the help of a magnifying glass and a small screwdriver. The fiddlier the better.The one area of the model-making universe I've always felt wistful about is remote-control cars. As a youngster I never got my hands on one; they were too expensive. And when, as an adult, I could afford one I couldn't be bothered with building one. But now, even dedicated hobbyists have accepted there's a market in toys for boys who can't wait. And so the advent of RTR - 'Ready to Run' - remote-control cars which can be unboxed and driven in less time than it takes Nicholas Soames to eat a cream bun.The remote-control car scene takes in everything from 60mph racing cars to obsessively accurate scaled-down rally cars, but the most exciting are the off-roaders. These are the ankle-height vehicles you've probably seen careening around your local park scaring dogs and denting Zimmer frames.The undisputed big daddy of off-roaders is the Savage 25, a 1/8th scale miniaturised monster truck - the most powerful RTR kit ever. The four-wheel drive minibeast has a 2.5bhp 4.1cc nitro engine, 7in shock absorbers, a rigid aluminium chassis, disc brakes, two gears and four multi-studded rubber wheels that wouldn't look out of place in an Ann Summers catalogue. The Savage is capable of doing 40mph, which when scaled-up means a top speed of more than 300mph.To finally satiate my childhood desires, I went to a muddy swamp in darkest Surrey. Dan Foulds, who owns the MaxBashing circuit and edits a magazine of the same name, explained to me that the course got its name because 'it was a place you could give your RC off-roader a maximum bashing'. Before I was let loose, however, a stuntman put the miniature monster through its paces. Barrel rolls, 15ft leaps, dirt spins... so precise was his handling that I began to think that the Savage wasn't a remote-controlled vehicle, after all and that there was actually a trained stunt rat at the wheel.My go next. The old toggle handsets have been replaced by a sort of handgun-shaped controller. The throttle is where the trigger should be and the steering is via a wheel mounted on the barrel of the gun. It takes a while to get used to the Savage's astonishing acceleration. And anyone who has trouble with their lefts and rights will struggle to keep the Savage out of the undergrowth. Or in my case a small river. Mercifully, the Savage seems indestructible, no matter how much abuse you throw at it, and soon I was doing 20ft leaps, big-air jumps, back somersaults and dirt-spewing end-over-end crashes. It was, as we modellers like to say, 'Bashing to the max.'&#183;The HPI Savage 25 costs £475 and is available from good toy stores
Anyone who sends an email or bids on eBay with a niggling fear about privacy may soon be able to relax. Programmers have made a major breakthrough in their quest for a totally secure computer network by turning to Star Trek-style physics that would bamboozle the sharpest hacker.Quantum cryptography is the ultimate example of small-is-beautiful technology: information is encoded at the subatomic level on individual photons, the smallest known units of light. They can then be sent on optical fibre networks from one computer to another. To snoop on such messages undetected, a hacker would have to defy the laws of quantum mechanics.'Any attempt by the hacker to read the message causes errors that show up. This results from a proven law of nature,' said Dr Andrew Shields, leader of Toshiba Research Europe's quantum information group.Previous experiments with quantum cryptography foundered because photons are so sensitive to fluctuations in the hardware that the tiniest change in temperature or movement of the fibre wrecked the process.But Toshiba Research Europe in Cambridge has devised a system that prevents fluctuations and keeps light particles flowing precisely. A recent trial sent information automatically and uninterruptedly for nearly a week.Toshiba predicts the technology will become commercial within three years, and is looking to begin further trials with financial organisations. Shields said: 'It means quantum cryptography can be used by anyone. The first users are likely to be in the financial and public service sectors. It might take a while before it is used by your home PC.'Quantum cryptography encodes each photon to represent a standard bit, 0 or 1, and these in combination form a secret key. In today's typical optical communication system, each bit is carried by a million photons, and an eavesdropper could split off some photons and determine the information they were carrying without being detected. But with the quantum technique the theft of a single photon is immediately apparent to the sender and receiver of the message.
The last quarter of 2004 saw the arrival of Halo 2, GTA: San Andreas and Half-Life 2. For gamers and their significant others, it's been a testing time trying to balance work, eating and sleep with the constantly beckoning nirvana of some of the most absorbing games ever made. Even aside from the big three, 2004 has been a watershed for sofa centurions.Halo 2Xbox, &#163;40 (Microsoft)Identified for its propensity to cause Halo 2 flu, which made large numbers of employees call in sick on launch day (that's November 11 for curious HR managers), none will have emerged disappointed. Forget the flickery textures and bask in the perfectly balanced fights - it's what Xbox Live was made for.Half-Life 2PC, &#163;40 (Vivendi)The PC's best first-person shooter returns with hype-affirming touches of brilliance. From the way virtually everything responds to the caress of   your Grav Gun to the multiple ways you can take on enemies, Half-Life 2 is a rocket-propelled charge through the most gloriously interactive scenery ever made.Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasPS2, &#163;40 (Rockstar)Words like "G" and "homie" have an endearingly quaint ring to them nowadays - not so in San Andreas' take on 1992 California, replete with hos, bitches and Flavor Flav quotes. Vast, sprawling and absurdly rich in detail, it's also very funny, although not suitable for the fragile minds of the very young.DisgaeaPS2, &#163;40 (KOEI)With its impenetrably bizarre sense of humour and endlessly deep strategic battles, Disgaea received nothing like the deluge of publicity associated with most games listed here, but the spectacular turn-based campaigns and Byzantine plotting needed to win made it a hit amongst those who know.FableXbox, &#163;40 (Microsoft)So the plot all happens in a massive rush in the last 90 minutes of   the game, but in Peter Molyneux's trademark flawed-genius style, this is undoubtedly one of the game experiences of the year. Lush, organic-looking environments, West Country accents and good/evil shenanigans to die for.Singstar and Singstar PartyPS2, &#163;40 (Sony)It's karaoke for your PlayStation 2, and this time you compete as well as sing duets selected from the cheesy favourites packaged in the game. Coming with two reasonably robust microphones, if you've got friends with whom you like getting drunk, this is pretty much the best &#163;40 you'll spend all year.Full Spectrum WarriorXbox, PC &#163;40 (THQ)A military simulation in which you never have to pull a trigger? Surely they jest. But what emerges is an utterly gripping recreation of tactical street-to-street warfare. Subtle, intense and surprisingly varied, the seamless environments and superb AI create truly memorable pretend butchery.Burnout3 PS2 &amp; Xbox, &#163;40 (Electronic Arts)Stripping away the nerdy current obsession with modifying cars until they look like rolling neon gin palaces, Burnout 3 is all about driving stupidly fast into a helter-skelter of lorries, junctions and oncoming traffic.Pikmin 2GameCube, &#163;40 (Nintendo)Pikmin are tiny plant creatures you lead, herd and throw at puzzles, enemies and the game's verdant garden environment in search of "treasures" - anything from old batteries to the discarded tops of ice cream tubs. Bigger than its predecessor and with a fulfilling two-player mode.
Online DVD rental clubs are sending out one film every second to letter boxes around the UK, and threaten to put video stores out of business.Thousands of people a week are becoming subscribers, and the phenomenon is spreading from film buffs to the mass market - with Tesco, Dixons, WH Smith, Channel 4, and Amazon launching versions.By the end of 2005, it is estimated the number of DVDs rented through the post will overtake the total number of DVDs and videos chosen from the shelves of Blockbuster's 740 high street stores.The companies pouring millions of pounds into grabbing a share of the nascent market believe it will also have an impact on pay TV movie services from Sky and cable operators. "We are the video on demand of today because our technology has 100% penetration - every home has a letterbox," said Mark Livingstone, chief executive ofLovefilm.com, the largest standalone service.Video Island, which operates some of the bigger services on behalf of brands including Tesco, MSN, and an imminent launch from ITV, has sent out more than 3m DVDs to its subscribers in the year to date. It estimates that already it has a 4% share of the total rental market, equivalent to around 80 high street stores.Its biggest rivals are Lovefilm.com, which launched in March and will have 100,000 subscribers by the end of January, and a version launched by Blockbuster as a defensive measure. Having been hurt by Netflix in the US, where the online challenger now has 2.4 million subscribers, the giant is determined not to get caught out again.Subscribers are lured by   never having to shell out fines for returning films late, and a selection of tens of thousands of movies and TV shows - from the latest blockbusters to art house classics - that surpasses anything which can be obtained by the inconvenience of a trip to their local store.The size of the potential market is driving cut-throat competition. According to Taylor Nelson Sofres research, almost seven in 10 homes have a DVD player, and almost 10 million adults rent at least one DVD a month. A report from Screen Digest estimated the DVD rental market to be worth &#163;376m by 2006. Released from the restrictions of shop shelves, customers are changing viewing habits, selecting widely from the 20,000-plus DVDs which a club typically offers. From the sublime, Citizen Kane, to the ridiculous, Madonna's turkey Shanghai Surprise, just about every DVD ever released is available.According to Video Island and Lovefilm.com, only one in five of the DVDs they send out is a latest release. A larger proportion are more than three years old; good news for the Hollywood studios that have few other outlets for their back catalogue. TV series such as the West Wing and 24, as well as comedies such as The Office and Phoenix Nights, are popular, with subscribers working through a series over a number of nights.The concept took off in the United States, where Netflix has established itself as the dominant player. Users pay a set subscription, typically &#163;8 to &#163;15 a month, to select online an unlimited number of DVDs and have them sent to them through the post.Discs are returned in a supplied pre-paid envelope, whereupon the next film on a subscriber's list is dispatched. Depending on the pricing model, you can rent between   one and five DVDs at a time. The attraction is that there is no time limit on sending them back.Online retail giant Amazon recently announced a service, offering subscribers one DVD at a time for &#163;7.99 per month. Tesco immediately hit back, lowering its cheapest offering to &#163;7.97 per month. And early next year Easyjet's founder, Stelios Haji-Ioannou, will launch a pay-as-you-go variant, charging &#163;1.99 per DVD under his EasyCinema brand.According to Saul Klein, chief executive of Video Island, cheaper prices will open up a wider market to those who typically rent one or two movies a month from a store. For Tesco, expanding into everything from personal finance to digital music downloads, the online rental keeps customers coming back to its website, with the hope that they might also shop for other goods and services."We've found there's a large family market who don't have time to go to a video shop with two kids in the back of the car and double park. This is a new idea, but they trust us to deliver," said John Paul O'Reilly, director of the non-food division atTesco.com.
The last quarter of 2004 saw the arrival of Halo 2, GTA: San Andreas and Half-Life 2. For gamers and their significant others, it's been a testing time trying to balance work, eating and sleep with the constantly beckoning nirvana of some of the most absorbing games ever made. Even aside from the big three, 2004 has been a watershed for sofa centurions.Halo 2Xbox, £40 (Microsoft)Identified for its propensity to cause Halo 2 flu, which made large numbers of employees call in sick on launch day (that's November 11 for curious HR managers), none will have emerged disappointed. Forget the flickery textures and bask in the perfectly balanced fights - it's what Xbox Live was made for.Half-life 2PC, £40 (Vivendi)The PC's best first-person shooter returns with hypeaffirming touches of brilliance. From the way virtually everything responds to the caress of Nick Gillett replays the best games of 2004 your Grav Gun to the multiple ways you can take on enemies, Half-Life 2 is a rocket-propelled charge through the most gloriously interactive scenery ever made.Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasPS2, £40 (Rockstar)Words like "G" and "homie" have an endearingly quaint ring to them nowadays - not so in San Andreas' take on 1992 California, replete with hos, bitches and Flavor Flav quotes. Vast, sprawling and absurdly rich in detail, it's also very funny, although not suitable for the fragile minds of the very young.DisgaeaPS2, £40 (KOEI)With its impenetrably bizarre sense of humour and endlessly deep strategic battles, Disgaea received nothing like the deluge of publicity associated with most games listed here, but the spectacular turn-based campaigns and Byzantine plotting needed to win made it a hit amongst those who know.FableXbox, £40 (Microsoft)So the plot all happens in a massive rush in the last 90 minutes of the game, but in Peter Molyneux's trademark flawed-genius style, this is undoubtedly one of the game experiences of the year. Lush, organiclooking environments, West Country accents and good/evil shenanigans to die for.Singstar And Singstar PartyPS2, £40 (Sony)It's karaoke for your PlayStation 2, and this time you compete as well as sing duets selected from the cheesy favourites packaged in the game. Coming with two reasonably robust microphones, if you've got friends with whom you like getting drunk, this is pretty much the best £40 you'll spend all year.Full Spectrum WarriorXbox, PC £40 (THQ)A military simulation in which you never have to pull a trigger? Surely they jest. But what emerges is an utterly gripping recreation of tactical street-to-street warfare. Subtle, intense and surprisingly varied, the seamless environments and superb AI create truly memorable pretend butchery.Burnout 3PS2 &amp; Xbox, £40 (Electronic Arts)Stripping away the nerdy current obsession with modifying cars until they look like rolling neon gin palaces, Burnout 3 is all about driving stupidly fast into a helter-skelter of lorries, junctions and oncoming traffic.Pikmin 2GameCube, £40 (Nintendo)Pikmin are tiny plant creatures you lead, herd and throw at puzzles, enemies and the game's verdant garden environment in search of "treasures" - anything from old batteries to the discarded tops of ice cream tubs. Bigger than its predecessor and with a fulfilling two-player mode.Worst game of 2004Driv3rPS2, Xbox &amp; PC, £40 (Atari)Driv3r should never have been released in the state it was - broken, glitchy, frustrating and unintentionally ridiculous, the series that made Reflections' reputation comes back round to smash it into small pieces.
