Rapper Psy's Gangnam Style video has now been watched more than 1.7bn times on YouTube, and his channel has more than 6m subscribers. But he's still not the king of Google's online video service.A 23 year-old Swedish gamer named Felix Kjellberg, whosePewDiePiechannel is devoted to "sharing gaming moments on YouTube with my bros", is currently the most-viewed channel on the service.According to online video siteTubefilter's latest Top 50 chart, PewDiePie generated just under 50m views in the week between 27 June and 3 July, putting it ahead of Turkish music videos channelMuyap(45.6m) and another games channel,Sky Does Minecraft(35.5m).Psy's 27.6m weekly views secure him fourth spot on the chart, with the likes of Samsung Mobile USA (25m), One Direction (22.3m), Arab Idol (21.6m) and Miley Cyrus (19.1m) following in his wake.It's PewDiePie's success that should startle the entertainment industries. Kjellberg added 349k new subscribers in the week covered by the latest chart, taking him to a total of 9.8m overall.He's likely to pass the 10m subscribers milestone sometime this month, and is catching up fast with comedy channelSmosh, whose 11.1m subscribers make it the most subscribed-to channel on YouTube.PewDiePie and SkyDoesMinecraft's popularity is also a reminder of the attention-grabbing growth of games channels on YouTube, with 1.9bn all-time views for the former and 892m for the latter at the time of writing. Both are part of larger "multi-channel networks" (MCNs) on YouTube: Maker Studios in PewDiePie's case and Machinima for SkyDoesMinecraft.MCNs are driving rapid growth for their stables of YouTubers, with subscriptions becoming an ever-more-important spur for views on the service. YouTube has made a number of changes in the last year to put more emphasis on channels and subscriptions rather than just individual videos.YouTube now attracts more than 1bn unique users a month, who watch more than 6bn hours of video – with 1m channel creators currently earning money from ads placed around their videos through the YouTube Partner Programme.Channels like PewDiePie are also appealing strongly to younger viewers, a group Google refers to as "Gen C" for their habits of "creation, curation, connection and community".In astudy published on its Think Insights websitein March 2013, Google claimed that Gen C is "twice as likely to be a YouTube viewer than the general population – and 40% more likely to be only a light TV viewer".The study also suggested that these viewers are increasingly watching on their mobile devices. "YouTube has the same reach with Gen C on smartphones as it does on desktop. In fact, 80% of Gen C with a smartphone watch YouTube."
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)The Last Of Us(18+)PS3 (100)42 (2)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)23 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (34)VITA (4)Wii (2)414 (3)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)45 (9)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)366 (7)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (46)PC (2)187 (8)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (34)Wii U (4)PC (1)338 (5)The Sims 3: Island Paradise (12+)PC (100)29 (6)Deadpool(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)210 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (47)PC (6)3211 (11)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (38)Wii U (7)1212 (14)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (34)VITA (15)Wii U (1)3213 (13)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (17)Wii (16)3DS (14)5214 (–)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (40)PC (9)1415 (16)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (31)PC (22)516 (–)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)917 (17)Grid 2(7+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (48)PC (2)618 (–)Project X Zone (12+)3DS (100)119 (15)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1520 (–)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)PS3 (31)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (18)DS (10)22UKIEGamesCharts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Shazam started life as a mobile service for identifying music playing in the real world, before moving into television and advertising, enabling TV viewers to "tag" what they were watching to get related information and offers.Now the UK-headquartered company is eyeing overseas expansion with a $40m (£26.9m) investment from Latin American mobile operator group America Movil. The two companies will be working together to raise awareness and usage of Shazam in the region.The investment follows a $32m funding round in June 2011 involving venture capital firms: Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, Institutional Venture Partners and DN Capital. Already popular then, Shazam's app has continued to spread since.Shazam has been used by more than 350m people since its launch in 2002, although its current reach is better reflected in its 70m monthly active users, who tag more than 10m songs, shows and ads a day. Shazam is currently adding more than 2m new users every week.Its executive chairman and former CEO Andrew Fisher says the new funding isn't a sign of Shazam running out of cash since the last round."The impetus for this round was that the business was growing so quickly: faster than it's ever grown before. But revenues are growing very quickly too, so a lot of this growth is being funded organically" Fisher told The Guardian."The opportunity here is the chance to have a much bigger presence in Latin America. America Movil is the largest wireless carrier in the region, so it's a great opportunity to fund the expansion and get preloaded on devices in that territory."America Movil has the potential to be a powerful springboard for Shazam's growth in Latin America. The company ended the first quarter of 2013 with 262.9m mobile subscribers in the region, while its chairman and chief executive Carlos Slim's wider business interests also make a neat match for Shazam."The Slim family own a number of properties including television services and advertising, and while the investment is being made by America Movil, not by Carlos Slim personally, part of this is about the business relationship," said Fisher.Media engagementShazam's expansion beyond music identification has been going on for some time now. It has settled on "media engagement company" as its preferred term for Shazam as a business, to reflect its burgeoning TV and advertising business."We define media engagement as the application of emerging technologies – audio recognition and image recognition – to let people engage with brands, whether that's music, TV shows or brand advertisements," said Fisher."We want Shazam to be part of people's everyday life: not just if they're passionate about music, but as the easiest way to engage with the brands and content around them."Fisher said that 54% of Shazam's users currently tag something on TV at least once a week. That's also helping the company's revenues grow at a rate of knots – something that may one day make its music business look like relatively slim pickings.For music, Shazam makes money on "affiliate" sales: a small cut every time one of its users buys a song that they've tagged from a store like Apple's iTunes.Shazam says it's currently generating $300m of digital content sales a year through such transactions, which makes it a significant middleman in the digital music industry, since that represented around 7.7% of all music download sales in 2012.But taking iTunes' 5% affiliate share as a guide, generating those $300m of annual music download sales may only be worth around $15m a year in revenues for Shazam.That's been reflected in the company's financial results. In Shazam's financial year ending 30 June 2012, its revenues grew 39.8% year-on-year to £21.8m, but its net loss increased from £619k to £3.3mThis is where TV comes in. Shazam has been used for more than 250 TV ad campaigns so far. "The minimum price is $75k, but most cost between $75k and $200k for a campaign that runs for a couple of months," Shazam's executive Vice President of marketing David Jonestold The Guardian earlier this year."Shazam for TV advertising is going to become our primary revenue stream very quickly, and that's the way we're going to grow to being a multi-billion dollar company," said Jones.Shazam's latest financial year ended on 30 June 2013, but the company has not published its results yet. While Fisher declined to give specific figures, he said that TV and advertising is already paying off handsomely for Shazam."Our year-on-year growth is in the multiples of hundreds of percent," he said. "As ad revenues and commerce revenues become far more important for us, the growth is significant, and that's really what America Movil is investing in."Andrew Fisher and his replacement as CEO, Rich RileyOverseas fundingFisher stepped down as Shazam's chief executive in April 2012to be replaced by former Yahoo executive Rich Riley, partly in order to focus on the new funding round.Fisher thinks that Shazam's ability to raise $72m so far from overseas investors should serve as inspiration for other mobile technology startups in the UK."We were the first ICT investment in Europe for Kleiner Perkins, and this is Carlos Slim's first investment in Europe in the digital space," he said."It's a global marketplace. If you've got a strong enough business and people see it's performing, that removes the barriers. UK companies should really think about the global opportunities for raising finance, which as this round shows, doesn't necessarily have to come in dollars, pounds or Euros."One more thing: that mention of "image recognition" by Fisher is intriguing, given that Shazam's current app is focused on audio recognition. Is the company planning to diversify further, and let people tag advertising using their smartphone cameras? Is Shazam getting into augmented reality?"We've been paying a lot of attention to emerging technologies such as image recognition, and looking at consumer adoption of those technologies," said Fisher."We still feel it's very premature to have really broad-based services used at scale that work with images, but we are ready in terms of thinking through what the possibilities could be."Fisher suggested that Shazam's success so far has been partly due to its ability to "keep our discipline" by not introducing too many features that might be confusing for its users."At the moment, users are not looking for image recognition, but that's not to say this won't change in the future. You've got Google Goggles, Amazon and other big corporations entering that space trying to execute with very large databases of content," said Fisher."It's a hard business to make work, and so far we haven't seen the need to introduce image recognition as part of our service. But ultimately, that kind of technology fits with our aspirations for the company, so as image starts to mature as a category in the future, it's something that we'll reevaluate."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamImmersion: a people-centric view of your email life &gt;&gt; MITOnce you log in, Immersion will use only the From, To, Cc and Timestamp fields of the emails in the account you are signing in with. It will not access the subject or the body content of any of your emails.Upon logging out of Immersion, you will be presented with a choice to save or delete your data, which contains your compressed email metadata and user profile.See your world the way the NSA sees it.Murray wins Wimbledon &gt;&gt; Twitter UKIn a Wimbledon championship that played out on Twitter, it was fitting that tennis fans from across the globe came together on the platform to celebrate Murray's success. At the point of his victory, eight of the UK's 10 trending topics were Wimbledon-related.Over the last 12 hours alone, the Wimbledon final has been mentioned more than 3.4m times on Twitter. The peak in mentions of the match came at its climax at 17.25 BST with 120,000 Tweets per minute. That outstripped the 116,000 Tweets per minute that happened during the Spice Girls' performance at last summer's Olympics, a moment that saw the largest spike in Tweets per minute of the London 2012 Games.Facebook advertisement studies: Their ads are more like TV ads than Google ads. - Slate MagazineSo, the question persists: How does Facebook expect to become a huge business if most people you know never click on ads?The answer is surprisingly obvious. It's a fact well-known to advertisers, though it's not always appreciated by people who use Facebook or even by folks in the Web ad business: Clicks don't matter. Whether you know it or not—even if you consider yourself skeptical of marketing—the ads you see on Facebook are working. Sponsored messages in your feed are changing your behavior—they're getting you and your friends to buy certain products instead of others, and that's happening despite the fact that you're not clicking, and even if you think you're ignoring the ads.This isn't conjecture. It's science. It's based on a remarkable set of in-depth studies that Facebook has conducted to show whether and how its users respond to ads on the site. The studies demonstrate that Facebook ads influence purchases and that clicks don't matter.Google paid AdBlock Plus to get its ads whitelisted &gt;&gt; Hacker News(The original article is from a German website, and linked in the piece.) The first comment is from RyanGaz:I was thinking about this further, and while it comes off as fairly irrelevant to start with, it's actually an extremely bad thing.In essence, this has set up two tiers of advertising: those we have paid for white list privileges, and those who haven't. This is heavily in Google's interests as they are the only advertiser powerful enough to get by with only text adverts - nobody else has a platform like Google search where text only adverts are enough to overcome costs and provide viability.By using Adblock Plus as a weapon against non-Google adverts, Google is removing the ability for other players to compete on level footing. It's very similar to the idea of paying AT&amp;T for prioritization for Google traffic, and it destroys a lot of the foundations that the web is built on. It definitely crosses into 'evil' territory for me, in the same way as paying AT&amp;T to slow down access to Bing would be.While [AdBlock] is just an add on, it's a bad precedent to set.Microsoft quietly shuts down MSN TV, once known as WebTV &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher:Microsoft said that its MSN TV service will be closing down at the end of September, in a post on its website and in an email to users.MSN TV, of course, was born of WebTV, which was thought up by well-known entrepreneur Steve Perlman. The software giant bought it at the height of the Web 1.0 boom in mid-1997, paying $503m.The service, which included a dedicated hardware device attached to a television, went through a number of iterations over the years, including being rebranded as MSN TV in 2001. Some of its technology went into the Xbox, but — in general — its recent history was one of dwindling users.Google Reader: what happens to my data? &gt;&gt; GoogleFrequently-asked questionsQ: What will happen to my Google Reader data?All Google Reader subscription data (eg. lists of people that you follow, items you have starred, notes you have created, etc.) will be systematically deleted from Google servers. You can download a copy of your Google Reader data via Google Takeout until 12PM PST July 15, 2013.Q: Will there be any way to retrieve my subscription data from Google in the future?No -- all subscription data will be permanently, and irrevocably deleted. Google will not be able to recover any Google Reader subscription data for any user after July 15, 2013.You've got a week.The topography of Tweets &gt;&gt; Twitter BlogSimon Rogers:The mountain ranges you see here are not natural geography but the landscape of Tweets — billions of them, visualized across cities. The peaks represent the places most Tweets are sent from, the troughs the fewest. Explore New York closely and you can pick out the Brooklyn and the Queensboro bridge — even the Staten Island ferry.Hugely cool.Microsoft SST program not attracting brand vendors &gt;&gt; DigitimesMicrosoft's Small Screen Touch (SST) program, which offers Windows licensing discounts on touchscreen devices with a display size of 11.6in or below, is struggling to attract notebook brand vendors to develop Windows-based tablets, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.So far, Acer's 8.1in Iconia W3 is the only tablet in the retail channel that has been subsidized by the SST program, but its unfriendly price of NT$14,000 (US$467) is still creating difficulties for the device to attract consumer demand.The Iconia price is subsidised? Ye gods.Bing Audio, Windows Phone's built-in music matching service, rolls out to 14 new countries &gt;&gt; Official Windows Phone BlogMichael Stroh:I was watching an old episode of Breaking Bad the other day when they played this soulful tune I couldn't quite place. I just knew I loved it and wanted to hear it again. So I pulled out my phone and fired up Bing Audio, the built-in feature for identifying any artist, song, or album that's playing around you.Boom. Moments later my phone had the answer: The track was "Didn't I," from some semi-obscure '70s-era musician named Darondo. He's now the star of my music collection.Bing Audio is one of those Windows Phone features that, once you know it's there, you find yourself using all the time.Sounds just like Shazam, which is already available on Windows Phone. Interesting strategy.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
How was your weekend? Did you watch the tennis then?
The death of Doug Engelbart (Obituary, 4 July) brought back memories of joining Rank Xerox in 1988 as a fresh computer science graduate, working on systems directly derived from his work. Xerox had early commercial networked systems with desktop environments that had word processors and mice. The department I joined in Welwyn Garden City was focused on adapting these system to a European and global market. His pioneering work meant that even my first XDE hack as a Mesa developer, the BWSMagnifier, spawned a utility that was replicated across diverse, alternative Windows systems. I was honoured to have worked with such visionary material. While I was there I glimpsed (and worked on) the future, a future in which Engelbart was a principal architect.Guy RobinsonTilehurst, Berkshire
Price £18,895MPG 47.9Top speed 143mphMy youngest daughter came home from school on Friday with news that her friend's little sister had been born. "She's calledElise, because her dad loves sports cars," she explained. I&nbsp;didn't have Elise's dad down as a Lotus man, but as his choice was either Elise, Exige or Evora, I'd say he's definitely picked the best of the line-up. My son then chipped in that his friend Enzo was named after Ferrari, which got me thinking about other "bonkers monikers" that must be out there. Is there a&nbsp;VW Sharan in your office? Ever met an Aston Martin? Do you know Su Baru? (Stop, that's enough.) Of course, it's usually the other way round, with cars being named after people. I wonder what Ettore Bugatti, Louis Chevrolet, Walter Chrysler, André-Gustave Citroën, Henry Ford, Soichiro Honda, Ferruccio Lamborghini and Ferdinand Porsche would make of the fact that their names are now global brands?This week I am driving a car that carries the family name of Armand Peugeot, the French industrialist who died shortly after the outbreak of the First World War. Peugeot (the brand), of which 25.2% is still family owned, now employs more than 200,000 people – six of whom are Peugeots. A&nbsp;couple of years ago I met one of the fortunate six – Xavier Peugeot. He runs the firm's museum in Sochaux, and I&nbsp;am sure he'll be one of the first to get his hands on the clan's newest member – the208 GTi.The family firm already has a&nbsp;bit of a&nbsp;reputation when it comes to hot hatches (which sounds like birdspotter slang for this week's sexiest chicks). Mention the 208's predecessor – the&nbsp;205 GTi – to anyone who started their driving career in the mid-80s and a&nbsp;reverential look will come over their face. Thirty years later that 205 GTi is still lauded as one of the greats of budget performance motoring. Then there followed hot versions of the 206 and 207, but their impact was lukewarm at best. So the question many of us, and Xavier too, are now asking is: will the 208 GTi restore Peugeot's hot-hatch mojo?Inside story: the sporty cockpit. Photograph: ObserverThe heart of big-thrills, small-car motoring is, obviously, the engine – and this 208 is blessed with an excitable 1.6-litre turbocharged unit that produces an amazing 200bhp. It'll whip you from a standstill to 62mph in 6.8 seconds with the sort of zip usually enjoyed by trick waterskiers. So admired is this powerplant that it has just picked up the 2013 award for International Engine of the Year. For the more academic of the piston-fancying community, that's the big one – the Oscars of internal combustion.Unleash this award-winning beauty on the road and an appreciative smile will creep across your chops. It's quick, eager and zealous. On the corners, it feels grounded and stable. It gets the bends. But one of its real bonuses is that it's not just a&nbsp;party animal. Drive it in a more sedate fashion and you'll find it is comfortable and surprisingly refined. In country-music parlance, it's a&nbsp;sinner on a Saturday night, a&nbsp;saint on a Sunday morning…From the outside, the 208 is a feast of curves, where the 205 was box-cornered. But don't think it's gone too la-di-da – there's still plenty to appeal to your lairy side: 17in alloys, red calliper brakes and chromed twin exhausts. The word Peugeot glints in red lettering from under the bonnet, and the lower edge of the grille is an&nbsp;angry metallic red – squint at it and it looks like it's got a thick lip.Inside, red stitching romps across the sports seats and picks out the edges of the dash and door trims. The steering wheel is tiny yet somehow still manages to obscure the instruments. Who cares, you'll only have eyes for that endless grey ribbon.Overall it feels and drives like a&nbsp;well-considered, well-made premium product that Peugeot (and I expect Xavier and his cousins) will feel very proud of.Saddle upSitting pretty: Brooks's first ever non-leather saddle. Photograph: ObserverBrooks, the world leader in making beautiful leather bikes saddles, has just launched the Cambium C17, its first ever not be made from leather. The Cambium is made from a uniquely flexible natural rubber and organic cotton top, enhanced by a thin layer of structural textile for added resilience. This vulcanized waterproof top, which follows the rider's movements, is immediately comfortable, maintenance-free, and highly abrasion-resistant to offer the longevity for which Brooks is legendary. The maintenance-free, waterproof top is designed to follow the rider's movements to deliver immediate comfort and ease of use, while the new construction of Cambium Saddles works like a hammock and delivers comfort while absorbing vibration and shock, performance traditionally found only with natural leather saddles. It costs £125 and is available frombrooksengland.com/cambium.Who is the safest driver on the road?We all love to hate white-van man and research fromAvivareveals that they are at the top of the list of roadusers who really grind our gears. The WVM is followed closely by the elderly and hard on their tails is the school-run mum. But is there any truth in these stereotypes? To find out Aviva set up a challenge to discover who really is the safest on the road. They found three challengers – a white-van man, a granny and school-run mum – and put them to the test by F1 legend Johnny Herbert before setting off to do 200 miles of driving with theAviva Drive app. And the results were a bit of a surprise: the white-van man is in fact the safest on the road, scoring 9.2 out of 10 on the test – well above the national average of 7. To see how these driver stereotypes fared visit:facebook.com/AvivaUK.Wilton Classic SupercarsLord Pembroke with his 1956 Jaguar D Type which he drove in this year's Le Mans. The car is taken from a selection of  high performance supercars to be featured at this year's Wilton Classic and Supercars with Castrol EDGE, which takes place on Sunday August 4 in the grounds of Wilton House, Salisbury. Photograph: PAIf you like grand houses and beautiful cars, this event at Wilton House on the outskirts of Salisbury makes a wonderful day out. Now in its fifth year, the 2013 showcase on 4 August will boast more than £5m of historic metal. Co-founded by Lord Pembroke (above) and Jay Broom, the day is sponsored byCastrol EDGE. Some of the cars at this year's show include the Aston Martin DB5 that starred in Skyfall, a 1956 Jaguar D Type, a Bugatti Veyron, aLamborghini Aventador roadster and the latest Bentley GT V8. As well as this there will be 100 Astons representing 100 years of Aston Martin. These will be joining hundreds of other cars and an expected 10,000 visitors can admire them while strolling round the grounds of Wilton House. All this and plenty of entertainment, air displays, food outlets and trade stands as well as a spectacular adventure playground for the kids when they get bored of looking at cars. What's not to like? It's a great day out. For more information on the schedule, ticket prices and how to get there, go towiltonclassicandsupercars.co.uk.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
The government of Iceland does not have the necessary skills to manage its own currency. It should ditch the Icelandic krona and adoptBitcoin, a nascent virtual currencythat so far looks like the preserve of speculators, internet geeks, money launderers and illicit online gamblers.That was the incendiary view being championed by an angel investor called Sveinn Valfells last week, as investors, computer programmers and users of the online currency gathered at Canary Wharf to attend theBitcoin Londonconference. Despite the unorthodoxy of Valfells' points, he was actually making his argument from a position of some kind of strength in that he is a) Icelandic, and b) comes from a family with a history of running unofficial currencies."My grandfather co-founded a construction company in 1947 called Steypustodin – "the ready-mix factory" – and my father and his cousins were running the company in the 1970s and 1980s, a time of double-digit, and then triple-digit, inflation," he said. "In Iceland, people liked to build their own houses at the time, but they couldn't put the money they were saving to build their homes into the bank, because it disappeared. Somebody had the idea to buy certificates in building materials in advance, and those certificates were denominated in cubic metres of concrete."It became very popular on payday, and our company would issue the certificates. One day the company got a call from the inland revenue asking if we had issued these vouchers. We confirmed it, but asked why they wanted to know. The official said somebody was trying to use the vouchers to pay his taxes."That the Icelandic revenue eventually accepted the vouchers shows, Valfells argued, that there are moments in history when people are keen to try out innovative alternative currencies.This fascinating view was aired during a week in which the Bitcoin currency started to attract more mainstream publicity, with support from a pair of high- profile backers.Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the former Olympic rowing twins who famouslyalleged that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg stole their website idea, revealedplans to float an investment fund based on the digital currency. Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust would, they said, initially sell $20m of shares, with each share worth a fraction of a Bitcoin. The shares are aimed at investors looking for a "cost-effective and convenient means to gain exposure to Bitcoins", according to a filing with US regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission.The twins' move comes after plenty ofpeople have made (and lost) virtual Bitcoin fortunesin an extremely volatile market. The value of a Bitcoin at the start of 2013 was $13; it rose to a peak of $266 in April before slipping back to below $80 last week.City sources say major financial institutions have started hiring researchers to analyse the market, the theory being that if the price rises above $400, Bitcoins will have become valuable enough for them to plough money into. Others, however, feel that will create an even bigger bubble, and potentially undermine the embryo of a decent idea.Professor Jon Rushman, of Warwick Business School, says: "It is not going to help Bitcoin's quest for respectability to have associations with such thoroughbred vulture capitalists [as the Winklevoss twins]. The less people think of Bitcoin as a 'get rich quick' investment, the better its chances of survival. It needs publicity for its qualities as a neutral and universally accessible currency with a transparent exchange rate and immunity from central bank manipulation."Certainly, Bitcoin's future as a serious currency was of more interest to the techies at last Tuesday's conference, albeit as part of a series of presentations that made the whole scheme feel like it is still an academic debating point. So what is the fuss about?Bitcoinsare a form of electronic money that was created by an unknown developer (or developers) in 2008 as a peer-to-peer currency, traded through online exchanges. They are not managed or traded by any company or government, and their release is tightly controlled by software running a set of algorithms. You can currently spend them only with niche merchants online, but there are obvious potential benefits in using Bitcoins for international transactions. Supporters also argue that they're a safer solution for online shopping, being cheaper and less open to fraud than credit cards.But if you asked delegates at last week's conference why you might want to use Bitcoins instead of pounds, euros or dollars, the only convincing reason they can provide is that the anonymity the currency provides makes it easier to launder money, buy illegal drugs, and consume hardcore porn (or indulge in a combination of all three)."They are very nerdy products," said Michael Jackson, a former chief operating officer of internet communications firm Skype and now a partner at Mangrove Capital Partners. "It is difficult to do this stuff unless you have a degree in computer science. That's no good. We have not seen anything interesting [to invest in involving Bitcoin]."Jackson's views were largely echoed by other technology investors at the conference. Stefan Glänzer, who co-founded online auction site Ricardo and, more  recently, Passion Capital, admitted he had yet to buy his first Bitcoin.Had attending the Bitcoin conference persuaded him to make a purchase? "First, I have to understand exactly what you have to do before you buy one."Taavet Hinrikus, another former Skype executive and the founder of online currency exchange Transferwise (which does not deal in Bitcoin) was more positive. "For the average person, there is no reason to have a Bitcoin," he said. "But most people tend to moan about their experience of the payments industry: if this brings about change, that would be awesome. Bitcoin may not survive, but it could be like [early online music service] Napster in that it highlights problems, then something else comes along. In music, now we have Spotify."So maybe Valfells is right and there will be serious virtual currencies operating in the future. And maybe one of them will be Bitcoin. Or maybe not. After all,  those 1980s concrete certificates are not as popular as they once were.
Over the past two weeks, I have lost count of the number of officials and government ministers who, when challenged about internet surveillance by GCHQ and the NSA, try to reassure their citizens by saying that the spooks are "only" collecting metadata, not "content". Only two conclusions are possible from this: either the relevant spokespersons are unbelievably dumb or they are displaying a breathtaking contempt for their citizenry.In a way, it doesn't matter which conclusion one draws. The fact is that,as I argued two weeks ago, the metadata is what the spooks want for the simple reason that it's machine-readable and therefore searchable. It's what makes comprehensive internet-scale surveillance possible.Why hasn't there been greater public outrage about the cynicism of the "just metadata" mantra?One explanation is that most people imagine that metadata isn't really very revealing and so they're not unduly bothered by what NSA and its overseas franchises are doing. If that is indeed what they believe, then my humble suggestion is that they think again.We already knowhow detailed an account of an individual's daily lifecan be constructed from metadata extracted from a mobile phone. What people may not realise is how informative the metadata extracted from their email logs can be.In an attempt to illustrate this, MIT researcher Ethan Zuckerman published anextraordinary blog postlast Wednesday. Entitled "Me and my metadata", it explains what happened when two of his students wrote a program to analyse his Gmail account and create from the metadata therein a visualisation of his social network (and of his private life), which he then publishes and discusses in detail. En passant, it's worth saying that this is a remarkably public-spirited thing to do; not many researchers would have Zuckerman's courage."The largest node in the graph, the person I exchange the most email with, is my wife, Rachel," he writes. "I find this reassuring, but [the researchers] have told me that people's romantic partners are rarely their largest node. Because I travel a lot, Rachel and I have a heavily email-dependent relationship, but many people's romantic relationships are conducted mostly face to face and don't show up clearly in metadata. But the prominence of Rachel in the graph is, for me, a reminder that one of the reasons we might be concerned about metadata is that it shows strong relationships, whether those relationships are widely known or are secret."There's lots more in this vein. The graph reveals different intensities in his communications with various students, for example, which might reflect their different communication preferences (maybe they prefer face-to-face talks rather than email), or it might indicate that some are getting more supervisory attention than others. And so on. "My point here," Zuckerman writes, "isn't to elucidate all the peculiarities of my social network (indeed, analysing these diagrams is a bit like analysing your dreams – fascinating to you, but off-putting to everyone else). It's to make the case that this metadata paints a very revealing portrait of oneself."Spot on. Now do a personal thought-experiment: add toyouremail metadata the data from your mobile phone and finally your clickstream – the log of every website you've visited, ever – all of which are available to the spooks without a warrant. And then ask yourself whether you're still unconcerned about GCHQ or the NSA or anyone else (for examplethe French Interior Ministry, when you're on vacation) scooping up "just" your metadata. Even though – naturally – you've nothing to hide. Not even the fact that you sometimes visit, er, sports websites at work? Or that you have a lot of email traffic with someone who doesn't appear to be either a co-worker or a family member?How have we stumbled into this Orwellian nightmare? One reason is the naivete/ignorance of legislators who swallowed the spooks' line that metadata-hoovering was just an updating of older powers to access logs of (analogue) telephone calls. Another is that our political masters didn't appreciate the capability of digital computing and communications technology. A third is that democratic governments everywhere were so spooked by 9/11 that they were easy meat for bureaucratic empire-builders in the security establishment.But the most important reason is that all this was set up in secret with inadequate legislative oversight that was further emasculated bylying and deceptionon the part of spooks and their bosses. And, as any farmer knows, strange things grow in the dark.Gmail users can see their metadata links athttps://immersion.media.mit.edu/
Marvel Comics' Deadpool is an insane assassin who likes to talk directly to his readers. He's essentially immortal, thinks about breasts a lot and kills people with a fantastic array of overpowered weaponry. If this kind of wilful irreverence doesn't interest you, turn back now. I've barely scratched the surface. For those who do enjoy the odd tumble into profoundly immature postmodernism, well, sadly, it's not all good news for you either. Chuckles are to be had at the game's impressive commitment to self-referential madness, and the gags tumble with anAirplane!-like consistency that helps maintain interest for a while.There is no long-term cover-up for bland, button-mashing gameplay and stunningly awkward third-person camera controls, however. Add on to this some inexplicably poor visuals and a horrible difficulty curve late in the game and what you're left with is the sense of an opportunity wasted. This is one for diehard fans only.
With two days left of his summer holidays, imaginative Jeremiah Hazelnut dreams of magical powers and fanciful adventures, while exploring the strange woods near his home. When a mysterious letter instructs him to perform a spell, a talking anthropomorphic rabbit named the Marquis is summoned and Jerry is swept up in a dimension-hopping quest. It's not all twee, childhood whimsy though. As the story progresses, an unsettling darkness falls across the themes being explored, adding a level of narrative maturity players might not expect. An assortment of mini-games bolsters the engrossing main story and the fully voiced cast delight. Slightly jerky animation is the only downside of this otherwise beautiful game. A highlight of the point-and-click scene.
The Company of Heroes franchise has been dormant for years, developers Relic Entertainment instead supervising theWarhammeruniverse. Now under Sega's umbrella, this eagerly awaited strategy sequel tasks players with defending the Soviet Union from Nazi invasion.Newcomers wanting to experience the campaign or versus modes will be stymied, however, as no tutorial is offered along the way. Instead, a separate "Tactics" section teaches the subtleties of troop movements, weapon effects and other gameplay mechanics. It's frustrating but necessary gatekeeping, as the game's battles are so intricate that unprepared players would otherwise be overwhelmed.Soldier on and the game delivers a fantastic experience, benefiting from a welcome departure from over-familiar second world war settings such as Normandy or Pearl Harbor, but it is best suited to the strategy game battle-hardened.
A long time ago, in a galaxy, well, very, very close, Bioware released an RPG that shaped much of what was to follow in the genre. Ten years later and Aspyr has broughtStar Wars: Knights of the Old Republic(£6.99, App Store) to the iPad – and what's remarkable is how little has changed and what a great thing that is.Set thousands of years before the original trilogy,KOTORputs you in control of a republican soldier who is soon swept up in the battle between Sith and Jedi, traversing familiar locales and making ethical decisions that will shape the destiny of your character.All 30-plus hours of the game are intact, the visuals, while slightly dated, still look good and it all runs perfectly on the iPad. The controls could do with a bit of polish, but it's still a superb game and really shows off the capabilites of Apple's tablet.
I am on a bad run at the moment. The reason I went into famous international motoring journalism was that I thought I'd be cruising around north-west London in glamorous Italian supercars that end with an i. The only car that ends with an i I've driven recently is a Mitsufriggingbishi. Oh, and a Mini. Otherwise it's been Vauxhalls and Toyotas, Peugeots and Kias. And now this, a Seat. How am I going to get passionate about a&nbsp;Seat León? How am I going to get passionate prose out of a Seat Leon?Actually, I do like it. This – the third generation León – is smaller than its predecessor: shorter, lower and lighter, though admittedly a&nbsp;little bit wider. Cars almost always grow from one generation to the next, though streets and supermarket car park spaces don't. The country's roads are clogging up like a smoker's arteries. So it's refreshing to have a&nbsp;car that bucks the trend. Cleverly – and because they've lengthened the wheelbase, even though overall it's shorter – there's just as much room inside as before.It's built on the same platform as, and shares engines with, a VW Golf. Yet it costs about 10% less than its German first cousin. Is it 10% less desirable? I don't think so. The new León has a crisp sharpness about it, with a scooped-out waist and fashionable creases along its flanks. It's at least as handsome as a Golf.Inside, it's smart and functional, rather than plush. There are plenty of places to put things such as coffees and sunglasses, it has a fancy touch screen for controlling the radio, etc, and the satnav is understandable even by my satnaphobic girlfriend. That's not a sexist thing, it's a fact thing: she's crap at satnavs. All automobile companies should employ her – for enormous fees, obviously – as a benchmark for satnav comprehension: if she can do it, anyone can. For the record, she's excellent at lots of other car-related things, such as parking and driving.The León's crisp looks are reflected&nbsp;in the way it drives. (Jesus,&nbsp;did I&nbsp;actually write that? I&nbsp;do&nbsp;apologise.) What I'm saying is&nbsp;it's a&nbsp;firm, engaging ride. There is&nbsp;a&nbsp;sportier model, with a&nbsp;punchier 181bhp diesel engine. This one has the 104bhp 1.6-litre diesel, which is&nbsp;gutsy enough. And impressive, when you consider that it emits less than 100g of CO2 per kilometre, so your tax disc is free and you don't have to pay to drive into central London. Boris – already cross that there's a car named after Trotsky – will be even crosser. Possibly.A very able car, then, and likable, if not quite a passion wagon. And next week I'll be in something a&nbsp;bit more, well, me. It doesn't end in an i, but it does cost very nearly £100,000. Watch this space.Seat Leon S 1.6 TDI CR 105PSPrice£13,370Top speed119mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.7 secondsCombined fuel economy (manufacturer's figure)74.3mpgCO2emissions99g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating6/10
In 1945, the french artist Jean Debuffet coined the term Art Brut to describe works produced outside of the mainstream cultural establishment.  He celebrated art that was non-conformist, raw and unprocessed, produced by isolated individuals untethered by the fine art tradition. "Those works created from solitude and from pure and authentic creative impulses – where the worries of competition, acclaim and social promotion do not interfere – are, because of these very facts, more precious than the productions of professionals," he wrote.Something like that is happening in games right now – it sort of has been for years, but thanks to digital distribution and a broadening interest in 'indie games', we're finding out much more about the proponents. And I think Michael Brough, a native of New Zealand now based in Scotland, is a really interesting example; an outsider artist working in game development.I first heard about him last year. I wasinterviewinggame designersAdam SaltsmanandBennett Foddyat the GameCity festival and they were praising his work. "One of the things that's exciting to me is that there's just been a wave of solo or pairs of developers who have been working really fast and making things quickly," said Foddy. "Adam's one of the pioneers of this. Well, I should say re-pioneering as this used to be the model back in the early eighties. You would have very small teams with a very clear vision, who would crank out games very fast. They weren't always the games with the most content and frequently they had flaws, but they had a crystal clear vision - that's what I really love about games. I think about people like Michael Brough, who's really been churning them out this year - his games are incredible and every single one of them is different and personal…"Go tohis websiteand there are dozens of games; some that he's still making, some that are finished and wonderful (Zaga-33,Glitch Tank), some that are strange halting experiments. The visuals are raw, the sounds discordant; these are menageries of stuttering sprites and strange effects. When I meet him showing his latest title Helix at the Rezzed event, I ask him why he's always working on multiple projects; is this a considered approach? "That's not exactly my intent," he laughs. "But if I get an idea and I'm motivated to work on it, I may as well use that motivation as a resource to get something done. Sometimes that means an old thing I was hoping to get finished hangs on for a long time, but overall it seems to work out okay."With his long beard and softly spoken, slightly reticent manner, he resembles the archetypal games coder of the early years – the Atari engineer, the 8bit home computer programmer. But he is engaging and funny, and charmingly self-deprecating. When I ask about his approach to design, and indeed whether it's possible to have a single method given the variety of his output, he smiles and shrugs.  "I've got into a comfortable groove where I copy over the previous project and delete the game-specific stuff and move on from there," he says. "I have this somewhat broken, messy, C++ engine that I've been gradually accumulating rather than intentionally writing!"But like other indie coders - the likes of Adam Saltsman andTerry Cavanagh– who value prototyping and experimentation, he sees in this disorder, the possibility of emergent features. "Sometimes I get ideas from things going wrong," he explains. "Corrypt was inspired by a bug that kept coming up. There's something about writing your own code rather than using an engine - there's more space for things to go wrong in interesting ways."Brough started making games as a kid in New Zealand, but with little in the way of a local development scene, it didn't seem like a plausible career. As a child, when he told his parents he wanted to design games for a living, they didn't take him seriously. "It wasn't something that people you know actually did," he says.So he went to University and studied maths and computer science, planning to maybe get a job in programming and do a little games writing on the side. Meanwhile, in Europe and the US, an indie community was emerging; Brough discovered the British studioIntroversion, whose breakthrough 2005 title Darwinia alerted him to the possibility of actually making games as a living. But yet even as commercial endeavours his games are challengingly idiosyncratic and often obtuse; he flits between genres, subverting and toying with familiar tropes. "I'm all over the place," he says, when I ask about what inspires him. "Sometimes I'll play a game I like a bit, but there's something I don't like - and I'll think, okay, I could do that better. Sometimes it's just mechanical experimentation without real direction; sometimes I have a feeling that I'm trying to get across… I don't have a particular process."But I think he does, really. Or at least, there is something in games that he loves. I think it is the grace of systems. The other game developers he admires,Stephen Lavelle, Terry Cavanagh,Alan Hazelden- they all make titles that toy with the mechanics and conventions of game design. I put that too him.  "It's the concept of elegance… " he says. "Mathematicians have a particular aesthetic which we call elegance that is slightly different from the artist's perception of elegance. It's difficult to articulate how it's different, but it affects Stephen Lavelle's work and mine. I like complexity coming from simple rules that you can observe, deduce and make hypotheses from about what the rules may be. Stephen, Terry and Alan are all from a maths background - we have that in common."Terry Cavanagh, of course, made last year's most astonishing iOS title, Super Hexagon, a frantic escape sim, with super simple controls, a stripped down visual style and pumping soundtrack. And I think Brough is working on this 2013's equivalent. Helix, is a top-down viewed arena shooter – but with no shooting. Players guide their craft around the screen attempting to encircle enemy ships in order to destroy them. Although the graphics say 80s retro shooter, the perfectly tuned touch controls are pure 21st century UI brilliance. It is exciting, compelling and addictive; and like Super Hexagon, a total high score machine. It could be, it should be, a major success – I'd love to see it on Vita as well as iPad.And like Super Hexagon, there are clever complexities going on under the hood; score multipliers, little visual indications… but Brough is guarded about it – especially when I ask for his help during a quick demo. "I don't know how much to say," he laughs. "It's good to figure it out yourself. Mostly I just tell people, touch to move, and dodge things. There are other rules, but… yeah, it's good to figure out yourself."Just a few yards away from Brough on the Rezzed show floor, there'sJacob Waldemar Buczynskishowing his bizarre Gilliam-esque adventure, Revenge of the Sunfish 2 – another developer working alone on the periphery of the industry, with a singular vision of games and game rules. Elsewhere are Lavelle and Hazelden and Jonatan Söderström, andthe Twine developers, people working on projects that defy conventions, and that probe at what games are. They are the Art Brut of the games industry. "When you have one person working on all aspects, something very personal comes across," says Brough. "Even if it's not exactly telling a story about something that happened in your life…"And away from the seeming chaos of his working style, there is something I love about Brough's games; a purity, a belief in the central core. Like Foddy put it, it's about games with a singular purpose, beside which other considerations pale. The obsessive polish of mainstream games is an irrelevance here. Good games,greatgames, can be about one idea, followed through to perfect execution."When I was 17 I made a lot of sprawling adventures that never got finished," says Brough. "I was very much into Rogue-like games, and a lot of Rogue-like developers fall into this trap of thinking, 'Let's do everything that Nethack or Ancient Domains of Mystery did and add our cool ideas on top' – I fell into that trap as well, and didn't get anything out of it."So I've made a few Rogue-like games recently - Zaga-33, 868-Hack… I strip away a lot of stuff that other games have done to just focus in on the idea. I think if you have a cool new idea that adds complexity and you're bringing that to a genre that has a lot of complexity already, you'll have too much."You always have to subtract from somewhere."
Shares in Samsung Electronics fell on Friday, despite the company forecasting it would report a record quarterly profit for the second quarter of 9.5tn won (£5.5bn), up 47% on a year ago.But the news fell short of analysts' expectations and the shares fell by nearly 4% on the Seoul stock market.The company was preparing to announce 20m shipments of its new Galaxy S4 phone, two months after its release but analysts are increasingly concerned that Samsung, like its principal smartphone rival Apple, is facing saturated markets in the developed world as ownership passes 50% in many countries.Average smartphone ownership in the US and Europe is heading towards 60%, leaving few new buyers to expand the business at the high end. Mobile network operators are also cutting subsidies for phones, making high-end phones more expensive.South Korean networks cut subsidies for new phones this year, contributing to weaker Galaxy S4 sales in Samsung's home market and higher marketing spending for the handset maker, said Seo Won-seok, an analyst at Korea Investment &amp; Securities.China is the fastest growth area in smartphones, but at low prices with highly competitive markets. Samsung has been releasing cut-down versions of the S4 to try to protect its market share from rivals such as ZTE and Huawei.The saturation at the top end of the market seemed to be reflected in Samsung's Galaxy S4 figures. Though shipments of the S4 in the first month after release were twice as high as for last year's Galaxy S3, the time it took to reach the 20m mark suggested shipments were slowing to a rise of only 60%.The company still dominates the smartphone and "featurephone" business, shipping about half of all smartphones and a quarter of all mobile phones worldwide. It is the biggest seller of phones running Google's Android software, taking about 95% of all profits in the Android space.Samsung said total sales in its electronics division had grown 20% to 57tn won (£33.2bn). It will announce its full audited quarterly results this month.Analysts suggested that high marketing costs – which exceeded those for research and development for the first time in three years – may have hit the profit figure, despite the strong first-month sales."Because of the marketing costs, the telecommunications business was probably weaker than expected," said CW Chung, an analyst at Nomura Financial Investment in Seoul. "Semiconductor and other businesses seem to have improved from the previous quarter."Analysts cut their figures last month for the total numbers of S4 phones Samsung will ship this year from 80m to 60m."Apple is suffering from iPhone fatigue, while Samsung is suffering from Galaxy fatigue," Neil Mawston, executive director of Strategy Analytics, told Bloomberg before the financial announcement.Samsung is increasingly reliant on its mobile business for growth. Samsung's division making and selling mobile phones, tablet computers and cameras contributed 75% of its operating income in the first quarter of this year. Analysts surveyed by FactSet said 60% of Samsung's second-quarter sales probably came from the mobile business.
A friend’s mother’s boyfriend has a mobile that is so old it doesn’t take photographs. Another friend has an answering machine - a free-standing one, you know, such as we used to have - which she persists in using even though all outward signs are that it is unfit for the modern age. A woman on the underground the other day was listening to a Walkman. Someone else I know finds it impossible to chuck out her video recorder because because that would necessarily open the possibility that she must also throw out the video footage of her son growing up (not to mention his Thomas the Tank Engine videos).There are countless examples of people holding on to outdated technology for any number of reasons, from sentimental through financial to a plain determination to outfox the future by showing that the old stuff still works.Are you seeing yourself in any of these descriptions? Are you proudly (or perhaps secretly) holding on to something which technological advances have left behind, but which you just can’t bring yourself to relinquish? Please tell us all about it below, and send in a picture if you can of the bit of kit in question. We will follow up with an article gathering together the best stories.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Could you please advise me of any privacy software that would most closely match Webroot's Window Washer — now discontinued, sadly — in its aims and effectiveness? If possible, is there something that protects one's IP address, too?EBAlthough there are a few commercial programs that are similar to Webroot's Window Washer —Privacy Guardian($19.99) andEvidence Eliminatorspring to mind — a free program does the job perfectly well: CCleaner.Piriform'sCCleaner(crap cleaner) removes temporary files, history files, cookies, logs, auto-complete entries and other detritus from browsers and many other common programs. (The list can be expanded withCCEnhancer.) It also includes a Windows Registry cleaner. For best results, I'd run it immediately after a re-boot, with no other programs running. In your case, however, you might want to run it after you finish computing for the day.As I've mentioned several times before, download CCleaner from the Piriform site, and do not follow any scam links from adverts on Google. Also, when installing CCleaner, remember to untick the offers to "Install Google Chrome as my default browser" and "Also include Google Toolbar for Internet Explorer" or whatever. I appreciate that companies make money from free software by bundling "foistware" but it should always be provided on an "opt in" basis.Both Window Washer and CCleaner provide ways of removing files that other people might see, and they recover hard drive space from browser caches. (Google Chrome can easily consume a gigabyte.) But I tend to take the line that (a) nobody else should have access to your account; and (b) if you don't want your PC to store files that might be a privacy risk, don't keep them in the first place. For example, browsers already include a feature that says something like (in IE's case) "Empty Temporary Internet Files folder when browser is closed". In IE, go to Internet Options, click the Advanced tab, and scroll down to the Security section to enable it.It's not unusual for family members to share PCs, but they should use their own separate accounts. This also means you can give them standard accounts instead of administrator accounts, which greatly limits the amount of damage they can do. This is particularly important if some users are children."Switch user" is one of the options on the menu that lets you log off Windows, tell the PC to sleep or restart etc. It's reasonably quick to switch between users if they are already logged on.Multiple users obviously share a PCs programs and files, but things stored in user directories are private."Porn modes" and sandboxingOne problem for programs like Window Washer is that browsers now have privacy features that work even when different people are using the same Windows user account. In Microsoft's Internet Explorer, the feature is called InPrivate browsing, in Chrome it's Incognito mode, and in Firefox, Private Browsing. In these modes, the browser limits the information it stores in memory, and it dumps the data when you close the private browsing tab or window.The private browsing feature is often known as "porn mode" but it's something that most people should find useful. It's a good idea to use it when researching topics that most people would want to keep private: for medical and some financial searches, for example. It's also the best mode to use on openly shared workspace or cybercafe PCs.Another way to protect your privacy is to run programs inside their own virtual "sandbox" where they won't affect the rest of the operating system. This also helps protect you from malware.Sandboxieis the best known free program for Windows, and I first mentioned it in Ask Jack in2008. It is free for personal use, cheap to register, and commercial licenses are available.I'm not aware of any good free alternatives to Sandboxie.When you've finished browsing with a web browser (or another program) inside Sandboxie, everything is thrown away. The next step up from that is to throw away the whole operating system environment. This is most commonly done using a Linux Live CD, or by running a version of Linux from a USB thumb drive. This is a good way to browse the web using someone else's PC without leaving a record. (The Enterprise version of Windows 8 also runs well from a thumb drive usingWindows To Go.)Anonymous web surfingNote that none of the above will do much to protect your privacy while you are online. To do that, please see my answer from December 2012:How can I protect my privacy online?That answer included some information on hiding your IP (Internet Protocol) address, which is a frequently asked question.As you know, everything on the internet has an internet address, which is written as a group of four numbers. The Guardian, for example, is at77.91.249.30. Lots of different websites will tell you your IP address, such asWhat Is My IP?.If you have a broadband internet connection, your IP address is likely to stay the same over long periods, and websites can use it (along with cookies and so on) to identify and track you. One solution to this problem is to connect to a different IP address before you connect to any websites. This intermediate address is called a proxy. If you connect via an anonymous proxy, websites will think you are coming from that address, not your real IP address.In effect, the proxy also changes your apparent location. For example, if you use a US-based proxy server, websites will think you are in the USA.Several website list free proxy servers for those who know how to use them, such asProxy4free. However, most people are best advised to use an anonymous web-surfing site, or an encrypted "virtual private network" (VPN) service. This not only protects your privacy from websites, it also protects your privacy from your internet service provider (ISP) and any related government snooping.Of course, VPN providers can still see what you are doing, and it is in their interests to protect themselves if you do things that are illegal or against their terms of service, eg spamming.Free anonymous services tend to limit users to activities that don't require a lot of bandwidth. Web-surfing is OK. Watching videos and downloading large files may be limited or blocked. I often use services such asAnonyMouseandUS Web Proxy. (Tunlris an alternative way of getting round regional blocking: it's a free service that works by changing your DNS settings. It enables users to watch services such as Hulu outside the US, or use BBC iPlayer inside the US.)VPNsIf you want a full service, then you should subscribe to a VPN such asWiTopia,Hide My Ass!,GhostPathorVyprVPN. Again, for more details, see my earlier answerUsing a VPN to protect your web use.It makes sense to subscribe to a VPN if you travel a lot and therefore use Wi-Fi in hotels and public spaces. It's even more advisable if you perform high-value transactions that involve trading or banking.If you are unwilling or unable to pay, some VPN providers also offer free ad-supported services, such as AnchorFree'sHotSpot Shieldand Optimal'sWi-Fi Protector.If you need more security and privacy than a VPN provides, there'sTOR, The Onion Router. This was "originally developed with the US Navy in mind, for the primary purpose of protecting government communications". Today, it is used by people who need to put privacy first, including dissidents, whistle-blowers, activists, journalists, police and some military personnel. However, it's relatively slow and, for most ordinary users, not a general-purpose solution for internet privacy.
Barack Obama: "Nobody is listening to your telephone calls"Theresa May: "It is not snooping. It is absolutely not government wanting to read everybody's emails – we will not be looking at every webpage everybody has looked at."Theresa May: "This is purely about the who, when and where made these communications."==Cast of CharactersWinston Churchill: The prime minister of the United KingdomAlan Turing: A cryptographerTheresa May: Alan Turing's line managerCryptographers: VariousMilitary Policemen (MPs): VariousSceneHut 6, Bletchley ParkTime1944SettingA  long, prefab "hut" in which various men and women labour over noisy machines. Churchill, May and Turing are stood in a corner, stage right, conversing. Cryptographers sit at their desks, pretending not to listen in.Churchill:What news then? How goes the effort to break the Nazi ciphers?(May and Turing exchange a complicated look. May's hands flutter at her sides.)May:I'm sorry, prime minister, the news isn't good.(May swallows audibly. Churchill glares at her)May:Mr Turing and his colleagues have laboured hard with every hour that God has sent, but try as they might, they can extract nothing of use from the Enigma cipher.Churchill:(roaring) Nothing? All these years, all this work, and you havenothing?May:Well, not preciselynothing, prime minister. The lads have got far enough that they are able to extract "meta-data," but I stress again that this is of no strategic import and would in no way help us to compromise the foe.Churchill:Meta-data? Tell me more of this meta-data? Is it a Greek word?(May turns to Turing, who wipes his palms on his trousers)Turing:Technically Greek, prime minister. It is our own coinage, a neologism. You know boffins and their neologisms.Churchill:Indeed.Turing:It's quite simple, really. We call the contents of scrambled radio intercepts – that is, the words of the messages themselves – "data."Churchill:Go on.Turing:Meta-data, then, is the data about the data.May:But nothing that could be used to compromise Jerry, I'm sorry to report.(Turing tries to hide a scowl. He is unsuccessful)Turing:Quite. All we can tell with this analysis is who is speaking, what equipment they use to speak, whom else they speak to, who the messages are addressed to, the subject of discussion, the places where all parties are when conducting discussion, which equipment they use to communicate …Churchill:Is that all?Turing:Eh? Oh, erm, also we know how often they communicate, at what length they communicate, and where they go and what they do next.Cryptographer:(calling out from his desk) Also who all their friends are, and how they know them.May:But nothing compromising.Turing:(through gritted teeth) Quite.Churchill:Mrs May, would you mind stepping outside for a moment?(As May is escorted out by a pair of burly MPs, Churchill, Turing and the Cryptographers huddle together excitedly)Churchill:(muffled, from within the scrum) Nothingcompromising!
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox Consoles News: Xbox One is "built for advertising", but Microsoft will "protect the user from any sort of abuse" - Xbox 360 | The Official MagazineUh-oh...Xbox One is designed with adverts in mind, a number of Microsoft staff have told Stick Twiddlers in an interview - advertisers may take advantage of Kinect's facial recognition features to serve up user-tailored offers while you're watching TV shows or playing games. That said, the manufacturer is "very keen" to avoid abusing the trust of its customers.Microsoft launched an experimental interactive "Nuads" campaign late last year, allowing advertisers to present users with polls during playback of relevant content. The program has proven a considerable success. Marketing materials for advertising opportunities on Xbox tout the capacity to "transform passive TV advertising into something interactive, immersive, and actionable, redefining the relationship between consumers and brands with amazing new advertising opportunities". According to Stick Twiddlers, ads that are actually built into content itself achieve 52% more clicks than those displayed on the front-end.It's likely this will be confined to the front-end, video playback, or used very sparingly in specific titles. I don't think we'll see adverts for your favourite takeway popping up in the middle of a Call of Duty session.Taking Away Video Games Does Not Necessarily Improve Children's Activity Levels | MNTThis, sadly, is not quite the endorsement of 'lounging around playing games' that it first appears:A unique study published in the online journal BMJ Open has researchers taking electronic games away from children and evaluating the impact on physical activity.The findings suggested that children got enough moderate or vigorous physical activity (MVPA) fromphysicalvideo games using Move and Kinect as they did from playing outside. 'Sedentary' video games are still pretty useless for exercise and should be closely controlled by parents. Booo.New study finds no link between violent games and anti-social behaviour | GameSpotAh, this is better:A newly-released study examining the relationship between video games and behaviour has found no link between violent content and anti-social actions.The report, conducted at the University of Queensland, found that administering a pro-social test after allowing subjects to play either a violent or non-violent video game yielded no decrease in desire to help unprompted in a social test.Hey wait, why wasn't this on the front page of the Metro and Daily Mail?!Survey finds average UK gamer is 35, male, plays for almost 3 hours a day | VG247Gamer social networking site Pixwoo has polled 2,000 UK residents to determine the country's average gamer demographic. According to the results, you're all 35-year-old men.Hey, I guess that makes me an above average gamer!The results suggest that the average UK gamer is a 35-year-old married man, with yearly income of £23,000 and who plays games for 2.5 hours five days a week, each week. I'm presuming none of these people have kids.Pixwoo's poll also found that both males and females spend the same time playing games and that the average gamer also owns two consoles or more, around 18 titles and takes around a month to complete each game. I'm presuming they're either rubbish at games, or all 18 titles are from the Disgaea series.New Fez XBLA Patch Finally on the Way | IGNFez creator Phil Fish was refusing to patch his wonderful platfrm puzzler due to the extremely high cost of implementing post-release changes on XBLA titles. Now, Microsoft has dropped those fees."Good news everyone: We're going to patch FEZ on XBLA!" Fish revealed today via Twitter.There's no timeline on the patch; Fish followed up his post by qualifying, "It's going to take a few months, though. But we're doing it!"The Weblog Why one woman is joining a female-protagonist game jam | IndieGames.comThis July, I'm hosting a game jam centred exclusively around strong, female lead characters through a group I've started callediamgamer. The idea is simple: games for all, by all.People keep asking why I'm doing this jam, and while there are a million obvious answers, it seems the real question is why the industry is still this way. How have we not overcome this? Why do I need to do this jam? So I started looking inside and what I discovered surprised and scared me: deeper, personal issues that I have not confessed to anyone (even myself) until just now.Another interesting piece on inclusivity, representation and equality in gaming.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Privacy watchdogs in the UK, Germany and Italy have told Google to rewrite its privacy policy in Europe or face legal sanctions, 15 months after the search giant unilaterally altered them to unify data collection.The move follows similar complaints to the US company last month from the equivalent organisations in France and Spain, and ratchets up the attention over its handling of the huge amounts of personal data that it collects from users every day.Google has already been censured in Europe over its collection of Wi-Fi data, including usernames, passwords and web page viewing while collecting photos for its Street View system. Both European privacy authorities andUS legislatorshave demanded clarification from the company about the data protection implications of its Google Glass head-mounted system, which can take pictures and video without onlookers knowing. It has also been implicated in a data-sharing row over the NSA's Prism program, which has collected information from a number of US companies including Google, Microsoft and Apple.Now the Information Commissioner's Office in the UKsaysthat the new privacy policy, introduced in March 2012, raises "serious questions" about compliance with the UK Data Protection Act, and has given Google until 20 September to recast it.Meanwhile, the head of the powerful equivalent in Hamburg, Professor Johannes Caspar,announcedthat he will call Google into a legal hearing because the new policy "violates the company's commitment to full transparency about the use and handling of the data".France and Spain wrote similar letters to the company in June, with France's CNIL threatening fines if it did not comply.Google said in a statement: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the authorities involved throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward."But a spokesperson did not explain how its policy could simultaneously respect European law and be the target of censure from five European privacy authorities.Nick Pickles, director of privacy campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "This is the latest confirmation that consumers are being kept in the dark about what data on us Google collects and how that data is used."Google ignored concerns its policy broke the law and put its profit before the legal rights of British citizens."The main issue is that sanctions must be strong enough to make Google take real action, rather than the previous meagre penalties that are seen as a cost of doing business. Regulators around the world must act to ensure concrete steps are taken to uphold peoples rights and stop Google routinely trampling on our privacy."Google said in January 2012 that it would rewrite its privacy policies to unite them across its disparate sites such as YouTube, Maps, Shopping, Mail and Search so that people's data use would be unified. Despite warnings from the CNIL and others that the change might not be lawful, it implemented the change in March 2012.On Thursday, the ICO said: "we believe that the updated policy does not provide sufficient information to enable UK users of Google's services to understand how their data will be used across all of the company's products. Google must now amend their privacy policy to make it more informative for individual service users."If Google fails to comply, the ICO says it will be considered in contempt of court. It could then issue an enforcement notice through the courts. In an extreme case it could issue a £500,000 fine – though a spokesperson said it would need to show individuals had been harmed by the policy.The ICO defended the 15 months it had taken to determine that Google's policy does not comply with privacy laws: "It's not just about examining what is and isn't in the privacy policy itself. It's also about examining what the products and services actually do with the data."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUnofficial: Samsung GS4 unit sales hit 20 million, press release due to come out soon &gt;&gt; Android BeatStefan Constantinescu:The Korean website iNews24 is reporting that Samsung will soon be holding a press conference to announce that GS4 unit sales have surpassed 20m unit sales. Considering that the device started shipping in late April, that would mean it's taken roughly two months to hit this milestone. For the sake of comparison, it took the GS3 100 days to hit the same figure.Ipredicted that Samsung would announce 20 million GS4 sales in mid-June. That didn't happen. Then I thought they'd announce the 20m sales figures on their event in London on June 20th, but that didn't happen either.When the GS4 hit 10 million units sold, it was at a growth rate of 2x the GS3. With this new figure, it's more like 1.6x, which is still impressive, but not as impressive as analysts are expecting.See alsoThe Next Web reporton the same topic for more figures.9 Mind-Blowing Canvas Demos &gt;&gt; David WalshThe /canvas/ element has been a revelation for the visual experts among our ranks.  Canvas provides the means for incredible and efficient animations with the added bonus of no Flash; these developers can flash their awesome JavaScript skills instead.  Here are nine unbelievable canvas demos that will make your jaw drop!Unless you're using a smartphone, in which case results may vary.Falcon Pro updates to v2.0.4 outside of the Play Store, now supports a way to blatantly skirt Twitter's token limit &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe saga continues:updates will now launch through the website getfalcon.pro, starting with v2.0.4. Also in the post was a hint about an "experiment" that would allow users who haven't acquired a valid token to still use the app with all of their accounts. A short time later, instructions to unlock the new feature were posted by Fernando González. As one might expect, the workaround allows users to create their own API key with Twitter and insert it into Falcon Pro. If you find yourself limited by the notorious token count, update your copy of the app and follow these steps:...which shows that Twitter's process to let anyone be a developer might get screwed too. This probably won't be viable for anyone involved - Twitter, Falcon Pro, or users. Someone's going to lose out, and it's Twitter which controls the API.In smartphones and tablets, multicore is not necessarily the way to go &gt;&gt; SmartbearThescalability that worked well in the PC(mostly) and better in the server market doesn&amp;#8217;t work so great in a smartphone, because the nature of the development environment is completely different animal.This was originally pointed out in awhite paper(PDF) by ST-Ericsson, which notes that on the PC multicore never really caught on for a variety of reasons, and they apply even less on the smartphone.The reason why software developers don't parallelize their code, wrote the paper's authors, is that "For most of the PC applications it is simply not necessary or not economical to do so, with the exception of some niche markets for which performance is a compelling differentiating feature, such as for some multimedia applications, CAD and some specific professional areas."…"Two cores make sense, four is experimental, eight is loony," said Cameron Laird, vice president of boutique Web consultancy Phase It and frequent author on HTML5 development (including several articles here at SmartBear). He expects that smartphones will eventually be able to utilize two cores.Doug Engelbart, visionary &gt;&gt; I, CringelyTo most people who recognize his name Doug Engelbart was the inventor of the computer mouse but he was much, much more than that. In addition to the mouse and the accompanying chord keyboard, Doug invented computer time sharing, network computing, graphical computing, the graphical user interface and (with apologies to Ted Nelson) hypertext links. And he invented all these things — if by inventing we mean envisioning how they would work and work together to create the computing environments we know today — while driving to work one day in 1950.Doug had a vision of modern computing back in the day when many computers were still mechanical and user interfaces did not even exist. He saw in a flash not only the way we do things today but also the long list of tasks that had to be completed to get from there to here. Now that's vision.Links to lots of great video. (Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)Apple of discord &gt;&gt; SecurelistNadezhda Demidova:cybercriminals are aiming to steal Apple ID data which provides access to users' personal information stored in iCloud (e.g., photographs, contacts, documents, email, etc.) as well as to the purchases made in the company's iTunes Store. Many malicious users go further and try to the steal bank card details used to pay for those purchases.The scammers make use of phishing sites that imitate the official apple.com site. Since the beginning of 2012 until the present time this has resulted in a significant increase in the number of web antivirus detections triggered by users of our products attempting to visit such sites. During that period we have seen on average around 200,000 detections per day. By contrast, in 2011 the figure stood at around 1,000 detections per day.The opening of iTunes Stores in 52 countries including Russia led to a colossal spike - 939,000 detections per day.Spain telecoms regulator sees more pain for operators in 2013 &gt;&gt; ReutersMobile is set for another tough year, with Orange, Yoigo (owned by TeliaSonera) and virtual operators, which rent network capacity from established operators, catching up with market leaders Telefonica and Vodafone who are losing clients.Mobile revenue dropped 16% in 2012 to 9.5bn euros as consumers cut spending, switched to cheaper deals or ditched their mobiles altogether. Last year was the first time that the number of cellphone lines in Spain shrank, dropping by 1.9m connections.Internet-based instant messaging services like WhatsApp, which are free after a small initial payment, are proving even more of a challenge for operators this year, Lorenzo said, as clients shun more expensive text messages.It's quite shocking if the number of mobile connections fell. No clue whether that's people dumping a second (business?) mobile, or their primary mobile. One suspects the former, but more data welcomed.Acer Iconia W3 review &gt;&gt; PC ProBarry Collins:Microsoft distributed thousands of Iconia W3s to developers at its recent Build conference to showcase Windows 8.1's compact tablet credentials. If the Iconia W3 is the best it can do, it really is time to reach for the white flag.The Iconia is a lumpen slab of cheap-feeling plastic and glass. At 500g, it's significantly heavier than all of the compact tablets in this month's Lab, bar the ruggedised Panasonic Toughpad JT-B1. It's larger than all of them, too, thanks to a needlessly thick bezel and an extra plastic lip at the bottom, used to house the Windows button.All that could have been forgiven – perhaps – if the screen was scintillating, but it's far from it. The 800 x 1,280 display has that old-school, mottled touchscreen effect that makes it look as if it's been sprayed with a fine mist. Colours are washed out, largely because the screen doesn't span the entire SRGB gamut, although the maximum brightness of 329cd/m2 is acceptable.Yours for £330 for the basic 64GB model with an 8.1in screen. (The equivalent spec iPad mini is £429, 1024x768, weighing 308g. But would you need a 64GB iPad as you might a Windows device?)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Much-trumpeted plans to introduce superfast broadband to rural areas will be delivered nearly two years late, with taxpayers footing a greater proportion of the £1.2bn bill, the government's official auditors have said.Fewer than a quarter of the projects will be ready by May 2015, the expected delivery date, and the scheme will cost the public purse an extra £207m, according to a report from the National Audit Office.The governmenthas already announcedthat superfast broadband will reach 95% of the population by 2017, two years after the original date for reaching that target.Just nine out of 44 local projects are expected to reach the original target of 2015, according to the report, with the delay partly attributed to the EU state aid process taking six months longer than expected.Auditors also said competition among suppliers had been limited, leaving BT as the only active participant. It is expected to win all 44 local projects.The worst affected areas include Merseyside, Oxfordshire and Derbyshire, which are among those councils that have yet to sign a contract with BT. Residents in these areas have no idea when their broadband will be upgraded.The findings will make uncomfortable reading for David Cameron, who in 2011 announced the latest stage of the scheme and said it would be "absolutely vital in driving the creation of the small businesses and growing businesses that will be so important to keep the growth of employment in our country".Helen Goodman, the shadow media minister, said many in the countryside were being left without access to the internet at a time when the government was shifting essential services online."We are not a 'one nation' country with this digital divide, and that divide is being deepened by [the culture secretary] Maria Miller," she said.The report has been seized upon by Tory opponents of the HS2 rail scheme as proof that the government has got its priorities wrong. The former cabinet minister Cheryl Gillan said: "This is disappointing and an example of how putting more resources into this type of operation would yield more immediate benefits to the wider economy rather than spending money on HS2."Superfast broadband will be accessible to nearly two-thirds of the UK by next spring. Government support is needed to supply the final third in difficult-to-reach areas where telecoms operators will struggle to make a profit on their investment.Significantly, the auditors said the government had "secured only limited transparency" over the costs in BT's bids. For reasons of commercial confidentiality, BT has told councils they cannot share information with each other to ensure they are getting a fair deal. Last yeara whistleblower was dismissedby Broadband Delivery UK, the national broadband funding programme, after drawing up a spreadsheet to help councils share information.His research suggested big disparities between contracts, and auditors have now confirmed this. Their checks showed the cost of connecting fibre to BT's green street cabinets, which link homes to telephone exchanges, varied between £19,600 and £51,000. The cost of cabinets is a major element in contracts, accounting for more than a third of costs.Some areas, where cabinets are a long way from the nearest exchange or fibre trunk route, are clearly more expensive to connect than others. But the average cost in England is  12% higher than in Northern Ireland, where BT has already  completed its work.Checks made by civil servants have already identified over-charging. In one area BT was found to have inflated project management costs by £3m. BT refused to let civil servants inspect its books to confirm that the costs it charges to the public purse were the same as on its own commercial projects, the report said.Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee, said she remained concerned about whether BT was being transparent enough to allow parliament to follow the public pound. "Opaque data and limited benchmarks for comparison mean the [DCMS] has no idea if BT is being reasonable or adding in big mark ups," she said.A BT spokesman said: "We have been very transparent from the outset and have invested hundreds of millions of pounds when others decided to ignore rural Britain."
Tom Hosking and his family are living in digital limbo. When BT engineers came to their village to install fibre-optic cables last year, the green telephone cabinet on their street was mysteriously left off the list. Now the Hosking family home, along with 62 other premises on their housing estate, is stranded, connected to the only BT cabinet in Cuckfield that does not have fibre.Theirs is not a remote hillside settlement. Cuckfield is a sizeable West Sussex village of more than 3,000 people, 30 miles from London and a seven-minute drive from the town of Haywards Heath. And the housing estate off the main street in the village is home to more than 200 people.Maddeningly for Hosking, his copper-only cabinet is just across the road from a fibre-enabled one with space to spare. "It's crazy," he says. "If we were on top of a remote hill somewhere I could understand it, but there is fibre only a few feet away. I could dig the trench myself, the cabinets are only 50 metres apart."This is not an isolated case. There are widespread complaints that in the green belt BT is selectively installing fibre connections, enabling the largest, most profitable cabinets in an area but leaving the rest to struggle on with creaking copper lines that in many cases are not able to cope with the internet.Down the road from Cuckfield in Burgess Hill, the same thing has happened toBarry Collins. The, editor of PC Pro magazine, who lives on a densely populated estate near a business park. "Lots of people have got in touch with me to say they are 200 yards from a business park and they are not connected either," says Collins.BT maintains that Hosking's cabinet in Cuckfield is too small to be profitable. There are no other options: Virgin Media, the only other national broadband network, concentrates on urban areas and does not serve the village.Hosking says he needs better broadband for his job. A digital advertising sales executive who lives with his wife and two small children, he often works from home. Face-to-face contact is important and he relies heavily on Skype video calls.But Skype works for him only half the time – and he is one of the lucky ones. Many homes on his estate cannot get the minimum two megabits per second that the telecoms watchdog Ofcom says is needed to view video, and thus to qualify as basic broadband.Hosking has taken his case all the way to the top, lobbying the BT chief executive, Ian Livingston, via email. But Livingston offered no solution. "The issue with a small cabinet is the economics of running fibre and electricity to it are very poor," the BT chief executive wrote back. "We cannot share with you the economics of every single cabinet and our exact costs but suffice to say, if it had made sense we would have done your cabinet with all others."He advised Hosking to lobby his local council to include his cabinet in its plans for publicly funded rural broadband under the Broadband Delivery UK scheme. By March 2017 the government target is for 23.6m homes – 95% of all UK premises – to have a fibre connection. BT will fund 16.2m of these itself, and the final 4.6m will be largely paid for with central and local government funds, along with some European money.BT has won the BDUK contract for West Sussex and promised to wire up 98% of homes. A spokesman said this meant Hosking's cabinet stood a "good chance" of being upgraded. But the fear for those left on the wrong side of the digital tracks is that public money is likely to be focused on virgin territory rather than mopping up the last few cabinets in otherwise fibre-connected areas.Hosking has been told that his postcode is included in the public plans, but the council cannot confirm whether his cabinet will be. Although BT has agreed initial lists of so-called no build areas with councils, one of the much criticised peculiarities of the BDUK process is that these are not made public until later in the process, after surveys have been carried out. The reason cited is commercial confidentiality.With the West Sussex contract not due to be completed until the spring of 2016, it may take another three years before Hosking finds out whether fibre is coming to his home. His only other option is to persuade a smaller broadband provider to invest in a community project. But alternative providers will not come to an area without a cast-iron guarantee that BT is not building there."I would like to know what the plans are, from industry and government, to ensure that these 'not spots' are wiped out," says Hosking. "BT are in a very privileged position. They've been given a huge customer base on a plate from being a state-owned monopoly, and with that big footprint they've got comes responsibility."
Doug Engelbart, who has died aged 88, will be remembered as the man who in 1963 invented the computer mouse, but that was incidental to his vision of computers augmenting the human intellect and increasing our "collective IQ". While he became a much-loved and oft-lauded Silicon Valley celebrity, his most visionary ideas were neglected and went unfunded.Nonetheless, Engelbart had a massive impact on the world of computing via what became known as "the mother of all demos", which he gave at a computer conference in San Francisco in 1968. The computer scientist Alan Kay, a co-founder of Xerox PARC,said later: "The demo was one of the greatest experiences of my life. To me, it was Moses opening the Red Sea … It reset the whole conception of what was reasonable to think about in personal computing." It was a huge leap forward compared with operating computers using punch cards and it inspired a generation. Engelbart's ideas were at the root of what we do online today.The demo involved Engelbart sitting at a computer keyboard operating a mouse, with the interactive action projected on a big screen. It demonstrated a stream of original ideas, including the mouse, multiple windows, hypertext, outline processing and shared-screen teleconferencing. All of these arrived on affordable personal computers roughly two decades later, following the invention of the microprocessor.They were only possible in 1968 because of a massive effort by the 12-strong team from Engelbart's Augmentation Research Centre, backed by research funds from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa, part of the US defence department) and the resources of the Stanford Research Institute (SRI). Who but Engelbart would have been crazy enough to devote all this remote and extremely expensive computer power to – as his demo showed – a single user manipulating his shopping list?Engelbart was the middle of three children of Carl and Gladys Engelbart. He was born in Portland, Oregon, grew up during the Great Depression on a small farmstead nearby, and went to Oregon State University to study electrical engineering. The second world war interrupted his studies, and he spent two years in the navy, including a year as a radar technician in the Philippines. After completing his degree in 1948, he moved to San Francisco to work at the NACA Ames laboratory, the forerunner of Nasa.As an electrical engineer with a good job and (in 1951) a fiancee, he could have settled down for life, but he wanted to do something that would make a difference: to improve the world. In part, he was inspired bya famous 1945 article by Vannevar Bush in the Atlantic magazine, As We May Think. This described an imaginary information desk called the Memex, which was based mainly on microfilmed documents. Engelbart had a vision of radar-type screens being used to organise and share information, so he went to the University of California at Berkeley to do a PhD.In 1957, he got lucky in getting a research position at SRI, and in 1962 published his seminal work, Augmenting Human Intellect: A Conceptual Framework, produced for the US Air Force. This led to the setting up of his Augmentation Research Centre (ARC) research lab, which developed the NLS (oN-Line System) used in the 1968 demo. The ARPAnet was developed partly to support NLS, and ARC was the second node on what became the internet.The rapid increases in computer power and communication networks in the 1970s, and the arrival of personal computers, might have sealed the victory of Engelbart's crazy ideas for augmenting the human intellect, but it had the opposite effect. His collaborative ideas were based on centralised computing and time-sharing, but these were the enemies of the countercultural revolution in personal computing. Engelbart's vision effectively came to a premature end.In 1977, SRI sold NLS – and moved Engelbart and his ARC – to Tymshare Inc, which sold it as an office automation product called Augment. Some researchers moved to Xerox PARC, where the modern mouse-and-windows-based personal computer was developed, and some remained at SRI. The research team had been broken up and the new target was commercialisation. Engelbart stayed on after Tymshare was taken over by the aircraft manufacturer McDonnell Douglas in 1984, before finally leaving in 1989.After that, Engelbart set up the tiny Bootstrap Institute with his daughter Christina, which survives as theDoug Engelbart Institute, providing a useful history of his life and times. From 1992 to 2007, Engelbart was given an office at Logitech's headquarters, before finally returning to SRI some 30 years after he had left it.Engelbart was given the Turing award by the Association of Computing Machinery and the $500,000 MIT-Lemelson prize in 1997; and the von Neumann award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 1998, among other honours. He was awarded the US national medal of technology and inducted into theNational Inventors Hall of Famein 2000.Engelbart's first wife, Ballard, died in 1997. He is survived by his second wife, Karen; four children, Gerda, Christina, Diana and Norman; and nine grandchildren.• Douglas Carl Engelbart, computer scientist, born 30 January 1925; died 2 July 2013
This weekKeith Stuart, the Guardian's games commissioning editor, gathers a panel of experts to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the next generation of games consoles.In the bustle of the new#guardiancoffeecafe in Shoreditch London, Keith is joined byT3deputy editorMatt Hill, award-winning games developerMike Bithelland Eurogamer news editorWesley Yin-Poole.The panel discuss the hardware and software that will be dominating Sony and Microsoft's strategies later this year and what gaming fans have to watch out for.For information on all the hardware and software mentioned in the podcast just go to theGuardian's games site.
Don't offer Rich Lee a pair of headphones to listen to music: he's already got a pair, even though you can't see them. They're implanted in his ears – a procedure carried out by a "body modification" expert.Now, by connecting his music player to a loose wire coil around his neck (which he can tuck under his shirt), Lee can listen to music without blocking out the outside world. The tiny magnets implanted invisibly in his outer ears pick up the signal and generate sound.But that's only the beginning. Lee, 34, who works as a salesman, intends to hook it up to an ultrasonic rangefinder – effectively giving himself bat-like echolocation. And he would like to have X-ray vision, super-strength, and anything else that gene therapy or technology might be able to offer.While thousands of people around the world having had their bodies "augmented" through standard medical procedures – such as artificial hips, cochlear implants, pacemakers, heart valves, and of course breast implants – the idea that you might want to have headphone implants might not seem odd.Lee describes his aim as "self-augmentation and enhancement": "If I see a way to eliminate the need for sleep I will never sleep again," he told the Guardian. "If I can have x-ray vision through some cybernetic technology I will have it, even if it requires an ocular prosthetic that leaves me looking like a monster. If I discover a gene therapy that will give me super strength, I will augment my very DNA to do so. If this gives me an advantage over someone else in the workforce, so be it. I do not abide by the restraints imposed by ethics committees who attempt to regulate human enhancement. Their arguments will be obsolete 10 years from now." He says that he refuses to be "caged by my DNA".Lee, of St George in Utah, is one of the growing subculture of "grinders" – a group of a few hundred people around interested in adding technology to their bodies to improve them.Yet while procedures such as breast implants have become routine, he and other "grinders" often have difficulty locating skilled people who will carry out the procedures they want. "My procedure was done by body modification master, Steve Haworth. Doctors don't touch this sort of thing. Plastic surgeons might be convinced to, but it would be at an outrageous price I'm sure," said Lee.That has meant going to others – including Haworth, regarded by other grinders as "the godfather of body modification", who has been experimenting with additions to the body since 1998.Yet Lee isn't simply motivated by the desire to enhance himself. He lost a significant amount of the vision in his right eye for unexplained reasons; and his doctor has warned him that the left eye might follow suit, leaving him legally blind. "A cornea transplant will be my only option and a bit out of my budget at the moment," he remarked. "So I figure learning to navigate with echolocation is a good thing to develop now. Not that I've resigned myself to blindness or anything."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers."Double Fine Adventure" Kickstarter over budget, delayed | Ars TechnicaAnother day, another Kickstarter controversy – but this is the big one. Double Fine has admitted that its crowd-funded adventure game, Broken Age, is short on funds and will need to be released in two halves, so that the first section can pay for the second. Importantly, they're not asking backers for more money, but theyaresaying that despite raising many times more than the original $400,000 requested, it hasn't been enough.In a lengthy messageto backers that was posted on the game's Kickstarter page, Schafer basically admits that his eyes were bigger than his budget. The game is now shaping up to cost more money than Double Fine had raised through Kickstarter and from subsequent "tip jar" donations. What's more, the pace of development means that the first half of the game won't be ready until July 2014, with a final release looking likely in 2015. For a game that had an original asking budget of $400,000 and an original target date of October 2012, these are big problems."I think I just have an idea in my head about how big an adventure game should be, so it's hard for me to design one that's much smaller than Grim Fandango or Full Throttle," Schafer wrote, dropping the names of some of his best-known titles. "There's just a certain amount of scope needed to create a complex puzzle space and to develop a real story. At least with my brain, there is."There are huge question marks over the Kickstarter process and the fact that the site's poster boy has run into trouble tells us that, in the games industry, successful funding is only the start of a complex and expensive undertaking. But still, if the backers accept Schafer's explanation, should the rest of us be angry? Whatever the case, this is going to become more and more important as other Kickstarer games come to fruition – or ruin.Japanese Xbox One launch will be 2014, Microsoft confirms | GamesIndustryMicrosoft has confirmed that the Xbox One will not release in Japan this year, but should be on the market in early 2014. Speaking in an interview with 4 Gamer, Microsoft Japan President Yasuyuki Higuchi described his home territory as "Tier 2 country."This news will no doubt go down well with Japanese developers wondering whether or not to support the new platform.Runescape 3 enters the Sixth Age on July 22 | JoystiqSome Runescape news!Runescape 3 launches on July 22 as a browser-based title running on HTML 5, a feature that removes the need for Java or other plug-ins. Runescape 3 continues the free-to-play, MMO series, and will feature "improved graphics, longer draw distances, an upgraded camera system and superior audio," developer Jagex says. Runescape 3 will also post seasonal high scores that allow players to compete on weekly and monthly leaderboards.Runescape 3 throws players into Gielinor's Sixth Age, where they will be able to directly influence the world's scenery, inhabitants and future for the first time. The game will kick off with the premiere of its worldwide community-focused event, The Battle for Lumbridge.News: Lovefilm no longer offering game rentals to new customers | CVG UKLOVEFiLM has confirmed it will no longer be offering games rental packages to new customers, or those who wish to change from a non-games package.It said: "In order to give the best possible service that we can, we are looking to focus on our strength, which is providing the best selection of film and TV content for our customers, and making it available whenever and wherever you want it."The Last of Us and Grading on the Gender Curve | GameSpotThis interesting feature from Carolyn Petit covers some of the same ground as the piece I wrote on dystopian games, and that Leigh Alexander explored in her Gamasutra article on The Last of Us:If we grade its handling of women on a curve relative to other games, The Last of Us is a success. It's somewhat better than most of what's out there. But we've let our notions of what's possible become limited by what's available. Instead, we need to evaluate games and how they handle gender based on their actual merits, not in relation to other games. We need to smash that curve with a sledgehammer.We're all talking about how Naughty Dog's game is wonderful and that because of this, it raises important questions about gender representation in games. Great to see this being discussed on a mainstream site, though there are some absolutely abhorrent and repulsive comments.State of Decay will have "co-op multiplayer at the heart of any future games"- Undead Labs | VG247State of Decay may not be getting multiplayer, but Undead Labs has said co-op multiplayer will be at "the heart of any future State of Decay games."Speaking on the game's forums, executive producer Jeff Strain the team wanted to add multiplayer to State of Decay, but it was "up to its eyeballs" trying to retrofit the game engine to support an open-world sandbox game.I think open-world survival games are the only way forward for the zombie genre now. I love the idea of testing the archetypes – gangs of feral psychos wandering about the place slaughtering each other – in an arena with no NPCs and no scripting.How Salesforce And Deloitte Tackle Employee Engagement With Gamification | ForbesWorried that gamification is dead? It's not! Well, not according to George Brandt the author of The New Leader's Playbook, who has small article on the subject in Forbes this week. In it, he talks about how the old badges and leaderboard tricks are being used on staff at big corps like Deloitte and Salesforce. The latter is my favourite example:Users of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems face a similar adoption and usage challenge. The harsh reality – 50 percent of all CRM implementations fail. Badgeville implemented a "Big Game Hunter" program for Salesforce to increase usage and engagement with the system. Sales people started out at "Chicken Hunters" and worked their way up to bigger and bigger game statuses, as they utilized more and more of the CRM system's features. For one customer, compliance increased over 40 percent.Reminds me of Steve Coogan's computer sales character, Gareth Cheeseman. "You're a tiger! Grrrrrr!"You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Struggling computer maker Dell is considering a move into the "wearable computing" space, as it grapples with the effects of a shrinking PC market.Sam Burd, Dell's global vice-president of personal computing, told the Guardian that "we're exploring ideas in that space".The idea of computers that can be worn on the body has become one of the hottest spaces in the technology business. Google has thousands of people testing its head-mounted Glass system, while the Californian company Pebble has sold more than 85,000 of its Bluetooth-connected "smart watches". Persistent rumours suggest that Apple will introduce an "iWatch", while companies including Samsung, iPhone maker Foxconn, Sony, LG and Philips have announced – but in only a few cases unveiled – wearable devices."There are challenges in cost, and how to make it a really good experience," Burd told the Guardian. "But the piece that's interesting is that computers are getting smaller. Having a watch on your wrist – that's pretty interesting, pretty appealing."More on wearable computing:Video: Google Glass tested;Apple applies for 'iWatch' trademark in Japan and RussiaA vision of the future?With Dell preparing to take the company private in a $24bn leveraged buyout as the PC market – the field which its founder and chief executive Michael Dell first exploited – begins to shrink in importance, the company is seeking new sources of income."Looking ahead five years, we expect devices and form factors to continue to change. There will still be a need for 'static' computing on desktops, but there will be a real need for mobile devices. There's a lot of discussion about how that fits into wearable devices like we've seen with Google Glass and watches. We're looking at a world of lots of connected devices."I don't see any magic new form factor like the iPad – I don't think anybody saw how that was going to change devices. But the number of [computing] devices per person is exploding." On wearables, he said "we haven't announced anything, but we are looking at the technology in that space."Dell needs to add new revenue streams as some larger customers have slowed spending amid economic belt-tightening. Though the company has large enterprise and services businesses, they have revolved around its PC business as a means of winning services contracts.But that is under threat. Dell's PC revenues shrank by 9% to $8.9bn in the three months ending in May compared with the year before, and income slumped 65% to $224m – a 2.5% margin. It has also been pushed into third place in the global PC market by China's Lenovo, which is now just behind the largest PC maker, HP.And worse is to come, suggests the research company IDC: itforecaststhat global sales of PC desktops and laptops will fall by nearly 8% this year, the second year of decline in a row – and expects they will keep falling in 2014.Instead, tablets and "hybrid" devices such as Microsoft's Surface are expected to become increasingly important; tablets like the iPad are expected to outsell laptops this year, and PCs (counted as laptops and desktops) by the end of 2015.But Burd admitted that Dell has so far only sold "hundreds of thousands" of its XPS-10 and Latitude 10 tablets, which respectively run Microsoft's Windows RT and Windows 8 software. However he added "I think that's pretty exciting when we look at the ramp [in purchasing] that we expect from corporate customers."He said Windows 8 on tablets had not done well so far with the large companies that make up a substantial proportion of Dell's customers. "Businesses are slow to adopt a new operating system," he said. "But tablets really need Windows 8 to sell well. Still, it is encouraging to see some businesses deploying Windows 8 and tablets. It's going to take some time, and the jury is still out. IDC's numbers says that Windows 8 on tablets is still far smaller than the iPad, but there are successes. Maybe in a few years when we get to Windows 8 tablets being a third or 40% of tablet volume we can feel it's happening. Tablets are definitely an important piece of the computing business."More broadly though the decline in traditional PC sales is putting severe pressure on Dell's revenues and profits, driving the company to seek to go private in a $24bn private equity buyout and end its 25-year stock market listing.Burd insisted that "the PC business is important to us. It's how we started as a company, and where we have strong share globally. Lots has been written about the demise of the PC business, we we think it's an interesting area going forward."The rapid growth of the tablet market since the introduction of the iPad in 2010 has seen Dell struggle to keep up.Going private could help, thinks Burd: "Michael Dell believes we are on the right page for transformation," he said. "The view is that we can get ourselves out of the quarterly reporting process where you can't make hard decisions to speed up that transformation."The company has struggled to make an impact in the fast-growing smartphone and tablet market. It killed off its range of Android phones after having effectively invented the "phablet" range in 2010 with itsDell Streak5in smartphone. Flaws in the software led to low sales, and the category of a phone with a mini-tablet sized screen was grabbed by South Korea's Samsung, which has turned it into a sector where it dominates through its Galaxy Note products.
The last decade may have seen rapid changes in children's entertainment, but what about the next 10 years?During the opening panel session at the Children's Media Conference in Sheffield – a separate report on thatcan be found here– PlayCollective senior vice president David Kleeman outlined the 10 trends he thinks will be most important.First: the importance of Netflix, Amazon, YouTube and other "over-the-top" video services that – in the US – don't require a cable TV subscription. He suggested children's interest in these services may nudge their parents towards cutting the cords of their cable subscriptions.Second, mobile media. "We've used mobile media so far to take ourselves into the devices. I think increasingly augmented reality and GPS are going to be used to bring users into contact with the bigger world around them," said Kleeman."The world around us is increasingly going to be tagged, and you'll use your device to find out where you are and what you're seeing. But also for narrative and fantasy."Third, he talked about the pace at which mobile gaming is growing, possibly at the expense of console gaming in the years ahead, and fourth: the possible impact of 3D printing and mass customisation."Toys R Us in Hong Kong has already installed 3D printers in its stores where you can customise something, print it there and then and take it right home," said Kleeman, predicting that we'll see much more of this.Fifth: transmedia – stories being told across different devices and platforms. It's a term that's been used for years by producers keen to make this kind of content, but which hasn't always seen similar enthusiasm from broadcasters."We don't really know what transmedia means. It means whatever we want it to mean when we're pitching something," chuckled Kleeman."But we've got the generation that grew up with interactive but disconnected devices… frustrated at how the stories on these devices didn't connect to each other." And those children are going to expect this to happen a lot more in the future.Sixth: building and making, both in the real world and as digital apps. And sometimes both: digital and physical play crossing over. "And we'll see games or projects that have a media component to go with something physical: for example a television programme about maker projects that you can do for yourself."Seventh: new gates and new gatekeepers, with the latter more likely to be curators helping parents and children filter the digital noise. "The people who set the search algorithms for the app stores, and the people who are tastemakers will have a lot of power over determining if your content ever gets seen by families."Eighth: "Learning environments, not just apps" to be adopted by schools and teachers. Apps accompanied by guidelines for teachers about incorporating it into the curriculum, forums for teachers to share their experiences with one another, and video courses helping them get the most out of the technology.Ninth: Changing family dynamics. He noted that as children got TVs in their rooms, the family fragmented across the house in terms of entertainment. But then big-screen TVs and (to some extent) devices like Nintendo's Wii brought families back into the living room together.But now? They may be in the living room, but they're on different devices: one person watching the TV, another playing games on a tablet, another messaging friends on a smartphone, another emailing from a laptop…What does this mean for entertainment? "For the next 10 years a new model: asynchronous play," said Kleeman."Families will share stories together – or play games like Words With Friends and Draw Something – where you don't have to be together to play together. And they'll share stories while not necessarily have to be watching at the same time."And finally? Kleeman proposed a pithy slogan for a children's entertainment conference in 2023 summarising the biggest shift for the market in the previous decade: "Schedules are dead. Get over it."
The world of children's entertainment is a very different place in 2013 than it was a decade ago, with virtual worlds, smartphone and tablet apps, YouTube and social media emerging to complement and compete with TV shows, films, books and console games.Has the disruption finished? That was the topic for the opening "Are We There Yet?" debate at theChildren's Media Conferencein Sheffield today, with a panel drawn from the broadcasting, book publishing and digital media worlds.The panel comprised Joe Godwin, director, BBC Children's; Francesca Dow, MD of Penguin Children's; Nigel Pickard, CEO, Zodiak MEAA and UK kids and family, Zodiak Media; Amelia Johnson, CEO, Bin Weevils; and David Kleeman, SVP insights, programs and PlayVangelist, PlayCollective.The first question asked what the panel wish they'd known 10 years ago about how the next decade would shake out."What has proved to be the most useful thing to know is that child development is a constant," said Kleeman. "Kids have to go through the stages they always have. It's the context around it that changes," he said.Pickard remembered the "general depression" among children's content producers 10 years ago, wondering what lay in store for their businesses, and suggested the picture is rosier now."There's a sense that there's an optimism. In terms of what we might be able to do if you're a writer or a creator of content for any platform is potentially richer and better than it's ever been."Dow suggested that "it's about believing in the quality of what we can create. In the end, whatever the technology offers us, and however kids are engaged with what they consume, it comes back to the value of the story," she said."In a way we have more opportunity than ever before, but it does still come down to the story. And if that's not right, as has always been the case, then nothing will be right."Godwin said that it's important not to assume the resilience of children to navigate through the world of digital media, waving his smartphone to make the point."It was unimaginable to me 10 years ago that children would have devices like this to expose them to things they don't have the resilience to deal with," he said."I think developmentally, children are broadly the same as they were. I worry that the amazing technological advances of the last 10 years have made their lives much more complicated to navigate."Godwin also talked about broadcasters' challenges in the current climate, and referred back to mobile devices and the proliferation of choice."The opportunity of consuming content is fantastic. I think children have got such brilliant choice these days. That's an amazing positive thing," he said. "But it's a challenge for broadcasters to be in all those places that children are."He also warned of the difficulties of "introducing children to things they didn't know they liked… discovering factual content particularly is going to be a real challenge for broadcasters and producers in an on-demand world."Dow said Penguin's challenge is in launching new talent. "We use our very successful brands to introduce new things to kids to keep the variety out there, and also to launch new talent," she said."I wouldn't say tough is the word, I would say interesting. What we acquire that's different and fresh, and could be a big success in a few years, and then how we get it to our audience."Pickard suggested that the problems aren't so different today as they have been in the last 35 years. He cited three "F words" – fragmentation, funding and "oh fuck!" – as challenges for the industry."The funding of high-quality product – and by the way this isn't just a producer moan, this is a issue for broadcasters. They don't have the money to spend: if your audience has shrunk by that much… that's going to affect funding – that's going to be the challenge: maintaining great content in this fragmented world."Bin Weevils' Johnson talked about the challenges for Bin Weevils, the online virtual world for children. "Feeding the hungry beast that is our audience," she said."We have visits from around 2m kids every month generating 160m lines of chat. So that's a lot of talking, and they're telling us all the time what they want, what new games they want to see, how they want to interact with what we do. That's a big beast to feed!"Godwin talked about the BBC's strategy, and the migration of its children's television to their own digital channels rather than within BBC One and BBC Two."I don't think it's affected children's perceptions of CBeebies and CBBC," he said. "I said this at the time, but I did and do believe it: We were following the habits of most of the audience, not trying to lead them there."He admitted there have been some negative effects. "It has affected the perception of some talent and some producers of the importance of the prominence of their work," he said, while noting that this has always been a debate over whether CBBC on BBC One was more important than a slot on a digital channel."I don't want people who pay the licence fee and don't have children to forget that the BBC makes fantastic children's content," he said. "We've got to keep it vey visible. The only risk for me for not being on BBC One and BBC Two is that risk of visibility."Godwin added that what has changed for the BBC's children's channels in recent: "It's been much clearer that what we're for is to be different," he said."My biggest worry about children's television or children's media is about how precarious the serious factual documentary is – children hearing other children talking about their lives. There's still a lot of good stuff, but that's so important."What about the risk of a digital divide: children who don't have access to tablets, smartphones and/or fast broadband missing out on new kinds of content?Godwin said that it's a concern – for example the fast broadband issue being something the government and ISPs need to deal with – but expressed optimism."I was struck by the stat that 40% of households in the UK with children already have a tablet. And if you look at penetration of smartphones among children… people seem to be getting their hands on this stuff, so it's not a major concern at the moment."So are we there yet? "We're in a very fast changing world, so we will have to continue to constantly adapt and evolve," said Dow. "I don't think it's ever going to be a static 'we've got there'. It's constantly evolving, which is what makes everything so interesting.""Of course we're not there, and it would be terribly boring if we were!" said Pickard. "It's a fantastic time to be a creator. There are no limits to what you can do."Godwin finished off. "We're behind the audience. I think our ambition for the next 10 years could be to get alongside the audience," he said.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's iPhone has better quality than Samsung's Galaxy, Korean consumers say &gt;&gt; VentureBeatAccording to a consumer survey of 44,168 people, iPhone is the best smartphone. While that result's likely to be a controversial among Android users, it's probably not surprising to iPhone fans.Except that thesurveywas in Korea, the homeland of bitter Apple rival Samsung.iPhones have few failures, Korean respondents said, with only 17% having any issue with their Apple smartphone, while 31% reported issues with Android-based Samsung phones.Samsung has about 65% of the smartphone market in south Korea; Apple, less than 10%. While that's a big survey (though you'd need to know its methodology to know whether it's completely reliable), there's no data about reliability by model.DIY Headphone Implant &gt;&gt; H+ MagazineRich Lee:First, the idea is based onthis.The project is set up like this:1. implant magnets; 2. test implants with coil to make sure audio is picked up; 3. implant coil/other parts w/transdermal jack &amp; power charger.Having stuff like this done isn't really the realm of doctors. Most Grinders rely on body modification artists to install their implants. I've had work done by the body modification master Steve Haworth in the past and have relied on him for advice on several project ideas. Steve instinctively knew the best way to go about the implantation in a way that would minimize chances for infection and would leave no scarring. The implant procedure itself went very smoothly and the pain was surprisingly minimal.The first thing everyone asks is "why would you do this?" Honestly, I don't feel the need to answer this question. People either get it or they don't. I'm a Grinder, and we are notorious for getting it.Yes, he really had magnets implanted in his head so that he would have invisible headphones. Apart from the coil around his neck, obviously. (But as he points out, that can go under a shirt.)Pizza flyers: the height of good graphic design? &gt;&gt; Speak UpJonathan Baldwin:I put this question to my new first year students yesterday during a series of seminars designed to get them thinking (and re-thinking) about their preconceptions of their subject. Pizza flyers, it was agreed, are about as good examples of bad design as you could hope for.But had any of them used one to order pizza? Almost all had, and several said they kept flyers and even had them taped on the fridge door. So are they badly designed? I asked again. It was like the scene from Monty Python and the Holy Grail where the peasants are trying to work out the tortured logic of what it means if a witch burns: b-because… they're made… of wood?'Design is what it does, not what it looks like. And what pizza flyers do is sell the desire for pizza. (Thanks @JonathanBaldwin for the link.)Samsung buys Boxee &gt;&gt; Multichannel.com"Samsung has acquired key talent and assets from Boxee.  This will help us continue to improve the overall user experience across our connected devices," a Samsung spokesperson said in a statement to Multichannel News. In addition to connected TVs, possible ports of entry for Boxee's UI on the Samsung product lineup include Blu-ray players and a new retail CableCARD device in the works that will combine live TV with over-the-top video.Samsung declined to provide financial terms of the deal, but published reports Wednesday put it at "tens of millions of dollars," but less than the $28.5m Boxee has raised since it was founded in 2007.Boxee is reckoned to have 2m devices in the field (including PC-connected ones). But this could be a way for Samsung to get into the US set-top box market.Man invents new language for turning graphics chips into supercomputers &gt;&gt; Wired.comThere are other languages for GPU programming, including CUDA and OpenCL. In fact, [the new programming language] Harlan actually compiles to OpenCL. But unlike these other languages, Harlan provides programming abstractions more associated with higher-level programming languages, such as Python and Ruby."Another goal of the Harlan was to answer the question 'What would we do if we started from scratch on a language and designed it from the beginning to support GPU programming?'" he says. "Most of the systems so far embed GPU programming in an existing language, which means you have to handle all the quirks of the host language. Harlan lets us make the best decisions for our target hardware and applications."Harlan's syntax is based on Scheme, a dialect of the influential programming language Lisp, which was created by artificial intelligence researcher John McCarthy in 1958. "It's the ancestor for every good language," Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto, creator of the Ruby programming language, once told SiliconAngle.There's something weird about the headline - "Man invents.." - but the concept is fascinating. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)OFFICIAL: HTC confirms no further Android 4.2 and HTC Sense 5 upgrades for HTC One S &gt;&gt; the::unwiredArne Hess:After the Russian head of HTC confirmed on Twitter that - due to technical issues - there are no further plans to release Android 4.2/Jelly Bean for the HTC One S, yesterday morning HTC France confirmed the same on its very own Facebook page. A user asked when he could expect Android 4.2.2 for his One S and HTC replied that (according to Google Translate) "the HTC One S no longer have access to updates for future versions of Android and HTC Sense". HTC is even aware that this is frustrating news for most of us and continued to explain that "our customers can be confident that we have designed for the One S that offers video and audio experience of the highest quality".(The HTC One S is a year old.)Google Reader founder: I never would have founded Reader inside today's Google &gt;&gt; ForbesAlex Kantrowitz:After watching Google disarm and then kill the product he launched nearly eight years ago, Google Reader founder Chris Wetherell said that if the idea came to him in today's Google, he would leave the company and build it on his own rather than put it at the mercy of Google leadership."I would absolutely not do it inside of Google," he said. "I would hate that to be my idea versus Google Plus. That would be very frustrating."Wetherell's comments highlight a problem Google might face now that Reader is shutting down. The company has long benefited from a culture of innovation which has helped it turn employee side projects like Gmail, Google News and Ad Sense into core offerings. But, with the understanding that even successful products can be killed in the future, the company's employees might now have less of an incentive to launch their ideas within Google, and innovation at the company may suffer as a result.Jenna Bilotta, the UX designer for Reader (and Wetherell's partner), says that user numbers were increasing until they left. Of course, what makes Google different is that it tends to kill its projects in public - after they have lots of users. Other companies kill them before they launch.An open letter to Craig Newmark &gt;&gt; KrrbGeorge Eid of startup Krrb writes to Newmark (the founder of Craigslist):Craigslist has accused Krrb of inducing Craigslist users to violateCraigslist terms of usevia ourKrrb&amp;nbsp;Itbutton. They claim that their users do not have the right to copy a post from their website. In doing so,the user may be subject of up to a $25,000 fine.Craig, are you aware of this? More importantly, are Craigslist users aware of this limitation imposed on their rights? This type of provision raises questions of IP law, Constitutional law, public policy and potentialadverse consequences to Internet law. Further it explores the attempt by large corporations to own you and what you own.Kurt Opsahl of the Electronic Frontier Foundationwrites, "Craigslist has veered from the path to a free and open Internet into a dark passage of walls, locks, and criminal prosecutions. We should not have a future in which (website) terms of use can be used to put people in jail, nor a future in which websites own the content posted by the users. We don't want a future where Craigslist can sue you for distributing your own band flyer by hand, just because you posted it on Craigslist."There's a petition if you want to sign it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Yahoo's spending spree has continued  with the acquisition of smart email service Xobni for $30-$40m (£20m-£26m).The deal comes just two days after Yahoo bought Qwiki, a video app for iPhone, for about $50m.Founded in San Francisco in 2006, Xobni has been tabled for sale to a number of companies and appeared to be stalling. Yahoo, which still has a popular and mainstream email service, will see Xobni as a way to bolster its existing service with new features and staff talent.Xobni – "inbox" spelt backwards – reorganises email according to the user's social contacts, meshing connections from SMS history, phone calls and Facebook or Twitter.Announcing the deal,Xobni postedthat its users will receive the same service until July 2014, though paid premium services will be dropped, and eventually Xobni will be "baked in" to the Yahoo email service."Did you ever meet someone who truly 'gets' you?" said Xobni's official statement. "That's how we feel about Yahoo. The power within every Xobni product is that it responds to how you communicate. Every day you demonstrate who and what is important to you. That can benefit not just your inbox or smartphone, but the many services you use. Yahoo gets that, and they want us to use our platform to make many Yahoo services better for you."Xobni staff have been relocated to Yahoo's headquarters, including Xobni's chief executive Jeff Bonforte, himself a former Yahoo employee.Yahoo's slew of acquisitions is part of chief executive Marissa Mayer's plan to turn the company around, largely deemed to be working by Silicon Valley. Yahoo's stock price has climbed to a five year high under Mayer, whose acquisition's included $1.1bn for light-blogging site Tumblr, news app Summly for about $30m and an undisclosed sum for sports app Bignoggins.
The figures are in. Six percent of adult internet users in the US have checked out Reddit – the internet's top repository for memes, quirky old news stories anduser-generated interviews with famous people.Reddit users are primarily young, male and from suburban and urban areas,according to a study conducted by Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Projecton Wednesday.Pew found that "young males are especially likely to use Reddit", with more men in each age category identifying as Reddit users than women. The disparity was greatest in the 18-29 demographic, which has 15% male users and 5% female users.The percentage of male Reddit users drops off significantly in older age groups, while the amount of female users remains about the same –  8% of men age 30-49 and 5% of women age 30-49 said they use Reddit.The percentage of adult internet users on Reddit is the same as those who use Tumblr,according to a February Pew survey. The survey showed that of the major social media sites, Tumblr has the fewest users, compared to the 13% who use Instagram, 16% who use Pinterest, 16% who use Twitter and 67% who use Facebook.Pew surveyed more than 2,250 adults aged 18 and older in English and Spanish by phone in April and May of 2013 to gather the results. The results also showed Reddit use patterns by income, residential and race demographics.In the race/ethnicity section, 11% of Hispanic people surveyed said they used Reddit. This response was significantly greater than respondents in the two other racial categories: white, non-Hispanic and black, Non-Hispanic had 5% and 4% Reddit users, respectively.Unsurprisingly, only 2% of internet users aged 65 and older said they used Reddit. This may not account for Reddit threads where site users post for their older relatives.Last week, Reddit user kinger97helped his 88-year-old second world war veteran grandfather respond to questions in the site's Ask Me Anything section.In the education attainment section, people with no high school diploma had the largest percentage of Reddit users, with 9% saying they use the site. The next most popular was people with at least a college education, 7% of which use Reddit.Reddit use was more popular among urban and suburban resident compared to people living in rural areas with 6% of people from urban areas and 6% of people from suburban areas saying they use Reddit. Only 2% of people from rural areas said they use the site.Three of the four categories for household income had 6% Reddit users. The fourth group, people with a household income of $50-75k group, consisted of 7% Reddit users.On Wednesday afternoon,a link to the study made it to the front page of the site, indicating the article's popularity among Reddit users. Comments on this thread included: "We are the 6%" and "itshappening.gif."
At New York City's Museum of the Moving Image's theater, a dark head of hair peeks over the podium and a 10-year-old-boy explains how he and his partner – a young girl barely clearing the dais –created a website about graffiti in the city.The two kids gathered with 48 others on Saturday and Sunday morning – sacrificing precious video-game playing, friend-hanging and homework-doing time – to parse open civic data to create websites, applications and mobile toolsat Young Rewired State's first international youth hackathon.Young Rewired State started in 2009 to build a network of young programmers. It expanded to multiple events in the UK and has attracted children as young as six. Young Rewired State founder Emma Mulqueeny wanted to expand the events international presence to introduce more youngsters to open government data."New York and the US are the heart of entrepreneurism, really – I think it's moving from Silicon Valley to New York," Mulqueeny told the Guardian. "I could see the most exciting things happening here and the greatest opportunity for the young people we are trying to be bring out of their bedrooms and be a part of this."The program emphasizes peer-to-peer learning by connecting participants with the more than 1,000 young people who have participated in the UK program. The idea is to bring the so-called "bedroom programmers" out from what can be the lone experience of a programmer to work together and foster their talents. Participants also receive help from professional programmers who volunteer as mentors at the event.Kids working together at New York's Young Rewired State event in June 2013 Photograph: HiveLearningNYCIan McJohn, 12, has participated in plenty of adult developer events, where he is often courted with tentative job offers for the future, but this was his first chance to work exclusively with peers."At an adult event, first they're going to look down on you but if you can get them actually talking about computers, it's fine," McJohn said. "But here, people automatically respect you as an individual, which is nice."In less than 27 hours, McJohn and three peers made a mobile movie review system calledRotten Potatoes. The project won Best Design and is fully functional (text a movie name to 347-960-4143 in the US to see how it works). He was responsible for most of the coding on the project, but was quick to credit (and introduce me to) his other team members.McJohn, and the kids and teenagers he spent the weekend with, were mostly strangers. After being plied with donuts, and encouragement from mentors, even the 10-year-olds were speaking like experts, ready to present their creations on Sunday.Young Rewired State in New York on 30 June 2013 Photograph: HiveLearningNYCComputer programming is an appealing field for youth facing a fragile jobs market. Each judge who works in the industry opened by recommending the participants contact them if they were interested in pursuing a career in their specific field.The diverse group of kids was 25% female, a relatively high percentage in a field that lacks gender balance. The bathroom lines at professional developers' conferencehave become a familiar indicatorof how great the disparity is.Cameryn, 13, participated in the hackathon after she had some exposure to coding at school."There was a push in the US towards Stem – science, technology, engineering and mathematics – and she's interested in science and math, so I wanted her to have the exposure," said her mother, Haniwa Gottlieb. "It's a wonderful forum to learn coding, which is the new language to learn."
Michael Birch, the co-founder of Bebo, tweeted this week thathe had bought back his social networking website from AOL for just $1m. In 2008, when Bebo was all the rage among teenagers, AOL paid $850m (£557m) for it. But AOL is not the first to make a terrible top-of-the-market purchase.MySpace:After long dismissing the money-making prospects of the internet, Rupert Murdoch finally opened his wallet in 2005 and snapped up MySpace for £580m, which, at the time, was the bright new thing of social networking. But then Facebook came along and, in response, the online world collectively "unliked" MySpace. In 2011, Murdoch's News Corpsold it for just $35m(£23m).Friends Reunited:For a brief period in the first half of the noughties, it was hard to walk through an office and not spot at least one person surreptitiously looking at the Friends Reunited website. The world, it seemed, was busy hunting down – or avoiding – people they had last seen at school. ITV liked the numbers – 15&nbsp;million members by 2005 – and secured the company that yearin a deal worth £175m. But, as with MySpace, it didn't predict the arrival of the all-conquering Facebook. Suddenly, we had an easier and better way to stalk people we once knew. In 2009,ITV offloaded Friends Reunited for £25mto the publisher DC Thompson. In 2011, the new owner admittedthe site was now worth just £5.2m.EMI:In 2007, the record label was bought for £4.2bn by private equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners. Even though the record industry was seeing its traditional sales threatened by online music, EMI still boasted a roster of highly bankable stars such as Paul McCartney, Pink Floyd, Rolling Stones, Radiohead and Joss Stone. But Terra Firma's restructuring plans led many artists to flee EMI. In 2011, Citigroup, the US bank that had helped to finance Terra Firma's purchase of EMI,took control of the music companyand immediately wrote off £2.2bn of its debt, leaving Terra Firma with a £1.75bn loss. EMI has subsequently been broken up and sold off to rivals.Lonely Planet:In 2007, BBC Worldwide, the commercial arm of the BBC, raised eyebrows when it bought the backpacker's travel-guide publisher of choice in a deal worth £130m. The BBC Trust, the broadcaster's governing body,strongly criticised the BBC earlier this yearwhen it sold Lonely Planet for £51.5m, a £80m loss. The economic crash in 2008 has led many people to cut back on trips abroad and online rivals have sapped some of Lonely Planet's market share.Andy Carroll:Football is littered with examples of expensive transfer deals that turned sour, but it's hard to beat Liverpool's purchase of the England striker Andy Carroll. In January 2011, Liverpool paid £35m for him. He went on to score just 11 goals for the club in 58 appearances before being sold to West Ham earlier this year for £15m. That works out at £1.82m per goal.
E3 always has winners and losers. This year, Sony had one of the most spectacularly successful shows in its history, at the expense of its biggest rival in the videogames market, Microsoft. You could argue that confusion over Xbox One's used games policy led to the machine's PR defeat, but Sony brilliantly appealed to angry gamers in its conference, assuring global audiences that PS4 would feature no invasive DRM measures.So who better to approach for Sony's perspective than Andrew House, president and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment (and thereby the ultimate boss of the PlayStation business)? We caught up with the genial, articulate Welshman a day and a half after that triumphant E3 press event, and he was understandably buoyant: "We've been very pleased with the reaction. It's been a very positive show for us."At Sony's E3 press conference on the evening of 10 June, all the speculation surrounded whether the Japanese company would follow Microsoft's unpopular lead and detail some form of online registration or digital rights management aimed at killing off the second-hand games market – the presumption being that Microsoft would not have gone out on such a limb without having roped in Sony to follow suit. But Sony announced, to much surprise, and the gratification of hardcore gamers, that the PS4's used games policy would be exactly the same as that of the PS3.House explains why Sony decided to leave well alone: "There's an interesting backstory on that. I guess, dating from about our February event, there had been questions about what our online policy would be. And I have to say that we were slightly perplexed, because we had no intention of changing from a model that I think has served us really well for several platform life-cycles. And then, of course, it was really the actions of others, and the reaction coming from consumers, which led to more speculation. So we felt that with E3, and Monday night's press conference, it was a really good opportunity to set the record straight. But there weren't any changes that we'd been considering."Had the third-party publishers, who hate not getting a cut when games are sold on by those who have played them, lobbied Sony to change that model? "Not that I've been aware of, no. And we didn't feel any sense that we needed to respond to any external pressure."Later on, House happily grappled with the thorny issue of second-hand games: "I think there's a very careful balance to strike. We're a game publisher ourselves, so there's a certain argument for us that there should be something of a model for content-creators to participate in second sales. Having said that, however, the consumer sees ownership as a very key benefit when purchasing a physical product. And the flipside of the argument is that retailers will tell you that the vast majority of trade-in value gets immediately repurposed into new purchases of games, and those people in turn generate word of mouth and create more interest."Clearly, Sony, at the very highest levels, has put more thought into the subject than Microsoft, whose executives contradicted each other alarmingly in interviews conducted after the Xbox One was originally revealed. House generated rapturous applause at Sony's press conference with comments to the effect that the consumer is king, and was happy to flesh them out."What you saw coming from gamers is not just, in my view, the views of the vocal minority. It became an expression of a little bit of concern bubbling up around the subject of what ownership means in an age of digital content overall. We and other entertainment industry players need to be very conscious of that and very careful. Bringing it back to the fundamentals again, we need to be fair and to think of the consumer experience first."With the Xbox One, Microsoft committed the cardinal sin of introducing unnecessary complications (such as the now-rescinded need to go online every day), whereas with the PS4, Sony kept it simple from the off. House contends that that approach extends beyond gamers to developers (who famously found it tricky to get to grips with the PS3's programming demands, as he tacitly acknowledges): "I see our approach on PS4 as really taking Sony Computer Entertainment back to our original roots."When we first launched with the PS1 and certainly the PS2, the goal was to give the consumer more choice, and lots of flexibility at a time when the delivery mechanism of games, on cartridges, placed a lot of restrictions on the industry. And also, by shifting to disks, to give developers – and particularly smaller ones – the chance to take risks and build a business. I think you're seeing exactly those kinds of principles applied to PS4."Reluctant though he clearly is to get into a slanging match with Microsoft, House can't resist a sly dig at one complication the Xbox One will retain – the forced purchase of a Kinect motion-sensing system (which surely accounts for why the PS4 will be £80 cheaper than the Xbox One when they arrive this Christmas)."There's consumer flexibility. We have a camera which will build some great consumer experiences, especially when it's used in conjunction with the Dual-Shock 4, but we're not mandating that, or forcing that purchase on the consumer."Secondly, we have a new development environment, that developers are telling us is significantly easier to make great games for, and we've undertaken a significant amount of outreach to smaller developers. And the net result is that we're seeing a lot of developers coming out of the mobile space, and I think that's a tremendously positive trend for console gaming. Essentially, we have access to a whole new set of talent in gaming that we didn't have before."In recent years, House has frequently spoken of his desire to get the disparate parts of Sony operating in a more joined-up manner, and the presence of Sony Pictures Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton on stage at the E3 press conference offered an illustration of that. But it was difficult to translate Lynton's rather nebulous address into anything concrete. Could House explain?"It was important that he was on stage: it's a testament to how far we've come with PlayStation 3 in building a really substantial community of networked gamers, who are also interested in other forms of entertainment. Whereas I think you could have slightly accused Sony of a bit of forced synergy, if we'd been trying to enact this collaboration several years ago, the fact is now, with 110 million PlayStation Network (PSN) accounts worldwide, that's a substantial business opportunity for Sony Pictures to reach a different audience."So he was talking about two things. One is significant interest and work which is already under way to develop original TV-style programming content, which could be made available with some form of exclusivity to people on the PSN – essentially using PSN as a distribution network. The second point was to find ways to give earlier or exclusive access to other forms of content that Sony Pictures has – again, for people who are on PSN and particularly for members of PlayStation Plus."Such collaborations, however, seem rather at odds with recent (mainly analyst-led) talk about the possibility of splitting Sony up into its constituent parts. House seems to suggest that, at the very least, Sony Computer Entertainment, Sony Pictures Entertainment and Sony Music Entertainment will stick together: "We've been clear, and [Sony corporation president and CEO] Kaz Hirai has been very clear, that the entertainment businesses are a core component of Sony's overall strategy."Where that starts to come together is that once you have a large, global network of consumers, then having access to entertainment content assets can enhance the services that you're providing, differentiate you from the competition and provide consumers with something new and potentially exclusive. That makes our entertainment businesses even more important to Sony's overall strategy than perhaps they had been in the past."Perhaps the only area in which the Xbox One looked to have a slight edge over the PlayStation 4 concerned the respective quality of the two consoles' launch games – a tad unsurprising, since the Xbox One's developers' kits were distributed before the PS4's equivalents.House hints that there will be more to come before Christmas, though – which will almost certainly break cover at the Gamescom show in Cologne in late August, along with a launch date for the PS4: "I think there are additives to what is shaping up to be a great launch line-up of traditional blockbuster titles."We've got something like 140 titles in active development for the first year after the launch, which is really substantial. Again, because of the architecture decisions we've made, developers have told us that they are so far ahead compared to previous launches."
EE, the UK's first 4G mobile internet provider, is to introduce higher prices for faster connections from September as it cranks up the speed of its network.The company said on Wednesday that it had doubled the speed of its 4G service to 12 UK cities, boosting average connections to between 12 and 30 Megabits per second, twice the typical home broadband service, and faster than 4G in Japan and the US.Theimproved servicewill initially be available in Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Derby, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester, Nottingham and Sheffield.EE's 500,000 existing customers will automatically be offered the higher speeds, at no extra charge, until the end of their contract.However, EE said it would introduce different price bands for faster connections from September. Offering a choice of speeds is already common in home broadband services, but would mark a first for a UK mobile network."Our new double-speed 4G technology means that we have the biggest, fastest and best network in the UK, and now the equal fastest in the world," said the EE chief executive, Olaf Swantee.EE is ramping up its promotional activity to reel in customers before rival networks O2, Three and Vodafone launch their own 4G services this autumn.Those who sign up over the summer will be offered discounts on speed and the amount of data they can download.The company has also announced the UK's first shared data plans to cater for the proliferation of smartphones and tablets.Already common in the US, shared plans allow families or individuals to buy one monthly data allowance for multiple individuals to cater for the proliferation of tablets and smartphones.The plans cater for up to five devices, owned by friends, family or a single individual. Customers add devices to their standard contract at a cost of £12 a month for a 4G phone or £5 a month for a 4G tablet."We believe that there is substantial latent demand for using a single mobile account to connect multiple devices [and people], and that packages that cater to this demand in an attractive way will see substantial adoption in the long run," said IDC analyst John Delaney.
A Ubisoft website has been hacked exposing customer data including names and encrypted passwords. The company releaseda statementon Tuesday admitting that an account database has been illegally accessed, and that an investigation had begun. Although no credit card or other payment details are kept on the www.ubi.com site, the publisher of such titles as Assassin's Creed and Far Cry 3 has told users to change their passwords.Originally it had been reported that the hack originated with Uplay, a digital hub and distribution service for downloadable games. However, the statement claims that Uplay is unaffected. The company is, however, advising members of the service to change their passwords, too.This is not the first time Ubisoft itself has been targeted. In April, news site Gameranxreportedthat software pirates had managed to exploit a vulnerability in Ubisoft's Uplay launcher to access the Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon title, releasing the code onto torrent sites. At the time, Ubisoft stated, "We are aware of the issue and are working to resolve it quickly. No personal information was compromised."Gamers are unlikely to be entirely assured however. Last July,a major security vulnerabilitywas discovered in the Uplay browser extension, which opened an exploitable back door into the user's system. Ubisoft quickly plugged the hole with an update, andreleased a statementto claim that the problems had been resolved.Data security is becoming more of a problem throughout the games industry as companies move toward digital distribution methods, selling titles online rather than through retail. In January, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe was fined £250,000 after the 2011 PlayStation Network hack that placed the data of millions of customers in jeopardy. A month later, Nintendo servers were hacked, although the company claimed that no personal customer data was accessed. In March, anexploit was discoveredin Electronic Arts' online gaming service Origin, which made it theoretically possible for hackers to introduce malicious code into game downloads.Ubisoft has set upa forum threadfor customers who have questions about security. Ironically, the company is currently working on a new game, Watch Dogs, in which hacking is a central component. The development teamreportedlyhired an expert from Kaspersky Lab to ensure the depiction of hacking was accurate.
The internet entrepreneurKim Dotcomhas exchanged caustic words with New Zealand's prime minister at a parliamentary committee hearing submissions on proposed changes to surveillance laws.German-born Dotcom, who is being sought by the US to face charges of copyright infringement and money laundering, was the star attraction on the second day of hearings at the intelligence and security committee in Wellington, chaired by the prime minister, John Key.Dotcom told the committee the proposed expansion of spying powers was "poorly timed considering the scandalous leaks concerning US mass surveillance of the world's population, including US allies". He urged New Zealand to repeat the "heroic stance" of the 80s when the country was declared nuclear-free."When a great power such as the United States is committing immoral and illegal practices, ranging from Guantánamo to torture to drone strikes, let alone mass surveillance against the entire world population, there has never been a greater need for New Zealanders to once again step forward and declare their values shall not be abandoned or suspended under pressure from the United States," he said.Dotcom claimed he had evidence that Key, contrary to repeated public assurances, had been aware of his activities before adramatic raid on the "Dotcom mansion"north of Auckland in January last year. "Oh, he knew about me before the raid. I know about that," said Dotcom, eyeballing Key. "You know I know."Key replied: "I know you don't know. I know you don't know.""Why are you turning red, prime minister?""I'm not. Why are you sweating?""It's hot. I have a scarf."Key later told reporters that Dotcom was "a well-known conspiracy theorist … He's utterly wrong."The bill to amend the remit of the Government Communications Services Bureau (GCSB) was prompted by the admission that surveillance of Dotcom and a Megaupload colleague had been illegal. Their status as permanent residents of New Zealand meant the agency was prohibited from spying on them. Key issued a public apology to the men over the incident.John Key at the hearing. Photograph: Marty Melville/AFP/Getty ImagesThe new bill, which would make it lawful for the GCSB to spy on permanent residents on behalf of domestic agencies, has attracted wider interest following therevelations of the scope of surveillance undertaken by the US and its partners, as leaked by Edward Snowden to the Guardian.The GCSB is a partner in the information-sharing Echelon or "five-eyes" group, led by America's National Security Agency and including Britain's GCHQ. Key says the Echelon arrangement has never been used to circumvent domestic law by spying on New Zealanders.In an interview with the TV3 Campbell Live programme after the hearing, Dotcom grinned when asked whether he had been in touch with Snowden. "I do not know Edward Snowden personally, and that's all I want to say about this," he said.The attempt to extradite Dotcom in relation to the activities of his Megaupload file-locker site has become mired in a succession of legal challenges, and is now unlikely to be heard any earlier than April 2014.
Zynga has a new chief executive, afterfounder Mark Pincus stepped asideto be replaced by Microsoft's Xbox boss Don Mattrick as head of the social games publisher.Two key themes emerged in the initial media coverage of the news: (a) Mattrick's job is to "save" Zynga because (b) the company has really stuffed up its transition from Facebook to mobile gaming.But has it? And if so, what went wrong for the publisher that played so dominant a role in the initial, explosive growth of social gaming on Facebook?Whatever happened, it wasn't for a lack of awareness on Pincus' part of the likely importance of mobile devices for the future of his company, and social games more generally. In January 2009, Iinterviewed him for industry site PocketGamer.biz, and he was already enthusiastic about mobile."The iPhone has most of the components to be one of the most important social gaming platforms. It has ease of access through the App Store, where games are even more accessible than on a social network," he said."It's social, and it connects online easily. And, of course, it's always with you, so the games are always available for you to play. We believe social games will penetrate the iPhone more than any other platform."Pincus also had clear ideas about how Zynga's success in the "hit-driven" world of mobile gaming should be judged, too."We're not after downloads and installs, we're after active users," he said."For us, success won't be about an App Store ranking. It'll be about how many active users we have 12 months after launching a game."54 months later, then, why is Zynga perceived to have flopped in mobile? The blunt truth is that too many of its new mobile games haven't been hits, and the hits have been harder to make money from than expected.By the numbersOn some metrics, Zynga has done rather well. The company ended 2011 with 12m monthly active users (MAUs) on mobile devices, then reached 21m by the end of March 2012. At the end of 2012 Zynga's mobile MAUs had swelled to 72m, before dipping to 65m at the end of March 2013.In itsQ1 2013 earnings call with analysts, Zynga's chief operating officer David Ko pointed to stats from comScore indicating that Zynga was the sixth biggest company in the US for time spent on its mobile properties, behind only Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Google and Pandora.One thing to understand is that a lot of this reach comes from older games: Zynga Poker and Words With Friends in particular – the former ported from Facebook in late 2008, and the latter acquired with its developer Newtoy in late 2010.Evergreen titles like this are impressive – Zynga Poker wasstill one of the top grossing iOS games in 2012– but Zynga's problem has been following them up with similarly long-term hits.With Pincus' 12-month metric in mind, take the games launched in the second and third quarters of 2012 as examples: Zombie Swipeout, Zynga Slots, Matching With Friends, Montopia and Gems With Friends.According tosocial games analytics site AppData, none of them currently have more than 1m MAUs, while several are below 100k. These figures only cover players who've connected the games to Facebook, it should be noted.Buying in hits also proved problematic.Zynga paid $210m for New York developer OMGPOPin March 2012 to get its hands on that company's Draw Something game, which had more than 36m MAUs at its peak according to AppData, but now has less than 5m.(The Facebook stats that AppData draws on are fuzzier nowadays: reported in tiers of 10k+, 50k+, 100k+, 500k+, 1m+, 5m+ and 10m+ – so Draw Something is listed as 1m+ MAUs, which could mean anything between 1m and 4.99m MAUs.)Better audience, more money?Zynga's 2013 releases are finding a better audience – 1m+ MAUs for What's The Phrase?, Running With Friends and Draw Something 2 – but their long-term engagement can't be judged until this time in 2014.Thus, in Zynga's Q1 2013 earnings call, analysts heard Pincus – whose "success won't be about an App Store ranking" principle sounds pretty sensible in 2013 – say that the company's marketing strategy "helped to drive What's the Phrase to the number one free app position on iOS within two days of turning on cross-promotion".Still, reach is one metric, but revenue another. Zynga's new CEO's big challenge is to make a lot more money from mobile games, at a time when the success of developers including Supercell, King, GungHo and Kabam shows there is plenty of money to be made.Analytics firm App Annie's games index tracking iOS and Android's app stores found that in May 2013,Zynga was the fifth biggest publisher on iOS globallyfor games downloads, but it didn't make the top 10 for iOS games revenues. The company didn't make it onto either top 10 for Android.At the time of writing, Poker by Zynga is the 18th top grossing iPhone game in the US App Store. Running With Friends is 27th, Scramble with Friends 59th and 90th (in paid and free versions), Ayakashi 70th, and Words With Friends 93rd.That puts Zynga in the 1% of mobile games publishers who are making it into that Top 100, but compared to the company's heyday on Facebook, it's clear that there is more work to be done.Puzzle & Dragons has been a lucrative hit on iOS and AndroidIn the first quarter of 2013, 22% of Zynga's revenues were generated from mobile devices. That's$58m. In the same three-month period,Supercell made$179mfrom its two iOS games (Clash of Clans and Hay Day), whileGungHo made$303m, mainly from its Puzzle &amp; Dragons.Even EA – one of the traditional games publishers that Zynga delighted in disrupting on Facebook – made$109mfrom mobile games in the first quarter of 2013.Zynga has been open about the challenges it faced making more money from its mobile games. "Words with Friends and Draw Something, our two most popular mobile titles, monetise at a lower rate than our most popular titles on the web," said chief financial officer David Wehner in the company'sQ2 2012 earnings call.He went on to say that Zynga Poker made comparable money on mobile to web, but that for other games "you'll see that mobile is less than half of the monetisation rate of the web".Mattrick's new boss levelSo here is new CEO Don Mattrick's challenge in a nutshell: have more mobile hits – although Pincus' new role as chief product officer will be crucial here too – and do a better job of making money from them.He'll also have some tough but fascinating decisions to make about Zynga's new business development. Should it continue to move aggressively into real-money gaming (i.e. gambling) online and on mobile devices?Should it make more "midcore" games with an emphasis on tablets to compete with the likes of Clash of Clans? Should it get more involved in the fast-growing social games platforms run by messaging services Line and Kakao in Japan and South Korea?And should Zynga take the bold step of becoming a private company again, as suggested ina blog post by investor Charles Hudsonin October 2012?"There are really interesting opportunities available to Zynga – they're just too risky to do as a public company," wrote Hudson, citing gambling and midcore social games as two obvious examples."Winning in these market spaces will take experimentation, testing, and will inevitably involve some failure. That sounds more like work to do in private than in public."Pincus himself retweeted a link to the blog post at the time.These decisions will be Mattrick's to take now, albeit with Pincus still involved, and Zynga's board – which includes veteran VCs John Doerr and Bing Gordon, LinkedIn CEO Reid Hoffman and DreamWorks Animation boss Jeffrey Katzenberg – sure to have views too.The most important thing to remember is that the social mobile games industry is still young and unpredictable. Puzzle &amp; Dragons came out in Japan in February 2012, Supercell's Hay Day and Clash of Clans were released that summer, and Candy Crush Saga went live for mobile devices that November.Strategy in a fluid marketTheir success has posed serious strategic questions for even Angry Birds maker Rovio, whose$195m of revenues for the whole of 2012sound impressive until you look at Supercell and GungHo's numbers for Q1 2013 alone.This market is fluid, to say the least. Zynga's new boss has plenty of work to do, but this time next year, there's every chance that there'll be a new wave of mobile-games winners on the app stores.Mattrick's appointment now may give Zynga a fighting chance to be one of them. But as Pincus shrewdly noted all those years ago, app store rankings won't be the metric to judge by.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Edge fuels PS4 vs Xbox One rivalry with new issue | MCVMy old employer caused a social media fuss on Tuesday:Future's multiformat specialist consumer magazine Edge has told its readers that they should buy a PS4 - and that Xbox has 'blown it'.The title unveiled a provocative new issue cover today which whole heartedly backs Sony over Microsoft.Reaction to the cover is already fierce - Edge is trending in the UK on twitter.There was a huge reaction. Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker tweeted his annoyance, while other enraged Twitter users claimed that the magazine had only done it to boost sales. Really? A provocative cover, to boost sales? What ever will they think of next?Titanfall Sweeps Game Critic Awards With Six Wins at This Year's E3 | KotakuIt seems the debut title from Respasn Studios was the big favourite at last month's E3 show:Titanfall won the overall Best of Show award, as well as Best PC, Best Console and Best Original Game. Other notable winners are Best Downloadable Game for Supergiant's Transistor, Watch Dogs for Best Action/Adventure and Oculus Rift for Best Hardware/Peripheral.Need for Speed: Rivals got best racer, beating Forza 5, DriveClub and The Crew, while the luscious Total War: Rome II claimed best strategy game and Tearaway triumphed in the handheld category.Rockstar confirms Grand Theft Auto 5 comes on two Xbox 360 discs, has mandatory install, more | Eurogamer.netThe Xbox 360 edition of Grand Theft Auto 5 will come on two discs, developer Rockstar has announced, but you won't need to swap them during gameplay.The first disc holds data for a mandatory 8GB install - meaning that 4GB Xbox 360 users will need an external hard drive. Disc two will then be used to play the game."This initial install will require an Xbox 360 Hard Drive or an external 16GB USB flash drive with at least 8 GB of free space," Rockstar wrote ina new Q&amp;A blog post. "If using a USB flash drive it must be at least USB 2.0 with a minimum 15mb/s read speed and formatted for Xbox 360 use. A new USB flash drive is recommended to ensure optimum performance."On PlayStation 3, the game will come on one Blu-ray disc, as expected, although you'll still need that 8GB mandatory install.Ubisoft advises users change password after server hack | GameSpot.comAnother day, another high profile video game account hack:Ubisoft has announced it recently that one of its websites was exploited to gain unauthorized access to online systems. While the firm has closed off this access, and has started a "thorough investigation with relevant authorities," internal and external security experts recommended everyone change their passwords.While the firm is focused on"restoring the integrity of any compromised systems," the firm said since data illegally accessed from the account database includes user names, email addresses and encrypted passwords, it would be best to change any Ubisoft website password, and probably your Uplay password as well just to be safe – although the online service was not mentioned in the press release.And they wonder why gamers are a little concerned about digital-only console platforms.Dwarf Fortress creators turned down "six figures" offer by publisher | VG247Dwarf Fortress creators Tarn and Zach Adams said they were offered a six-figure sum to use the game's name by a publisher. It was rejected, so the brothers have retained the name to their ASCII settlement sim game.The game continues to earn money through voluntary contributions, which last month totaled $3355.10. The Adams said they didn't accept the money from the unnamed publisher, as they felt it could have cheapened the brand and possibly confused gamers.XYZ: Alternative Voices in Game Design exhibition celebrates women gameThe Museum of Design Atlanta, co-hosted with Georgia Tech's Digital Media Program, will host an exhibition that highlights the work of women game designers and artists called XYZ: Alternative Voices in Game Design.According to the organizers, the interactive exhibition was created in response to the "popular misconception that women neither play nor create video games." It also aims to challenge visitors perceptions of what games are by exposing attendees to alternative games "that are outside the mainstream and demonstrates their capacity to convey a diverse range of ideas, experiences and emotions."You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMotorola is listening &gt;&gt; Beneath the WavesBen Lincoln:In June of 2013, I made an interesting discovery about the Android phone (a Motorola Droid X2) which I was using at the time: it was silently sending a considerable amount of sensitive information to Motorola, and to compound the problem, a great deal of it was over an unencrypted HTTP channel.If you're in a hurry, you can skip straight to the Analysis - email, ActiveSync, and social networking section - that's where the most sensitive information (e.g. email/social network account passwords) is discussed.Concerning. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Budget iPhone appearance analysis: ugly on purpose &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen, considering the "candy-coloured" phone casings that have been doing the rounds:There can't be much differentiation on the hardware or software aspects [between a new iPhone and the 'budget' one]. So there must be a very sharp line drawn between the two models based on the look and feel.Apple cannot have the bulk of its customers trade down to the budget phone from more expensive devices. It must make the entry-level model look so vulgar and cheap that most iPhone users will stick to the main line models, even if they have to pay a $200 to $400 premium. The budget phones have to look tackier than the new iPhone 5S, but that is not enough -- they must also be less desirable than the iPhone 5 and iPhone 4S... yet still appear more desirable than low-end Android phones.If it's cheap, it should look cheap. Seems a strong argument.Twitter testing Bing-powered translation feature &gt;&gt; AllThingsDTwitter confirmed it was testing a tool to automatically translate tweets using Microsoft's Bing search engine. In the implementation, tweets appear in the original language, with the translated tweet in smaller text below it (with a powered by "Bing translator" label). "To make it easier for people around the world to connect with each other, we are beginning to experiment with Tweet text translation," a Twitter spokeswoman told AllThingsD.Keeping our focus on what's next &gt;&gt; Yahoo!Earlier this year, we announced an ongoing effort to sharpen our focus and deliver experiences that enhance your daily lives. As part of that, today we're shutting down a few products so we can continue to focus on creating beautiful products that are essential to you every day.Hasta la Altavista (among others). It's not just Google which does spring cleaning at all sorts of times. AltaVista was the first proper search engine on the web before Google - but it got overrun by spam and then turned into a portal, trying to do almost everythingapartfrom search.Best Buy begins selling $149 Pebble smartwatch online, retail launch coming on 7 July &gt;&gt; The Next WebJosh Ong:Pebble has announced an exclusive partnership with Best Buy that brings the popular smartwatch to the retailer's online store and will place it in outlets beginning on 7 July.The Pebble watch's wild ride began last year with a $10m Kickstarter project, the largest in the crowdfunding site's history. In May, the company announced a $15m Series A round to help it expand its team and increase production.Good for them. Pebble went to Kickstarter because it couldn't raise funding to make its watch initially.We may have given Google more power than the NSA &gt;&gt; MediumFrancis West:Let's pretend the internet is a city. This city is 3,000x bigger than London, New York or Tokyo...[In this city] Google would send out millions of spidery-robot reviewers (because a task like this had to be automated). They would take a quick look at your building, and perhaps a peek inside. The robot would record the relationships between your business and the community, guessing the type and quality of each building and the service offered.And most importantly: If other property owners had referred some of their visitors to you, that would work in your favour. I'll refer to this as a 'citation'.Now read on. (Note how the NSA has now become the byword for "uber-powerful secret agency".)Apple plans Nevada solar farm in clean energy push for data centers &gt;&gt; ReutersApple Inc said it plans to build a new solar farm with NV Energy Inc for power supply to its new data center in Reno, Nevada, a major step towards its goal of having its data centers run on renewable energy.Apple and other technology companies such as Amazon.com and Microsoft that build and run computer server farms have come under criticism for their high consumption of electricity and other resources.It'll generate 43.5KWh once done. Its largest one, in North Carolina, runs on solar power too - 167kWh from a 100-acre solar farm and fuel cell installations.The Bing challenge: with iOS 7 and Windows 8.1, search could be Microsoft's new platform &gt;&gt; The Verge"About two years ago, Apple included Bing as one of the search engines in Safari." Ever since then, the two companies have had ongoing discussions around what else they could work on together. "It was one of those meetings where we thought 'Wow, we're ready to work on the next thing together,' back in the fall," says [Bing VP of program management Derrick] Connell. The big question for Apple was whether Bing's quality was good enough to power Siri. "I think a lot of the execs at Apple switched over to Bing for a period just to see if they could get the full experience of using Bing," notes Connell. The feedback was positive enough for Bing to generate a deal to handle Siri web queries in iOS 7, which launches later this year. Theoretically, a future version of OS X could also integrate Bing, a logical step if the iOS work is well-received by users.Having Bing as a default in Mac OSX would be unimportant, globally speaking. Having it as the system-wide default in iOS would be very important - both to Microsoft and Google.iDevice manufacturer Foxconn shows off prototype smartwatch with health sensors &gt;&gt; MedgadgetHon Hai Precision Industry, aka Foxconn, may be popularly known as the contract manufacturer of the iPhones and iPads.  However, the Chinese company recently revealed its own design for a prototype smartwatch that can help improve one's health.While it includes many features that Apple's mythical iWatch is said to have (and are already found on smartwatches like the Pebble), such as the ability to receive notifications and field phone calls, Foxconn's smartwatch also contains sensors to measure a user's vital signs, including respiration and heartbeat. It also has the ability to protect users' health data stored inside with a built-in fingerprint scanner.Nice.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The announcement that thefirst Firefox OS (FFOS) smartphone is on sale in Spainhas excited many who are thrilled by aspects of it - particularly the magical word "open" - and think that therefore it will be a raging success.Actually, any success it has will come from the phone's price, not what software it is - or isn't - running. And the question of whether Firefox OS can build an "ecosystem" of apps to compete with Apple's iOS, Android, Windows Phone or BlackBerry's BB10? It simply doesn't arise. It doesn't need to. The majority of its users really won't care.That's because we're now in a third age of smartphone buying. We've gone past the early adopters (perhaps 15% of buyers), and the hump of cautious consumers (another 40%-50%).Now we're into the tail-end of first-time smartphone buyers, at least in Europe: the cheap customers.Here's the key fact: Telefónica is selling the ZTE Open in Spain for €69 (£59) - about 25% less than the developer units - and giving pay-as-you-go (aka prepaid) customers €30 of credit. In effect, the Spanish mobile company is subsidising those customers to buy the handset. Deutsche Telekom is also going to be offering the devices in Poland in the coming months.Why is Telefonica offering them in Spain, when it operates in many countries? Two reasons: first, Spain's economic woes (withyouth unemployment at 56.4%, and overall unemployment at nearly 27% in May) mean that cheap handsets are where the growth (if any) is; and second, because it already has the highest penetration of smartphones in the big EU countries -66%, against 64% in the UK (and 57% in Europe), according to ComScore's measure for 2012. In the half-year since that ComScore survey, that number will have kept growing - mostly fuelled by cheaper Android phones.Data from KantarWorldpanel shows that Android handsets made up a jawdropping 92.8% of sales in the three months ending in April. That's more than any other of the "big five" European countries (UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain); more even than urban China, according to Kantar's figures for the same period (which shows iOS having a 26.1% share in China, against just 4.1% in Spain).Spain, we might conclude, isn't a premium smartphone market, and those who don't yet have smartphones probably don't set a high priority on owning one.But at Telefonica's prices, the buyers aren't going to be buying them in order to deluge Snapchat with pictures or enliven Twitter with their geolocated thoughts. Hell, no. They'll want them to make phone calls, and perhaps sometimes to download an email, and more occasionally find their way to a destination using a map.Naturally, that's not how Mozilla sees it. "The launch of Firefox OS marks an incredibly exciting time for the Web. Firefox OS powers the first smartphones built entirely on web technologies and will stimulate an inspiring new wave of innovation for the web," says Jay Sullivan, Mozilla chief operating officer in an obligingly manufactured quote. "We are proud to deliver an experience for first-time smartphone users that will delight them and really put the power of the Web in people's hands."There's a key clue there in that phrase "first-time smartphone users". It's 2013, anywhere between five and ten years (depending which date you use) since the start of the smartphone revolution, and these people haven't begun using a smartphone yet. Why? Because they're still using a featurephone. They either don't care about having the internet on the move, or haven't been able to afford it.That doesn't mean that there aren't potentially lots of those buyers. The ZTE Open may well sell millions of units.Sullivan has good news for them: "Firefox OS phones come with Firefox Marketplace, which unleashes the power of HTML5 apps on mobile. Firefox Marketplace has popular global apps you want and relevant local apps you need. Firefox Marketplace offers apps in categories like games, news and media, music and audio, business and productivity so you can find an app for whatever you want – even local and niche topics. Firefox Marketplace includes popular apps such as AccuWeather, EA games like Poppit, Facebook, Nokia HERE Maps, SoundCloud, Terra, Time Out, TMZ and Twitter as well as personally tailored and local apps that will differ by region."Frankly, I don't expect that the majority of buyers of these phones will care about HTML5, nor whether its power has been unleashed on mobile.So who does care? Here's another quote from the press release from Mozilla: "Operators, OEMs, and developers are growing ever more interested in the emergence of a truly viable alternative mobile platform that offers them new economic opportunities independent of today's incumbents," said John Jackson, IDC's research vice president.Ah, yes. That's quite a telling analysis in one threatening little sentence. If the ZTE Open and its Alcatel sibling do well (which, as I say, they may well do), that will give Telefonica leverage in negotiating pan-European contracts with Apple, Samsung and other handset makers in the future. For all the lofty talk about "operators, OEMs and developers", it's only the first which will benefit from these handsets doing well. OEMs will find themselves screwed down on subsidies - with these cheap handsets held out as a threat - and any developers who can get these customers to spend any amount of money deserves every penny, because it's going to be hard-won. For Telefonica, the millions of euros that the ZTE Open may end up costing it will be money well spent if it means less money spent subsidising higher-end handsets in future. It's a brutally commercial move.Yes, I know. You'd like to believe that Firefox OS will be a raging success on its own merits; that its "open" nature will attract the hordes whomustbe out there, aching for a mobile operating system built on a browser. It's not true. Those people already bought an Android phone. Especially in Spain.And a closing thought? The UK has the second-highest penetration of smartphones in the EU "five". Telefonica owns O2. Will we see the ZTE Open here too, priced to attract those diehards who have been hanging on to their old Nokia phones until they drop them one time too many? Perhaps that's how the featurephone ends: not with a whimper, but with a bang on the floor.
It's Wednesday.
TheWinklevoss twins, the former Olympic rowers who famously alleged thatFacebook founder Mark Zuckerberg stole their website idea, have revealed plans to float a fund based on the digital currency Bitcoins.Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust would initially sell $20m of shares, with each share worth a fraction of a Bitcoin, a filing with US regulator theSecurities and Exchange Commissionshowed.Bitcoins are a form of electronic money not managed by a single company or government. They are "mined" by people anywhere in the world setting up their computers to compete to solve a complex computing problem for a reward of Bitcoins. Their release is tightly controlled, mimicking a central banking system's control over the minting of money. The system will allow only 21m Bitcoins to exist – by gradually decreasing the size of the "mining" reward.The value of a Bitcoin has been extremely volatile since the start of the year, rising from $13 in January to a peak of $266 in April and back down to about $100 last week.Bitcoins have been touted by some as the future of money and gained in prominence during the eurozone sovereign debt crisis as more people questioned the safety of holding their cash in a bank.But others dismiss the currency as a Ponzi scheme, and authorities worry about its lack of regulation and possible use in money laundering. In May, US authorities seized two accounts linked to a major operator in the Bitcoin digital currency market.Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, whose feud with Zuckerberg was portrayed in the fictionalised 2010 filmThe Social Network, have amassed nearly $11m worth of Bitcoins, according to a report in the New York Times in April.The identical twins settled the suit with Facebook in a 2008 deal for cash and stock then valued at $65m.
