I received Microsoft .NetFramework 1.1 Service Pack 1 as an automatic update. Whenever I try to install it, it keeps telling me "The update could not be installed". The icon in the taskbar keeps reappearing.Wolfgang HarlesSometimes updates won't install because of problems with the version you already have installed. The simplest approach is probably to use Add/Remove Programs to uninstall .Net 1.1 and reinstall it from afresh download.However, version 1.1 came out in 2003 and is out of date. It would be better to install .Net version 3, which includes new technologies shipped with Windows Vista. If you go to Windows Update (windowsupdate.microsoft.com) and click Custom, this will check your PC and it should appear as a recommended update.There is a minor update for .Net 3 (see KB932471), which you can ignore, but version 3.5 is now being beta-tested.
I am running Windows XP Pro. I'd like to be able to use an old Windows 95 program, but it won't run.David LeahMost Windows 95 programs will work providing you set them to run in XP's compatibility mode: have a look at Microsoft Knowledge Base article 292533 for details. If not, you can download a free "virtual machine" (VM) system and run a separate copy of Windows 95 as a "guest" on your current PC.VMware's Player 2.0is a good free example, but seethisfor "known issues" with Windows 95.Microsoft also has a free VM and a helpful Virtual PC Guy blog for tips (blogs.msdn.com/virtual_pc_guy). Unfortunately, Microsoft has now dropped Windows 95 support due to diminishing usage. It might work, but you're on your own.
Clive Barker's Jerico: absolutely not suitable for little 'uns.The US 'Non-partisan' research and information group,National Institute on Media and the Family, has released its 12th Annual MediaWise Video Game Report Card, focusing on efforts to educate parents and retailers about M rated games - and why kids really oughtn't be playing them. The group carried out a survey of gaming habits among children in the States and made some predictable discoveries. From the press release:The poll also showed that of the kids who play video games, one in five reported that their parents never play any of the games with them. This may be one of the causes contributing to the fact that almost half (49%) of young players (8-12 years old) and most young teens (78%) admit to playing M-rated (Mature) video games.There were other interesting findings too - my favourite being, "Some churches and libraries host video game tournaments with popular M-rated (Mature) video games, like Halo 2, to recruit youth to use public libraries and participate in church activities". Say Halo to Jesus! Frag for forgiveness!The survey also suggested that more parents understand TV ratings than videogame ratings. Why? To be honest, I'm tired of the enduring confusion in this area. TheEntertainment Software Rating Boardhas been providing clear instructive icons for games in America since1994. Yet the industry is mildly rebuked in the report card for becoming complacent. No wonder ESRB president Patricia Vance seemed exasperated whenshe told CNN, "At a time of year when parents are looking for helpful guidance about video games, this year's report card does little more than sow unwarranted doubt about effective tools like ESRB ratings".Anyway, the group also listed ten games that Santa shouldn't be handing out to kiddies this Christmas and also ten that were suitable. Here are both lists:Games NOT suitable for your children and why (explanations provided by me):1. Assassin's Creed (stabbing) 2. Call of Duty 4 (shooting) 3. Conan (loin cloths) 4. The Darkness (gangland monsters) 5. Jericho (Clive Barker) 6. Kane and Lynch: Dead Men (not very good) 7. Manhunt 2 (murder) 8. Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles (zombies) 9. Stranglehold (balletic violence) 10. Time Shift (gratuitous time manipulation)Games you CAN leave your kids in front of while you sleep off that third helping of turkey:1. FIFA Soccer 08 2. Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock (Teen) 3. Hannah Montana: Spotlight World Tour 4. Madden NFL 08 5. Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games 6. Need for Speed Pro Street (10+) 7. The Sims 2: Castaway (Teen) 8. Super Mario Bros 3 9. Super Mario Galaxy 10. Viva PiñataApart from a couple of notable exceptions this selection has the added bonus of putting children off videogamesfor the rest of their natural lives.
MTV, formerly known as a music video channel, has announcedGermanandAsianpartnerships with 10Tacle Studios to create a virtual world. The "music" network already has substantial proof of concept in this space, having successfully brought two of its properties - Virtual Laguna Beach and Virtual Hills - to theThere.complatform. Does this signal a move away from the Makena Technology company?From the release:Starting in 2008, the multi-user 3D online world will give Internet users access to, among other things, the classic content offered by the MTV Group, while offering a large number of online games. 10TACLE STUDIOS AG, Europe's largest developer and producer of high-end computer and video games, will handle the technical implementation and operation of the multi-user 3D online world. MTV, whose popular content is available on all platforms relevant to its target groups, such as TV, online, broadband and mobile, will be responsible for target group communication and the editorial preparation of the content.Another company which has invested impressive time and energy into their own virtual platform is IBM, whose internal 3D space has produced, among other things, a series ofguidelines for virtual world behaviour.Intriguing. But virtual world historians may argue thatwe've seen it all before.
Advertising - particularly for money (as in, people trying to lend you money so they can take much more off you later) gets sneakier and sneakier.Take theBlog Readability Testsite, for example. (Actually, don't. Read on first.) You can enter your blog's address and be told about what level of reading comprehension it takes to read the blog. (This one - I'll save you the trouble - is "college undergrad". Nothing to detain us there, apart from wondering about the algorithms.)And then you get some nice HTML code to paste in your blog page. Nice and easy, eh?The HTML goes like this: img style="border: none;" src="http://www.criticsrant.com/bb/readinglevel/img/college_undergrad.jpg" - basically, an "college undergrad" JPG.But what happens if the image can't be served? Ah, then of course the image defaults to its ALT. And what would that be?"alt="cash advance" Get a Cash Advance."And the linked URL for "cash advance": cashadvance1500.com - owned, it seems, by .. someone who doesn't want you to know who they are (it's all obscured by proxies. Which all the best financial companies do, of course.)And the owner of the Blog Readability site? Not very clear. It's found in a directory of theCritics Rant site.Now, what happens if the Blog Readability site goes offline, or stops serving its pictures? Loads of people suddenly have adverts for cashadvance1500 on their site.What I find most odd about this is that there's no link from the front of the Critics Rant site to the "blog readability" thing. NowthatI find really odd.Even odder, if you search for "Blog Readability" from the front page of Critics Rant you get.. 0 results.What can be going on? Why doesn't Critics Rant link to this? Where did it start? Something about this makes my journalistic whiskers tingle. I've dropped a line to the Critics Rant people. Meanwhile, can anyone find the first mention of this "blog readability" thing?
AppleInsiderhas picked up a story fromDigiTimesin Taiwan about suppliers shipping "notebook-use LED backlight units (BLUs) for industry heavyweights Dell and Apple, with shipments to each supplier expected to soar in the near-term".LED BLU screens are typically used for 7in digital photo frames and portable DVD players, and in the subnotebook market. The increasing availability of these 7in screens underlay Microsoft's attempt to bump-start aUMPCmarket with Origami. (I'd assume the OLPC uses one.)AppleInsider says:Though often referred to as an 'ultra-portable,' the upcoming Apple notebook design was revealed by AppleInsider earlier this year to have been built around a 13.3-inch LED backlit display, rather than 12.1-inch display or one smaller. The 13.3-inch LED BLU orders mentioned by DigiTimes are expected serve an initial manufacturing ramp of the notebook early next year.This sounds like the kind of machine that fits in what PC manufacturers call thethin-and-lightcategory, which is different from handhelds, ultramobiles, tablets, subnotebooks, notebooks, laptops, desktop replacements, gaming notebooks, toughbooks and so on. Most of these are markets where Apple does not compete; it has never offered a subnotebook PC.If the new machine is about an inch thick, weighs around 3lbs (less than 2kg) and has no CD/DVD drive then it might be better described as an ultraportable, though technically a 13.3in screen is slightly too big. (Ultraportables typically have 10.6 to 12.1in screens.) It will definitely be too big to qualify as a subnotebook (ie significantly smaller than a 11 x 8.5in Compaq LTE, which defined the notebook format in 1989), though a subnotebook Mac would be nice....
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The US 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco has revisited the case launched byPerfect 10 Inc, which complained about Google using thumbnails of its pictures without permission. TheLA Timesreports:The justices ruled that a larger public interest in searching for information -- or, in this case, images of partially clad women -- amounted to a "transformative use" that trumped Perfect 10's copyright claims.Also:The court overturned part of a ruling by the US District Court in Los Angeles, which had found that Google's thumbnail-sized images of Perfect 10's nude models constituted infringement. The lower court imposed an injunction barring the use of the images, but the appeals court invalidated that decision.That sounds like a sensible decision, as well as a triumph for searchkind.It seems to me that if Perfect 10 doesn't want its images indexed, it shouldn't put them on the open web. Or else it should figure out how to use arobots.txtfile....Update: As CSClark helpfully points out in a comment below: "The case involved pictures which were in a password-protected part of the P10 site and so were not included in Google's search, but which had been republished without permission by third-party sites and indexed by Google from there -- and if you clicked on the thumbnails you would be taken to the third-party infringing site, not P10."But I still don't see the sense in suing Google. There's no reason to make a company thatsearchesthe web responsible, in effect, forpolicingthe web. If P10 gets the republished work taken down then it will automatically disappear from Google's index....
This one scores high on the Richter Scales. In this case, theRichter Scalesis "a group of technology, finance and other professionals in San Francisco. We all have similar backgrounds in a cappella with not enough time to do more," according toMatt Hempey.They havemore on YouTube.
The latest Xbox Live update has launched today. Unlike the PS3, which seems to need updating every time you glance over at it, the 360 is patched far less often. So today's update is fairly big news for 360 owners. The update includes new downloads of original Xbox games (Halo, Psychonauts, Crimson Skies etc); a Facebook style ability to look at the friends of your friends; and, perhaps most excitingly, "enhanced video codec support" which allows you to play your DivX movies. I'll try it out tonight - hopefully the ability to get rid of the demos and XBLA trials in your gamer profile has been included - but if anyone has already updated then please post your impressions in the comments.
The Independent Games Festival hasannouncedthe finalists of their 10th annual awards ceremony taking place at the Games Developers Conference in February. There's a powerful showing from the UK in theStudent Awardscategory, with Bournemouth and Worcester both eyeing the prize, and an international flavour to the competition in general.If you want to put money down, front runners includeThe World of Goofrom 2dboy, a "physics-based/construction game", Electroplankton/Rez/Vib Ribbon-alikeAudiosurffrom Invisible Handlebar andFez, a 2D Nintendo-style side scrolling platformer, from Kokoromi.The rest of the finalists - including links to the games - arehere.In other indie news,Wiredhas coverage of games that come in small packages (less than 256 pixels in each!) fromKokoromi's Gamma256 festivalin Montreal, Canada, including the five minute journey through life inThe Passageto the Tetris-meets-Modern Art puzzlerMondrian Provoked.Finally, for those who want to get their 'brews on but want to take the fruits of their spoils on the go, Nintendo's finallytaken its first step into the indie market. MCV covers DS Vision, a product which uses MicroSD cards to upload and save personal content on the Nintendo DS. From the article:Though this is a world away from the illicit endeavours of R4-based hackers, it does mark a big first step into the homebrew market for Nintendo - and opens the door for possible platform holder-backed homebrew content in the future.Woot!
London used to be famous for its "peasoupers", fogs so thick that you literally couldn't see your feet or people around you. The cause was the soot and smoke from chimneys in the capital, allied to a fog.Clear air legislation got rid of the peasouper (though don't forget that even in the 1950s thick fogs were still killing people in Britain's capital). Now we face a much more subtle pollution: carbon dioxide and other greenhouse emissions, which are increasing the amount of the sun's heat that is trapped in the atmosphere. (Without it we'd be Mars. With too much of it, we'd be Venus.)But CO2 is invisible; it's hard to make people think it does anything. So the Victorian government commissioned an ad which simply asked "what if you could see it?"George Monbiotsuggests todaythat in the UK we would need to cut our CO2 emissions by more than 95% - that is, to one-twentieth - of their current levels to allow for population growth while avoiding the rise in CO2 levels that would lead to irreversible effects.Craig Venter was on the radio this morning talking about genetically-engineered bacteria that might sequester CO2 (though I'd worry about them going out of control.. don't we need a certain amount of CO2 to regulate breathing?); but as the presenter pointed out, we have organisms which do this quite well at present - they're called "plants".So - has the balloon gone up? Would making CO2 visible or costly make a difference?
A most amusing post onGoogle's Gmail blogsays: "Today, we're happy to announce the next evolution of labels: the colored label." Which is nice.Even more interesting, there's a hint that those of us who would really prefer folders might be making some progress. There's a PS that says: "We actually kinda like folders. In fact, we're doing some work to add some folder-y-ish functionality. Stay tuned."But the post also says: "Out of the email primordial ooze, Gmail was born with evolutionarily advantageous features like threaded conversations." This is more silly than funny. Back before most Googlers were born, we had conferencing systems likeCoSythat threaded conversations with hundreds of users, and this enabled the same features in mail clients such asAmeol. (I've been on the CoSy-basedCix conferencing systemsince about 1987.) In comparison, the "threading" in Gmail is so crude it's pathetic.By the way, some bug-fixes would be nice. Adding colours to labels would be fine if basic things like Gmail's email address entry actually worked properly. (Bitter? Moi?)Update: During travels with my notebook, I note with pleasure that the bug in "new Gmail" that led to spurious entries when emailing more than one person has now been fixed. Hurray! I'll post something later on "proper threading" in conferencing systems where there are multiple users, and just creating a fake conversation between two users doesn't cut it.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Further confirmation, if needed, that your innocent looking games console is in fact an ever growing media hub for your home. Microsoft have just announced that the Xbox LIVE Marketplace Video Store will launch in the UK on December 11th. 360 owners will be able to download films like 300 and Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone for around £2 (250 points) for the standard and £3 (380 points) for the - far more interesting - High Definition version.Other potential launch titles - the list could change before the 11th - include:300 HARRY POTTER AND THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS ZODIAC MATRIX, THE MATRIX REVOLUTIONS, THE MATRIX RELOADED, THE OCEAN'S ELEVEN PERFECT STORM, THE SWORDFISH THREE KINGS TRAINING DAY FUGITIVE, THE RISKY BUSINESS SPACE COWBOYS EYES WIDE SHUT ANALYZE THIS DEMOLITION MAN ERASER EXECUTIVE DECISION LETHAL WEAPON 3 LETHAL WEAPON 4 LOONEY TUNES: BACK IN ACTION MARS ATTACKS! CLASH OF THE TITANS SUPERMAN III DEAD CALMWhat do you think then? Tempted? I'm certainly going to download some of these in HD but the service clearly needs TV shows and a wider range of films before it really excites. But High Definition Matrix and Mars Attacks? Yes please.
If motorists' experiences of the vagaries of satellite navigation systems are any guide, history seekers could find themselves up to their necks in the Black Death when they really wanted Merlin and the flying sarsen stones of Stonehenge.A system launching today offers a scholarly supplement to the usually tedious but useful satnav information about speed cameras and mini-roundabouts. Add in the British history road tour, and at the mere shadow on the horizon of a Norman castle or a prehistoric  burial mound, a soft female voice will cut in with some more interesting suggestions."Turn left at the Battle of Hastings, bear right at the Peasants Revolt, keeping Capability Brown-the-village-drowner on your right, and straight on for Shakespeare the deer poacher," she may murmur, and then, more urgently: "Turn back, you have come too far, you are now heading for the Wars of the Roses, turn back now!"The system, invented by Daniel Taylor, an amateur historian, provides software which can be loaded on to conventional satnav equipment, and is designed to seduce the motorist away from the shortest point from A to B, by including a diversion to one of 600 castles, parklands, battlefields, monuments and stately homes."We are increasingly oblivious to what lies beyond the motorway fringe and the retail park," he said.Research for his company, RoadTour, suggests that 10% of 18-24-year-olds have heard of Stonehenge, but would strike out east, looking for it in Norfolk rather than Wiltshire, probably via the A1.Almost 40% of all those questioned located Hadrian's Wall in Scotland, including 29% of Scots.More forgivably, a quarter placed Leeds Castle in Yorkshire when it is one of the jewels of Kent, and a slightly higher percentage set Chatsworth House, ancestral home of the Duke of Devonshire, in Devon instead of in Derbyshire.The system provides 90-second snippets of information about the sites, including the story about landscape gardener Capability Brown, who drowned a village in Wiltshire at the behest of his aristocratic client to create the park at Bowood House; that the young William Shakespeare was beaten by Sir Thomas Lucy for stealing venison from Charlecote; and the legend that Merlin flew the building blocks of Stonehenge from Ireland, without the aid of satnav.
As any amateur knows, learning to tune a guitar can seem as tricky and time-consuming as learning to play like Eric Clapton. Now guitar manufacturers Gibson are removing that hurdle by launching the world's first self-tuning instrument.Using robotic technology, the &pound;1,400 Gibson Les Paul can detect when a string has fallen out of pitch and correct it immediately. The manufacturer says it will reduce tuning problems for novices and professional performers.Scores of famous musicians are already Gibson fans including Slash from Guns N'Roses, Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page, Lenny Kravitz and Sir Paul McCartney.The company expects its latest model to find a ready market.Gibson Guitar's chairman and chief executive, Henry Juszkiewicz, said: "We expect the Gibson Robot Guitar to sell out within hours and have been taking reservations for orders as fast as we can answer the phone lines."Mike Peters from The Alarm demonstrates the guitar today at its launch in London but it will not go on sale to the public until Friday at 400 Gibson dealers worldwide. A maximum of 10 will be available in each store.The guitar uses a device in the bridge that monitors the pitch of the strings.  Motorised tuners automatically adjust the strings.The guitar is the first of its kind to have tuning presets which musicians can switch to by pushing a button as they play.  If successful, it is thought other guitar manufacturers will follow.The company, which is based in Nashville, Tennessee, was founded in 1902 by Orville Gibson, who originally made mandolins.A giant replica Gibson guitar owned by McCartney fetched &pound;60,000 at auction last month. At the same charity sale Ronnie Wood's guitar sold for &pound;11,000, while Paul Weller's, designed by Sir Peter Blake, reached &pound;8,000.
Okay, I know I'm on tricky territory with these comparative sales stories - you may recall my 'gap decreases between Wii and PS3' debacle (I'm not providing a link to it on purpose). However, this one seems straightforward enough. Last Friday, Reutersreportedon figures from magazine publisher Enterbrain showing that PS3 outsold Wii in Japan during November. Apparently Sony's machine shifted 183,217 units while Nintendo's managed just 159,193.Pundits aren't seeing this as the beginning of a sustained fightback however - "It's nice to see the system selling much better than six months ago. But is it a sustainable trend? Is it going to really escalate from here? I'm not so sure," said KBC Securities analyst Hiroshi Kamide, really earning his money there.More specifically, with Wii Fit launched in Japan over the weekend, it looks like Sony's mini victory is likely to be shortlived. When the sort of people who were impressed by the possibility of playing tennis with a remote control find out that they can now stand on a plank and head imaginary footballs, Wii will once again be top dog.
Well, things haven't developedmuchover the weekend. It seems no-one outside of the room that Jeff Gerstmann was allegedly sacked in knows what really happened. However, now that the excrement has hit the furiously spinning blades, no-one fancies taking responsibility either. CNET initially released a statement celebrating Gamespot's "unbiased reviews" but refusing to comment on the status of employees, sacked or otherwise. Later there was an addition in which a CNET spokespersontold Joystiq, "we do not terminate employees based on external pressure from advertisers." Nice use of the word 'terminate' there.Meanwhile, an Eidos 'insider' waswhipsering to gossip site VallyWagthat the company was "freaking out" over the affair. Top management there, "sincerely believes they didn't prompt CNET to fire Gerstmann," claims the article. Well, that's the sort of thing you'dprobablyremember. Although, I can imagine them buzzing through to a PA: "Janice, last week, did I order CNET to sack a popular member of the Gamespot staff because their opinion of a game invoked our corporate wrath?... No? Okay, just checking".Joystiqalso talked to Gertsmann himself, who said he was shocked by what had happened, that he stood by his work, but that he wouldn't provide more details, "for legal reasons". Is that the galloping hooves of litigation I hear?Finally, as one of our readers pointed out, VirtualFools has alist of blog commentsfrom other Gamespot contributors, which are equally as obtuse and unrevealing as everything else in this sorry tale.In the background, there are counter-theories forming. The fact that the review was updated to include missing details of the multiplayer elements of the game, plus thediscoverythat Gerstmann had only unlocked six achievements via his own gamertag has ledsometo suggest that he may have been removed for not playing the game enough. Another inside sourcemade similar accusations. Gertsmann, of course, denies it all, claiming to have played the game to the end (which, given my knowledge of game reviewers, is the most shocking statement so far).What on earth will happen next?Update:I should have pointed out - as reader txsamurai does in the comments section - that games writers often carry out reviews on machines at work rather than at home. This possibly explains the lack of achievement points on Gerstmann's Xbox account. Coincidentally, this also explains why my Gamerscore is so embarrassingly low.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ivan Krstićreportsthat "This week, Uruguay became the first-ever real, non-pilot deployment site of OLPC XO laptops. And I was there to hand out the first one." He says:The OLPC deployment here is being run as part of Proyecto Ceibal (Ceibo is the national flower of Uruguay), a presidential initiative to equip each child with a laptop. The Ceibal offices are housed in a Montevideo complex called LATU, or Laboratorio Tecnológico del Uruguay, which is a public/private sector cooperative technical lab now responsible for much of Uruguay's technical certification and quality control programs, as well as serving an incubator role for various engineering and technical projects.He has lots of photos (there's one above) to tell the story....
Deutsche Grammophon, part of Universal, has launched awebshopto sell its unrivalled catalogue of classical music in MP3 format. These come without "Digital Rights Management (DRM), as part of Universal Music Group's ongoing market trials of DRM-free downloads". Thepress releasesays:Among the highlights of the DG Web Shop are almost 600 album titles which are no longer available as CDs - these have been specially converted into MP3 files for the DG Web Shop, making them available as downloads - with more out-of-print titles to follow. The goal is to digitize all the great Deutsche Grammophon recordings to be accessible for download - a treasure of music history, always available.Prices are usually $/€10.99 and $/€11.99, with the extra $/€1 bringing an "e-booklet" of cover-art, photographs, and liner notes. DG says:Almost 2,400 DG albums will be available for download in maximum MP3 quality at a transfer bit-rate of 320 kilobits per second (kbps) - an audio-level that experts agree is indistinguishable from CD quality audio; and which exceeds the usual industry download-standard of 128-192 kbps (as well as EMI's 256 kbps on iTunes).Stereophiletalked to Jonathan Gruber, vice president of new media, classics and jazz at Universal, and pointed out that: "the constant bit-rate (CBR) 320kbps resolution ... is still less than Red Book quality" (ie CD standard). Gruber replies:We felt we had to offer the best we could, keeping the balance between highest quality downloads without sacrificing too much in terms of download speed right now -- and there are inter-operability issues with some of the lossless formats. However, we have plans. It will take a while, but we will be offering some projects in better than CD quality. It's not just a question of what we can do, it's a question of everything down the line, from the pipeline to the devices the files are stored and played on.Ideally, DG should be offering better-than-cd (ie SACD or master tape) quality in a lossless format. I'd buy that, almost regardless of cost. However, $/€10.99-$/€11.99 is not far off the average cost of second-hand back cataglogue CDs from other sources, and it's easier than combing eBay. And for American buyers who face import prices, it's often a huge discount.
There's a sinking feeling you get when someone in Tokyo or San Francisco takes ages to answer the phone and - too late - you realise you have just woken them up at 4am. Or worse, you've dialled the number incorrectly and woken a perfect stranger. Fortunately I haven't done either this century thanks toWorld Clockaka time and date.com. It makes phoning overseas - or phoning home - simple.London callingSuppose you want to call someone in Hong Kong, right now. The World Clock page has an alphabetical list of cities (you can search for more) and tells you the current time in each one. From the Hong Kong page, follow the link that says: "See how to dial to Hong Kong," select where you're calling from, and paste in the phone number.Dialling from London, I paste in the local number of the Foreign Correspondents' Club (2521 1511) to reach an old friend. The site says: "Result, dial: 00 852 2521 1511". This includes the international prefix when dialling out of the UK (00) and the international code for Hong Kong (852). If the result isn't what's expected, for example if there are the wrong number of digits, the site will warn you.Telephonic faux pasHong Kong is 8 hours ahead of London - long enough to cause a potential telephonic faux pas - so I click the link for the World Clock meeting planner. This brings up a column of London and Hong Kong times, listed side by side. Some are marked in red (10pm to 6am), when it would be antisocial to call, some in green (8am to 5pm) and the rest in yellow. This makes it easy to find the time slot when both columns are green and a call will be mutually acceptable. Basically, it tells me I'd best call at 8am-9am in London, when it will be 4pm-5pm in Hong Kong.Yes, I could work all this out the hard way, but why bother? Also, the meeting planner really comes into its own if you want to set up a conference call for three or four people in different time zones.You might think time and date.com was created by some giant global corporation, but nothing could be further from the truth. It was started as a hobby by Steffen Thorsen in 1995, when he was studying computing at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. He now has two young children but is still expanding the site.Moonrises and moonsetsAlthough I've concentrated on the World Clock, Thorsen has added lots of features, including wind and weather information for the various cities. The site provides calendars for any year, and also has various date calculators. For example you can set up countdowns to specific dates and times, perhaps for a product launch or a child's birthday. You can find sunrises and sunsets, and moonrises and moonsets. You can even calculate the distances between cities and show the route between them on aday-and-night world map.And if you want answers to questions such as "What day will it be in 100 days?", "When will I be 20,000 days old?" or "How old would Elvis be today?" then time and date.com is definitely the place to go.
Nothing like a Monday morning merger story. Hang on, stay with me, this is big news. Activision (Call of Duty, Tony Hawks) and Vivendi (Blizzard, Crash, Spyro) have merged to form a new company called Activision Blizzard. You can read all the detailshereandhere. The deal is worth $18.9 billion and the newly formed company will overtake Electronic Arts to become the biggest games publisher. So why did it happen? You can factor in the usual reasons such as skyrocketing development/publishing costs but clearly Blizzard was a key component - Vivendi's other brands, such as FEAR and Crash Bandicoot aren't exactly in the same league. World of Warcraft - Blizzard's flagship product - has over nine million subscribers and brings in substantial subscription revenue. Could the tie-up with Activision lead to WoW finally appearing on the consoles?
We don't have room to put all yourletters and blog pingbacks in print, but we do here. There's a lot of interest in Amazon's Kindle, a computing museum, and an echo about an Apple insulin pump...KINDLING SOMETHINGI would like to see a followup article on whether the Kindle can be used in the UK or the rest of the world. The Sony Reader works well in Europe. I have asked, and been told content bought for kindle can be downloaded to PC from Amazon and then transferred to Kindle. But can Kindle be registered without the American wireless connection? Unless the Kindle is registered, then it is not possible to open the encrypted content. George Fisher (no post town given)&gt;&gt; despite some interesting features its the same old "lock em in" model at work here with the unique twist that the content will be updated using embedded mobile phone technology to update the proprietary format data. The business model here is that users pay, not for the data transfer, but for a 'reasonable' subscription for whatever digital book, magazine or newspaper feeds that are participating in Amazon's scheme.http://www.auricle.org/&gt;&gt; Will their analogy to music really work? I'm not sure. I still want to hold a book when I read and flip pages, and even smell the paper. It might be worth considering though now that everyone's going green - environmentalists will love this product. I'm not sure ebooks will fly as well. They have been around for awhile but they haven't really stood out as a replacement for the real tangible book. And I doubt they ever will. For some reason, being published in print is just not the same [as] being published online.http://iwannapublish.blogspot.com/HACKING SKY+&gt;&gt; I saw [Paul Kinsler's] picture and I laughed long and hard. I should point out, I did not laugh at his appearance, he looks a fine specimen of a man, no no no, I laughed at the fact that he is a proper IT dude as he still wears his mobile phone on his belt!http://www.10yetis.co.uk/yetiblog/GAMING TO KILLI was interested to read the article on the convergence between gambling and video games (Pay-per-kill shooters combine online gambling with gaming, November 22). In other countries, video game technology has been used in gambling products for a number of years (such as some of Loto Quebec¹s lottery products in Canada). Conventional wisdom says that two things have the power to drive consumer technology - sex and gambling. These activities helped satellite and cable television, video, and the Internet. They will also be increasingly used by the video game industry. The successful operators will be those that Omobilise¹ and then Omonetise¹ within online communities. Given this type of gambling falls outside the new Gambling Act, this is an area that will need monitoring in terms of social responsibility by the operators. Dr Mark Griffiths, Professor of Gambling Studies, International Gaming Research Unit, Nottingham Trent UniversityA MUSEUM FIT FOR A COLOSSUSCan I suggest that an appeal be set up for items to be donated to such a museum? My husband, a structural engineer working in research in the 1960s, was using a computer at that period. He had to book time at London University, and take along a box of punch cards, carefully pre-prepared. I am now sorting out his books, papers, etc. and am sure we have several items that would be of interest to such a museum, as and when it might be set up. But there must be other people of our generation, clearing out belongings, and unless we know where to donate them, they are likely to end up on the recycling site. Valerie Booth, RichmondJack Schofield's article on the fantastic work of Bletchley Park and their desire to set up a National Computer Museum ignores the work that museums are already doing in this area. If museums did just present 'disembodied chunks of old machines' (November 22) without trying to preserve working systems or the historical context of computer use, it would undeniably be tragic. Luckily this is not the case. The Science Museum built and regularly demonstrates Charles Babbage's Difference Engine No.2, and fortnightly we run, with the support of the Computer Conservation Society, the oldest working computer in the world: the Ferranti Pegasus machine that was the workhorse of the industry from 1956. We support, and indeed founded along with the British Computer Society and the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester, the Computer Conservation Society. This society works to preserve historic computers, develop awareness of the history of computing, and encourage research. The society currently has working parties, in London and at Bletchley Park, to restore the Elliott 401 computer from 1953 and the Elliott 803 machine from the 1960s. The Science Museum holds world class collections in the history of computing, including manuals, software and in some cases films to support our understanding of the objects. Our forward plan includes a gallery to showcase these collections in an environment that enthuses our 2.4 million visitors annually in the development of computing technology and its relevance in our lives today. Dr Tilly Blyth, Curator of Computing and Information, Science MuseumTHE DAB-ATE GOES ONMusicians possessing a £1m Stradivarius violin would not be euphoric at hearing it played on DAB. Pop audiences have no ear for tonality, high disco and car audio MP3 decibels having already impaired their hearing; their opinions on tone quality are no more useful than those of a donkey on fine varieties of strawberries. It is sad that Radio 3 and FM Radio are taking advantage of the disabled in this way, John Tyldesley, PrestonBROADBAND CRUNCHYou said in "Broadband suppliers face a crunch time too) that "I can't think of anyone who's ever managed to make money from people on both sides of a transaction that they're in the middle of." Auctioneers - the ultimate middle-man. Seller pays and buyer pays. And if it does not stretch the analogy too far, what is an ISP. Taking stuff in at one end (content providers) and getting it to buyers (broadband users) at the other end. Unlike the auctioneers, though the ISP has no knowledge of what the "stuff" is, or how much of it will be offered for sale, until after the event - which is why (I hope) they will never be able to get paid by content providers as well as users. George Andrew, Reigate&gt;&gt; Auctioneers (buyer &amp; seller premiums) and Supermarkets (forced subsidy on promotions) get money from both sides GUCommenter on the Guardian siteWHAT'S BURNING?&gt;&gt; I've been demanding it for years and finally they're making some progress! Yes, the smoke detector that ignores burning toast! That's got to be the best invention for ages. Why can't they invent more proper stuff like that? A television that pauses itself when you look away or lose focus for too long, that's got to be on the list.http://scatterkeir.blogspot.com/SPIT &amp; POLISH&gt;&gt; In an article for the Guardian, Nick Carr explores possibilities in front of 23andMe, a DNA startup related somehow to Google. Some ideas: social network based on genetic similarity, or genetically targeted ads. Or at least selling the genome database, after some time. Ugh.http://blog.ogito.eu/&gt;&gt; It does kind of follow that commercial data bases will come out of this, and you gotta think the insurance companies, potential employers and who knows who else will be interested in getting their hands on the information. And despite any privacy safeguards that exist now, we'll have to think long and hard about whether and how we want that to happen. Anybody heard a political candidate addressing this?http://www.tlandini.com/VANITY PUBLISHING&gt;&gt; The term vanity publishing is misleading. Today there are several viable options for either bypassing publishers or collaborating with them on completely new terms. These create opportunities for small obscure titles to be printed and sold in addition to creating original and personalised gifts. Everything depends upon the level of service you desire. Handling everything from content, layout and marketing creates very cheap books but these books may be difficult for general readers to find but will provide a viable and important option for alternative publishing.http://www.digital-rights.net/EASIER MOBILESApropos recent letters about mobile phones which are suitable for older people: it is quite extraordinary that designers and manufacturers at large still feel that it is acceptable to exclude the several million people in this country with sight, fine motor skills, and other disabilities from being able to access and use the majority of mobiles and other ICT products. Why should they/we think that it's OK to essentially ignore the needs of a potentially vast market. Yes, it's a cut-throat business, but surely we have moved on from the 1950s, and these days there are laws designed to put a stop to disability discrimination. With all due respect to the RNIB and its efforts, for example, it's really not good enough for the industry to think it's done enough by offering just one or two usable products (which seem to me to be pretty overpriced anyway). From a grumpy old man (aged sixty and three quarters, who was first online in 1984). Mike George, LondonGOVERNMENT DATA (ALL KINDS)I was surprised to read the government is now considering the data it holds as worth billions, (Michael Cross, Public sector information 'worth billions', 15 November). It wasn't a surprise to realise this data should be valued in billions (I work in the data industry) but I was surprised to realise the public sector is beginning to view data in this way. The not-for-profit sector has often missed a trick of private enterprise by not appreciating the value of their data and not investing in it as they would any other strategic asset. If you maintain accurate and consistent records on customers, products and suppliers, this data can provide valuable intelligence. Through mining and analysis, it's possible to improve competitive performance, reduce operational costs and even to differentiate the organisation by offering more personalised service. I'm very encouraged by the Government's revaluing of public sector data and hope this will promote best practice, with services increasingly being provided to citizens as individuals - based on their personal requirements. Colin Rickard, Managing Director EMEA, DataFluxFree our data? What have you wrought? It was sad to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer declaring the missing CDs are "password protected" yet not "encrypted". I fear he has a feeble understanding of what these terms mean. We'll wait an eternity for our politicians to become literate in these matters, so one line the IT industry should come up with is better metaphors for politicians to grapple with. "Firewall" was a good metaphor, but it's a great shame "virus" is limited in scope to nasty things attached to emails. In fact all desirable data acts like a virus: copies are limitless and the original is not altered by being copied. Working practices modelled on those of medical isolation facilities could be a useful place to start. Some basic questions: * Are the personal and financial details of our political leaders and their children on the 2 missing CDs? Or are they not processed in the same systems as normal people, a distinction I understand is made in the NHS "Spine"? * Does Alistair Darling know what he is talking about when he says the data is "password protected" but not "encrypted"? Do the people at the NAO and know what these terms mean? * Darling said he hoped that the CDs might yet be recovered, as if that might itself be cause for relief, if not celebration. If they are recovered, and considering the world now knows the value of the data, how will anyone be able to tell if they have been copied? The physical state of the envelope? * Will government urgently pass a law against institutions cold-calling me, then asking me up-front a "security question" to "confirm my identity" before, presumably, trying to make me upgrade some service? Such a law would then need to be very well publicised. I've had two such calls in the last 3 months - I still don't know if they were genuinely from the institutions they purported to come from, since the caller refused to answer questions from me such as "What is your name?" At this time, millions of people are at severe risk of being asked "security questions" by fraudsters under the guise of, say, a bank wanting to discuss security matters. Laurence Penney, BristolAPPLE'S.. INSULIN PUMP?I think Apple should produce an insulin pump (Should Apple start making insulin pumps?, 12 April), a lot of people in the UK need them,yet the NHS are not funding them to all diabetics that do. A good looking, alternative colours for the wearer to make it fun and not a nightmare to wear and hide it from people. Has there been any decision on designing a pump? Laura Winter (no post town given) [Apple was never going to go into the medical devices market, for the reasons explained in the articleWhat Jobs told me on the iPhone, by a former Apple staffer - Tech. Ed.]
A scene from Guitar Hero 3, one of the most popular Activision titles. Photograph: PRFrench media conglomerate Vivendi is merging its computer games business with US-based rival Activision in an $18.9bn (£9.2bn) deal that will create the world's largest computer games company.The move brings together franchises including the world's most popular online game, World of Warcraft developed by Vivendi's Blizzard Entertainment, with Activision hits Guitar Hero and the Call of Duty and Tony Hawk franchises.The two companies, who have been in talks for over a year, hope to create a 'next generation digital entertainment company' from a deal which will see Vivendi hold 52% to 68% of a new company Activision Blizzard, that will leapfrog current market leader Electronic Arts, home to the Sims and Medal of Honor games.While traditional media such as film, TV and music struggles to adapt to the digital environment, computer games are increasingly making use of the ability to connect devices to the internet. Advertisers have also become interested in using computer game environments for their products as game franchises become more popular among key demographics - such as the young - than TV programmes and films.The global computer games market is estimated at more than $30bn (£14.6bn). Development costs, however, are rising because of the proliferation of gaming consoles - the XBox, Playstation 3 and Nintendo Wii - none of which has a commanding lead. Global sales of software for these next generation consoles are forecast to reach $13.9bn by 2009.The merger comes as these next generation devices move video game consoles from their traditional home in teenagers' bedrooms to the living room, with DVD players and internet connections increasingly making them the hub of the digital home.The surprise success of Nintendo's Wii, meanwhile, has greatly expanded the potential video game audience by boosting family gaming. At the same time, computer-based gamers are increasingly looking to play in online worlds such as World of Warcraft that bear more resemblance to social networking sites than traditional arcade games."Consumer engagement (with games) has changed, whether it's the impact of social gaming; or the Wii where the physical interface now invites an entirely new audience; or the type of community being built in World of Warcraft, that is much more of a social network experience," said Activision chairman and chief executive Robert Kotick. "It is not really just a video games company any more, this is the next generation digital entertainment company we are building."For instance Activision's popular Guitar Hero series, in which players use a guitar-style plug-in to play music could be expanded by using content from Vivendi's Universal Music catalogue, explained Vivendi Games chairman, Rene Penisson."Just thinking about how Guitar Hero can develop, it has to go to downloadable content and when you say downloadable content you say online and you think Blizzard and the fact that we are dominating the online area. When you say content you speak about Universal Music, it is such an obvious area for growth," he said.The latest instalment - Guitar Hero 3 - released in late October managed sales of more than $115m, or more than a third of the company's second quarter revenues, in its first week.The deal also gives Activision access to Vivendi's distribution and gaming network not only in Europe but in the Asia Pacific region where its World of Warcraft game has been highly popular."We become the world's largest, most profitable pure-play video game publisher, we touch every geography," added Kotick. This year the new company, which will be listed on Nasdaq, will have combined revenues of $3.8bn.Just last week Activision raised its quarterly earnings outlook as a result of strong sales of Guitar Hero and Call of Duty with analysts saying it had done well over the post-Thanksgiving shopping weekend.For Blizzard the deal will give management access to shares which it can use as incentives in an increasingly competitive market for game developing talent, according to its chief executive Mike Morhaime."From the Blizzard perspective, we are very excited about the partnership... one thing the deal does for Blizzard that really was not available to us before is give us access to a public currency that will really help us out with attracting talent and developer retention," he said.The mechanics of the deal have been complicated by the desire of management at Activision, which is listed on Nasdaq, to give shareholders the chance to sell at least half their holdings. Vivendi Games is being merged with Activision in return for 295.3m new Activision shares. Vivendi will also buy a further 62.9 m shares at $27.50 each giving it up to a 52% stake.After the deal, the new company will launch a $4bn share buyback at $27.50 allowing shareholders to sell out. That deal will be part-funded by Vivendi and if fully taken-up the French company will end up with a 68% stake.The deal is the latest consolidation within the computer games industry. Last month Warner Bros Home Entertainment Group bought TT Games, one of the world's largest independent game developers, and TT Games Publishing, the UK-based game publisher behind the Lego Star Wars videogames.Time Warner also has a 10% stake in UK-based SCi Entertainment Group, the owner of Lara Croft creator Eidos. SCi announced earlier this year that it was in takeover talks. Vivendi and Electronic Arts have been touted as potential buyers in the past but the most recent talks are understood to have been with France's Ubisoft, maker of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell.
Cognitive Dailyrecently "challenged ... readers to see if they could discern the difference between MP3 recordings at differentsamplingdata rates. Nearly 700 completed our study. So does a very high data rate result in a noticeable difference?"As the graph shows, most people could not tell the difference between 128kbps and 256kbps MP3 files: only 5% could. People who had bought their own speakers did slightly better, and people who said they were audiophiles did better with the rock sample (Santana) than with the orchestral test (Copland). However, the site says:We also asked listeners how much musical training they had. Though many respondents reported over 20 years experience, we found no significant correlation between music training and ability to discern the higher data rates.It's important to note that the test was run under a "Casual Fridays" tag: it doesn't pretend to be a serious lab test. However, I do think it's a pretty good indication of the reality of listening to encoded files on a personal computer.Personally, I'd have liked to see another file included in the tests: a WAV from the original CD. In my experience, reproduction flaws are more noticeable when I'm familiar with the original. The test found greater discrimination with the Santana sample, and I'd have expected it to be the other way around. I wonder if this is because more people are familiar with Santana than Copland.The other point is that rather than being purely a test of the difference between 128kbps and 256kbps MP3 files, it's also a test of the quality of PC audio. It's not that there are no differences, just that the reproduction chain isn't good enough to expose them. Play the same samples through a £2,000 hi-fi and I would expect more people to hear the difference.Consider a photographic analogy. If you take negatives taken on a Leica and a Box Brownie, and print them using a Coke bottle as an enlarger lens, you might well decide they were equally unsharp. They are not. The prints may be equally unsharp, but the negatives are not.This is, of course, where I part company with the pro-DAB lobby. Most DAB listeners have mediocre mono or near-mono tabletop radios, so it's no suprise if users thinkDAB sounds fine.Of course, any advertising claim that DAB as currently broadcast in the UK is "CD quality" is simply a lie. It's not even FM quality. The fact that someone can't tell the difference doesn't mean they're the same.
Citroen C-Crosser&pound;22,790Miles per gallon:39.2Seats:7Good for:Bad air daysBad for:Nasty staresHere's some disappointing news: since 2000, registrations of 4x4s in the UK have increased by 55 per cent. By the end of this year, 7.5 of every 100 new cars on the road will have the ability to drive off the road. That half point, perhaps, being explained by the fact that most of these vehicles seem half as big again as your regular car - bully boys with an unfair advantage in the ruthless daily land grab that used to be called motoring.But here's some slightly less disappointing news. Not all 4x4s, it seems, are created equal. Some are smaller, lighter, smarter and more economical than others. Cynics may argue that it's oxymoronic to label a 4x4 'eco friendly', yet carmakers will do anything to protect their bottom line, and if that includes producing a gas-guzzling earth stomper that uses less fuel, creates fewer emissions and has a more chivalrous attitude towards Mother Nature, then that's what they'll do.So let's welcome on to our crowded roads Citroen's 'new, friendly face of 4x4 motoring' and its first-ever SUV - the C-Crosser, a sensitive 'cross-dresser' in the thuggish 4x4 market. The 'friendly face' in this case has a double meaning. On the one hand it refers to the actual 'face' of the car. And yes, compared to the snarling, militaristic metal chops of most SUVs, the C-Crosser appears to be raising its wraparound headlamp eyes and wrinkling its chrome-chevroned nose in a Gallic shrug of bonhomie. But there's no disguising the height of that bonnet, the wide stance of its alloys and its swollen wheel arches. Officially, the C-Crosser is a 'medium-sized SUV', but when I saw it bulging over the white lines of a tight space in my local multistorey, it seemed to be suffering from a bad case of 'muffin top'.The friendly face also refers to the fact that the C-Crosser has green form. Would an eco-warrior choose to buy this car? No, of course not, but it's a start. The car is actually produced in association with Mitsubishi and is in most ways the same as its Outlander. It features the same slightly clunky but perfectly responsive 2.2-litre diesel and also a central dial which lets you switch from two- to four-wheel drive and back again. Did the ramps of the multistorey really call for 4WD to be selected? No, but I was taking no chances. The real benefit is that this device gives a laudable petrol-consumption figure of 40mpg. A figure which is higher than many saloon cars out there. The smart engine will also accept 30 per cent bio diesel, though you'll have to burn a lot of fuel crisscrossing the country looking for a garage which actually sells it.Internally, the car's as stylish and gadget filled as you'd expect from Citroen. It has a clever pair of folding back seats in the cavernous boot. To get into them, you simply flip the second row forwards by pressing a button, so the 4x4 is user friendly, too.If you are determined to add to the number of 4x4s on the road, the least you could do is make it a friendly one.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
I bought an unused iPod Shuffle from a friend, but three months on it will no longer charge up. Taking it back to the shop isn't an option, so how can I get it to work?I had the same problem, and thought I'd broken some internal electronics. It turned out to be a far simpler issue: the charging dock had broken. New shuffle docks are notoriously ropey, so test your iPod on another one. A replacement will cost around &pound;20.I want a portable reader, but when I tried to buy one online, I was told they ship only to the US. Any ideas?The idea of reading a book digitally might seem heresy to bibliophiles, but eBook readers are getting better all the time. The Sony PRS-500 Reader is one of the most popular, but if you can't get one from the US, try eBay, where they go for around &pound;150. Buying books can be tricky, though, since Sony's book store accepts only US credit cards.Another, more expensive option is the iRex Iliad (around &pound;450). It has a touchscreen and  built-in wifi - Libresco is its British distributor (iliadreader.co.uk). Some people swear by using their phones, which might be a cheaper option, but you'd probably prefer one with a big screen, a Palm Treo or iPhone, say.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Super Mario GalaxyNintendo WiiThe world's most popular videogame mascot returns, this time exploring a series of miniature galaxies, each with a set of tiny connected planetoids for Mario to discover. Proffering a set of immaculately judged challenges, Galaxy's levels are perfectly constructed gems. Using the Wii-mote to spin Mario, throw things, sweep up collectable "star bits" and engage in numerous other diversions, this game also features the first 3D camera that just works. With a neat drop-in 2-player mode, the ingenuity of its puzzles means no two challenges are the same and its constant playful use of gravity is yet another new idea. In structure and sheer joy value this is unquestionably the best platform game ever made.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;39.99Mass EffectXbox 360From the makers of the Star Wars licensed role-playing series, Knights Of The Old Republic, Mass Effect is more of the same, but bigger, much prettier and with no lightsabers in evidence. Spanning dozens of solar systems, the action takes place on a range of alien worlds as your hero (or heroine) becomes the first human inducted into secret service organisation, Spectre. The beautifully executed conversation system lets you interrupt people mid-sentence and make rapid decisions as to whether to be nice or nasty - familiar from the light and dark side points system in previous games - and the action is now significantly more fluid and intense, making it easier to get your party slaughtered through incaution or lack of the right sort of firepower. While graphically staggering, the game isn't a vast evolutionary leap in playing standards, although that's not to say this brand of poker-faced space opera isn't also highly compelling.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;44.99Kane And Lynch: Dead MenXbox 360, PS3, PCKane And Lynch: Dead Men is a narrative about a drugged-up psychopath caretaking a mercenary with days to live, in a brutal and swear-heavy, comedy-free double act whose only job is to carry out the wishes of shadowy organisation, The 7. This reduces to a series of blockbuster movie-style shoot-outs, car chases and, eventually, a trip to a full-on war zone. Made by IO Interactive, creators of the bestselling Hitman series, this game demonstrates some of the same quirky inventiveness as well as suffering all of its flaws and more: wobbly, irritatingly inaccurate aiming, an infuriating inability to take cover behind objects and frankly suicidal friendly AI. By the time you reach your 20th attempt to take out a helicopter gunship while your squad wanders blindly into its mini-guns, you're on a direct route to hypertension. Despite the good intentions, Kane And Lynch: Dead Men ends up feeling rushed, half-baked and, at times, gratuitously silly.&#183;Eidos, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
Such is the dedication of TV investigative journalist Donal MacIntyre that while going undercover with a group of football hooligans several years ago he had the Chelsea badge tattooed on his arm. His latest assignment required less personal sacrifice of that sort. Instead, he simply spent three years living with a Mancunian crime family. As with the resulting film the website allows us to look inside the mind of city's criminal leader, Dominic Noonan. Here, his brain is divided into sections - much like those illustrations of cows in butcher shops, but with the words racism, revenge and betrayal instead of chops, shanks and rump - which link to short video clips that explain each one.JD
An immutable law of automobile design, which I've just made up: the easiest way to make any car less noticeable is to build an estate version of it. You wouldn't automatically think so, perhaps, given that the estate-making process tends to increase a car's size. But bulk can have its own anonymity, too, particularly if it takes the form of a yawn-inducing box where the boot used to go.In estate cars, function fights form and commonly whups its sorry ass. The Ford Focus? Nice car. The Ford Focus Estate? Practically invisible. The Skoda Octavia? Perky. The Skoda Octavia Estate? As perky as a skip. If Lamborghini produced an estate version of the Murci&eacute;lago, with a reversible, easy-clean floor mat, we would barely register it.Indeed, surveillance experts now believe the reason Osama bin Laden is proving so elusive is that he may have had himself retro-adapted at the back end and is going around in estate form. In which case, he may never be caught.Meanwhile, here's a new VW Golf Estate. It's a Golf with a mid-size warehouse unit added on, with all the romance that implies. It's less noticeable even than the Golf, which takes some doing these days, when the car that was once the undisputed &uuml;ber-hatchback must jostle glumly for kerb space with a raft of funkier knock-offs with cuter headlamps.Still, I can't get into any kind of Golf - old, new, extruded, compacted - without sentiment taking over. My first car was a Golf: pale blue, four doors, and with an extractable cassette player the size of a suitcase. Because its previous owner was a policeman, I was reassured to think that it couldn't have been thrashed, over-driven or abused in any way. I know, I know. The chances were the car had never known a cruising speed below 114mph before I got hold of it. Also that the brakes had been stamped to death by an off-duty copper's size 12 boot. But I was young.What I valuably learned, though, over a sun-dappled period of ownership, was that VW builds Golfs to be virtually bomb-proof. As a result, I would be happier to set off across a rutted field in a Golf, estate or otherwise, than in almost any of today's cheap, cosmetic urban 4x4s. True, you wouldn't have the same degree of under-car clearance, possibly complicating any unscheduled meeting that might arise with livestock. But it would be a racing certainty that fewer body panels would spring off and that the suspension wouldn't collapse and that, all in all, there would be more left of the Golf on the other side of the field than of the SUV.True to tradition, this new Golf Estate seems to be brilliantly solid, fabulously reliable and (because of the estate bit) heroically dull. But why not? After all, what does it mean to own a boring car? Merely, of course, that you are confident enough in your skin to be defined by things other than your choice of vehicle. Or, alternatively, in the case of the Golf Estate, that you are a former Sloane Ranger who has diversified into sandwich delivery. Either way, your car works.
The Superestwww.thesuperest.comTwo cartoonists compete to invent a superhero who cancels out the powers of the previous one.The Perry Bible Fellowshipwww.pbfcomics.comOnline homage to Nicholas Gurewitch's twisted world of suburban horror.Wonder Markwww.wondermark.comVintage Victorian comics given a sarcastic rewiring job (below).Basic Instructionswww.basicinstructions.netHow to apply videogame skills to real life and other alternative lessons in comic strip form.Matts And Brookwww.mattsandbrook.co.ukThe daily adventures of Nautical Jones and Johnny Crocodile Face.Bear Alleywww.bearalley.blogspot.comThe forgotten antics of the Clarks Commandos and the Bovril Brigade.
&middot;How manygin and tonics it would take to kill each of uswww.tinyurl.com/29dbld&middot;Earl Grey Tand the other top hip-hop acts of 18th-century Englandwww.tinyurl.com/25bevq&middot;What Sienna Millerand other celebs have been wearing this weekwww.whowhatweardaily.com&middot;How tomake your own lifesize Jabba The Hutwww.tinyurl.com/2gp9ky&middot;10 top tipsfor beating a lie detectorwww.tinyurl.com/yax6ep&middot;How todo30 impressive magic trickswww.tinyurl.com/26trk5&middot;Where towatch the coolest pop videoswww.colonelblimp.com&middot;Some album coversform a jigsaw with otherswww.tinyurl.com/yu9zwf&middot;The celebritywe most look likewww.myheritage.com&middot;The most unusualbooks in the worldwww.tinyurl.com/3x9n4u
Aleks Krotoskihas been the anchor of the Guardian's technology podcast since before the dawn of time – or at least 2007 (depending on the calendar you're using). She first came to public attention as a host on Channel 4's gaming show Bits and now spends her time thinking and writing about technology and interactivity.Charles Arthuris the Guardian's technology editor. During the dotcom boom his dogged approach saw him voted Fleet Street's most sceptical technology journalist. Oh, and what he doesn't know about tennis isn't worth knowing.Jemima Kissspends her days trawling the web for all things weird and wonderful as her role as guardian.co.uk's digital media correspondent. Loves: web stats, and avocados; Hates: voicemail and potholing. Jemima is currently on maternity leave.Bobbie Johnson, the Guardian's technology correspondent, gets to live in San Francisco – the lucky git. As a reporter at the heart of Silicon Valley, the main thing he's concerned with is trying to understand why Californians seem so obsessed with broccoli.Rick Wraydoesn't get much time to come into the pod to share his stories about the mobile phone and internet industries. But since he spends most of his time as the Guardian's telecommunications editor breaking stories, we'll let him off.Vic Keeganhas had pretty much every job at the Guardian since joining in 1963 – including a long stint as the editor of our Online section. These days Vic spends his time writing, painting and hanging around in virtual worlds for longer than most people would deem healthy.Kevin Andersonis the Guardian's digital research editor and a social media fanatic. A self-proclaimed hacker, he was previously Washington correspondent for BBC News Online.Jack Schofieldis the Guardian's long-standing computer editor – he helped launch Computer Guardian back in 1985 – and he's probably forgotten more than you'll ever know about the technology industry. So there.Greg Howsonhas been a video game reviewer for the Guardian since 1999, and is now a regular blogger. He loves Sensible Soccer but unfortunately that doesn't make being a Southampton FC fan any easier.Keith Stuartcovered the rise of the PlayStation generation with video game industry bible Edge magazine in 1996. He now works across a number of gaming and technology magazines and blogs for the Guardian.And how could we forget our producerScott Cawley? This Geordie kid mans the wheels of steel each week, herding the Tech Weekly cats and getting the show made. Specialist subject: Italo House.
A New Zealand teenager is facing a 10-year jail term after being accused of leading an international group of computer hackers called the A-Team that infiltrated more than a million computers worldwide and swindled their owners out of &pound;12.5m .The 18-year-old, working from his bedroom, is said to have collaborated with American associates in hijacking hundreds of thousands of computers around the world.The case is part of an international crackdown on hackers who create networks of computers known as "botnets" to access personal bank accounts, steal credit card information or bombard users with spam. Eight people have already been charged, pleaded guilty or have been convicted since the operation under the auspices of the FBI began in June and more warrants are pending in the US and overseas.The 18-year-old known only by his online identification AKILL, cannot be named because he was underage when the offences are alleged to have happened. He has cooperated with police in the North Island city of Hamilton, telling them how the crime system works, and was last night released on bail."He is very bright and hires out his skills to others," said Martin Kleintjes, head of the police electronic crime centre.He said possible charges against the teenager could involve having unauthorised access to computers and possessing computer hacking tools. Police allege the youth wrote software that evaded normal computer spyware systems and then sold his skills to hackers around the world.Hackers routinely send out viruses, worms and malicious Trojan horse programs which allow them to take control of a victim's machine. Using the internet to connect these "zombie" PCs, criminals are able to coordinate massive hi-tech strikes on particular targets.Linking together thousands - or even millions - of machines into a robotic network attackers can send out billions of spam emails or swamp their victim with unwanted internet traffic. Hackers often try to blackmail large web businesses, banks and other groups reliant on being connected to the internet, by threatening to overwhelm them with millions of simultaneous attacks.The New Zealand teenager is also suspected of being involved in crashing the University of Pennsylvania engineering school server in February 2006, along with 21-year-old Ryan Goldstein, who was charged earlier this month in the US. Officials said that the server, which usually handled about 450 daily requests for internet downloads, instead got 70,000 requests over four days. The FBI followed the trail and arrested Goldstein, who has pleaded not guilty, and then traced the New Zealand teenager.The arrest comes as part of the FBI's Operation Bot Roast II - the second phase of its campaign to tackle hackers who set up and run botnets for criminal gain."Today, botnets are the weapon of choice for cyber criminals," said FBI director Robert Mueller in a recent statement. "They seek to conceal their criminal activities by using third-party computers as vehicles for their crimes."Because they use zombie PCs to do their dirty work, the criminals are often virtually untraceable, said one expert."A lot of these guys consider it to be a victimless crime, but the thing they rely on is that the chances of being caught are very low," said Paul Vlissidis , of IT security company NCC Group.Earlier this week computer security company McAfee warned that cyber terrorism was on the rise, with computer espionage and internet attacks posing the greatest threat to the net's future.In the past year there have been reports of strikes against government targets in the US, Britain, Germany and India. The actions have been mainly attributed to hackers based in China, but Beijing has rejected claims of involvement.HackersRaphael Gray: The unemployed Welsh 19-year-old famously hacked Microsoft founder Bill Gates's credit card details and sent him a shipment of Viagra in 2001. He was sentenced to three years' community rehabilitation.Kevin Mitnick: The FBI launched a three-year manhunt to stop him from breaking into networks and stealing software at companies including Motorola. He was jailed but now advises companies on cyber crime.The Pentagon hackers: Two California teenagers were given three years' probation in 1998 for assaults on sensitive military computers.Joseph McElroy: In 2004 a teenager escaped jail after sparking a nuclear panic by hacking into a top secret US research centre. He triggered a slow-down that caused technicians to press "the panic button".
Facebook has made a U-turn on its controversial new advertising system, Beacon, after protests by users.The social networking site, which has more than 55 million users worldwide, came in for heavy criticism after it launched a system that published details within Facebook of individuals' activities on other websites.The system, called Beacon, allows other websites to tell your friends and family about some of your activities elsewhere on the internet - for example revealing that you have bought a particular DVD. In return for feeding the information back to Facebook, the other websites get a free advertisement for their services.Because Beacon required users to actively opt out of having their information shared with others, rather than opt in, it was accused of spoiling thousands of Christmas surprises and - perhaps more importantly - infringing privacy.A group on the website calling itself "Facebook: Stop Invading My Privacy" has grown to more than 50,000 members, and several other organisations including political activism site MoveOn.org protested about the system.After a week of pressure the Silicon Valley company last night said it would change Beacon so that users would not have their information about their activities published automatically."We appreciate feedback from all Facebook users and made some changes to Beacon in the past day," the company said. "Users now have more control over the stories that get published."However, it is still impossible for Facebook users to opt out of Beacon entirely.
Who is the greatest living Englishman? It would be hard to argue against the merits of Tim Berners-Lee, the sole begetter and inventor of the world wide web, an organism whose initials, www, have (in some languages, including our own) three times more syllables than the phrase they're abbreviating, which is perhaps the only flaw in Berners-Lee's grand design.The story of how he devised the hypertext transfer protocol (http) and the entire language and structure of the web on a Steve Jobs NeXt computer at Cern in Switzerland in 1990 has passed into legend, though I would certainly recommend reading his own excellent and highly readable account, Weaving The Web. Sir Tim remains an idealist, passionately committed to an open, free and wholly public web as he guides the W3 Consortium towards an unknown future from his base at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts.Incidentally, that flaw... the unwieldy name and initials, www, came about as a result of the inventor's extraordinary and entirely endearing modesty. Originally he had come up with the name The Information Mine, but he found the initials, TIM, embarrassing. No less egocentric (especially in French-speaking Switzerland, where he was working) was another thought, the Mine Of Information, so he settled on good old www.I had the privilege of meeting the great man recently and he showed me the browser equivalent he is working on at MIT for the new Semantic Web (another time, another article perhaps) - an application called The Tabulator. He had failed to notice that his full initials feature prominently in TaBuLator and it was perhaps wrong of me to point it out, but the squirms of self-deprecation were marvellous to watch. This is a man who could have taken a hundredth of a cent for every commercial transaction for just five years and been rich beyond computation, he could have linked himself with corporations, put his name about in public, branded himself and offered his opinions on everything and everyone. Instead, he chooses quietly to work on ways to ensure a future web of even greater openness and neutrality in scientific, intellectual and political exchange. He is what my grandfather would have called a real mensch.I remember trying to persuade the then deputy director general of the BBC, John Birt, that the BBC should get hold of the domain bbc.com for web and email purposes. He had no idea, and I don't blame him, what I was talking about. This was about 1993 and only sad acts like me had heard of the internet. About six months later, however, it was too late and bbc.com had been snapped up by a cable-winding company somewhere and so the ill-fated beeb.com and the good old bbc.co.uk were acquired. Actually, bbc.com now redirects one's browser to the mother page (how much did the corporation have to pay for that, one wonders?) which brings me to the gripe with which I will leave you.How come we British are just about the only nation on earth who have to make the tedious and entirely unnecessary three extra keystrokes every time we type a URL? I could be stephen.fr in France, stephen.za in South Africa, stephen.ru in Russia, stephen.nl in Holland, etc, etc, but here? Oh no, it's stephen dot co dot bloody uk. How annoying is that?All right, not very in the great scheme of things, but nonetheless, who was responsible for getting us trapped into it? Did they think the nation was getting an extra fancy couple of initials which would lend a commercial gravitas that might be equivalent to America's .com? Well, they were deluding themselves if that's what they believed. All they got was the puzzled contempt of other nations. Let's fight for a pure .uk, I say. The BBC can lead the way by becoming bbc.com now that they've finally bought the domain.This could be the campaign that finally unites our apparently fractured and broken society. Hurrah.uk letitbeso.uk.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Google confirmed yesterday that it would take part in next year's multibillion-dollar auction of a slice of the US wireless spectrum, pitting itself against mobile phone firms such as Verizon Wireless and AT&amp;T.Google has pushed hard for part of the spectrum, to be sold in January's auction, to be freed up so consumers can use it with any device they wish and download any application they want. As a result, the federal communications commission has set aside a portion known as block C - which has a reserve price of $4.6bn (&pound;2.23bn) - for such "open access" use.This week one of Google's rivals in the auction, Verizon Wireless - in which Vodafone is a partner - executed a strategic U-turn by announcing that its network would be opened up to all devices from next year. It had been one of the more vociferous opponents of Google's drive for more openness in the mobile industry.Chris Sacca, Google's head of special initiatives, who has spearheaded the search engine's move into wireless, said yesterday: "This auction provides an unprecedented opportunity to bring the riches of the net to more people."However, the move has spooked some on Wall Street, who estimate the potential cost of rolling out a nationwide network could be more than $10bn. While Google will bid on its own in the auction, that does not preclude it from working with partners if it secures some of the spectrum.Last month Google announced the Open Handset Alliance, with partners including the US networks T-Mobile and Sprint, designed to make it easier to launch web-based applications on mobile phones. It also announced a new non-proprietary software platform, Android, as it attempts to make mobiles internet-enabled and widen its online search market.Google already runs small-scale wireless internet-access networks in California but winning new spectrum would allow it to start a national network. Google chief Eric Schmidt said: "Consumers deserve more competition ... the real winners of this auction are American consumers."
The days of a guaranteed pain-free visit to the dentist may not be far off thanks to a petite Japanese woman in a pink sweater who goes by the name of Simroid. She has a limited vocabulary and a strange complexion, but the 160cm-tall humanoid robot is happy to feel your pain.Simroid, who will be used at medical colleges, releases a clearly audible "ouch!" whenever a trainee dentist touches a nerve and a reassuring "that's better" when the drill hits the right spot."We want to use the robots to train students in medical techniques that don't cause unnecessary pain," said Naotake Shubui, a professor at Nippon Dental University who helped develop Simroid.The robot is one of hundreds of cutting-edge devices and contraptions on display this week at the world's biggest robot exhibition. The Big Sight complex in Tokyo has been turned into a shrine to Japan's fascination with machines, shaping their purpose in an age of falling birthrates and shrinking workforces.Decades after they revolutionised production lines, robots could soon be serving tea to office workers or directing shoppers. In a reassuringly benign variation on the scenarios beloved of sci-fi filmmakers, today's robots look, and act, like the well-intentioned humans who invented them.In Japan, robots can already be found working as home helps, office receptionists and security guards, as well as on the factory floor. There were more than 370,000 industrial robots in use in Japan in 2005, according to a report by Macquarie bank, 40% of the world total, with 32 robots for every 1,000 manufacturing workers. The economy ministry calculates that the Japanese robot market will be worth more than £26bn by 2025.There are compelling economic reasons for Japan's obsession with robots. The population recently went into long-term decline and a reduced workforce is expected to struggle to fill jobs in the health and welfare sectors. As long as Japanese leaders remain cautious about relaxing immigration laws, robots will be seen as at least part of the solution.Even the job of the nightwatchman, once the preserve of semi-retired salarymen, is being turned over to robots such as Alsok's Reborg-Q, a Dalek-like invention whose sensors and 360-degree vision enable it to detect intruders or fires."The potential for service robots is huge," said Alsok spokesman Koji Shigeta. "They not only fill a gap, but perform functions that humans are simply unable to do, like keep watch over the same spot for hours on end."Alsok's clients, who pay 380,000 yen (£1,680) a month to rent a security robot, credit their robocops with a fall in petty crime on their premises, Shigeta said.Human endeavour is being supplemented - and even replaced - by mechanical efficiency in almost every area, from hands-free vacuum cleaners and golf-bag carriers to a robotic baby who teaches childcare skills to expectant couples, right down to freeing trapped wind and changing nappies.Few aspects of daily life are unaffected, even those considered most private. In the next couple of years, a robot called Lady Bird will be put to use cleaning public lavatories; she is equipped with sensors and speech-recognition technology to avoid any embarrassing encounters.But many believe the age of the service robot will truly have arrived once machines are capable of connecting with humans on an emotional level. Judging by the Tokyo exhibition, that process has already begun.Tocco-chan, for example, serves the sole purpose of making people laugh. The panda-like toy, developed by students at Waseda University, scans its companion's face for the traces of a smile and attempts to provoke a proper laugh with a fit of giggles of its own.Instead of talking to themselves, people who live alone can have an uncomplaining housemate in the form of Chapit, a mouse-shaped device that chats in several languages and uses a speech-triggered remote control function to turn on kettles, TVs and other appliances.Inevitably, service robots do not always do as they are told, although their makers blame malfunctions on nothing more sinister than technical glitches.Hitachi's long-awaited EMIEW 2, which is designed to carry out office work, crashed into a desk during a recent demonstration after wireless internet traffic interfered with his signals.And although Mr Cube, a robot with dextrous hands developed by Kawasaki, can complete the Rubik's cube, his time of about five minutes is some way off the world record of 9.77 seconds - held by a human.
MondayRockstar defends Manhunt 2Dancing is dirtyTuesdayMinter moanHidden TruthsKutaragi receives lifetime awardWednesdayXbox 360 best ever?Pes patched, Sensible Soccer confirmedEating children is wrongThursdayVideogames to blame for poor literacy?Hands on: Rock Band!FridayIs 2007 the best gaming year ever?The return of vidoegaidenNintendo not greenXbox goes networkingGamespot editor scaked?
Motorola announced today that chief executive Ed Zander was finally going to make his long-awaitedexit. He says he plans to "spend more time with my family".Motorola'sRAZRphone was an amazing success, shifting more than 50m units. However, the company has failed to come up with an equally successful replacement, and both profits and market share have slumped -- along with the share price.Forbesreported earlier this year:In the latest cost-cutting effort, Zander has announced another round of layoffs. Following the cuts, Motorola will have less than half the number of employees that it did in 1999. In February of this year, the company told employees that pay raise intervals would be stretched out and bonuses reduced. That memo apparently didn't apply to Zander, to whom the board of directors awarded a "performance bonus" of options to purchase 800,000 shares at higher prices than the stock is now trading.Zander's image suffered when he wasshafted at his own launchby Apple boss Steve Jobs. Briefly, Motorola licensed iTunes for the ROKR phone, geared up for a big promotion, and had its product upstaged by Steve Jobs pulling an iPod nano out of his pocket. To rub salt into the wound, Apple limited the ROKR to only 100 songs, then announced that the Nano would hold 1,000. (Jobs later trashed the ROKR as "an iPod shuffle on your phone," while Zander said"Screw the nano".)However, I'd guess that what really did for Zander was the plunge in sales that led to Samsung taking over Motorola's traditional No 2 spot in the world mobile market (Tuesday,below).In our Business section, Richard Wray reports onMotorola chief shunted aside.
Remember that Panorama investigation into the dangers of Wi-Fi?Let me refresh your memory. It's something we'vediscussed here before(more than once, in fact), as well as being atopiccoveredby ourBad Sciencecolumnist Ben Goldacre. Oh, and we also pointed out that leading scientists criticised it as ascare story.Well, the BBC's complaints ninjas have looked into the affair and, asMediaGuardian's Leigh Holmwood writes, they've decided it was unfair:Two viewers complained that the programme, Wi-fi: A Warning Signal, which aired on BBC1 in May, had given an unbalanced impression of the state of scientific opinion and had wrongly suggested that wi-fi installations give off a higher level of radiation than mobile phone masts.They also complained that an experiment designed to test whether certain people were hypersensitive to such radiation had been misleadingly presented.Professor Michael Repacholi, a scientist who had appeared on the programme, also complained that the scientific issues had been presented in an unbalanced way and that the treatment of his own contribution had been unfair.The BBC said the programme reflected concerns about wi-fi expressed by Sir William Stewart, chairman of the Health Protection Agency, and that it was legitimate to focus on questions raised by an eminent scientist with responsibility for public health issues.However, the corporation's editorial complaints unit (ECU) today criticised the programme for not having adequate balance, saying it had included only one contributor who disagreed with Stewart, compared with three scientists and a number of other speakers who seconded his concerns.In the past we've been accused of being craven apologists for radiation, and happy to toe the industry line that Wi-Fi (and electromagnetism in general) doesn't fry your brain.But the real problem with this Panorama report wasn't that we disagreed with it: it was in the way the show presented the science - badly - and the way it took a tabloid approach to an issue of public safety. That's not the BBC we expect, and - it turns out - it's not the BBC that the BBC itself expects, either.
Facebook has made a U-turn over its controversial new advertising system Beacon after protests by users.The social networking site, which has more than 55 million users worldwide, came in for heavy criticism after it launched a system that published details on Facebook of individuals' activities on other websites.The system, called Beacon, allows other websites to tell your friends and family about some of your activities elsewhere on the internet – for example revealing that you have bought a particular DVD. In return for feeding the information back to Facebook, the other websites get a free advertisement for their services.The system was hailed by executives at the company as a leap forward and a key plank in its attempts to create a highly profitable business out of the network, which was launched in 2004.However, because Beacon required users actively to opt out of having their information shared with other users, rather than opt in, it was accused of spoiling thousands of people's Christmas surprises and – perhaps more importantly - damaging their privacy.A group on the website calling itself "Facebook: Stop Invading My Privacy" has grown to more than 50,000 members, and several other organisations including political activism site MoveOn.org have protested about the new system.After a week of pressure, the Silicon Valley company last night released a statement saying that it would be changing Beacon so that users would not have their information about their activities published automatically."We appreciate feedback from all Facebook users and made some changes to Beacon in the past day," the company said. "Users now have more control over the stories that get published to their Mini-Feed and potentially to their friends' News Feeds."However, the company did not apologise and it is still impossible for Facebook users to opt out of Beacon entirely.The furore was reminiscent of privacy protests when Facebook first adopted its News Feed, the automatically generated, potted list of updates from your friends on the social network. Thousands argued that the system invaded their privacy, but user pressure relented after the company made some tweaks and it has now become one of the website's most popular features.
This one's got the online games community buzzing like an angry wasp trapped in a glass jar of uncertainty and allegation. Gamespot games editor Jeff Gerstmann has been sacked from his role on the news site and'sources' on Kotakuand elsewhere have asserted that the writer was given the boot for scoring Kane &amp; Lynch adisappointing 6/10. There are allegations that Eidos, currently bedecking the Gamespot site with lashings of Kane &amp; Lynch advertising, took umbrage at the review and threatened to pull its ads.Apparently, it wasn't the score that enraged Eidos but the 'tone' of the review. If you take a look at the page now, there's a note at the bottom that states, "This review has been updated to include differences between the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions and a clarification on the game's multiplayer mode." It could be that key elements of the gameplay were left unmentioned in the light panning the game receives. Six is, after all, above average. Although, to be honest, most magazines (unconsciously or not), usesevenas a catch-all average score, while anything below is reserved for generally poor titles.It's all rumour at the moment and should be treated as such until confirmation comes from Gamespot owner CNET, or from the reveiwer himself. Certainly, the idea of an advertiser putting pressure on a videogame publication to ensure a favourable score is not unheard of. I'm also extremely familiar with publishers complaining about scores after the event, often pointing to what they see as omissions in the review, especially if the content is unfavourable. I've been theremanytimes before.But sacking a reviewer? I suppose if there's a belief he didn't do his job properly - that he didn't play the game enough or let some personal grudge taint his objectivity - this is conceivable. Otherwise, it's a horrifying example of financially motivated censorship, and no-one would want that, would they?Charles Arthur adds:Rock Paper Shotgunsuggests it was his uncomplimentary video review that really caused the problems. It's below. And it ain't making me rush out to buy the game..
Charles Arthur: you say the internet's too big?Part of my job involves being called up by PR people who have a "survey" to tell me about. Actually, it's usually a "new survey" - old ones are so, you know, passé.But this week brought a stunner. This survey, she said, had found that 75% of its respondents think "the web is too big".When the PR person eagerly touting this revelation called me, I needed some time to wrap my head around the concept. Too big? Too big for what? To fit in a box?"No, no," said the PR person. "Too big to be useful. Thirty-eight per cent said that half the websites they see aren't relevant. There are too many search sites, just too many… sites."Who let the stupid people on the net?I grappled for a bit with the concept of an internet that has grown too big. The PR person obviously interpreted my silence for uncertainty. "Is there more I can tell you about it?" she asked."Yes," I said. "Who let all the stupid people on the net?"I mean, that's where they must have drawn the people in their sample from, surely? And I doubt it was a proper representative sample - which, just for the record, is as follows:To reflect the UK adult population, for example, the sample should comprise at least 1,000 randomly chosen people weighted for age and class, and be conducted door-to-door - though these days we'll accept the telephone, albeit with reservations.Can't squeeze another page onYet the idea is a fascinating one, isn't it? What if the internet actually did have a size limit. The other day some companies suggested that internet capacity will hitsome sort of size limit by 2010. (Note that date: as all reporters know, 2010 is the sort of date that's "close enough to worry, far enough away that we won't get pulled up on it". Set your alarms for two years and let's see, shall we?)Let's imagine a world where the internet wasfull. Not just big, but full. No more room. Can't squeeze another page on. What would it be like?For a start, you'd need someone to run it - none of this turning up and putting up any old rubbish. You want to do something? You'd have to wait for someone else to stop using their pages and site. It would be like a merry-go-round - one off, one on.Oh, OK then, I'll accept the post of Internet Tsar since I'm the one who's identified the problem. (Ignore those people in the survey. They were just helping out.) Let's get to work!We all have to make sacrificesFirst off I wouldn't allow any of these "page not found" pages - what a terrible waste. We'd have a single, centralised "page not found", probably on my Internet Tsar website. None of these different ones on different sites. We all have to make sacrifices, you know.At a stroke, that will free up181,000 pages. Not bad for the first morning's work. 181,000 pages might not sound like a lot to you, but to many people it's the chance to put up a gallery of pictures of their cats looking surprised by the camera flash - you know, the ones with the foreground showing what a mess their desk is, and the background showcasing their poor interior design sense.Next, blogs. We simply can't allow these people whose blogs have fallen into desuetude to just jam up the space, their wise words gathering cobwebs. I'm sorry, but there's a squeeze on. If you don't blog at least once a - hmm, well, let's say month for now - then your blog will be summarily removed and its space passed to the next person who wants to spend their time copying and pasting entire stories from mainstream news sites, thus denuding the latter of page views and revenue.Video? Well, we might have to have a stern word with YouTube: do we really need 4,380 videos ofpeople putting mints into bottles of cola? Surely one, or perhaps two, is enough. Make some room for people who have come up with new things to put into cola. Or new things to do with mints.Everyone squeeze in togetherObviously all the social networking sites will have to squeeze in together, because it's simply wasteful to have MySpaceandFacebookandLinkedIn using up valuable pages when many of the people on them are the same. As are the sites. The integration should be fun to watch.And Wikipedia - well, what can I say? Of course it will have to be cut back and shrunk - we can't just have it expanding all the time. Oh, hang on, it seems to bedoing this already of its own accord. Splendid - you know, there's no better way to please a tsar than to anticipate his demands.You may think I'm being a bit aggressive. What, you say, of all the people who want to set up new companies online: will they have to wait for others to go bust? What about those who want to create new search engines - will they have to wait for one of the old ones to die, or might they find themselves saddled with an old domain that used to be someone's knitting blog? Will Amazon have to check with me before it expands its catalogue? To which I'm afraid the answers are yes, yes and yes.I'll need an iPhone and a BlackBerry, pleaseIt's going to be a tough life being Internet Tsar, but as long as I'm kitted out correctly - probably with a donated iPhone and BlackBerry, routed of course through third parties - I think I should be able to keep a handle on things. Who'll donate them? Well, I think Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and those other search engines should be falling at my feet singing hosannas: since the web will change only very slowly, they'll be able to refine their search engines so you findexactlywhat you want every single time. Feel lucky? Hell, you'll feel prescient.You have to remember, of course, how we got into this position where I've been made the Tsar of all the (Limited) Internet. It was because you wanted it. People think that the sum of human knowledge keeps increasing, and that the internet should reflect that. Well, we've made it a zero-sum game. The web was too big, you said, and I listened. While everyone else just shrugged, I was prepared to do something about it.Just bear in mind: there's only one internet. Use it wisely.Oh, and by the way, that article you were looking for - about claiming back charges for late credit card payments? I'm afraid I had to delete it to make way for this one. Enjoy your day!
Microsoft will be adding a raft of social networking features to its online Xbox Live service with the next Dashboard update. According to the press release:With the prevalence of social media websites such as MySpace and FaceBook, this type of capability has largely come to be expected from consumers as a means to relate in an online community. ... When the Fall Dashboard update is distributed on December 4, the new default setting on Xbox LIVE will be active, enabling members to see the Friends lists of other Xbox LIVE members.Friends lists are an important feature of sites like Facebook, MySpace and other connectivity providers. It's a clever move for Microsoft in advance of the anticipated library of features rumoured for PlayStation's upcoming social titles, Home and Little Big Planet. The community is already strong on these sites. It will interesting to watch what else they offer, and how they grapple with the inevitable privacy issues.More on this as it arises. ViaKotaku.
Easily the best videogame show since, erm, our own Aleks gave up videogame broadcasting in favour of academia, virtua worlds and blogging, videoGaiden is back for a new run from tomorrow. The BBC Scotland product started out in 2005 and after two series' is now switching online so we canallenjoy the comedic antics of Robert Florence and Ryan Macleod - the 'minds' behindConsolevania. There will be 18 x 15 minute episodes plus three TV specials.The chaps have produced a series of typically self-effacing and feux-amateurish promos on theirYouTube channeland you'll find more details at theofficial website.Anyway, considering the paucity of videogame-flavoured entertainment on the box, if you were given the chance to produce a videogame show, who would present it, what would the format be and what would it be called?You never know, someone from the commissioning department at Channel 4 might have accidentally navigated here looking for the Media section of Guardian Unlimited.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
