Happy Monday. It's time to chat.
So, anyone else get aDS Liteover the weekend? I've been spending a lot of time on the slinky handheld - though the PSP'sLocoRocois doing its best to distract me - and am rather impressed. The screen is perhaps the biggest improvement although the minimalist redesign is the obvious talking point. An end to public transport embarrassment yes, but will it tempt any recalcitrant PSP owners? Nonetheless the list of quality DS game continues to grow. If the Lite is your first experience with the DS then roundupshereandherewill help you choose which games to invest in. In the meantime let's hope Nintendo finally settle on a handheld design for more than 10 minutes - it's become expensive to keep up.
I recall the first time I ever laid eyes onSeaman, a weird, morphed man-fish in my television. He'd been born from the cult Sega Dreamcast game of the same name and, quite frankly, I was deeply disturbed.Like most virtual pets, he needed to be fed and attended to and - most uniquely for consoles at that time - spoken with via a console microphone (chalk up another innovation for the console), and because I'm not the mother type I lost interest quite quickly. Despite his snide remarks and underwater flailing, he soon went belly up. The guilt haunts me to this day.I thought he was gone, and all that remained was a distant memory. To my horror, I've recently discovered that he is alive and well, andblogging. He still has his biting wit and his sarcasm is intact, but mirroring my experiences of so many years ago, he has very little of worth to say.Has instant karma come to get me?In seriousness, official character blogs are a grand idea. Who wouldn't line up to read the first-person musings of a plumber antagonised by magic mushrooms, or the Indiana Jones-like experiences of a femme fatale? I'd love to know what the Prince thinks of Dad while he's forced,Sisyphus-like, to roll a big ball around the world. Their plights are action-packed with daily experiences that would make most weblogs' rants pale in comparison.Not only could character blogs revitalise the MySpace-curse of sweet daily nothings, but they'd provide the depth of character many non-gamers crave.
Peugot 207Price:from &pound;8,995Fuel economy:58.8 MPGTop speed:120MPHGood for:Karaoke kingsBad for:Dancing queensParked in neat rows on the palm-fringed concourse of Palma airport are 48 brand new Peugeot 207s. They come in a variety of colours and engine sizes, but all are sitting at an identical angle - as if parking duties had been taken over by a team of fastidious synchronised swimmers. Each car is full of petrol and has its ignition key dangling invitingly.'Take your pick,' says the attendant to the group of motoring journalists who had nobly undertaken the dirty job of spending two days meandering around the dizzyingly beautiful cliff roads of Mallorca, between eating tranches of tapas, in the name of testing this sprightly new supermini. It's work, as they say, but not as most of us know it ...The French giant's latest car has just gone on sale. And to help spread the word among new-car buyers, Peugeot has paid for more than 1,000 journalists from all over Europe to visit Mallorca to experience the winning ways of their most recent offspring. Sounds expensive, doesn't it? But consider that Peugeot has already spent more than &euro;1bn on its 207 project, without as yet selling a single car, and the idea of a few grand on a press junket seems like little more than the full stop at the end of its colossal development process.I pair off with Paul, who takes the wheel first. He works for a 'red-top' paper and has endless tales of newsroom derring-do, and tabloid excess. He also used to race motorcycles. Words like 'tail happy', 'drifting' and 'redlining' crop up at alarming intervals in his conversation. As he confidently heads off on our 200km circular test route, I begin to worry that when my turn comes to drive I'll make a hash of things. Paul starts to worry, too, when for some reason even I can't fathom I tell him that the last time I drove in Spain I unaccountably lost control of our rentacar and went straight into a storm ditch.The 207 is the latest model to join Peugeot's legendary '20...' series, with the last two, the 205 and 206, both passing the 5m sales mark. It's impossible to overestimate the importance of the 207 to Peugeot, and you'd be right in thinking the French manufacturer is not going to mess with its winning small-car formula. Essentially, then, the 207 is a bigger, faster and safer version of the 206. A likeable, useful workhorse that's destined to offer reliable transport to, oh, at least another 5m owners.Peugeot's three vast factories in Poissy, Madrid and Trnava are already rolling out 500 shiny 207s a week, which, at up to &pound;14,000 each, will start nibbling through some of their outlay. Clearly, though, fear over that debt is doing strange things to the fat cats at Peugeot. One of them says, bizarrely, during the launch: 'Our dream will only come true if every owner-to-be has sparkles in their eyes...' Fortunately, there is much to sparkle about in the 207, including its nifty diesel and terrific safety record - which Paul, at least, is thankful for.Eventually, we manage to find our way back to Palma airport - via a karaoke bar in Magaluf. 'Great car, great weekend,' says Paul with a grin at the departure gate. 'Just don't mention singing along to Neil Diamond ...'martin.love@observer.co.uk
Microsoft'sWinFSfuture storage development (note, not a file system, not a replacement for NTFS, and not really like the old Cairo idea from 1995) been killed off just when the beta 2 version -- shown a couple of weeks ago at TechEd -- was expected for Windows Vista.Instead, the development work is being "productized" inADO.net's, codenamed Orcas, and the next SQL Server, codenamed Katmai. On theWinFS Team Blog, Quentin Clark writes:These changes do mean that we are not pursuing a separate delivery of WinFS, including the previously planned Beta 2 release. With most of our effort now working towards productizing mature aspects of the WinFS project into SQL and ADO.NET, we do not need to deliver a separate WinFS offering.Comment: Presumably this means thatProject Orange-- a WinFS demonstrator application for which Microsoft was hiring recently -- has also been canned.There's lots of speculation, obviously, including the idea that this was one of Bill Gates's pet projects and that such projects are no longer safe if they don't deliver.However, there are a number of other considerations. One is that WinFS has been left behind byADO.netand its ObjectSpaces.Another is that the whole idea of intelligent data handling like WinFS (basically, putting the data and metadata from Windows' Documents and Settings folders into a giant local SQL database) has been left in the dust by the raw power of stupidity. Google search, for example, is basically stupid: you just throw 1,000 or so PCs at a search query and get a much better result than you would by trying something complex like WinFS, which recognises many different data types and their metadata and atrtributes via schema. (Try using Google for the sample WinFS query given on Wikipedia: find "the phone numbers of all persons who lives in some city X and has more than 100 appearances in my collection of photos and with whom I have had e-mail within last month".)A third is that Microsoft is now gettiing much more interested in delivering add-on services via servers, or via paid-for subscription services, than it is in giving stuff away on the desktop. This is pure speculaton, but in a world of universal broadband, some features of WinFS could be offered as a service as part of Windows Live/Office Live, which would generate more income, and also tie desktop users more closely to Microsoft technologies. Office Live -- which is an online version of SharePoint Server and nothing to do with Microsoft Office -- is a comparable offering.Finally, it would be nice if the killing of WinFS represented a shift from hyping futuristic technologies that nobody has ever delivered, and that most people really don't have a clue about, to delivering simple, useful, well targeted features. But don't hold your breath on that one.If Microsoft had said that WinFS was "basically, putting the data and metadata from Windows' Documents and Settings folders into a giant local SQL database" then I doubt whether many people (apart from developers) would have got excited about it, let alone mourned its passing.
Ambassadors across Europe will attend a cocktail dinner in Paris this week heralding the launch of the continent's first dedicated web search engine, aiming to take on giants such as Google and Yahoo! But it is Accoona.eu's roots in China which are likely to attract the scrutiny of human rights campaigners.Accoona was co-founded by the Chinese government and is part owned by the China Daily Information Company, a Chinese government agency.Government restrictions on web searches and freedom of speech, in China and elsewhere, have been put in the spotlight by irrepressible.info, a campaign launched last month by The Observer and Amnesty International which has so far attracted more than 23,000 supporters around the world. Last week the Liberal Democrats became the first political party to endorse it.Like other search engines, Accoona's Chinese site is subject to the censorship of politically sensitive material. As it prepares to launch its European service, Derek Wyatt MP, chairman of the all-party internet committee, condemned its record of compliance. 'As far as we can make it, the net should be free and open. That applies to Accoona as well as everyone else. Anything that operates in Europe should know the principle of our identity is liberal and that nothing should be hidden. I hope advertisers will shun them.'Eckhard Pfeiffer, president of Accoona, which also operates in the US and is based in New Jersey, said: 'We are taking a neutral position as much as we can and, right or wrong, we cannot violate local laws.'Irrepressible.info
Clint DeBoer at Audioholics has produced a pre-emptive strike atthe prospects of HD-DVD and Blu-ray, the two new blue-ray laser-based video formats. One interesting point is that it's not like the battle between different console formats:The high definition DVD formats, however, are really just the same source material packaged in two different wrappers -- not to provide choice, mind you, but because the two camps simply are too greedy to combine forces, and not innovative enough to drive two truly separate products successfully. Take careful note -- a format war is NOT competition, it is a hindrance and the bane of high definition DVDs.Where he might be wrong, perhaps, is complaining about Toshiba releasing a player that doesn't support "true HD at 1080p," because 1080i is still "true HD". In real life, 1080p (progressive) is going to be created either by the player converting from 1080i (interlaced) or the TV converting from 1080i, so you might as well let the HDTV do it -- the results will almost always be better. (An LCD TV can't do 1080i anyway.) Riyad Emeran ofTrustedReviews.comsays:Put it this way -- do you honestly think that the video processing electronics in a PS3 are going to be better than the processing hardware in a £3,000 HDTV? I doubt it very much, so I'd rather leave it up to the TV.Indeed, in most cases, the signal will either be 1080i 50 or 1080p 25, and Riyad reckons that a TV de-interlacing from 1080i 50 could produce abetterimage -- unless, I guess, it converts from 1080i to 720p, as some existing "1080i TV sets" do. (It's all horribly confusing, but Riyad says he's working on a feature on the issues.)Geek blogger Robert Scoble, who has already bought an HD-DVD player, has writtena robust defenceof high-def television (which is how I found the Audioholics article in the first place).Scoble also raises the important point that there is an alternative: "I can buy ascaling DVDfor about $100. But the HD-DVD cost $500. Sorry, that's prohibitive for most people. When it comes down to $200 wake me up." (This is scaling up from DVD.)Scoble has also added some follow-up posts,What you really need to know about HDTV, andWhich HDTV?
Philipp Lenssen has an excellent post on9 Ways to Misunderstand Web Standardsat Google Blogoscoped, covering HTML, CSS, Ajax and similar issues.
For all the past week's posts on a single page, clickhere.Highlights you might have missed include:Interoperability and DRM are NOT mutually exclusiveMicrosoft accused of predatory pricing of security softwareMyCokeMusic drops dead; Wippit dances on graveiDont gets coverage in Media GuardianO2 launches Windows Live MailBlogr now out in alphaMicrosoft Watch gets an F for listing Microsoft flops
LocoRoco, PSPSony, &pound;35You'd normally have a quiet glance in Nintendo's direction if someone told you about a new game featuring tiny happy blobs that need to be tilted around squishy mazes using a spare and highly original control method.In fact, this is one of the only PSP games currently on sale that feels as though it was designed with the portable gamer in mind. Levels that take no more than five minutes (or a lot longer if you really explore, although you're never forced to), a control scheme that depends on two buttons - one to tilt the maze left, one to tilt it right, and both to make your funky blob hop in the air - and a catchy, trashy musical score make this handheld gaming heaven.With its genuinely diverting canon of mini-games, LocoRoco is a portable classic in the making.Dr Kawashima's Brain Training: How Old Is Your Brain? Nintendo DSNintendo, &pound;20In spite of copious research concluding that playing videogames helps development of strategic problem-solving abilities, spatial awareness, hand-eye coordination and, touchingly, an increase in self-belief when overcoming challenges, there is a persistent undercurrent in society that believes that, like drugs, games are bad.But even Luddites would be pressed to criticise Brain Training, which isn't a game, but a gym for your mind. It features a bit of chat about your prefrontal cortex, a world of easy maths questions and gentle yet repetitive linguistic and lateral thinking tasks, all of which, if you look out for it, do give your brain a tiny post-exercise glow after your daily routine.Fun, engaging and potentially slightly good for you, at &pound;20 it's almost irresponsible not to.New Super Mario Bros, Nintendo DSNintendo, &pound;30First the bad things: New Super Mario Bros doesn't take long to finish and is really not that new - it's more a tribute to early Mario games, augmented with a few extra moves, power-ups and items of level furniture.The other news is only good, with the sweet familiarity of what is still easily the best platform game in the world supplying just what it always used to: unadulterated joy, heightened by the promise of the first truly new Mario in more than a decade.Managing to feel as fresh as Super Mario World did in the early 1990s, you'll find yourself rationing it so you don't just binge the whole lot in its first weekend. And if you do? You'll forget that the World Cup, the weather outside and 3D graphics ever existed. Prepare to smile a lot.
MondayNintendopoly (again)Football Manager for realPS3 pre-order fun beginsTuesdayThe state of videogame writing. And meaningPlayStation options for the indiesFootball crazySaying no to MMOWednesdayWoW: Midsummer celebrationsTony Hawk goes next-genPlaying politicsThursdayHow to make friends and kill people: relationships in first-person shootersSex in games - some researchNintendo offers more dev options for indiesDesperate?Halo clan earns a millionFridayMiddlesbrough management intimidated by Footie Manager 2005WoW characters can move
"The board of Novell has dismissed two top executives, including chief executive Jack Messman,as part of a management shake-up at the software and networking firm. Novell announced on Thursday that Messman and chief finance officer Joseph Tibbetts had both had their employment terminated with immediate effect" reportsZDNet UK."James Governor, analyst at RedMonk, said that Messman's departure had been partly forced by investment analysts who weren't impressed by Novell's performance against Red Hat," says the story.Novell bought SuSE, a German company with a popular Linux distro, and is attempting to migrate its business away its dependence on proprietary Netware to open source. The problem is making any money out of it. The story quotes Governor again:"You can't expect piles of cash from an open source subscription model. Red Hat's revenues are laughable compared to Symantec and Adobe.""Expecting Novell to be able to generate huge profits and margins on a subscription model was always going to be difficult," said Governor.Comment: The interesting thing about Messman, not mentioned in the story, is that he went in for anti-Microsoft rabble-rousing, as in his Barcelona speech in 2004: "This year the BrainShare network doesn't do Windows, and neither do I." As Network World noted:Messman took off after Microsoft as no other Novell CEO has done since Noorda was eased out of the company 10 years ago. Noorda thought Bill Gates was an inconsiderate pipsqueak and didn't mind who knew that he thought that way.Ray Noorda's attempt to crush pipsqueak Gates (after the two companies called off a projected merger) almost killed Novell. Is this an example of how times don't change?
Google is trying to so something about its desperately awful Google Video service, and the latest attempt is sponsored videos. In a limited trial, clips that you wouldn't pay $4.95 to watch, unless you were billions of neurons short of a brain, are nowavailable free. Something that might keep you amused for few minutes if you happened to catch it on a tenth-rate satellite or cable channel -- perhaps an old Rocky &amp; Bullwinkle cartoon -- has also been reduced from $1.99 to sponsored-free.John Battelle's Searchblog has a brief account ofhow it will work. Basically, advertisers will bid in an auction to sponsor the various videos, and they can "run a 15-30 second post-roll video ad".Sponsored video is certainly an advance, but really it doesn't go far enough. OK, I no longer have to pay $4.95 to watch 56 minutes and 22 seconds of Wrestling Titans: Steve Austin*, thanks to Burger King, but they should be paying me. I don't have a standard rate for consuming either junk food or junk video, but Google would certainly have to pay me more than $495 per hour. And at that price, I'd want to be able to read a book at the same time.* Misleading title? He doesn't wrestle Atlas, Prometheus or even Epimetheus, which might be worth watching.
Just a humble pie chart...
Created a character on World of Warcraft only to find that your friends are playing on another server? Assuming it isn't a personal thing - are they trying to tell you something? - up until now you'd have been stuck. With no opportunity for cross-realm play the only option had been to create a new character - not fun when you've spent literally days on your original hero. Sothe newsthat character migration will finally be happening is more than welcome. Of course there is a catch - it will cost 25$. Also you won't be able to go from PvE (players versus environment) to PvP (players versus player) or to a server less than 90 days old. And you may have to change your name if it is already taken - bad news if your night elf is called Legol@s or similar. No official date has been given yet but expect some character moving action within the next month or so.
Every day I try to remind myself that the blogosphere and online computer fandom has only a very slight connection with what's going on in the real world (sometimes it is, at best, a "leading indicator") but sometimes I get suckered, and Flickr might just be a case in point.According toHitWise, which tracks web traffic, the top photo-sharing site isPhotoBucket, which will soon have more than half the market (it's on 44%, above). Yahoo Photos is in a healthy second place with 18%. The Yahoo-owned Flickr is in sixth place with 6%, though the HitWise blog says: "Flickr, my friends should be happy to note, has also been growing rapidly, increasing 44% in the past four months, and up from a rank of #9 in this category one year ago (week ending 6/18/05)."AtTechCrunch, Marshall Kirkpatrick looks at the HitWise and Alexa stats and graphs and asks: "Does that mean high-authority bloggers are out of touch with the bulk of users? It may; it may also mean that being interesting doesn't equate with mass adoption."But actually, although both PhotoBucket and Flickr are "photo sharing" sites, they really are not in the same business. PhotoBucket isn't a social space, like Flickr, and in practice it's not really a destination site. It's mainly just a place to upload photos if you want them to show up on your MySpace page or in a forum, or whatever. As the HitWise blog points out:Photobucket, Slide, and Imageshack are all image hosting sites, and MySpace is their primary source of traffic. In fact, MySpace was responsible for 76% of Slide's traffic in May 2006, 56% of Photobucket's traffic, and 50% of Imageshack's traffic.Image-hosting and photo-sharing are diffferent businesses, even if they overlap.This isn't a criticism of PhotoBucket, of course. I'll probably have a look at it next time I need an image hosted. But it's nothing like as interesting as the socialising/sharing/tagging scene that Flickr is developing.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
This made me spit out my cornflakes this morning.Alice has postedMiddlesbrough FC's sublime response to a chancer who applied for the posted Manager job, having had "Football Manager 2005 skills (and some real life experience in managing an under-11s team)". The suits handled him with aplomb:Many thanks for your recent application for the Managerial position at Middlesbrough Football Club.You were of course the outstanding candidate but after careful consideration we decided against your appointment. Quite frankly we were of the opinion that your tenure with us would have been short-lived, as your undoubted talent would result in one of the big European Clubs seeking your services.We consider it a sign of our progress that someone of your status could consider us.More atbeforethirty, including a scan of the letter.Absolutely genius!
I don't expect anyone noticed that at the end ofa big piece about Microsoft in today's paper, I quoted a Microsoft vice president called Martin Taylor, from one of our earlier meetings in London.He was a likeable and very intelligemt guy, as well informed as you'd expect from a 13-year veteran who'd been chief of staff for chief executive Steve Ballmer, and had a good understanding of the industry. He set up Microsoft's Linux lab, hired open source people, and got himselfinterviewed on Slashdot. Although not one of the "big names" he was, obviously, a good source, and I'd never pass up the chance to sit down with him.Suddenly, he's news. After I'd filed my story, I discovered Martin Taylor had risen to even greater heights. There he was being interviewed on Microsoft's PressPass, ascorporate vice president of Windows Live and MSN. Microsoft's former competitive strategist and Linux blocker (responsible for that "fact-based campaign") was now in the front line of the battle against Google, at the point where Microsoft was investing more than $1 billion.And the next day, he was gone. His email was bouncing, and his bio at Microsoft.com, updated June 20, described him as(Former) Corporate Vice President.According toThe Seattle Times:Taylor had been scheduled to give interviews Monday about the release of Windows Live Messenger, Microsoft's first big offering in a suite of about 20 consumer-focused products that will compete head-to-head with the likes of Google, Yahoo! and other big names on the Internet.The company's public-relations handlers canceled Taylor's interviews, saying he was bumped from a flight out of Dallas on Sunday night and was stuck there on standby Monday. Taylor was featured in a written question-and-answer session the company provided to reporters about Windows Live.Finally, Microsoft released a statement saying: "We've made the difficult decision to part ways with Martin, but we don't comment on personnel matters."This sounds more like the sort of thing that might happen in Latin America, where Taylor used to run Microsoft's operations, rather than Redmond. Corporate vice presidents don't just disappear, do they?CNet Newsreports that "Taylor, reached at his home, declined comment on his departure." But if you change your mind, Maritn, we'd love to hear what really happened. And the Starbucks are on us.Martin Taylor
Weather forecasters have isobars: lines on a map that show where the pressure (in millibars) is the same. Thanks to the efforts of the team from mySociety (which built the TheyWorkForYou.com site - putting a useful interface on Hansard), transport planners now have "isochrones" - lines on a map where it takes the same time to reach them from a given point.The concept of the isochrone is part of a project the Department for Transport commissioned from mySociety, a charitable organisation that aims to demonstrate how the internet can be used for the benefit of the public and voluntary sectors to work on. The idea was to display graphically how long it takes to travel to different parts of the country from different locations. It's no surprise that distance isn't a direct correlation; it takes longer to travel across the crowded streets of London than to journey the same distance in the Scottish Highlands, for example.Departmental assistanceThe mySociety team was very proud of its work (on show athttp://tinyurl.com/flg2x). Although, as the team notes, "without [Department for Transport] assistance we would have had to pay expensive fees to use the underlying mapping data or to produce maps with no landmarks, which would be almost incomprehensible".Who knows what use people might find for such data? For someone, it could be the clue they needed for a house purchase, locating a business, or deciding whether to make that cross-country trip by train and taxi, or solely by car.Although the maps of London require about 10 hours of computer time to generate, speeding up the process might mean being able to generate maps on demand for visitors to a website, so that tourists, for example, could work out if they have time to visit Hampton Court in the one day they have for sightseeing.A charity got in touch with the team and asked if it could have a similar map. "We were happy to oblige," said Tom Steinberg, director of mySociety. "It is nice to know that there are real rather than theoretical users for work like this."How much would it cost to put those maps on a webserver that anybody could access? MySociety asked Ordnance Survey's licensing department. It calculated that displaying 16 "map tiles" with the relevant data would cost between &pound;837.81 (for a 1:25,000 scale) or &pound;1,032.71 (for a 1:250,000 scale).Does that sound good? Here's the sting in the OS's small print: "All prices for one user, one-year licence and exclude VAT. Terms of data use are internal business use, display and promotion as long as there is no financial gain." So for a charity to put that on a webserver that might be used by hundreds of people (a typical server can handle 2,000) would cost millions of pounds annually.It ties in with an email Steinberg sent this year to a number of people, including Ed Parsons, OS's chief technology officer, pointing out the OS's claim - made on its website (http://tinyurl.com/ea33j) - that "an independent study has calculated that around &pound;100bn worth of economic activity in Britain is dependent on it".As well as provoking scepticism about the study's methods, Steinberg said, "this huge number should make us all sit up". If OS's licensing regime is just a bit wrong - so as to discourage, say, 0.1% of the economic activity dependent on it - that costs &pound;100m a year, roughly the same as OS's running costs. "If it reduces innovation by a still tiny 0.4%, then the taxable revenues being forfeited by the Treasury are well in excess of the entire cost of running the OS," wrote Steinberg. "If the forfeited innovation is higher by just a few percentage points, then the cost to the UK Treasury is really considerable."Steinberg said: "I'm arguing for regulation of licensing based on relatively elementary economics: the understanding that simply because HM Treasury and the taxpayer aren't paying OS's bills directly doesn't mean they aren't paying for it hugely in other ways." His logic mirrors that of the Free Our Data campaign, which says that making non-personal data collected by public bodies free at the point of use would boost the economy hugely.Imagine being a startup trying to write a business plan using the time travel maps. The OS licence would cost thousands of pounds every month while you tried to build a revenue base; you'd go bust.OS says it is obliged, as a government-owned "trading fund", to cover its running costs and to generate a surplus equivalent to 5% of the capital assets it owns. High charges are the only way it could cover the extra costs of providing its maps, while paying for the constant stream of map updates that are made every day - around 50,000 per day, according to a recent investigation by Parsons (www.edparsons.com/?p=256).But an investigation of OS's accounts suggests its success as a trading fund is due to the use of an accounting twist that has never been accepted by the auditor general, Sir John Bourn of the National Audit Office. Since 1999, when OS began operating as a trading fund, the NAO has refused to accept its accounts because it treats the National Geographic Database (NGD), its core database of where objects are in the British Isles, as an "intangible asset" - akin to a trademark or brand name.Bourn argues that instead it should be treated as a "tangible asset" - something that has a physical existence. He thinks the NGD should be treated as an asset worth "at least &pound;50m". That would, at the stroke of a pen, double OS's tangible assets. OS is determined the NGD should not be treated as a tangible asset, because that could oblige it to generate far higher revenues.Fixed assetsThe NGD does not appear in OS's accounts. OS argues in a note to its accounts that the NGD data is "accounted for as an intangible fixed asset". Yet its accounts show only a &pound;1m intangible fixed asset - for "software licences".That is enormously convenient for its trading fund activities, which, under Treasury rules, oblige it to generate a surplus of revenue over costs of 5.5p for every &pound;1 of assets it controls - a 5.5% return. In 2004-05, OS had revenues of &pound;115m and costs of &pound;105m; the revenue surplus, of &pound;9.2m on total assets of &pound;51m, represents an 18% return - far above the target rate.Had the NGD been included at the NAO's suggested minimum valuation, the return would have been 9.1%, still almost double the 5.5% target. That suggests OS is making more money than it needs to - perhaps implying that its licences are priced more highly than they need be.An OS spokesman says that to treat the NGD as a tangible asset, as the NAO suggests, "would blow a hole in our business plan" and "would affect our customers across all sectors".Yet Steinberg's experiences, and his comments about the marginal effect on the economy if OS's licences are too high - allied to the huge returns on assets being generated - suggests that OS's customers are already being affected. The problem is that it is hard to see them - except when, for example, they are charities that want to put up a map of travel times on the web.&#183;See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've started playing online shooters again. I'm addicted to Battlefield 2 on Xbox 360, which has reminded me that beyond the hype surrounding social networking sites and MMORPGs, the most diverse, fascinating and impulsive relationships play out in multiplayer blast-'em-ups.On public servers, for example, where you simply drop into a war and are shoved on to the side with the fewest team members, relationships have a unique fleeting intensity. You find yourself in two-minute gunfights with an unknown ally, covering each other's backs.Some see these shared battles as profound examples of innate human altruism. As Tom Edwards, of PC Gamer magazine, suggests, "In Battlefield 2, camaraderie between players is strong because players are split between different roles, and there are loads of ways to help each other."Join a clan - a team of gamers who regularly play together - and the social aspects of online gaming become much more complex. Clan relationships operate in a hinterland, somewhere between going to the pub, playing for a Sunday morning football team and joining a paramilitary organisation. The introduction of headset technology, allowing members to talk to each other instead of sending messages, has had a profound effect. Now there is less chat. Charm, a member of the UK clan RAAB, explains: "We have a code of communications based around the British army's. Many Counterstrike gamers have codes and signals that have become more and more brutally efficient as the game progressed."The way these diverse global collectives strip communication down into abstract functional forms is fascinating. Some of the most important questions about our online society fly about like spent cartridges. As technology advances, online gaming relationships will gain more subtlety and nuance.Developers of first-person shooters have learned from the vital social aspect of massively multiplayer role-playing games and are now making character customisation much easier. In Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, for example, you can edit your soldier's face and uniform before playing. Most games display each player's name over the head of their character, but as graphics improve and personalisation options become more complex, this will no longer be necessary. You will recognise the faces of your buddies.Sony and Microsoft are also looking into expanding the use of videogame camera systems such as Eye-Toy. In the near future we'll have devices that can read a player's expressions, their gestures, even their eye movements, and map these on to an in-game character. And you thought it was just about fragging strangers for cheap kicks.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Accordingto Teamxbox.com,Major League Gaming, an American pro gaming league with - we hazard a guess - a lot of money to spend, has just signed one of the best Halo 2 clans in the world to an exclusive million-dollar deal. The four man team known as Final Boss, will play exclusively in MLG's competitions throughout the US. In case your ability to perform simple maths tasks has been suddenly impaired by shock, that's $250,000 each. For playing Halo 2.Luckily, the fantastically named Sundance DiGiovanni, co-founder and CMO of Major League Gaming, was on hand to explain the madness. "Having a true professional league requires that you be able to identify, scout and sign the best players in the world," he shrieked while high-fiving his accountant.So, is this more or less obscene than professional athletes being paid millions to do proper sports? I just don't know.Anyway, just in case you were thinking of using the story of Final Boss as an excuse to drop out of school/university/work to take up a career as a professional gamer, the MLG offers some words of caution, albeit tacked onto the end of a frankly bizarre paragraph about two members of the Final Boss team with special powers:""The Ogre Twins" -- Thomas "Ogre1" Ryan and Daniel "Ogre2" Ryan -- are believed by many to have telepathic powers for their uncanny ability to anticipate one another's moves. Both are students at Ohio University. Their successful balance of school and gaming has helped them become the best duo in the sport today.You see, they're only good at games because they do their homework too.
Tim Berners-Lee starts a blog post: "When I invented the Web, I didn't have to ask anyone's permission. Now, hundreds of millions of people are using it freely. I am worried that that is going end in the USA." That freedom is now under threat. He says:Let's see whether the United States is capable as acting according to its important values, or whether it is, as so many people are saying, run by the misguided short-term interested of large corporations.There's a comprehensive account ofNetwork neutralityat Wikipedia. There's also aSave The Internetcampaign.
Google Blogoscoped has a great guide tohow to become a totally evil, worm-like creature with Google's array of services in under a month. For a flavour, the first is:1. Start a spam blog with Blogger.com*. Use Google News to send automated email alerts on any conceivable high-paying topic to your Blogger's blog-by-mail address.It's meant to be funny, of course. None the less, there are a lot of people out there in the process or burying Google in junk, because it's quicker and more profitable than just, you know, creating good content and hoping Google will index it.* This should really say something like "Start 1,000 spam blogs with Blogger.com". Each might only make $1 a day, but if you start a couple of thousand, it starts to add up. Also, don't forget to send out 100 million spam e-mails with links to your spam blogs! It's a profitable game and anyone can play....
This is not about Google, which is a great company, but about Google stock, which is overpriced. Sheldon Liber's 10th reason is amusing:10. Does not pass the equivalence test.Google closed today with a capitalization of approximately $122 billion. To give you some perspective, that is the equivalent of Anheuser Busch (BUD) $35B + Federal Express (FDX) $34.5B + Starbucks (SBUX) $28B + Harley Davidson (HDI) $14.5B + Black &amp; Decker (BKD) $6.5B and Intuitive Surgical (ISRG) $3.5B combined. In my opinion, if someone offered you all six of these companies for all your shares in Google and you told them to take a hike than you are nuts.I'm sure you could come up with your own equivalence test but these are time tested, well managed, valuable enterprises with strong brands and to me owning Google instead is folly. I can't say it in any simpler language than that.
I need to replace my six-year-old desktop PC. I had been waiting for Vista to come out, but have read that it will contain DRM (digital rights management) that will make it impossible to make or play backups of commercial DVDs. If that's true, I'd probably buy an XP computer now. Name withheldAs far as I can tell, before the launch, that isn't true. Windows Vista does include extra DRM features, but those are required to play high-definition movies on HD-DVD and Blu-ray discs, using HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection). This system was developed by Intel, is licensed by Digital Content Protection, LLC, and is required not by Microsoft but by those movie publishers who use it to copy-protect their discs.In this respect, Vista doesn't seem to be any different from standalone players, Sony's PlayStation 3, Macs and any other devices that enable high-def playback. (Apple has been strangely silent on HDCP, but since it is on the Blu-ray Disc Association's board of directors, I expect it will implement the DRM it's promoting.)Also, buying XP does not avoid DRM, and you probably have several DRM systems running already. There is DRM in both Windows Media Player and Apple iTunes, as required by sites that sell music and movies online. If you have legal DVD-playing software, you also have the Content Scrambling System (CSS) used to protect DVDs, and perhaps others.Indeed, Toshiba's Qosmio G30 -- the first notebook PC with a built-in HD-DVD drive -- has Advanced Access Content System (AACS) keys integrated into the drive, and it supports HDCP screens via an external interface. In sum, Toshiba has implemented the same DRM restrictions even though the Qosmio is still running Windows XP.Either way, you have several choices. You can test Vista now by downloading the free beta and running it in a dual boot system alongside XP. You can buy an XP system now and upgrade to Vista later, if you want. If you wait, you will still be able to buy a PC running XP even after Vista appears.
I have read with interest how the Slingbox product will enable me to watch TV remotely. Can I really operate my TV/DVD recorder from my laptop when abroad? Bob EvansSlingbox has just launched its Toblerone-style Personal Broadcaster in the UK at around £180. This plugs into your TV system -- aerial, DVR, Freeview or satellite set-top box or whatever. You must also connect it to your broadband router, preferably via a standard Ethernet cable. The Slingbox includes an infrared emitter to emulate a remote control. You can then operate your system remotely from a Windows PC using SlingPlayer software, or a Windows Mobile PDA or some smartphones.There's a "product tour" atwww.slingmedia.com/uk.An alternative is Orb (www.orb.com/what_is_orb/orb_tv/). This free software lets you "place shift" any media files running on your PC (Windows XP SP2), and view or listen to them remotely using almost any device with a streaming media capability (Windows Media Player 9, WinAmp, RealPlayer 10, QuickTime), including Nokia Series 60 and Sony-Ericsson P900, w800/900i, etc phones. You can also view a webcam.Orb makes sense if you already have a PC with a supported TV tuner, but offers less support than Slingbox for set-top boxes and IR controllers.Note: I have not tried either myself.I expect Orb (or something similar) to be widely adopted by phone companies. Vodafone uses it in Germany for itsMeinPCservice.
Recent letters in the Guardian about www being abbreviated to dub3/dubya, dubya, dubya/vay, vay, vay/treble-yew etc prompts me to ask why it is necessary to use the www prefix each time we search for a site. Neville DensonWhen the web arrived, most companies with internet servers added their web servers at a www address. At the time, www.sitename.com often resolved to a different address than simply http://sitename.com. Today, most companies have their main public face on the web, so they naturally make www.sitename.com and http://sitename.com resolve to the same IP (Internet Protocol) address. In such cases, the www is superfluous and you don't need to use it. I therefore expect the use of www to die out.Incidentally, Sir Tim Berners-Lee also considered Mine Of Information (moi) and The Information Mine (tim) before settling on World Wide Web (www).
I'm not sure what scares me more - the very concept of aDesperate Housewivesgame or the fact that it is being developed byLiquid Entertainment, "creators of the critically acclaimed PC game Dragonshard". Yes, the guys who created a game that, according toGamespot, combined real-time strategy with Dungeons and Dragons role-playing, are now making a "lifestyle simulation PC game" (or Wisteria Lane Sims to you and me). You can just imagine the reaction of the dev team when they were told the news.I'm all for market expansion and I like the show but whoever thought a DH game would be a good idea should be forced to play one of theCSItitles for more than an hour. Of course, I haven't played the game yet, so obviously this is totally biased but do you honestly think the game will capture the essence of the intricate relationships that make up the show. Or will it, in fact, involve clicking madly as you attempt to get Simified versions of Susan and Mike to make out rather than wash up. The press release doesn't hide the fact that the game is only one of a long list of brand extensions.The PC game is the latest extension of the successful global Desperate Housewives franchise, joining a recently announced fragrance launching this fall, a best-selling Season 1 DVD, a board game, a high end line of apparel, a Desperate Housewives online store, mobile ringtones, graphics, personalized application, and an upcoming cookbook.Clothes, cookbooks, ringtones - yup, unimaginative but I can see how the marketing suits came to their conclusion. But a game? Surely a tickbox too far.
When Bill Gates started to make an impact in the software business, he reportedly said: "I want to be the IBM of software." It looks as though he succeeded all too well - Microsoft looks as bloated and bureaucratic as its giant model, where programming was famously compared to prehistoric monsters wrestling in tar-pits. Where he is breaking with the tradition of his predecessors, IBM's Tom Watsons, Sr and Jr, is that he is getting out early. Last week, Gates announced stage two of a multipart retirement strategy, which started when he stopped being Microsoft's chief executive six years ago. He will still be Microsoft's chairman, but will reduce his day-to-day workload over the next two years.Watson Sr, who founded IBM, clung on tenaciously into his 80s, and many thought Gates would do the same. But for more than a decade, he has had another interest: trying to improve the lot of the world's poorest. He started devoting his fortune to good causes, now done through the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. Gates's plan is to reverse the balance of the time he devotes to Microsoft and his charitable works.At the hastily arranged press conference to announce the change, Gates said: "In the early days, I liked to review every line of code, to interview every job applicant. Today, our products include millions of lines of code, we hire thousands of people a year, I've had to lighten up in both of those areas."Clearly he hasn't been reviewing the code for Vista, the next version of Windows, which has exhibited all the tar-pit tendencies described in Fred Brooks's classic book on programming, The Mythical Man-Month. Brooks was writing about the development of the IBM 360 mainframe family, launched in 1964, which was by far the largest private project of the age. Vista is on a similar scale, and in a blog post called Broken Windows Theory, Philip Su describes it as "the largest concerted software project in human history. The types of software management issues being dealt with by Windows leaders are hard problems, problems that no other company has solved successfully. The solutions to these challenges are certainly not trivial."Usual suspectsHaving "managed developer teams in Windows for five years", he writes (atwww.tinyurl.com/z2wlo) about "the usual suspects" - Windows code is too complicated, and the process has "gone thermonuclear". He also writes about more important cultural effects: there's too much random micro-management, and no one really wants to know if something is going wrong. "Every once in a while, Truth still pipes up in meetings," he writes. "When this happens, more often than not, Truth is simply bent over an authoritative knee and soundly spanked into silence."No doubt this is true of all large companies. But don't feel too bad, Philip Su: Windows Vista could be doing better than average, by software industry standards. In the US, for example, a Standish Group survey found that more than a third of software projects were simply abandoned unfinished. The average project was 90% over budget and exceeded its schedule by 120%. "In the larger companies, the news is even worse: only 9% of their projects come in on time and on budget," the report said. "And, even when these projects are completed, many are no more than a mere shadow of their original specification requirements. Projects completed by the largest American companies have only approximately 42% of the originally proposed features and functions."That certainly sounds like Vista - but it was written a decade earlier.The same problems have affected many British projects, including the Stock Exchange's failed Taurus (Transfer and Automated Registration of Uncertificated Stock), and a significant proportion of UK government IT projects. For a recent example, the NHS's current IT development was budgeted to cost &pound;6.2bn; it will now cost &pound;12.4bn, and could end up at &pound;20bn or more. It's also late. And it's still considered relatively successful.Either way, the problem isn't getting easier. The Standish Group called its first survey, in 1994, The Chaos Report. By 2001, it was Extreme Chaos. So the real question is: why? We have known since the IBM mainframe software debacle, more than 40 years ago, that very large software projects are very hard to do. Why do we keep making the same mistakes? More to the point, will Microsoft make the same mistake again? Or have we seen the last blockbuster version of Windows?Viable alternativesThe other thing we know today is that there are viable alternatives, as shown by Apple's development of OS X, by companies such as Google, and the open source movement. Apple had its own struggles in the tar-pits, until it abandoned its operating system development and went out shopping for a replacement. Even after buying NeXT (a little company run by Steve Jobs) for $400m at the end of 1996, and getting the complete Unix-based NextStep operating system, it took more than four years to release OS X 10.0 (Cheetah). Since then, there have been regular "point releases": Puma, Jaguar, Panther and Tiger. If Leopard (10.5) arrives alongside Vista, that will be six releases since 2001 - the year both OS X and Windows XP came out.To be fair, Microsoft has also released Media Center and Tablet PC versions of Windows XP, plus SP2 and versions of Windows CE and Windows Server. It's clearly more manageable to target useful point releases than embark on a five-year death march to finish something like Vista. Apple even manages to charge for them.Another idea is to compartmentalise the development and have teams working independently, which is more or less what happens in the open source market. Whether this would be a practical or economically viable option for Windows involves a lot of other issues.Windows is already a combination of parts from separate teams, and Vista combines multiple developments. Some parts are even released separately, such as Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player. But that could be tricky given the notorious interdependencies that afflict Windows. Also, most copies of Windows are bought by companies who hate "touching the desktop" because it costs them time and money. They like to have one desktop for as long as possible and, if they can, will skip whole versions.Microsoft has traditionally felt it needed to produce a blockbuster version of Windows just to get companies to upgrade. And pay for another copy. It has tried to get around this by introducing a licensing scheme, Software Assurance, where companies pay a regular fee and get upgrades free. This has not been wildly successful, and it can't be easy to sell a three-year scheme if there are up to five years between free upgrades.The third option is to run development as a continuous process, essentially what happens with online companies such as Google. This simplifies software development, but again it is hard to sell the idea to companies that want to control and test their own updates. Users can give up control and buy centralised services. But that was one of the planks of Microsoft's .Net strategy - which included an online version of Office - and it didn't take off.The most likely result is a combination of all these approaches. Microsoft is not going to stop producing things like Windows XP, Windows Server and Microsoft Office, because that is how businesses buy software - and it brings in $1bn a month in profits. But, at the other extreme, Microsoft is spending heavily on web developments to compete with Google, Yahoo and other web-based companies. You can expect to see a very wide range of ideas floated.Last year, Martin Taylor, Microsoft's general manager of competitive strategy, said the firm was planning to deliver "software as a service", but not using the hosted ASP (application service provider) model it tried with .Net. "We have got a strategy for all of our products of how we deliver value to customers via the cloud. Stage two is how we monetise that value," he said.In other words, Microsoft will extend its packaged offerings via a mixture of free (supported by advertising) and premium (subscription) online services, such as OneCare and Office Live.IBM went through a similar transformation. After cheap Intel-based servers appeared in the 1980s, companies were less willing to install giant mainframes, and the company recorded multibillion-dollar losses. But IBM didn't go away - it is still more than twice as big as Microsoft. Nor did mainframes: they still run the country. But IBM changed from a supplier that depended on shipping "big iron" to one selling software and services.Microsoft has to make the same sort of transition, and it won't be easy. You'd have thought this was just the sort of huge challenge that someone like Bill Gates would find irresistible. Apparently not.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Further toTuesday's thoughts on development options for the indies, news announced today suggests that Nintendo is striding ahead in the affordable stakes with dev kits for their next generation Nintendo Wii going for as low as $1,732 (£941 in today's cash).While still a hefty chunk out of a bedroom coder's purse, this price point is far more reasonable than other development kits, and opens the doors for independent options on the hardware giant's machines. Dare I say that it's a revolutionary move?For more, head toNintendo.co.jp.viaAeropause
Some people may think I'm obsessed, and yes quite a lot ofmy recent outputfor this blog (and even for thepaper) has been on the topic of sex in games. Hey, I find it fascinating that sex has emerged in goal-oriented and social virtual worlds. It shouldn't surprise me, of course, but I think it's interesting nonetheless.So when the Sex in Games SIG blog posted about someundergraduate research on the phenomenonfromAaronDelwiche'sTrinity University course, I thought I'd take a look at the paper to see whether what I thought about the topic added up to what an (academically) objective observer witnessed.In paper authorNick Nobel's own words:Sexual exploration and interaction is commonplace on the Internet, particularly in online virtual environments known as Massive Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs). This paper seeks to explore these online practices, and discover how people use these virtual worlds to fulfill themselves sexually. Through online interviews and e-mail correspondence, this research paper explores individuals' sexual interactions in virtual worlds, what types of practices they engage in, and what gratifications they receive.Key findings (quoted) include:While some people admit to engaging in little to no fetishist activity, it is a decided mainstay of online sexual encounters.Some people do not use MMOGs strictly for online sexual encounters, but as a means of attention and spectatorship.Whether people subscribe to the in-game visual aides or not, their sexual gratification strongly relies on signs, symbols, words and connotations that evoke real-world emotions.While the entire practice relies on fantasy and semiotics, it is rarely a substitute for real-life interpersonal relationships....virtual environments are perfect for a person who is experimenting with sexual experiences and identity.Nolan concludes:Regardless of how realistic or fantastical the situation is, online sex is a voluntary activity. As a result, there is an inherent freedom in its practice. People are less restricted by cultural assumptions or real-life dangers such as injury or disease. As a result, sex in virtual worlds is a common practice, and though it cannot replace actual sexual intercourse, it is used by many participants to enhance their existing and potentially fruitful real-world sexual activity.Any thoughts, peanut gallery?
TheGamesblog columnin today's Technology section is all about the social side of online gaming. I avoided talking about MMORPGs, partly because WoW has attracted so much press over the last year, but also because the social elements of this type of game are obvious and absolutely intrinsic.But what about the relationships we have with other players in first-person shooters like Battlefield and CounterStrike? Are they merely functional and - in the case of public, non-clan servers - transitory?Also, socially, how is being in a clan different to being in a guild?For the article, I asked several clan members and a couple of games journalists about their experiences on FPS servers. I didn't have space for many of their replies in the piece, so I've put some of them below. I think - at a time in which everyone is obsessed with social networking sites - the social side of first-person shooters is under-explored.As I wrote in the un-edited version of my column, "Nothing I've seen on MySpace has been as riddled with immediate moral questions or provoked more contradictory reflexes than receiving terse sniping commands from a 12-year-old. Here, some of the most important questions about our online society fly about like spent cartridges, yet few are ready to grapple with them."What do you think catagorises the relationships gamers form with each other in online games?It depends on the gamer and changes with age (and maturity). Amongst teenagers it seems to be an extension of the pack mentality - people gather together to prove their superiority over others. Social interaction is minimal and skill is all important. If you are naturally good you are embraced and if not you are discarded. Behaviour while gaming also tends towards the "dog eat dog" mentality, where the individual displays selfishness in their desires and a lack of social awareness that presumably they wouldn't display if dealing with others face to face.Among older gamers (with some exceptions) that seems to become diluted with a recognition that who you play with and how you play can be as important as how well you do.Then of course you have people like us - who treat gaming as a friendly community where who you play with and how you play actually becomes much more important than how well you do and in some cases, what you are playing.Blackadder, MPUKRelationships online are most catagorised by their improvisation/ad hoc 'ness', and by the reading into every movement. What I think is especially interesting is that actions so often speak louder than words. Most of the relationships you form on clan servers just emerge out of the game and situation. In something like Battlefield 2, every player looks identical, and has the ability to look like everyone else on the server. So what you tend to find is that you group or work with people who are trying to work on the same problem - be it retrieving a flag in CTF, capturing a command point in Battlefield, or running defence. In PC Gaming, it's rare to use voice chat, so any messages are quickly typed, and then followed up by repeated jumping, to gain someone's attention. It's only once someone has gained your attention, that you can really start to work with them, communicate.Tim Edwards, PC GamerThe nature of the game itself obviously has an effect on what kind of relationships form within it - Counter-Strike features very sudden and brutal deaths, often by an unseen assailant, so frustration and animosity are common. In Battlefield 2, camaraderie between players on the same team is stronger because players are split between different roles, and there are loads of ways to help each other. The Medic, for example, can even bring recently killed allies back to life with his defibriliators, which usually gets a "Thanks" and causes the saved player to stick around to fight alongside the Medic.Tom Francis, PC GamerWhen a person fights alone they often loose. I see the forming of teams as a method of becoming better yourself, and also improving the chances of others to experience a better game.The system itself is quite amazing at times when a group of people who come from all over the world and have pretty much nothing in common can suddenly make friendships that are as strong as if they were sitting right next to you.It's kind of the essence of multiplayer games nowadays to put cooperation and teamwork as the highpoints rather than just brutal fragging. It seems to be less repetitive when you've got three, four or even ten people working on your side, brutal failures and amazing successes are all part of the game, but seem sweeter when your friends, clanmates or alliance members are dominating.Charm, RAABDo you think those odd, two-minute allegiances that you form with other gamers in quick Battlefield/Counter Strike sessions are a kind of unique form of social interaction?Yes, definitely. I think it's interesting that I've never never made any attempt to follow up a relationship outside of a server, but always feel remarkably happy when I see familiar names playing. Why should I feel joy when someone I don't know is around? Because I know he/she has got my back, and that we're going to have a great time together.Tim Edwards, PC GamerA while back while playing Battlefield 1942 I formed a sort of fo friendship with a sniper on the opposing side. We kept having this sort of "duel", constantly aiming to pick each other off while surviving long enough to see the other through the scope of a rifle...Charm, RAABI myself have encountered this on numerous occassions such as once on BF2. I was pinned down by an APC with no way of getting away, out of the blue another team member came over to me with medical aid and a missile launcher, saving my skin and eventually helping us win. But after that, you part with the old, "good game", and your most likely never going to see them again.Cobra, RAABThe short-term interaction with other gamers is no different to the interactions we all have during our everyday lives. They are no different to you walking through a busy high street and making eye contact with approaching shoppers to "negotiate" who goes what way. No different to standing in a bus queue and making smalltalk about the weather or the lateness of the bus with a perfect stranger, albeit taking place in an imagined world where getting killed is not necessarily The End.Deadmeat, MPUKHow important do you think social interaction is to online shooters?I personally think that social interaction is one of the most important aspects of online shooters. Not only is it the social act of meeting new people, from which you can become very good mates with but it also deepens the experience. You're no longer on your own with just a load of AI to try and help you, you know you've got real people with you and that they could just as easily run away and hide as they could help you out. With the clan I'm in, RAAB, because we play Operation FlashPoint very realistically, we have become a sort of family - everyone cares for one another as if we where fighting in real battles. Many of us went through the training together and it no longer feels like a game when you get that deep into friendships.Cobra, RAABJoining a clan is, at it's most trivial, a way of getting to play a game with somebody who at least shares some of the same gaming goals as yourself. It can develop into a close knit community of like-minded people who have just as much fun when not actually playing an online game as when they are playing the game.But gaming clans are generally short lived affairs. The vast majority break up after a very short time. The problem is the sheer amount of "pressure to perform" that can be exerted onto gamers, who after all, for the most part, play these games to relax and have fun. A "serious" gaming clan is one of the worst gaming experiences you can have.Deadmeat, MPUKThat's an odd one. I've played online in a full server for hours, only to discover that they're bots, and I just didn't notice. Meanwhile, there are reports (Study: Gamers' Sensations of spatial social and co-presence [FuturePlay 2005]) that maybe once you separate players into two opposing teams, players tend to strip any empathy they may have had away from their friends. But the fact is, team games like Battlefield or CounterStrike are more fun, and more popular than games like Quake 3 or UT, where every man is out for himself. That's also stretched over other genres - more people play team battles on Warcraft 3, or Command and Conquer, than 1v1 matches.Tim Edwards, PC GamerIn my case the appeal of being in a clan had nothing to do with social interaction - that was a pleasant surprise that came much later. The benefits I saw were that someone in a clan had been recognised by their clan-mates as being proficient at that game and that teamwork would not only be a lot easier, but expected. The down-side was that many people in clans (especially in CounterStrike) appeared to be juvenile idiots.Blackadder, MPUKHow do you feel the social side of online gaming has developed over the last few years?The ability to talk to people using voice-comms has dramatically changed online gaming. Hearing someone laugh over voice comms really makes you feel the social interaction in a way that typing "LOL" simply cannot. It is no longer simply a chat-room with pretty images, it is a social event.Blackadder, MPUKOriginally we had all the forums and websites, but now with the introduction of head-sets and the ability to speak to each other real-time via things like TS2 the social side has improved vastly. You can recognise someone's voice and know who they are and how they behave whilst talking to you. They are no longer a name and a message on the side of your screen like in the olden days.Cobra, RAABI am an old gamer, I started gaming when 'online' meant using a modem to connect up with a single friend, and even that failed more often than not. I still get irritable when I think of the phrase "Carrier dropped...".Headsets themselves have not changed the way things work in online gaming, it is the sheer number of games available that has changed the social networking element. It is quite easy to become cut-off from the general gaming community and simply remain in contact with the players of a single game. This is rather a shame I feel, and can act in a rather divisive way, splitting game players as a whole into smaller and smaller parochial enclaves. If something then happens to that smaller community of players, I mean if the game of choice is dropped by the publishers for example, this can leave players rather dispirited. A rather large MMO was shut down a while back and some players were really rather badly affected by it.Several years ago if you were a player of online games your choice was rather limited. As a result you came into contact with a very wide variety of different people, different ideas, even perhaps (dare I say) different cultures.This gathering together of so many disparate people made for lively discussions, both within the games and in outside bulletin boards (though this was using Fidonet rather than the WWW) and gave the gamer a feel for being part of a worldwide movement. The very fact that there were so few online games around meant that the vast majority of the players of these games shared experiences and opinions with a large number of other gamers.As the number of available games increased, and as those games themselves became more involved and detailed, this has begun to fragment the "gaming community". It is now too hard, I feel, to be in a position to try out all the online games available, and as such the "community" feel of online gaming is actually falling at a time when more and more people are actually playing online games.Deadmeat, MPUKI think the most obvious example of development is World of Warcraft - clearly, the route to mainstream success is to create fun social spaces. All those seven million players arrived for the game, but stay playing because of the ties they form to guilds and friends. But, I'm really heartened to something included in Battlefield 2. Players can elect a commander, who will then dish out orders and provide supply drops. One thing they can do is reprimand or compliment a squad - when you press the right button, everyone in that team gets a little congratulation - "you're the best damned squad I've ever seen." Which I think is just brilliant - when a commander did that to me for the first time, I felt very, very proud.Quake Wars: Enemy Territory is trying something slightly odd. A player can be elected as commander and pass out orders, but if no-one's around, a computer will take control, and find things for you to do appropriate to your class. If you're, say, carrying a big machine gun, it will mark an enemy fortified position, and tell you to pin it down. The plan is to make everyone feel like they're part of a combined unit of soldiers - working together. Co-ordinated groups play better, and have more fun - if they can get every player to feel part of that, Splash Damage could be onto something very special.Tim Edwards, PC Gamer
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..The end of the death marchMicrosoft is bloated, bureaucratic and bogged down by the Windows update. But just when it is time for a change of direction, Bill Gates is bowing out. Jack Schofield reports.Time to account for travel maps' costsOrdnance Survey's accounts show a fat profit, but it may be costing customers and the Treasury dear.Free Our Data: have your say in the debateCome to the public debate on July 17 in LondonNewly Asked QuestionsWho benefits from the death of mycokemusic.com?A few sites such as Wippit, but not Microsoft and probably not consumers.How can I get Google to index the billions of pages I've created?Start off with some rat-like cunning, a big server, a domain you've registered, some articles you've stolen or bought, and then create or buy a computer "script" to create content for subdomains.GadgetsSony Location Free TVSony has for the past few years offered a solution for piping TV shows wirelessly to PCs around the home. Now the company is taking that concept further with the launch of Location Free TV (£230).BenQ e600 cameraTaiwanese company BenQ has been a major player in the LCD screen and mobile phone markets and is extending its portfolio to include lifestyle goodies such as this six megapixel camera.SynCh rechargerHave gadgets, will travel. But where to recharge? And, more important, how?All human relationships are on the serversKeith Stuart: I've started playing online shooters again. I'm addicted to Battlefield 2 on Xbox 360, which has reminded me that beyond the hype surrounding social networking sites and MMORPGs, the most diverse, fascinating and impulsive relationships play out in multiplayer blast-'em-ups.Healthy respect for smart cardsElectronic storage is helping to track the medical records of patients in New York, who belong to 100 different nationalities.Revolutionary callingA Swedish firm is about to dramatically reduce the cost of international calls made from mobile phones.Python: the full monty for mobile applicationsVictor Keegan: Even to those of us who get weary of official statistics, the latest ones about mobile phones are astonishing. The two billionth GSM phone (Global System for Mobile Communications) has just been connected.TechnobileCharles Arthur: Voicemail is spectacularly inefficient and I hate it, so please don't leave me a message when you call.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesUp for the cup | For art's sake | Cherry on top | Home support | PDF wars | Old for old | Free code, not free beer | Rough blogging | Ads mag | Hannibal the cannibalLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Have gadgets, will travel. But where to recharge? And, more important, how? If you have a mobile phone and an iPod, you'll need to recharge them at some stage; but the hassle of hefting around all the necessary bits to plug in becomes quickly wearisome. Kudos therefore to SynCh for its &pound;30 multiplug charger: you can replenish your iPod and your mobile phone (Nokia, Sony Ericsson or Motorola) from a computer, power point (in multiple countries) or car cigarette lighter socket. The trick: a USB socket in the power plugs, USB socket in the cigarette lighter, and then a USB cord that goes to interchangeable sockets. Neatly, the cord itself is retractable.It all fits into a pencil case, though you might prefer to reduce that to one or two plugs in a pocket. Certainly, you'll be able to take it in your hand baggage without problems.The US version is available at mpower products.com; the UK version goes on sale soon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sense of fairness in online gaming communitiesIn response to the article on griefing (Gamers don't want any more grief", June 15), that is the reason so many people indulge too deeply into these games ... there's a sense of fairness, or a sense of fairness evolves as the community grows stronger.If we could apply these technologies to real-world government systems, then we could have truly democratic societies. At present, too much information is hidden from the people. Balancing budgets etc should be tracked online. From there, people could find out what they were interested about and make more informed decisions.Jesse JenkenCalgary, Alberta&middot;As a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG) designer, I have seen much more effective anti-griefing measures enacted in game code than through social enforcement, which remains a limited scholarly curiosity in a small handful of games.Simply changing the rules of the game to make certain prevalent forms of griefing functionally impossible is usually the cheapest and most bulletproof method available to developers.A good example is the current generation of MMOG's answer to the frequent problems of verbal abuse: players from different factions of the game simply cannot talk to each other. Their verbal text is scrambled into unreadable gobbledegook when they try to. Similarly, players can place verbally annoying players within their own factions on "ignore" lists, which permanently injunct that griefer from speaking to the player.Verbal abuse was one of the worst social problems in most MMOGs - and overnight it was virtually eliminated by a simple change to the interface code.Social solutions that rely on player interaction tend to be either ineffective or self-defeating, because the penalties are insignificant. If made significant, those very punishments become the strongest weapons in the griefer's arsenal.Jesse KingWestwood, Massachusetts&middot;There is a simple cure for all griefing: do not take your games so seriously. When a game looms over real life in importance, you have lost your way. It's time for a different game or hobby.Alexander BryantRedmond, WashingtonOut of syncYou know your life is totally out of whack when major news outlets write stuff like this ("Who is Robert Scoble and does anyone care?", June 15)http://scobleizer.wordpress.comSocialist principlesIf [the US model [of free public data] were proposed [in the US] today, would it be trashed as socialist? And why has it been so hard to extend its principles from publicly funded data to publicly funded research?www.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/Change not worldwideAleks Krotoski (Gamesblog, June 15) uses the US position in a sweeping statement implying that re-rating is happening worldwide. Sure, San Andreas and Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion were re-rated in the US. But in the UK? No. San Andreas was rated 18 by the British Board of Film Classification in October 2004, months before the Hot Coffee story. Oblivion is a BBFC 15. Fahrenheit, which has a scene where you help the hero make love to his girlfriend, albeit under the bedcovers, is also rated as BBFC 15.www.theaveragegamer.comLung protectionOne important area where electric vehicles are an improvement over conventional vehicles (at least in the urban setting) is that they emit not only less carbon dioxide but also fewer PM10s, which are harmful to the lungs of people living in urban areas. This is something that as a cyclist I welcome. Another issue is the development of electric vans, which may be useful for companies with large fleets for whom having access to electricity will not be an obstacle. One such van is the Modec green van.Peter ThorntonLondon
Up for the cupBlackSpider Technologies says the amount of internet bandwidth used by UK businesses increased by 53% following the start of the World Cup. But the start of Big Brother led to an increase of 1,184%.For art's sakeArtist Agnes Poitevin-Navarre wants people who live in London to fill in a Questionnaire de Proust atwww.cushionculture.com.Cherry on topGlasgow-based Cherry is selling a mobile phone SIM that joins users to "a corporate mobile network" with international mobile roaming call charges.www.mycherrymobile.comHome supportBT is launching a BT Home IT Advisor service, available either on subscription (&pound;9.99 per month) or on a pay-per-incident (&pound;25) basis. Go towww.bt.com/homeitadvisoror call 0800 876 6542.PDF warsAdobe has published a statement about its spat with Microsoft, saying its "concern is that Microsoft will fragment and possibly degrade existing and established standards."http://tinyurl.com/jhdooOld for oldKen Livingstone, Maxitech and Age Concern London are asking businesses to donate old PCs that will be refurbished and installed at Age Concern centres in the capital.http://tinyurl.com/rsuxcFree code, not free beerThe Open Source Business Conference will be held at The Brewery Barbican, London on June 27-28.www.osbc-uk.comRough bloggingRough Guides has launched The Rough Guide To Blogging (&pound;8.99).Ads magDennis Publishing has bought Micro Mart magazine from Trinity Mirror. Dennis publishes PC Pro, Computer Buyer, Computer Shopper, Mobile Computer, Custom PC and Mac User.Hannibal the cannibalBush asks Blair about Hannibal, and you can catch the teleconference athttp://tinyurl.com/rg4oq. OK it's a plug for Sid Meier's Civilization IV: Warlords expansion pack.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sony has for the past few years offered a solution for piping TV shows wirelessly to PCs around the home. Now the company is taking that concept further with the launch of Location Free TV (&pound;230). This enables users to watch what is on their main home screen anywhere in the world on their laptop or PlayStation Portable via an internet connection.Setting up the system in the home is simple: the user plugs the decoder box into their video source, connects it to their network and then installs the software on their PC or TV. However, it is a little more fiddly preparing it to deliver TV via the web. It uses some clever technology so you'll need to consult the manual - the system features a remote control that enables the user to change the channel even if in a hotel on the other side of the globe, for example.Picture quality largely depends on the upload speed of the broadband connection and at the remote place. Sony stipulates that users need an upload of at least 300Kbps. But even with a faster upload there was ghosting. Nevertheless, the image was watchable and for regular travellers who miss TV back home, this is a must-have.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Start off with some rat-like cunning, a big server, a domain you've registered, some articles you've stolen or bought, and then create or buy a computer "script" to create content for subdomains. Set up the pages, do a bit of blog spamming to link back to your pages, get some Google AdWords on your pages, wait for Google to index it all and wait for the money to roll in.That at least seems to have been the plan of the person who registered eiqz2q.org - apparently, Frederico Juan Carlos Arano of Buenos Aires, though one shouldn't take domain registration details too seriously in cases like this.Arano's clever plan was spotted by Merge, a Canadian web design company, which blogged the fact (http://tinyurl.com/zr22x), noting on June 17 that a search of the site via Google yielded an amazing number of results - between 3.8bn and 5.5bn pages.Not bad for a domain that was then just over two weeks old. Another site created by Arano, t1ps2see.com, boasted about 2.4bn pages via a Google search. The "pages" were filled with random words and phrases to help push it up Google's index if anyone searched on those words.The technology writer Nicholas Carr calculated that with so many pages, even with standard AdSense adverts earning just 1 cent annually, "that would earn you a cool 10m bucks per annum, or about 27 grand per day. It's not hard to see the incentive, is it?"Indeed not. But rather like playing poker against gangsters, the trick is not to win, but to walk away with your winnings. (That's not to say that Google is run by gangsters - quite the opposite.) Once Arano's little trick had been spotted, the number of pages that Google returned as lying within the site began to fall off almost in real time - proof, if it were needed, that humans do sit behind all the algorithms that serve up the search results. One wonders whether Arano saw any payout from the AdSense ads displayed on any of those pages.Soon the number of pages in the Google search was down to 7m, after Merge's story had fronted Digg, del.ici.ous, Techmeme and Reddit. By Tuesday, a search on the site via Google yielded nothing; the site itself redirected to t1ps2see.com, a "search engine" that serves up links that advertisers pay for - a standard "affiliate" system.What was quickly noted by specialists in "search engine optimisation" - the art of getting a site high up the results rankings - was that Google fared worst in spotting the scam. While Eric Schmidt's company was recording 1.76bn pages at t1ps2see.com, Yahoo "saw" only 9,230 and MSN just 110. Mark one up to the people at Redmond.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A few sites such as Wippit, but not Microsoft and probably not consumers. On Tuesday the music download site abruptly announced that it will sell no more songs, and that it will cease business on July 31, although you can have any credit stored on the site shifted to any other music download site run by OD2 (On Demand Distribution) by August 31. Note that Apple's iTunes Music Store is not run by OD2.When Apple launched its store in Europe in June 2004, mycokemusic sent out brave statements pointing out that it had been open since January 2004, had attracted more than 2.5 million visitors, sold 500,000 songs and was "still" Europe's biggest online store.Things went quiet, though, when just eight days after its launch, Apple announced that the European iTunes store had sold 800,000 songs in its first week. "In the UK alone, iTunes sold more than 450,000 songs in the last week - 16 times as many as OD2, its closest competitor," said chief executive Steve Jobs, finding an extra bit of salt to rub into the wound.By last November, mycokemusic was ranked fourth in the UK market, just behind Wippit, which offers peer-to-peer downloads of songs, some in MP3 format, from artists such as Fatboy Slim, Arctic Monkeys, Cocteau Twins and David Ford. "We mourn mycokemusic," quipped Paul Myers, head of Wippit on Tuesday. "It was yet another site that made us look good."The study by XTN Data found that iTunes is still well ahead, with a 44% market share, though the Russian site AllofMP3 is now in second place with 14%. Napster is third with 8%, while Wippit fell to fourth with 6%. Mycokemusic and Tesco had "marginal" market percentages.That, however, still leaves around 20% of the digital download market apparently split among sites with tiny shares. Where, for example, is HMV, which launched its download site with much fanfare last September?And there's more for the record industry to worry about in the XTN study, which found that 28% of people say they have downloaded music through illicit file-sharing networks - up from 25% last September. That has to be more worrying for the music business than the closure of one little site.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Vista and DRMI need to replace my six-year-old desktop PC. I had been waiting for Vista to come out, but have read that it will contain DRM (digital rights management) that will make it impossible to make or play backups of commercial DVDs. If that's true, I'd probably buy an XP computer now.Name withheldJack Schofield replies:As far as I can tell, before the launch, that isn't true. Windows Vista does include extra DRM features, but those are required to play high-definition movies on HD-DVD and Blu-ray discs, using HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection). This system was developed by Intel, is licensed by Digital Content Protection, LLC, and is required not by Microsoft but by those movie publishers who use it to copy-protect their discs. In this respect, Vista doesn't seem to be any different from standalone players, Sony's PlayStation 3, Macs and any other devices that enable high-def playback. (Apple has been strangely silent on HDCP, but since it is on the Blu-ray Disc Association's board of directors, I expect it will implement the DRM it's promoting.)Also, buying XP does not avoid DRM, and you probably have several DRM systems running already. There is DRM in both Windows Media Player and Apple iTunes, as required by sites that sell music and movies online. If you have legal DVD-playing software, you also have the Content Scrambling System (CSS) used to protect DVDs, and perhaps others. Indeed, Toshiba's Qosmio G30 - the first notebook PC with a built-in HD-DVD drive -has Advanced Access Content System (AACS) keys integrated into the drive, and it supports HDCP screens via an external interface. In sum, Toshiba has implemented the same DRM restrictions even though the Qosmio is still running Windows XP.Either way, you have several choices. You can test Vista now by downloading the free beta and running it in a dual boot system alongside XP. You can buy an XP system now and upgrade to Vista later, if you want. If you wait, you will still be able to buy a PC running XP even after Vista appears.Don't mean to treble-yewRecent letters in the Guardian about www being abbreviated to dub3/dubya, dubya, dubya/vay, vay, vay/treble-yew etc prompts me to ask why it is necessary to use the www prefix each time we search for a site.Neville DensonJS:When the web arrived, most companies with internet servers added their web servers at a www address. At the time,www.sitename.comoften resolved to a different address than simplyhttp://sitename.com. Today, most companies have their main public face on the web, so they naturally makewww.sitename.comandhttp://sitename.comresolve to the same IP (Internet Protocol) address. In such cases, the www is superfluous and you don't need to use it. I therefore expect the use of www to die out.Incidentally, Tim Berners-Lee also considered Mine Of Information (moi) and The Information Mine (tim) before settling on world wide web.Remote TVI have read with interest how the Slingbox product will enable me to watch TV remotely. Can I really operate my TV/DVD recorder from my laptop when abroad?Bob EvansJS:Slingbox has just launched its Toblerone-style Personal Broadcaster in the UK at around &pound;180. This plugs into your TV system - aerial, DVR, Freeview or satellite set-top box or whatever. You must also connect it to your broadband router, preferably via a standard Ethernet cable. The Slingbox includes an infrared emitter to emulate a remote control. You can then operate your system remotely from a Windows PC using SlingPlayer software, or a Windows Mobile PDA or some smartphones.There's a "product tour" atwww.slingmedia.com/uk. An alternative is Orb (www.orb.com/what_is_orb/orb_tv/). This free software lets you "place shift" any media files running on your PC (Windows XP SP2), and view or listen to them remotely using almost any device with a streaming media capability (Windows Media Player 9, WinAmp, RealPlayer 10, QuickTime), including Nokia Series 60 and Sony-Ericsson P900, w800/900i, etc phones. You can also view a webcam. Orb makes sense if you already have a PC with a supported TV tuner, but offers less support than Slingbox for set-top boxes and IR controllers. I have not tried either myself.I expect Orb (or something similar) to be widely adopted by phone companies. Vodafone uses it in Germany for its MeinPC service (http://tinyurl.com/s2qzn).Backchat&middot;Mike Oconnell wanted all his family's PCs to run Windows XP Home but one was running Windows 2000 Pro. I said I thought an XP Home upgrade would do a clean install using the W2K Pro CD for validation. Ian Park confirms that it worked for him.&middot;"Margaret Nicol is not alone in getting messages about other users when switching off," writes James Prentice. "I get this from time to time for no apparent reason. I have come to regard it as just another bug in SP2!" Bob Evans says he also gets it on his new Dell. But it remains a mystery.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Even to those of us who get weary of official statistics, the latest ones about mobile phones are astonishing. The two billionth GSM phone (Global System for Mobile Communications) has just been connected. It took 12 years to sell the first billion, but only two and a half to sell the second, with more than 80% of the growth coming from developing countries such as China, India, Africa and those in Latin America. The GSM association (whose phones account for 82% of all connections) points out that not only is it the fastest growth of technology ever recorded but it is the first communications technology to have more users in the developing world than the developed world, with all that that implies for the bridging the digital divide.The association is quite right to attribute this success to the original vision of a cross-border digital communications system based on common standards. The unsung heroes are civil servants and businesses, particularly in the EU, who brought this about. They deserve public recognition as they are responsible for the fact that mobile phones are one of the few areas where America's divine right to rule new technologies does not operate.Sadly, such collective wisdom is not mirrored by the constituent companies of the GSM association, whose myopic attitude to change is preventing the huge potential of the mobile from being fully exploited. It is not fanciful to project that if present trends continue, aided by the GSMA's laudable efforts to produce a low-cost phone, that practically everyone will either have, or have access to, a mobile device in the none-too-distant future. This offers not only opportunities for knowledge enrichment but huge scope for unprecedented business opportunities, particularly for small operators.Never before has an interactive device been carried by practically everyone in the developed world. Already, the mobile is home to up to 55 functions - from television to MP3 players - which could be sold separately. The industry has performed a miracle in making such devices, but the operators are retarding mass exploitation by erecting walled gardens around their services to shut out competition, by charging excessively for data use when it should be part of the monthly fee (as in the US) and by stifling creativity by denying content providers proper reward for effort.The scale of the lost opportunity can be seen by asking a simple question. Where are the "bedroom" programmers for the mobile phone like those who cut their teeth on the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC computers two decades ago and went on to become the bedrock of Britain's world-class games developers? Programming for a mobile has to be easier than for a computer but a generation has missed a golden opportunity to create a world-scale industry.Fortunately, there are signs of change. David Wood, executive vice president for research at Symbian, maker of the operating system for most smart phones, believes that a combination of explosive growth of smart phones and the arrival of an easy-to-learn programming language, Python, could resurrect the bedroom programmers. Python is a free (open source) programming language for mobile phone applications (named after you-know-who). You can test it by going to python.org and clicking on the "Getting Started" link at the top left of the screen. Or go to mobilenin.com to download videos of how people, some new to programming, fared in a workshop. More than 21,000 downloads have been made.I started one tutorial and found it surprisingly easy to learn about the basics, though not so easy to download the editor/interpreter needed to run programs being worked on. Imagine what would happen if savvy teenagers were let loose on it. Maybe it should be circulated around MySpace or Bebo; or even put on the school curriculum.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In 2003, Dr Glenn Martin was toying with ways to make emergency care more effective in the New York borough of Queens. His problem: patients of 100 nationalities speaking 167 languages visited the Queens Health Network, where he was a practising psychiatrist and infomatics officer.Every year, doctors in the eight hospitals for which he has responsibility deal with 894,000 outpatient visits and write 3m prescriptions. They were very efficient: it's just that many patients had missing or incomplete medical histories, so they couldn't always be certain they had treated the right patient, or written the right prescription.When patients find it hard to communicate with the doctor, and their records are incomplete, avoidable emergency room errors can sometimes be deadly. "In the US, [up to] 100,000 people die every year because of medical errors," explains Steve Lieber, the chief executive of HIMSS, which compiles statistical information on American hospitals. "Reducing those errors is the single most important priority among healthcare providers in the US."Almost as great a priority is the struggle to create a system of electronic patient records (EPRs) to replace the paper files which in the US, as in the UK, hold a patient's medical history. In theory, an EPR would mean that all our medical data is always accessible instantly, reducing the opportunity for errors. In the UK, the &pound;6.2bn project to create a national EPR is a fundamental part of the NHS national programme for IT, the world's largest IT programme, beset by worries of missed deadlines and cost overruns.Autonomous businessesIn the US, the problem with the EPR programme is different: because hospitals and GP surgeries are run as autonomous businesses, they have to invest in EPR software in the hope that they can make the money back somehow. It's just not clear how. "It may bring benefits to you as a practitioner, [but] you can't charge for it," says Lieber, who claims that as a result, 60% of US hospital outpatient departments still use paper records, rising to 90% of all GP surgeries.The US government has set standards so that when they create electronic records, those records are in a standard format that could be shared between hospitals - provided they have both invested in the systems needed. But "the associated technical, organisational, political and economic complexities will require 10 years or more to fully implement," says Marc Holland, the director of Healthcare provider research at analysts IDC.Martin recalled his time spent studying for a medical degree at the Universit&eacute; de Li&egrave;ge in Belgium. Europeans frequently carried smart cards with personal information as identification - still a relatively rare sight in the US - and he created the idea for a medical smart card that could provide cheaply and quickly some of the functions of the EPR.Within weeks he had created the Patient Health Smart Card, which was launched in August 2003. A standard 64K smart card created by an internal IT department, it can store 27 pages of medical data - easily enough to store the patient's name, address, allergies, important medical data, GP's name recent treatment history, test results, and, if it exists, a clickable link to electronic records.On the front, the patient's card also, crucially, contains something that paper records don't have: a picture of the patient.The card data is encrypted and protected by a Pin, and because the card belongs to the patient, it conveniently sidesteps many of the regulations surrounding EPRs: for example, hospitals have to keep records of who has viewed a patient record. In Queens, if the patient wants to buy a $12 (&pound;7) card reader, they are at liberty to view their data. In an emergency, authorised doctors can override the Pin.The cards have been issued to 14,000 patients and are used in 16 emergency rooms across the borough. "We don't force the card on anyone," says Martin. "But our cards speak English, and more important, our cards speak medical. A full electronic patient record is good, but in an emergency, any information is good."Cutting paperworkPatients agreed: 78% of the people issued with cards who returned to the hospital brought the card to have it updated. In a survey, 83% of cardholders said they would carry it all the time, and 69% had no concerns about their privacy.There was one problem: as soon as the patients left the borough, their cards were virtually useless. At this point, the Mount Sinai Medical Centre called.One of the oldest and most prestigious hospitals in the US, Mount Sinai serves patients from New York's wealthy Upper East Side and the less wealthy Harlem. It had the resources and the political clout to build a much larger regional health network based on the card, involving a group of competitive hospitals in Manhattan. "We had no trouble getting institutions to sign up. So far we have eight hospitals in the area and the potential is for 45 institutions - maybe 1.2 million people using the card," says Paul Contino, the vice-president of IT at the centre. "The network will grow naturally. It gives our patients control, which they didn't have before."It helps that for most hospitals in the US, senior administrators are also practising doctors. "Selling this to our rival networks, by going into the emergency room and showing it to the doctors there, took about three minutes," adds Martin.Initially, the project will issue 100,000 cards, and uses Siemens Corp, the US-based arm of the German healthcare IT specialist, as a systems integrator to handle the larger scale. Yet it is still relatively cheap: each card costs around $7. Doctors can simply paste information into the record. Those outside the network can view the record if they have a reader and if the patient provides the Pin.Veteran US politician Newt Gingrich, who has become an outspoken advocate of healthcare reform in the US, recalls visiting hospitals after Hurricane Katrina. He saw thousands of patients at emergency rooms whose medical history had been washed away. Some were in the middle of chemotherapy, many could not remember what medication they were taking. "In Katrina, 1.1 million people's paper medical records were lost. Our system of paper bureaucracy is literally obsolete. There's no competitive business anywhere in the world that could survive three months with the processes that we have," he says.And that's the key: for US hospitals, the card will flourish if it makes them more competitive. Dr Anne Sullivan, the senior vice-president of the Queens Health Network, says that cutting out paperwork will pay off. "If a pregnant woman comes into the hospital for an outpatient appointment, then for a one-hour visit we estimate the form filling will add 30 minutes of work. And we see them every other week."However, this might soon mean that patients at Mount Sinai and its network are part of a two-tier system, with those who carry the card being given preference. Contino is "absolutely" happy to admit that this could lead to a de facto compulsion to carry the card, even though no legislator could hope to enact such a law.&#183; The UK experienceThe &pound;6.2bn 10-year NHS IT plan encompasses an element called Connecting for Health (CfH). This covers several elements: a booking system, electronic prescriptions and patient records - and the upgrades needed to link all the applications together and all the sites to each other.If it works, the system could revolutionise healthcare in the UK: "It won't be smooth and it won't be perfect but we believe in five years it could be one of the best in the world," says Princeton University's Professor Uwe Reinhardt, a healthcare reformer who advises the US government and the World Bank.It certainly isn't smooth at the moment: last month a group of academics described the plan as "fundamentally flawed", and some elements are already one year behind schedule. But ultimately each patient should have an electronic NHS care record, made up of detailed care records and a summary care record.The summary record contains basic details, such as allergies and current prescriptions, shared across every NHS facility in England. It will be piloted from 2007, but the NHS admits it will be several years until they are widely introduced. The detailed care record contains all treatment details - but will only be shared among organisations that normally work together.Tim Phillips&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Do you have strong opinions about the Free Our Data debate? Or do you want to hear some? On the evening of July 17, the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts (RSA) in London will host a panel discussion on the topic, with the aim of moving the discussion along by inviting speakers from all sides to give their input and test the weaknesses of the proposition.Tickets are free, but numbers are limited. If you would like to come then please apply through the RSA's website or by calling the RSA lectures booking line.The title of the discussion is "Free our data: should public sector information be available for all at the cost of reproduction?". On the panel will be:&middot;Derek Wyatt MP, chairman of the all-party group on the internet, to chair the debate;&middot;Paul Crake, RSA programme director;&middot;Carol Tullo, director, Office of Public Sector Information, controller of HMSO, and Queen's printer;&middot;Ed Parsons, chief technology officer, Ordnance Survey;&middot;David Vaver, director of the Oxford University Intellectual Property Research Centre; and&middot;Charles Arthur, editor, Guardian Technology.The purpose of the meeting is not to be confrontational, but to throw light on how the government prices data, and whether it is choosing the best method to do it, and what is the way forward in a connected world. We look forward to seeing you there.The RSA's interest arises because the "Free Our Data" campaign mirrors one of its own manifesto commitments, to encourage enterprise. "The creation, protection and utilisation of bright ideas are all crucial to a robust society," it notes in its manifesto. "The RSA recognised this when it drew attention to the parlous state of the patent laws in the 19th century. And it continues to recognise it with its project initiatives."&#183;Royal Society for the Encouragement of Artswww.rsa.org.uk/events/detail. asp?eventID=1901.RSA lectures booking line 020 7451 6868
Taiwanese company BenQ has been a major player in the LCD screen and mobile phone markets and is extending its portfolio to include lifestyle goodies such as this six megapixel camera.The &pound;150 DC E600 is a chunky mid-range model aimed at users who aren't overly concerned with creative features. It has just a smattering of features - pre-programmed exposure modes, auto focus options, a 3x optical zoom and not much else. Its best feature, not surprisingly given BenQ's heritage, is the superb 2.5in screen. It has excellent resolution and delivers striking colours. Annoyingly, though, there is no viewfinder, which can make framing pictures tricky in bright conditions. Its other strong feature is excellent video capture, with the 640x480 30 frames per second footage good apart from the intrusion of a little picture noise. Image capture was less impressive, as the camera struggled to cope with complex levels of detail. Colour balance was on the dowdy side, too. Nevertheless, at &pound;150 this is solid value for money.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have voicemail, and I hate it. No, I'm not aiming for that easy target - how dire it is to be directed when you call to a robot voice that doesn't care if you leave a message or not. I mean picking up voicemail. Every day that I come in to find the red light on my office phone flashing is another day that the lost messages in there will go unlistened to. That's right - I don't listen to the voices. How ridiculous has the cult of voicemail become, that writing a sentence like that is frowned on, rather than applauded as a sign of good mental health?Leaving voicemail is such a spectacularly inefficient way of getting in touch with people. I have a mobile phone and the number's no secret. But some companies prefer to ring an office number. OK, fine, but when I'm not out, it really would save us all a lot of time to just ring me on the phone that I carry around with me, rather than a number I attend only periodically.I used to try to discourage people from leaving voicemails by having a message that said: "Please don't leave messages here; instead, send me an email." Hearing it, people would ring off and send an email. But the voicemail treated the ringoff as "a message" lasting 10 seconds, so when I came to check my voicemail there were lots of pauses, followed by the announcement "End of message. To hear the message again ..."This was slightly annoying the first time. But after a few hundred times (say, following a two-week holiday before which you might have changed the message to say "I'm away for two weeks - please don't leave a message"), I was ready to kill the programmers. Especially because while deleting all the non-messages, someone would always ring in; and while we spoke, someone else would ring in, go to voicemail, and leave a message at the end of all those dead air clicks. And while I tried to delete those to reach the new message, someone else would ring ...That's the real killer about voicemail: it takes much longer to deal with the voicemail than the original message. People ramble. They say their phone number veryquicklyindeedinonebreath. They mumble. They use phones that seem to be located underwater. It's all wasted time.Most maddening of all, though, are the beautifully spoken ones that take three minutes of introduction and then say, "It's about an email I sent you." Good grief. One thing I do is read emails, even if only the subject line. Some people hate to take silence as an answer.Is it really so impossible to write even an average speech-to-text converter? I'd settle for anything at the moment. But if you've invented it, for God's sake just email me.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
John Gruber has recently postedsomething about DRMat his Daring Fireball blog, and to me it looks both ill-informed and wrong-headed. He agrees that "Apple's dominance is unhealthy for the [music] industry" but can't see a way out, except by removing DRM (digital rights management).Now, I don't support DRM, and I have never bought anything from iTunes or any other service that sells protected music: I boycott the lot of them. But, contrary to what Gruber claims, there are plenty of options, including open and interoperable forms of DRM. Gruber says:Apple could license FairPlay to other device manufacturers. This is certainly possible, but one would presume, however, that Apple would only provide such licenses for a fee. And thus this would not effectively reduce the dominant position Apple currently holds in the legal download market. They'd just be in a position similar to Microsoft's in the PC operating system market.And what's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with licensing, and things like CD and DVD are also licensed, not free. Apple bought FairPlay and could make money out of licensing it openly, just the way Microsoft and most other companies licence their DRM systems. The fact that Apple operates as a closed, proprietary company doesn't necessarily preclude taking a more open approach with FairPlay.The question isn't whether it would or "would not effectively reduce [Apple's] dominant position", the question is whether it would open a closed market to competition. And it would.Gruber is just as misguided in his second point, about Apple supporting other formats. Gruber writes:Apple can't "just play music from other stores"; the whole point of DRM is that there's secret juju encrypting the data in the files. To play them, Apple would have to obtain a license from Microsoft, and you're just fucking nuts if you think Apple is going to do that. Microsoft charges money for these licenses, and Apple would be forever after beholden to Microsoft for continuing DRM licensing.Again, what's wrong with Apple getting a licence from Microsoft, as long as such licences are openly available on the usual RAND (reasonable and non-discriminatory) terms? Hundreds of companies already have, including Sony. Gruber's crude language may be a bit of a give-away: this sounds to me like the computer equivalent of racism.When Apple entered the portable player market, it bought in most of the technology from outside firms such as Portal Player. Now, Portal Player supports Microsoft wma files as standard, so Apple removed it. There's absolutely no technical reason why iPods can't easily play tracks from any of the wma-based music stores, and it would cost Apple 20 cents a unit or less.It seems to me that in blocking users from shopping at rival music stores, and preventing rival stores from catering for iPod buyers, Apple is directly harming its own customers and acting in an anti-competitive manner. Doesn't matter whether or not the Apple system is so much better that they wouldn't, the fact is, they can't.Finally, Gruber is clearly wrong if he thinks there is no alternative to dropping DRM. There are several groups working on interoperable forms of DRM, and on open DRM. One example is the Coral Consortium's Nemo (Networked Environment for Media Orchestration) using InterTrust (which is owned by Philips and Sony).Coral released its first public spec last week. The InterTrtust group members are also working on Marlin, a "set of specifications to create an interoperable DRM environment," as describedhere. Another example is the Digital Media Project (DMP) which publishedInteroperable DRM Platform 2(IDP-2) in April.There's also Sun's Project DReaM (DRM/everywhere available), which is an attempt to rescue work done on the European Union's Project Opera. TheEurescom sitesays: "The Eurescom project OPERA (P1207) is specifying and prototyping an open DRM architecture, enabling the interoperability between different DRM systems." I believe it did manage to demonstrate interoperability between Microsoft's DRM and RealNetworks'.So yes, if companies are willing to work together, it's certainly possible to have DRMs that interoperate, and this would be a huge benefit both to consumers and producers. It would therefore be more useful if Apple supportersresearched and publicised such attempts, and put pressure on the company to stop its anti-competitive and anti-consumer behaviour and co-operate with the development of openly agreed standards that would benefit the people who buy its products.
Visitors are sick of having to dodge the two bikes that clutter our hallway, but we don't want to leave them outside (the bikes, that is). There seem to be lots of gadgets on the market for lifting bikes out of the way by attaching them to the wall, from simple hooks to aluminium columns and pulley systems, but I'm not sure which to choose. The ideal solution would a) be accessible, because the bikes are used regularly, and b) prevent the bikes from damaging our recently redecorated walls. Is there any hope?David Lewis, via emailSimple hooks are cheap, and fairly easy to put up - if you don't mind hoiking up the bikes yourself, that is. A pulley system is more expensive, but may be worthwhile if you have plenty of height to play with and want to get the bike completely out of the way.But whichever solution you pick, your walls are bound to get marked over time by scuffs from tyres, bars and pedals. The best advice is to get a large sheet of Perspex and screw it to the wall where there will be contact. Not a perfect solution, but it will save your plaster and paintwork.
TheSunBelt security bloghas accused Microsoft of "predatory pricing" which it defines from Wikipedia: "the practice of a dominant firm selling a product at a loss in order to drive some or all competitors out of the market, or create a barrier to entry into the market for potential new competitors."The first problem is that Microsoft OneCare costs $49.95 for three PCs, versus Symantec and McAfee. "Both of these companies have AV products that retail for $39.99," says Sunbelt, "but they also have three-user offerings, at $69.99 (McAfee) and $89.99 (Symantec). Incredibly, Microsoft has priced themselves almost 50% below the market leader, and no one has said a peep." Second is Antigen, which competes with Trend ScanMail for Microsoft Exchange, Symantec Mail Security for Exchange and McAfee GroupShield. Miicrosoft is 53% to 63% cheaper over two years.What should be disturbing about of this all is that we very well might see Microsoft owning a majority in the security space. Despite what their PR flacks tell us, they are hell-bent on getting your business. Look at the Forefront website for yourself. These people mean business. Maybe I'm jaded, as I've spent most of my career working for companies that got pummeled by Microsoft (Borland, Quarterdeck, etc.).Stifling innovation? You bet. What venture capitalist will invest in the next great security idea or product? What entrepreneur will start a new company in the security space, given the risks of competing with Microsoft?Background: Gartner says the software security business was worth $4 billion in 2005, 13.6% up on 2004, and split evenly between business (51.5%) and consumer (48.5%) buyers. The top three vendors had 86% of the market, led by Symantec (53.6% market share), McAfee (18.8%) and Trend Micro (13.8%). In revenue terms, that's £2.15 billion for Symantec, $754 million for McAfee and $556 million for Trend Micro.Nicole Latimer-Livingston, principal research analyst for Gartner, says in herreport:The worldwide antivirus software market is expected to continue its double-digit growth for the short term. However, the market for stand-alone antivirus and anti-spyware products for businesses and consumers will eventually start to decline as interest for end-point security product suites continues to grow. In addition, Microsoft's entry into the consumer antivirus market is expected to unleash stronger price competition, which will likely lower the overall market revenue opportunity.In sum, she's saying that people are becoming less likely to buy four or five different security products for different functions, and will buy cheaper bundles. She's also confirming Sunbelt's worries about the market potential.Comment: Coming in at half the price of the competition is a standard Microsoft technique. In ball-park terms, relying on my fallible memory, MS-DOS was about a quarter of the price of CP/M. Windows was roughly a quarter of the price of OS/2. Microsoft Office gave you Word and Excel for less than the price of Lotus 123, and Microsoft threw in PowerPoint free. Encarta devastated prices for CD-ROM encylopedias. Fact of life: Microsoft piles 'em high and sells 'em cheap.But it's not necessarily "predatory pricing". Cheap makes commercial sense if you spread the cost of development over 100 milliion users instead of 10 million or 1 million. A $100 million development project is a buck each at the Microsoft end of the scale, rather than $100 per user for a specialist company. Also, Microsoft has huge economies of scale in delivering web updates, since it already supports 500 million users via Windows Update. It's not illegal to pass such benefits on to customers, is it?Indeed, many consumers will consider that Microsoft's anti-virus prices are too high because they get their security products free from the likes of Grisoft (AVG), Zone Alarm and many others.As for the principle, here's somethingJupiter Research's Joe Wilcox wroteon June 16, 2004:I don't envy Microsoft's position. The right thing to do for its customers would be to bundle antivirus software into Windows. The Internet is increasingly dangerous, and the company has an obligation to protect its Windows customers. But vendors like McAfee and Symantec are customers, too, and loyal partners--companies that have built up businesses around selling antivirus software subscriptions.At some point, Microsoft will have to make the tough decision. Windows Service Pack 2 was a tough decision, because of the resource investment and potential customer usability impact. Bundling is another, and one I would encourage Microsoft to consider making. Soon.So should Microsoft bundle anti-virus free, charge its own economic price, or inflate its prices to protect partners such as Symantec?Each option has pros and cons. And since the anti-trust laws are confused in conception, inconsistent in application and effectively randomised by the incompetence of their enforcers, it could be very expensive to choose what turns out to be the "wrong" one.This is a difficult issue, and the best commentary I've seen comes from Eugene Kaspersky of Kaspersky Lab:Changes in the antivirus industry. Read it now.Finally, unlike (say) MIcrosoft Office, security software has no real benefits: most of it is a pain in the behind, and we'd all be better off not running it. If there were not so many criminals, social inadequates and parasites around, it would not be necessary. You also wouldn't need to lock your car or your front door.
