Warning: this feature and all the articles it links to contain details of the game's story and outcome.Whatever you think aboutthatending, when ABC brought its hugely expensive series Lost to a close in 2010, it concluded perhaps the most fascinating and complex franchise in network television history. This was a mainstream show that constructed its own densely elaborate mythology, employing everything from number theory to ancient religion; a show that encouraged readers to explore the philosophy of John Locke and David Hume; a show that used alternative reality gaming and brilliant community management to broaden the reach of the fiction beyond linear storytelling. It was a shared viewing phenomenon that drew audiences into a cabal of co-conspirators and theorists. The value was as much in the conversations between fans as it was in the onscreen machinations devised by the scriptwriters.And this, ultimately, is the critical appeal of BioShock Infinite. Here is a mainstream, hugely expensive action game, developed by a team of hundreds over several years. And yet while most Triple A shooters confine themselves to achingly unimaginative military scenarios or archetypal man v alien slugfests, Infinite thrusts us into a bizarre rendering of early 20th-century America and places its combat within the context of religious hysteria, racial struggle and quantum mechanics. Like Lost, it blurs the boundaries between fantasy and scientific possibility, and like Lost it revels in ambiguity. It drops hints and red herrings, it throws in cultural and academic references; it provides the impression that its creators are mad scientist authors with notebooks filled with backstory.But yet it leaves players to figure out a lot of the stuff themselves – and the evidence it gives us is sometimes troubling. Its commentary on racial segregation and civil rights; its sheer violence; the lifelessness of its world – these have all fascinated and concerned players. And that is where the discourse comes in. Because it refuses clarity, for good or bad, BioShock Infinite has inspired a huge range of impassioned and conflicting responses.In case you've missed any or all of these, here is a selection of articles that interrogate the game in interesting ways. Some are from established writers, some from bloggers and game designers, one is from a politician, but all shed light on why this idiosyncratic release has provoked so much discussion.Bioshock Infinite is insanely, ridiculously violent. It's a real shame – Kirk HamiltonThe Kotaku contributor asserts that the outrageous violence in the game prevents it from being something that can be held up as a great work of art.BioShock Infinite is in many ways so, so close to being That Game, the one we can show to our non-gamer friends and say "See? Look at this! It is so awesome! Check out the story! It's like LOST! How neat is this?" But it's not That Game, because it's so hilariously, egregiously violent that a large number of people will never give it a chance.The gaming cringe – Rab FlorenceHere the writer and comedian addresses Hamilton's concerns and defends the level of violence in the game:If there is any game that can justify its violence, it is BioShock Infinite. It is a story about a violent man, and about the violence within society. It's a story about extreme beauty, and extreme ugliness. It's also saying a lot about video games, and as it delivers its story and themes, it does it through patterns and behavioural codes that we all understand. The violence isn't only justified by character, story or themes. It's justified by the language of game mechanics that the game is using.Game openings are important: Or the first 300 seconds of BioShock Infinite – Adrian ChmielarzThe designer of Bulletstorm questions the ambiguity of the game's opening and the damaging effect of littering the environment with too many shiny things to pick up.When I reach the second floor of the lighthouse, I am supposed to have a moment there. A moment of shock, I assume. A tortured man, apparently dead, is sitting in a chair. But my first thought is…"Oooh shiny!"Because when you enter the room with the corpse, two big shiny coins are winking at you from the nearby table. The table right next to the corpse.Booker DeWitt and the case of the young white lady leels: a Bioshock Infinite review – Courtney StantonAn opprobrious response to the game's depiction of race and racial struggle, as well as other elements of narrative and structure.When your super-liminally racist society ends up being destroyed by the only black characters in the game, who are depicted as violent, white-people-hating, child-murdering savages, you're just confirming the racist white people's ideas about black people and presenting them as true.Centering a story about people of colour fighting against racist oppression on a white person and making that white person the agent of the fight's success is racist. Showing people of colour as needing a white person on their side in order to win is racist.Bioshock Infinite and the terrible case for banning all white people from games journalism – Jeff KunzlerAn incendiary diatribe attacking games writers for failing to address the game's 'abhorrent' racial politics and wishing instead for a non-violent, immersive experience. Kunzler isn't messing around here.As white people, it's quite gross, utterly disgusting, to write fancy, long-form "articles" about how BioShock Infinite should have been a non-violent spectacle, how the guns are the problem, how much we want to "explore" and be "immersed" in Columbia. It really is a white people thing, to just really, utterly lack any sort of decency when it comes to America's racist history and creative interpretations and/or acknowledgements of it. You don't, well, you just don't sit there and rally against the violence against an establishment like Columbia. It's demented, it's sick, and it's really not okay.About a girl: assorted thoughts on BioShock Infinite – Kieron GillenThe veteran games writer and Marvel scribe considers the (for him) intended artificiality of the setting, the ramifications of the Vox Populi revolt and the central relationship between Elizabeth and Booker.It's not really about Columbia. Because for all the splendour of the city above the hills, it's a backdrop to the story of a man and his daughter. Columbia is both the setting and the ultimate threat to be averted at all costs. Not that Columbia doesn't try its hardest to be the star. As a game whose setting can be summarised as "The 1893 Chicago world fair takes off and becomes an American Exceptionalism Death Star." it shouldn't even have to try that hard. Still, she tries, but she fails. And that "she" feels important – I couldn't help note that rather than the conceptually named Rapture, this city is called the name of the goddess of America. Columbia is literally the other woman.BioShock Infinite: an intelligent, violent video game? – Daniel GoldingThe question presented here is whether Infinite is a smart game for attempting to tackle themes of race, history and morality, or whether it's stupid for simplifying hugely complex sociopolitical concepts. Golding favours the latter interpretation.In taking the game seriously, I want to be as clear as possible: BioShock Infinite uses racism for no other reason than to make itself seem clever. Worse, it uses racism and real events in an incredibly superficial way—BioShock Infinite seeks not to make any meaningful statement about history or racism or America, but instead seeks to use an aesthetics of 'racism' and 'history' as a barrier to point to and claim importance. BioShock Infinite presents a veneer of intelligence—with wholly unexplored and mystifying asides to complicated concepts like Manifest Destiny and the New Eden—without ever following through. Without any deeper exploration of these ideas, BioShock Infinite's use of American history and the Columbian Exposition is illusory, and already puts the lie to the claim that by engaging with these themes, BioShock Infinite is the place to find substance in mainstream videogames.BioShock Infinite: now is the best time – Leigh AlexanderThis is an interesting sort of companion piece to Gillen's, addressing the artifice of the world, but this time seeing in it a failure to convey meaning beyond the artfully constructed tableaus of misery.The spectre of Lady Comstock has loomed over us for this entire game, in legend and in portraiture, but we have no intimacy with her cartoonish corpse before we are literally chasing a spectre. This is not a game about American exceptionalism and the choice between obedient prison and chaotic freedom. This is a game where you have to chase a ghost among parallel realities. This is a game that lives in its own alternate universe, is in love with its own cleverness, instead of being genuinely clever. There are tears everywhere. And in the game.The Levine-led Irrational team has birthed a universe, now, of games about a dominant idealogue enforcing a slavish devotion to fearful systems, even after those systems have become irrelevant. It gives us worlds plunged into the stress of compartmentalized factions where teams don't communicate, where promises are grand and lovely, but terrible on execution.How Is BioShock Infinite a BioShock game? – Colin SnyderAnother take on the issue of violence, this time closely referencing the first BioShock title and drawing comparisons and distinctions between the two titles – especially in how they represent the 'reality' of their societies.Whereas in the original Bioshock you at least had the comfort of knowing the people you were killing have gone insane from splicing their genes so they can shoot fire and electricity out of their hands, in this game the only reason these people are hostile toward you is because you've been harolded a heretic, and later because you are mistaken for a ghost. Seriously. At times you'll question how superstitious those who live on the backs of zeppelins really can be, however they seem to think that shooting live crows from your hands by drinking a bottle is passé, as a collective sigh can be heard from the citizens. Early in the game you'll be in a Columbian exposition of sorts (World's Faire plays a big role in the aesthetic of the game), and more people will be gathered in awe over an electric horse than to see a man who can alter the physical properties of his hand to produce electricity by drinking snake oil.Shocking, isn't it? – Cliff BleszinskiThe Gears of War designer performs a fascinating post-mortem on the game from the perspective of another purveyor of digital violence. Bleszinski questions the mechanics and the depictions of race and gender but declares the game, "a true classic for the ages".With all of the discussion of misogyny in the industry lately, from sexual harassment, to "if you cosplay then you ask for it" mentality to the Tropes Vs. Women question of "Why's it always the damsel in distress?" I'm dying to know what the women of the industry think of the depiction of Elizabeth. I actually wanted to see her "tear things up" in another way more often. (There's that Whedon fanboy coming out in me again.) I was hoping for a moment similar to the end of Lunar. (High five if you get the reference.)Still, the moment when the Songbird snagged her away from me, or when we were cowered behind the desk together, or when she put my hand on her throat and asked me to finish her if she was going to have to go back…I was moved. During the (incredible) ending I had chills. This is the mother of all videogame endings, the new standard by which all will be judged. This is some Looper, Memento, Source Code, Moon, Usual Suspects, Fight Club, M. Night Shyamalamadingdong stuff. Next level work that can only be brought to you by a talented team and one defiant visionary.Reviewed: Bioshock Infinite – Tom Watson MPIf you needed further evidence for the wider impact of this game, look no further than this: Labour MP and enthusiastic gamer Tom Watson has reviewed it for the New Statesmen.Whatever the tiny defects, there is little doubt that BioShock Infinite will count sales in the millions. The attention to detail from the animation director, Shaun Robertson, and his team should win awards – just take Elizabeth from her Irish jig on the beach and let her explore, and you'll see her independently execute animated routines. It must have taken hundreds of hours of artist time to achieve this tiny piece of colour.I don't think I have ever played a video game that has confronted racism in such an upfront manner as BioShock. There are segregated toilets, exploited black workers and prejudice. Will this portrayal serve to challenge the less informed gamer about the dangers of apartheid? My hunch is that many will just see it as another shoot 'em up with an interesting backdrop as a storyline. It fails as a breakthrough polemical first-person shooter because the plot doesn't adequately integrate with the gameplay.BioShock Infinite vs. Quantum Mechanics: The Real Science of BioShock Infinite – Jane DouglasNot so much an article as a video exploration of the game's shaky hold on quantum mechanics. Outside Xbox co-editor Jane Douglas is a physics graduate and clearly had fun considering the authenticity of Irrational's Heisenberg-inspired universe. Fascinating stuff.Everything Bioshock Infinite Gets Wrong – Matt LeesA passionate and well-argued polemic about the game's narrative and environmental inconsistencies. I managed to leave this off the original list, despite it being one of the key inspirations.Intriguing material then – and the beauty of it is, all of these responses, however contradictory, are valid. Whatever faultlines run through it, Ken Levine's multiverse is one of interpretation as well as existence. Recently, I got into a Twitter conversation with developer and digital music producer Andy Kisaragi; I complained a little about how certain developers and script writers believe that obfuscation equals depth – that by making a narrative ambiguous, you are allowing readers to interpret and therefore elevating the experience to something more profound.It feels like a cheat; like profundity through the back door. Dot-to-dot depth. But Kisaragi made the great point that in games, it's best to think of obfuscation as part of the "ludology", the gameplay, rather than the narrative or setting. Ambiguity is a game device because as much as being able to choose left or right on a joypad, it allows gamers to invest in and interact with the onscreen action. Uncertainty is a playful state – even in linear media: it says to viewers, you must now involve yourself in this universe. And really, BioShock Infinite is about the perception rather than the reality of possibilities.Into these gaps of politics, meaning and representation come critical anger and discussion, and also intrigue. The best games are the ones that invite gamers to become critics of the environment, the narrative and the intent. BioShock Infinite has done that. Sure it loves telegraphing its own highly self-conscious "difference", but even that is a brave thing for a multi-million dollar title to do.In many ways, BioShock Infinite is a horror fiction. It explores fear, dread and visceral violence – and everything else, from racial politics to gender representation, is subsumed into that vortex. Comstock is Kurtz stranded at the edge of civilisation, with Booker as his foil and equal, Marlow. And what they whisper at the close isn't "what have we done?", it's simply "the horror, the horror".Final note: if you played the game from Elizabeth's perspective, it would be Portal 2, with Comstock as Glados and Booker as Wheatley. This is what I said to Christian Donlan, Simon Parkin and Will Porter on Friday. They looked at me as though I were mad. Sometimes you can go too far with this sort of thing
Dish Networks, the US satellite TV provider whose boss has been described as the "most hated man in Hollywood", made a surprise $25.5bn bid for mobile Sprint Nextel on Monday in a move that sent shock waves through the media industry.Dish, the US's second largest satellite TV company, has already angered many major media companies with Hopper, a TV service that allows viewers to skip ads in primetime shows.The company has been snapping up wireless spectrum in recent years. A successful bid for Sprint Nextel, the No 3 mobile provider, would add a cellphone network to its portfolio and allow Dish to offer high-speed internet and voice service across the country in one package – whether people are at home or not.The bid comes as Sprint is in the midst of negotiating the sale of 70% of its shares to Japan's SoftBank for $20bn. Dish is offering $4.76 in cash and about $2.24 in Dish stock – based on Friday's closing price of $6.22 – for every share of Sprint. Dish argues that the deal represents a 13% premium to Softbank's proposal.Earlier this month the Hollywood Reporter dubbed Charlie Ergen "the most hated man in Hollywood". Last year Dish subscribers briefly lost access to the Walking Dead and Mad Men, two of television's highest rated shows, after Dish clashed with AMC, the media firm that broadcasts the shows.ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC have filed lawsuits against Dish over Hopper, its DVR, with allows viewers to "AutoHop" commercials during primetime shows. Hopper is now available on some mobile devices, the fastest growing area for TV viewership."The Dish offer for Sprint is compelling and overall a bold move. This offer will not only pressure a response from Softbank, it may also ripple through the entire industry with impacts on the cable TV industry and Sprint's primary mobile competitors AT&amp;T, Verizon and T-Mobile," Kevin Roe, an analyst at Roe Equity Research, wrote in a note to clients.The bid comes as the US wireless industry is rapidly consolidating. Last year Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile agreed a merger with MetroPCS, combining the fourth and fifth largest players. Earlier this year Dish made an informal offer for Clearwire, a wireless carrier half-owned by Sprint. That deal has been held back by contractual obligations.David Joyce, an analyst at International Strategy and Investment, said it was a smart move for Dish to expand beyond its satellite video product."It will take the pressure off the company if it has a wider range of products," he said.Joyce added that he expected Dish to keep clashing with media firms. "I don't expect that to change any time soon."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.EA shutting down Playfish games | GamesIndustry InternationalEA is shutting it's last Facebook games: Sims Social, Pet Society and SimCity Social, the latter having been online for barely a year:Electronic Arts acquired Playfish for $300 million in late 2009. This weekend, the publisher revealed plans to shut down all remaining Playfish games.In a series of Playfish forum posts, an EA community manager has announced that SimCity Social, The Sims Social, and Pet Society will all be shutting down on June 14. Those will be preceded by the closures of Madden NFL Superstars 11 &amp; 12 and NHL Superstars, both of which will end on May 14. Those are the last remaining active Playfish games, but EA will retain a Facebook presence with games like Bejeweled Blitz."We know that you may be disappointed by this," the SimCity Social announcement reads. "Retiring games is never easy, we hope you've enjoyed playing SimCity Social as much as we enjoyed making it. Thank you to all of our passionate and dedicated players for supporting SimCity Social. We hope to see you in some of our other titles on Facebook and other platforms."Does this signal the end of our 'love affair' with Facebook gaming? Some suggest that the genre has failed to evolve, relying too heavily on familiar structures and tropes. Meanwhile, Zynga has moved into gambling...Pachter: Why Next Xbox Will Win Next Gen | NowGamerWell-known analyst Michael Pachter has explained his conclusion on GameTrailers'Bonus Roundshow that the Xbox 720 (or whatever it's called) will win the next-gen contest:"The reason I think Microsoft wins, I think that you're going to get a subsidy. So I think the price for the next Xbox is going to be subsidised either by a cable TV company or an internet service provider. I think ISPs have a reason, if you add broadband to get the next Xbox, we'll give it to you for 100 bucks. If you subscribe to our cable TV and sign up for a couple of years, we'll give you the next Xbox for 100 bucks."That's a gigantic advantage until Sony picks up the slack and does the same kind of thing and that's why I think TV is a killer app. I think you're going to see Xbox Live with tiered pricing, so if you get TV service you pay a little more because you get rid of your cable box. If you use Skype, they'll give you unlimited Skype calling to any place, even phones, for another few bucks."I'm not convinced that gamers think in the same way as, say, mobile phone users or cable TV subscribers, but this could well be a vital element of the coming generational shift.Xbox 360 Feature: Reviewing Dark Souls: the (Email) Chain of Pain - Xbox 360 - The Official MagazineThis fascinating feature collects some of the emails passed between a small group of games writers who found themselves reviewing Dark Souls before any of the many English language faqs, guides or forums had started helping out with some of the more arcane elements:Since From Software's masterful RPG hadn't been released yet, there were no wikis or strategy guides to consult for guidance. But we'd been taught as kids that it was dangerous to go alone so a group of us agreed to stay in touch by email and support each other in the struggle against a game that's both brutally hard and wilfully, bafflingly opposed to telling you how to play it.It's a rather fascinating record of trial and community. I'm hoping for a radio play.Rivet Wars: Turning universe creation on its head | Eurogamer.netChristian Donlan:Terranova's spent the last few years engaged in creating what the video game industry refers to rather bloodlessly as an intellectual property or - even worse - a universe. Frequently, these deep dives of the imagination seem to start in boardrooms, their fundamental cosmogonies sketched out on the canary yellow pages of a legal pad. This makes sense if you're sinking millions of dollars into a project, of course, as does - to a lesser extent - the ceaseless focus-testing that ensures you're building something that's at least palatable to as large a group of people as possible. You could also argue that it does destroy a little of the magic of creation, though. The danger is that you end up with something that offends almost nobody, but that doesn't really thrill anyone either.Rivet Wars, however - the project that keeps Terranova toiling in his home office late into the night and has delighted all those toy collectors around the world - is different. It's a hobby that got pleasantly out of hand. It's a universe he built because he wanted to - and because of that he's built it without obvious compromise. Happily, it turns out that there's probably something to be said for this way of doing things. Early this year, when Rivet Wars headed to Kickstarter with a board game pitch, it asked for $25,000 and received, in the space of a month, $582,316 instead. That's pretty astonishing. What brought Terranova to this point? Why has his particular approach to creativity proven so successful?This is another fascinating article from Donlan looking at the birth of a new board game, which has interesting things to say about video game 'universes'.My 90 year old grandmother tries the Oculus Rift | YouTubeMy 90 year old grandmother tries the Oculus Rift. We were using the Tuscany demo.With this simple introduction, a YouTube user presents a wonderful video of his grandma using the VR headset Oculus Rift. At times she seems convinced that she has been transported to a Tuscan beach. Her wonderment is utterly transfixing.Xbox Live downtime serves as timely reminder of connected console perils | Games industry news | MCVMany UK and American players were left unable to log into Xbox Live over the weekend."We are still hard at work fixing the issue members are having signing in to Xbox Live," a statement read. "Rest assured we have every available resource working on fixing the problem."It also meant that players of games like Minecraft were unable to access some of their saved content.Added Microsoft: "If you're an Xbox Silver member having problems using existing or newly-created saves in Minecraft, please know we're working hard to fix this issue! We'll update you as soon as we have more information."The issue has since been resolved and Xbox Live is now fully operational, but the news serves as a timely reminder for Microsoft of the perils of internet connected consoles.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
The National Audit Office is to investigate the low amountraised by Ofcom's auction of the 4G airwaves, which in June generated £2.3bn – a total of £1.2bn less than the Treasury had forecast, and£3bn less than the theoretical maximum.In a letter seen by the Guardian, the NAO's auditor general, Amyas Morse, told the Labour MP Helen Goodman, shadow minister for media and communications: "I intend to conduct a value-for-money study of Ofcom's recent auction of 4G spectrum."The Treasury's forecast of £3.5bn from the auction was included in the government finances in the autumn statement last December, and allowed the chancellor, George Osborne, to claim that government borrowing was falling.The Guardian understands that the NAO is preparing the terms of an investigation after complaints from Goodman, who pointed to remarks by the Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards, indicating  the government had not made maximising revenues the prime aim of the auction."By not making maximising the auction's revenues an objective for Ofcom, the government has failed to get value for money on this project," Goodman complained to Morse.The 4G auction sold off more radio spectrum than ever before to bidders including the four main mobile networks and BT. By comparison the 3G auction in April 2000 raised £22.5bn.Figurespublished by Ofcom in Marchshowed that the highest bids for 4G spectrum came to a total of £5.2bn. But Ofcom said those were only theoretical because it was using a rule whereby winners only paid slightly more than the second-highest bidder – similar to an eBay auction – a measure taken to make the auctions harder to rig.Goodman said she welcomed the NAO's intervention: "It is entirely right that the National Audit Office has launched this investigation. Serious questions must be answered as to why the Conservative-led government ended up £1bn short of the estimate George Osborne had provided just months earlier. When the 3G auction took place, Labour ensured that maximising revenue was an objective. The Conservative-led government did not do the same for the 4G auction, which I believe was a serious mistake."Some sources at bidders felt that the design of the auction, using a system known as "combinatorial clock" – which has been used in other countries to sell off 4G airwaves – not only worked against maximising revenue but was also unsatisfactory for bidders. "[Ofcom] neither raised the amount that the government was looking for, nor did it ensure that spectrum found its way into the hands of everybody who wanted it," one bidder said.Their dissatisfaction could also become part of the study. Morse told Goodman that Ofcom had "a responsibility to ensure that the auction delivered an economically efficient allocation of spectrum".The allocation after the auction means that Vodafone's share of all UK mobile spectrum has leapt from 23% to 28%, while that of its rival O2 has dropped from 20% to 15%, and that of the smaller Three network from 18% to 12%.Though the NAO does not have the power to order a rerun of the auction, a report will go to the Commons public accounts committee, which in turn can censure the government and demand a response from Osborne.Ofcom defended the auction. A spokesman said: "The 4G auction was a success, which will deliver the maximum benefit to UK citizens and consumers – in line with Ofcom's statutory duties. It will create competition, with five companies able to launch competitive 4G services. This will lead to investment in new services, greater innovation and lower prices, plus enhanced coverage with a rule to cover almost all of the UK population by 2017 at the latest."The auction was designed to promote competition and ensure coverage, rather than to raise money."A Treasury spokesman said it was the Office for Budget Responsibility, not the Treasury, that estimated the auction would raise £3.5bn. He also said that, even if the actual figure raised had been available at the time of the autumn statement, the Treasury would still have been able to say  it was on course to lower borrowing.
it's Tuesday.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft smart watch would be 'snipe hunt' distraction from Windows 8 &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMicrosoft is reportedly working on designs for a touch-enabled smart watch, a move one analyst called a "snipe hunt" that would distract it from the critical chore of getting Windows 8 off the ground.Another expert, however, said Microsoft needs to keep up with the technology Joneses, and is certainly able to do more than one thing at a time.That fence sure is comfy.Study: many searchers choose Google over Bing even when Google's name is on Bing's results &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandIn a recent study by SurveyMonkey examining SEO assumptions, respondents were given two search result pages, one with a page header labeled "Google" and the other with a page header labeled "Bing," and asked which page of results they preferred. Even when the page header labels were swapped, more users preferred the Google search results.Of 641 survey respondents, 379 participants received a survey asking which of two search result pages they preferred. One page of results for the term "file taxes" included true Google results and the other page included true Bing results. The Google page was chosen by majority of the respondents.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)The changing web platform landscape: more fragmentation? &gt;&gt; Adobe Digital Media BlogIn this new web platform landscape, what about Adobe's contributions to open source browsers? What impact does additional browser fragmentation has on Adobe's efforts?Adobe contributes to standards in open browser implementations formany reasons.One of them is that our new generationEdge toolsuse a 'web design surface'. For well over a year now, we have chosen to use the Chromium Embeded Framework (CEF) to provide this 'web design surface'. So naturally, we will contribute to Blink since it is now the core engine that powers CEF.Another reason for contributing to open browsers is to accelerate the availability ofnew features on the web. This is why we collaborate with Mozilla on a number of standards and contribute code to Gecko (like thispatchon masking for canvas). And this is why we will also contribute to WebKit, in addition to Blink, now that the two are separate projects.Singapore's NFC sign-ups are "slow" - report &gt;&gt; Mobile World LiveThe rate at which mobile subscribers are signing up for NFC-based services in Singapore is "slow", according to a report in the Straits Times.Since last August about 15,000 users have upgraded to NFC-based SIM cards that enable mobile payments, sources told the publication.Singaporehas adopted a modelwhereby the country's three mobile operators – SingTel, M1 and Starhub – have built a shared NFC infrastructure with partners in a government-backed approach.Although the underlying infrastructure is shared, the operators offer competitive retail services which they launched last summer.Of the 15,000 figure, around half paid to upgrade their SIM cards to NFC, while the rest were given the cards as part of promotions.Time travel in movies &gt;&gt; Mr. DalliardA logic chart of many of your favourite time travel movies (and a few you might not have considered) in case you need to figure out whether they conform to the Novikov self-consistency principle, and other questions.Taiwan probes Samsung 'dirty tricks' vs HTC' &gt;&gt; AFPTaiwanese authorities said Monday they had launched an investigation into allegations that South Korean tech giant Samsung hired students to post malicious comments about local rival HTC online."The case was set up last week after we received complaints," Fair Trade Commission spokesman Sun Lih-chyun told AFP.He said the probe would look into allegations that Samsung engaged in false advertising and that if the allegations were upheld, Samsung and its local advertising agent could face a fine of up to Tw$25 million ($835,000).Complaints emerged this month, with internet users alleging that Samsung, through its local agent, had hired students to write online articles attacking HTC and recommending Samsung cellphones, the United Evening News said…in a statement on its Facebook page, www.facebook.com/SamsungTaiwan, Samsung Taiwan said it regretted "any inconvenience and confusion from the Internet event"."Samsung Taiwan has halted all internet marketing such as posting articles on websites," it said.Samsung was fined Tw$300,000 by the commission earlier this year for a misleading advertisement about the camera functions on Samsung's Galaxy Y Duos GT-S6102, according to Taiwan's state Central News Agency.Gosh.iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment, Instapaper developer, on naming:A year later, when Apple did release a model named "iPhone 5" that was far better than the 4S and had an external redesign, the inertia of Apple pessimism was so strong and the press had become such petulant children about Apple products that they shat all over it even though it was a huge update that gave them everything they asked for, plus more.Now, Apple pessimism is even stronger. No matter what they release and no matter how well it sells, they won't win over the press, the pundits, the stock market, or the rhetoric. Not this year. They could release a revolutionary 60-inch 4K TV for $99 with built-in nanobots to assemble and dispense free smartwatches, and people would complain that it should cost $49 and the nanobots aren't open enough.You built what?!: A tractor for the apocalypse &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceSeeking a fresh start, [Marcin] Jakubowski bought 30 acres of Missouri farmland and a tractor. Life in relative seclusion proved uneventful until, one day in 2008, his tractor broke down for the second and last time, spurring him to start an open-source industrial revolution.To Jakubowski, the tractor seemed designed to fail. Why should he sink more money into fixing it or buy a replacement? He wanted a simple and useful machine, and one he could repair and upgrade on the fly. "It boiled down to lower cost in the long run," he says.Jakubowski built the first LifeTrac, as he calls his DIY tractor, in three months for $6,000—about $30,000 less than a comparable mass-produced model. Seeing room for improvement, he built a second prototype in just six days. He posted his progress on the tractor and other machines to an online wiki, which attracted followers, who suggested their own design tweaks. Some even visited in person to help with builds — and Open Source Ecology took off.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Code Hard or Go Home &gt;&gt; HypercriticalSome people wonder how Google can possibly have any power in the Android ecosystem if the source code is free. Facebook Home has been cited as an example of Google's ineffectualness. Look at how one of Google's fiercest enemies has played it for a fool, they say. Google did all the hard work, then Facebook came in at the last minute and co-opted it all for its own purposes.But look again at thegraphsabove. Now imagine similar graphs for the Android source code. Any company with Android-based products that wants to be truly free from Google's control has to be prepared—and able—to match Google's output. Operating systems don't write themselves; platforms don't maintain themselves; developers need tools and support; technology marches on. It's not enough just to just fix bugs and support new hardware. To succeed with an Android fork, a company has to drive development in the same way that Apple did when it spawned WebKit from KHTML, just as Google is doing as it forks Blink from WebKit.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Animoca: Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 line and the Kindle Fire family are still the most popular Android tablets worldwide &gt;&gt; Android PoliceAccording to the firm — which distributes games and entertainment apps — the Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 is the top Android tablet with 11.8% of its network, followed closely by the 10.1 model of the same line. Following that is the Kindle Fire and the Kindle Fire HD which collectively make up another 12.4% of Animoca's users. All told, before we get to the fan-favorite Nexus 7, a whopping 37.3% of the market has already gone to Samsung and Amazon (the former of which has plenty more share with other, less popular devices).So, what's the deal? Those of us who live in the Nexus bubble would assume the Nexus 7 [with 3.8% of the Android market] would be the most popular, right? Well, funny story. As of right now, Google's seven inch slate is available in just ten countries. Only five of those have the 3G variant available.  Granted, this only examines Play Store availability, but the offerings are still pretty sparse."All data obtained from individual users of Animoca games worldwide who used Google Play and who played an Animoca game on a tablet device between February 18 and March 20, 2013." Sample size: 978,000.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, has said the social network stands by its mobile advertising plan, despite concerns that users will be bombarded with unwanted messages.New software to be released by Facebook this year will mean companies can send ads directly to users' smartphones – even if the homescreen is locked.The move is part of Facebook's drive to take over the mobile platform, which Sandberg said may soon be a more important advertisement vehicle than television."The size of the audience makes this – the phone – a mass medium. It's as important to a marketer as TV," she told journalists at Facebook's headquarters in London on Monday. "This is as important – if not more important – than television."Sandberg, who is Facebook's No 2 behind the founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said the company had monitored the aggregate engagement of users who saw ads on their mobile apps and those who did not. "So far, we're very pleased with the results," she said.Asked whether the social network was concerned about placing too many ads on users' handsets, she said: "Our goal is not to increase the number of ads you receive but to increase the usefulness of those ads to you." Facebook introduced ads on its apps on Apple iPhones and Google Android handsets last year, placing messages from brands alongside wall posts, photos and other content in users' news feeds.The move received a mixed reception from some of the social network's billion regular users, but advertisers and shareholders welcomed the chance to get their message on to the smaller screen.According to the research firm eMarketer, Facebook earned more US mobile display revenue than any other publisher last year, with an 18.4% share of the entire market, thanks to ads in the news feed. The move helped overall ad revenues rise 36% year-on-year to $4.27bn (£2.8bn) in 2012, according to the company's most recent full-year results.
Once upon a time, a very bad man stalked the shadows of the video game world. Garrett, the mononymous anti-hero of the Thief games, presented a uniquely amoral figure compared to the usual selection of wise-cracking cops and right-thinking space marines. Even as developers began to experiment with more complex characters, few could compare to the brooding, cynical swagger of this avaricious figure.The games themselves – Thief: The Dark Project (1998), Thief II: The Metal Age (2000), and Thief: Deadly Shadows (2004) – were first-person offerings that saw the grim protagonist skulk around a quasi-medieval world, robbing the wealthy for no nobler purpose than lining his own pockets. As the series progressed, it addressed surprisingly deep themes of oppression, theocracy and the cost of industrialism, all while arguably doing more to advance the cause of stealth-based gameplay than even Metal Gear Solid.However, with the first two games appearing on PC only (the third ventured onto the original Xbox, adding an awkward third-person view in places) the series struggled to expand beyond cult hit status. The original developers, Looking Glass Studios, folded shortly after the second entry; the third game passed to Ion Storm before that company suffered the same fate. All of which goes some way to explaining the decade-long absence of the franchise – an absence that is soon to end.Photograph: Eidos MontrealWith two defunct studios in the game's wake, it could be seen as something of a poisoned chalice; but this hasn't stopped Eidos Montreal from shepherding Garrett and his world back to players' hands. Following the exceptionalDeus Ex: Human Revolution– another much-loved series of PC games reimagined for a wider and more modern audience – the Canadian team has more than proven up to the challenge.The return was originally announced as far back as 2009, then under the awful moniker of 'Thi4f'. The numeral has been dropped and the finished product – due for release in 2014 – is simply 'Thief'. Simple and blunt, like its lead character."It's 'Thief' because we want to restart it, to reinvent it," says Stéphane Roy, producer on the game. "We want it to be part of the future, the next generation, and not part of the past. It's not a sequel. It's something new."Seeing the game in action, it becomes clear that Roy and his team have actually been very clever in how the game is introduced to players, reboot or not. An early shot of Garrett sneaking back into the corrupt, nameless city where he plies his trade opens with the line, "I've been away… but I couldn't tell you where." It's almost cute – a wry nod to long-term fans that allows those earlier games to still count, without alienating the intended new audience with any weighty continuity. "The big challenge on our side was to adapt the franchise to the expectations of the modern gamer," Roy adds. "The way we play games today and the way we played ten or 15 years ago has changed a lot."As for Roy's intention to be next generation? That can be considered fully realised. Currently confirmed for PS4 and PC – and "other next-generation formats" – Thief is simply a breathtaking sight to take in, even at this early stage. The city is both towering and expansive, a blend of baroque architecture, slovenly hovels and booming industry. It's meticulously planned and designed, a hive of alleys, rooftops and living shadows for Garrett to exploit. Light effects diffract in real time through ambient air particles, which sounds jargon-y but produces striking and atmospheric results as the mists and steam of the streets swirl around street lamps or torches. Most buildings can be entered, each representing the lifestyles of its inhabitants. The game world is frankly gargantuan, inside and out.Photograph: Eidos MontrealFor all that the technical prowess and raw power of the impending hardware cycle can be leveraged to create subtle beauty, perhaps the most impressive part is how unspectacular it all seems. The detail is sharper, certainly, and everything looks better than most games can currently offer, but it's not until you realise that there's no time wasted on loading screens that you get an idea of the real power at work."Where the next-gen tech gets useful for us is the immersion. You'll believe in the universe," promises Roy. "You'll look at something and it'll be like a real object instead of pixels. I think when people notice that, it feels natural and that's mission accomplished. There are lots of NPCs in a room and you can go over and open the window, you go up, down and back with no loading. With another platform, it might not have been possible."Story details for the new Thief game are being kept largely under wraps at present. What is clear is that the city is undergoing some level of gentrification, with a wealthy baron profiting from the exploitation of the masses. His enforcers at the city's Watch Foundation spread and impose his propaganda, as a seemingly unrelated plague ravages the populace. Easy comparisons can be made to recent global strife caused by economic disparity, although Thief wisely seems to avoid lampooning any actual real-world figures too closely. Garrett's involvement is initially one of greed, an attempt to relieve the baron of his wanton riches. No doubt, like the classic titles, that detached resolve will soften somewhat over the course of the game.Despite the time away, the sarcastic, caustic nature of the lead remains intact. As a solitary figure, there are few opportunities for interaction with others, but Garrett's biting commentary on the people and situations around him proves both darkly humorous and important. Besides giving insight into his own personality, the inner monologues call out aspects of the game world that may be of importance.Gameplay seems largely unchanged from its forebears, with the emphasis unflinchingly placed on the stealth elements. As a master thief, Garrett owns the night, able to dart between shadows almost undetected. With the city providing an almost entirely open environment, objectives can be completed in numerous ways. A prime target for pickpocketing might be mugged while walking down side streets, or you may choose to follow him to greater rewards, for example. Or, tasked with infiltrating an opulent opium den and taking off with pricey jewels and even more valuable client information, you could drug the entire building through the air vents to reduce opposition to a brazen escape. If it's as well implemented throughout the game as it appears in the build shown to press, the freedom to explore and experiment could be one of Thief's greatest strengths…• Read part two on Tuesday
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 13 April 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (33)PC (5)32 (2)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (4)63 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)Wii (6)VITA (5)294 (3)Defiance (18+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (20)PC (5)25 (5)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)36 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (1)227 (8)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)Wii U (4)248 (6)Gears of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)49 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (17)PS3 (17)DS (15)4010 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (42)PC (8)2011 (10)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (40)VITA (10)Wii U (2)2412 (17)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)313 (16)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (22)PS3 (21)DS (10)1714 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (26)PC (19)6715 (9)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (17)3DS (5)2616 (14)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)2017 (20)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (37)3DS (23)PS3 (21)Wii U (13)1618 (–)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (82)Xbox 360 (15)Wii U (2)PS3 (1)2319 (18)SimCity(7+)PC (100)620 (19)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)PC (2)5UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
While Facebook, Twitter and Instagram may have the biggest numbers when it comes to mobile photo-sharing, there are plenty of other companies making innovative (and popular) apps to help people shoot and share their own snaps, while discovering those of friends and strangers.Coolirisis one of them. The company has been active in this area for some time – its LiveShare app came out for iOS in July 2010 – but more recently the company has been focusing more on its separateCooliris app.It's a slick application for browsing photos on the device itself, but also on Instagram, Facebook, Flickr, Twitter, Google+ and cloud storage services including Google Drive and Dropbox, among others. Photos can be re-shared between these services, or bundled into private groups with friends on Cooliris itself.The app has been installed more than 3m times since its launch in August 2012, with its most recent update emphasising its "endless discovery" – something that works particularly well in the iPad version."It's all about providing a visual lens onto the different services," chief technology officer Austin Shoemaker told me when I met him and vice president of business development Sebastian Blum at the Mobile World Congress conference in February, ahead of the update's release in early April.Shoemaker said the integration of Dropbox and Google Drive is particularly important for Cooliris, as it tries to evolve alongside people's photo-sharing habits."Those services are very agnostic: they want you to put in your videos, your PDFs, your other files. But what's happening, as all these companies will tell you, is that the number one file type and volume is pictures. People are using them for pictures," said Blum."We are the best experience on tablet for bringing that media to the surface, because those vendors tend to have an enterprise/general look for their apps."It's a stronger pitch than, say, a brand new photo-sharing service trying to win people away from their established apps and social networks. Rather than do that, Cooliris is trying to simplify the actions of browsing and sharing across all of those existing services."Adding another silo to my life is probably not going to fly," said Shoemaker, who added that Cooliris is working on an Android version of the app, to position the company as a bridge between the different smartphone and tablet operating-system silos too."It's crying out for a third-party neutral company," said Blum.While Cooliris' first 3m installs have come from its consumer-facing iOS app, the company is clearly thinking about other distribution channels, and about how to make money from all this photo-sharing.Blum said the company is looking to partner with telco companies who are launching their own locker services to compete with Dropbox, with the pitch that for the ISPs and mobile operators to differentiate their lockers, they'll need to offer a better experience around personal media."We can give them a head start in their services," said Blum, who also pointed to Cooliris' partnerships with Yandex in Russia and Renren in China to boost the distribution of its technology.
With over 2000 staff and a range of triple A games, Ubisoft Montreal is one of the largest and consistently most interesting mainstream developers in the world. Currently working on the cyberpunk-fuelled conspiracy adventure, Watch Dogs, as well as the long-running Assassin's Creed and Far Cry series' it will be fascinating to see what this place does with the next generation consoles.To find out how it is preparing, we spoke to the studio's CEO, Yannis Mallat, a 13-year Ubisoft veteran who originally started out as a producer on the Prince of Persia titles. Can the Montreal hit factory remain at the cutting edge of mainstream development in the next era? And if so, what will that take? Here's what Mallat had to say.So how does a studio the size of Ubisoft Montreal prepare for the switch to next generation machines?From a studio and a team perspective, we needed to get ready on two fronts - the technological front, of course, but also the mindset. We were pretty prepared on the technology side of things - we didn't wait for the console manufacturers to provide the specs, we'd already invested in high-end PCs and made sure our engines and pipelines were ready to tackle the next-gen machines. We were ready on that side.The mindset preparation was in asking ourselves, 'what will define the next generation games?' It will be more about the connected experience, and all the services that go with that. From a creator's perspective then it's about how we craft the connected experiences that are going to represent new ways of playing. This is where we rely on the studio's strength, which is to empower the developers and the creative minds, and allow them to come up with their own vision of the next generation. This is what we've been able to propose with Watch Dogs and other titles – new connected experiences for the next generation.Okay, the next generation is going to be about connected experiences. But what do you mean by that? How will it differ from what we already have today, in terms of online multiplayer, social gaming, etc?We have to understand that it is intrinsically linked to how we see the market. We used to say that we're not competing against other games, we're competing for leisure time. We have to craft our experiences around the way people are now consuming entertainment. For example, with the online multiplayer aspects of a game, we can say – and this is true already of Watch Dogs – that the next generation will help us to blur the lines between on and offline play and between single and multiplayer. It will be a totally new way to play. I think we showed that last year with the Watchdog trailer and also the live demo we did in February at the Sony PlayStation 4 event. Essentially it will be possible for friends to jump in and out of each other's games without completely changing the experience or becoming an essential part of the storyline that players craft for themselves.Watch Dogs: the big surprise from Ubisoft at E3 2012Essentially then, we'll see more, sort of jump-in, jump-out collaboration and competition. But Watch Dogs also has a companion app, allowing players to interact with facets of their game world on a tablet or smartphone. Do you also see gaming become more pervasive? Will more big games allow us to access elements of the experience while out and about?Yeah, absolutely. Look at TV. I'm pretty sure you watch TV with a second screen on, be it a tablet or a smartphone, so we know that consumers are ready to consumer 90 minutes of entertainment in 45 minutes – if you know what I mean. We will have companion games that let you stay immersed in the universe even when you're not in your living room. In the future, all those fantastic universes, Assassin's Creed, Watch Dogs, Far Cry – they'll stay alive thanks to those devices, within our players' minds.With all of those games it makes great sense actually, to have a pervasive element. They're all set in open worlds so its logical that you should be able to somehow exist in those worlds away from your console.Yes, I think it's obvious now why Ubisoft Montreal decided to go for open-world games - which was terribly difficult at the time, in terms of tech and the skills needed to craft those games. It's just the beginning, though, not only because of the successes we're experiencing thanks to those games, but also to understand how those kinds of games lend themselves very well to what the next-generation will bring.There are controversial aspects of very connected gaming experiences though. If you look at what happened with SimCity, and with the rumours that the next Xbox will require a constant online connection… Are you concerned that a lot of people are worried about the implications and demands of 'always online' gaming?The answer lies in the question – as soon as players don't have to worry, then they will only take into account the benefits that those services bring. And I agree, these services need to provide clear benefits. It's important to be able to provide direct connections between us and our consumers, whether that's extra content or online services, a lot of successful games have that.But are we ready for 'always online' consoles?Well, that's a question you should put to Microsoft and Sony! I would say that a lot of people are already always online through other devices – I would suspect that the audience is ready.I suspect that team sizes will need to grow with the demands of the next generation. If that's the case, can Ubisoft remain creative? The risks are going to increase aren't they? How do you ensure you're still able to explore original new ideas?If there is one question thing that keeps me awake at night it's this one. It's an everyday concern in terms of studio DNA and how we approach production. There is no magical recipe to making successful new games – you can only ever adopt the best practises. Actually, the only recipe I know is that you take the best team, you give them the means, you give them faith and confidence and you give them incredible challenges to tackle – and they usually come back with great stuff.As for creating new experiences, we really believe in ourBreakthrough Strategy, which is linked with technological evolution. Our successes in the past, whether that was the first Splinter Cell, or the first Assassin's Creed, each time we found a technological breakthrough that led to a new way to play that no one had experienced before. It was dynamic lighting that allowed the stealth gameplay in Splinter Cell; when you think about the free-running in Assassin's Creed, the ability of a character to grasp and climb any architectural detail, that was also derived from a technological breakthrough. And this new way to play through technology, was a minimum guarantee to the players of a new game experience. I don't think technology will impair our ability to be creative. On the contrary, you have to embrace technological evolution.And I guess it's important though that your games are never about technology - that they instead use technology as a creative springboard?Absolutely. And you know, we're all game designers - the engineers are game designers, the level creators are game designers, the programmers are game designers. It's all about the mindset.In the past, generational leaps in console technology have really been about graphical evolution. But do you think things will be different with the next generation consoles? Do you think games will lookradicallydifferent in three years time?I don't think you're going like my answer! I think yes and no. Yes, because of all we've talked about – the connectivity, the social aspects, that will shape new play experiences. But also no, because games will be games - the gameplay is at the heart of it. Good gameplay provides immense pleasure and satisfaction - that is going to stay forever, as long as we're talking about video games.
A selection of links hand selected by the Guardian games writersThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt first look - slaying giants in CD Projekt RED's icy open world RPG | PC GamerTom Senior:I know this is exactly what a brooding fantasy RPG anti-hero would want you to think, but Geralt really is misunderstood. At first glance, The Witcher's reticent protagonist is a walking cliché. He has silver hair, a scar over one eye and two swords permanently fastened to his back. If you asked an artist to sketch a typical troubled, dark-fantasy badass the results would look suspiciously similar, but these aren't frivolous artistic embellishments – they're the marks of a man who has survived for decades in the gloomiest of dark fantasy worlds.Thus begins an interesting preview of the forthcoming Witcher instalment.Wii News: Nintendo closing Wii channels and online services this June | Official Nintendo MagazineNintendo will shut down many of its Wii Channels on 28 June, including the Nintendo Channel, News Channel, Forecast Channel, Everybody Votes Channel and Mii Contest Channel.Additionally, you'll no longer be able to send and receive messages using the Wii Message board. However, the Wii Shop Channel will stay open so you'll still be able to download WiiWare and Virtual Console games.And so Nintendo begins to pull back from its record-breaking console. These channels were part of the initial placing of Wii as a family entertainment platform – even if many users never explored them.Elder Scrolls Online video shows 20 minutes of in-game footage | PCGamesNJulian Benson:As captured footage goes, it's not the liveliest of affairs. I'd have liked to have seen fewer than the seven minutes of 'I'm on a boat' video that we did but we do get a good spread of what to expect as players of the game. There are no hovering quest icons over NPCs but we can set the interface to show friendly NPCs, highlighting those most likely to need our aid; we'll be managing health, mana, and stamina in our fights against the local fauna; at about 12 minutes in we also see something of how developer Zenimax Online hope to make MMO combat their own, adding in the block technique from the Elder Scrolls games and not leaving dodges and deflections up to unseen dice rolls.State of Decay to finally release in June on Xbox Live | VG247Undead Labs has set a June release window for State of Decay, its upcoming survival horror title. That's not all: the developer saw fit to release a new video for it as well, and it's below. The game has been in development since at least 2009, and the game was confirmed for XBLA back in 2011, when it was still known as Class3. The game is the platform its MMO, Class4, will be build upon.Preview: Hiversaires | TIGSourceThe world of Hiversaires is presented through detailed pre-rendered stills with very little motion involved, and a pure monochromatic palette (with one notable exception). The game is played by stepping through the world frame by frame, making simple input in order to open up more of the environment to explore. Described by its creator as 'an adventure puzzler in the genre of Myst and Drowned God', Hiversaires offers little consolation for players, providing minimal feedback or reward, and demanding patient observation before progress can be made.This looks fascinating.The Weblog Freeware Pick: KTX-1, cyberpunk espionage adventure aboard a sabotaged train | IndieGames.comKTX-1 is a short cyberpunk espionage adventure game by the developer known as DoorKnobHandle, or DKH. The game won last month's MAGS (Monthly Adventure Game Studio) Competition, and with good reason. Only about 90 hours of work over the course of one month went into the game's development, but it's as polished as many commercial adventure games. The KTX-1 of the title is a high-speed train on which terrorists have planted a bomb. As the agent of a shady government, it's your job to find and defuse the bomb while avoiding detection yourself.Love the look of this – will we ever tire of retro visuals? I don't think so.
Monday! How was your weekend?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's 'Coach' Campbell sees Google Glass starting era of intimate objects &gt;&gt; BusinessweekNoting that he was not at liberty to give away specific details on future Apple gizmos, [Apple board member Bill] Campbell did tell the audience to expect to see "a lot of things going on with the application of technology to really intimate things." He pointed to Google Glass as one such intimate object. "It's a phenomenal breakthrough," he said. "When you start to think about glasses or watches, they become as intimate as the cell phone was."A short while later, Campbell celebrated Nest, the company started by former Apple executive Tony Fadell that makes a fancy thermostat. "You would think that people would yawn at something as boring as a thermostat," Campbell said. "So, I've been surprised at how it has done and is doing. It will be the first of many products that come out of that company, which has a brilliant CEO and engineering team."On Teens and iPhones &gt;&gt; The AxxAlex Guyot, 17-year-old attendee at CDO High School in Tuscon, Arizonia, following on from the in-some-quarters doubted survey by Piper Jaffray about US teens' eagerness to get iPhones (saying 48% had one, 62% planned to get one as their next mobile, 23% expect to buy an Android):Overall, Apple has simply done an amazing job at entrenching themselves in the minds and hearts of teenagers. Despite the results of any studies or articles saying otherwise, I can easily assert that the demand for iPhones from the teenage audience is in no way waning. In fact, more teens seem to want iPhones than ever before. Certainly there is still a presence of Android owners, which while clearly not as large as the number of students with iPhones, is still a competitive force, but the loyalty of this presence to it's chosen operating system seems to be shrinking much faster than it's growing. Android isn't in any danger of extinction in this high school's population, but the dominance of the iPhone is blatantly obvious.What I learned about mobile in China… &gt;&gt; Robert Scoble on Google+ -In China I met several entrepreneurs and others at the Bluetooth World conference there. China has a very different mobile culture, so thought I'd share what I learned here:Truly fascinating on iPhones, Android, and BlackBerry and Windows Phone, as well as the firewall, VPNs and jailbreaking. A must-read, along with other data points in the comments. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)Bernstein ponders lengthening PC cycle &gt;&gt; Barrons.comTablets and smartphones aren't replacing PCs, says [Bernstein Research's Toni] Sacconaghi, but they are likely "lengthening the replacement cycle" as they cut into some of the PC's workload and make their replacement less urgent. This could last a bit before things stabilize:About 360M PCs were sold in 2011; of which we estimate that 75% were replacement PCs, or about 270M. If the average replacement cycle increases over time from 4 to 5 years, annual replacement units would drop by 20% over time to 216M, a decline of 54M from the prevailing run rate. In 2012, total PC units fell 3% or about 12M units in total, and if down 6% in CY13 it would represent another ~21M units, suggesting that this lengthening replacement cycle could continue to have a toll on PC market volumes going forward.Regarding HP's big 24% unit decline in the quarter, Sacconaghi writes that it may be because HP didn't slash prices.Dell did better (in share terms) because it has a smaller consumer mix. Sacconaghi's numbers also suggest a PC market where the installed base is close to peaking. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)The Economist explains: How might your choice of browser affect your job prospects? &gt;&gt; The EconomistAmong other things, its analysisfound thatthose applicants who have bothered to install new web browsers on their computers (such as Mozilla's Firefox or Google's Chrome) perform better and stay in their posts for 15% longer, on average, than those who use the default pre-installed browser that came with their machine (ie, Internet Explorer on a Windows PC and Safari on an Apple Mac). This may simply be a coincidence, but Evolv's analysts reckon that applicants' willingness to go to the trouble of installing a new browser shows decisiveness, a valuable trait in a potential employee.Presents a problem for Chromebook users wanting to impress. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)Why don't cell phones have a dialtone? &gt;&gt; Dan GoldinWhile readingThe Idea Factory, I came across an interesting passage that explained why cell phones don't have dialtones:Meanwhile, Phil Porter, who had worked with [Richard] Frenkiel on the original system, came up with a permanent answer to an interesting question. Should a cellular phone have a dial tone? Porter made a radical suggestion that it shouldn't. A caller should dial a number and then push "send." That way, the mobile caller would be less rushed; also, the call would be connected for a shorter time, thus putting less strain on the network. That this idea—dial, then send—would later prove crucial to texting technology was not even considered.It's amazing that although this suggestion was made in 1971, we're leveraging it more than 40 years later with text messaging. How many other technologies and businesses are built on top of SMS that wouldn't have existed without this decision? I'm sure an SMS-like technology would have come along regardless of this decision but it still makes me wonder how significantly past technological decisions influence us in the present.Microsoft looks like being next with two-factor authentication &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityPaul Ducklin, on what look like leaked screenshots of Microsof's 2FA:It's not clear exactly what the "Don't ask me for a code" tickbox is for, but it looks as though you will be able to exempt your most commonly-used device (say, your day-to-day laptop) from needing 2FA-protected logins.I hope that's not the case, because 2FA adds real value if you use it as a matter of routine, not if you use it only in special cases.Sure, you can argue that an oft-used and cherished laptop is less likely to get you into trouble with a keylogger than, say, a PC in an internet cafe or a kiosk at the airport.But if you care about security, you won't read your email, personal or business, on kiosks or in internet cafes at all.And if you genuinely cherish that oft-used laptop, and your oft-used accounts, you'll want only the best levels of security every time you use them.Crazy question #4 — Can Google Docs replace Microsoft Office in my business? &gt;&gt; The PlatformShort answer: Yes.Long answer: It's complicated.This depends a lot on the use case. We know that Office is a huge product with a collection of extremely rich features. Really, there isn't anything that Office can't do — especially when you look at complex operations available within Word and Excel in particular.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Age:31.Appearance:Clean-cut, square-jawed, all-American, identical.AKA:Cameron and Tyler; the Winklevii.Occupation:Olympic rowers, social media entrepreneurs, chronic litigators.Something to do with Facebook, right?Yes!Would you care to elaborate on that?No.Go on, please …OK, way back in 2003 the Winklevii, along with a Harvard classmate, developed a university-based social network called&nbsp;HarvardConnection, then claimed that&nbsp;fellow student Mark Zuckerburg appropriated both their idea and their source code to create Facebook.And then they sued him.Exactly. After four years&nbsp;of legal wrangling, they finally reached a $65m settlement.And then the Winklevoss twins lived happily ever after.No, then they sued Facebook again, claiming the stock portion of the settlement had&nbsp;been undervalued. This second effort was not&nbsp;successful.If they can't make a living suing people, how will the Winklevoss twins survive?On Bitcoin.Come again?Surely you've heard of Bitcoin, the digital virtual currency beloved of speculators and online drug dealers that suddenly climbed to a rate of $260 per bitcoin last week before crashing again, and then rallying again?Yes, of course. But how do Tyler and Cameron figure? Are they claiming to have invented Bitcoin?No, they just have a lot of them.How many?About 1% of all the bitcoins in circulation, so in the neighbourhood of 108,000.And how much is that worth?Hard to say. $11m is a conservative estimate, but the price of a Bitcoin now fluctuates so wildly that trading was suspended last week. The Winklevii could potentially be billionaires today, and paupers tomorrow. "We could be totally wrong, " said Tyler, "but we are curious to see this play out a lot more."If they are wrong, what will become of them?They'll be OK. Their Facebook shares – the ones that they said were undervalued, remember – are now worth $200m.Do say:"Nothing ventured, nothing gained."Don't say:"If all else fails, you could always sue each other."
Price £24,995MPG 36.2Top speed 140mphThese days admitting that you actually enjoy driving can raise a few eyebrows. Like fell running, or ferreting, it's seen as the preserve of the unrefined mind, a pastime for simple folk who still think going fast is a thrill. Honestly, how unreconstructed! If I tell someone I love cars because I love driving, I have to accompany it with a shrug of incomprehension, as if to say: "I know, how weird! And did you&nbsp;know I like eating Vaseline, too?"But there are obviously a few of us out there, because why else wouldToyotahave dared to build a car like the GT86? It's a full-bore, unmitigated, back-to-basics driver's coupé; a car that celebrates the most elemental pleasure of firing up an engine, engaging the gearbox and accelerating…Over the past several decades what manufacturers call progress has been nothing more than an attempt to make driving less like driving and cars less like cars. Open the bonnet today and you can't even see the engine, let alone get your hands dirty and oil over the front of your trousers. Modern cars are opened with a bleep on a fob, turned on with the push of a button. You don't have to change gear or turn on the lights or wipers. You don't have to worry about losing traction or getting cold. You can't hear the engine or the road. You are insulated, isolated, a bit numbed. Of course it's all bloody brilliant. But occasionally you should sit in a car that reminds you just how incredible a propulsive car can be. We've had wild&nbsp;swimming – maybe&nbsp;this should be called wild driving?And that's where theGT86comes in. Toyota has a bit of form when it comes to sporting coupés. It's given us theCelica,Supraand the brilliant mid-enginedMR2. And it's now rolled out the GT86. It's the result of a joint venture betweenSubaruand Toyota – Subaru's version, which is exactly the same, is called theBRZ. It's up to you to decide which you think sounds cooler.The GT86 (or, if you wish, the BRZ) isn't going to stop the show with its looks. Yes, it's pretty, but it's not a stunner. From the front it has elegant wing bulges and a&nbsp;low-scooping open grill; round the back it boasts two handsome chrome tail pipes and nicely cut lights – it's nothing you haven't seen before. Inside things are more promising. It has bucket seats, a stitched red steering wheel and a stubby matching gearstick. Therearetwo back seats, but they are tiny. Although I did manage to get two lanky teenage boys in there – sort of flatpacked.Start up the four-cylinder petrol engine and you begin to realise what all the fuss is about. Squeeze the throttle and the engine note builds. The rear-wheel drive and instant steering make it feel snappy, the power comes in snatches. There's nothing smooth about the ride. It bounces over speed bumps as if it has no suspension at all. My wife hated sitting in the passenger seat. But once you get out on to a long snaky road, the growl in your throat starts to match that coming from the engine. It really does fly, this little car. Fast, flat, balanced, light and lithe – it's addictive. A touch on the wheel and you whip from side to side. It's basic, but the engineers have been smart enough to create a&nbsp;car that flatters your driving. An hour at the wheel and you start to channel your innerJames Hunt."Many of our rivals have turbos, big tyres and four-wheel drive," says Yoshi Sasaki of Toyota. "They have become sports cars that control their own behaviour – they have become boring." Until now…How to avoid a 'nervous' breakdownThe RAC is to turn the breakdown industry on its head this year with the launch of its 'magic box' for members which will remotely communicate with base to provide diagnostic information which could potentially identify certain vehicle faults before they result in a stressful and inconvenient breakdown.The revolutionary RAC Advance early warning system builds on current telematics technology but utilises the latest diagnostic software to build a comprehensive picture of how a car's systems are performing. In the event of a breakdown it will alert the RAC's response team who can remotely connect with its onboard diagnostic software to identify the fault and give an accurate location for the motorist, enabling the rescue service to swiftly despatch a patrol pre-armed with the diagnosis and the appropriate repair solution or parts, or order up a recovery vehicle if the problem cannot be fixed at the roadside.The simple device, the size of a matchbox, can be self-installed in minutes and can be accessed via a mobile app on the driver's phone or tablet enabling them to check multiple levels of performance including their own 'driver score', accurate 'taxman friendly' mileage records, GPS tracking and other key information.The RAC is keen to conduct extensive consumer testing on its system and will be recruiting a team of 1,000 members to put RAC Advance through its paces on UK roads – you can register your interest viarac.co.uk/advance.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Picture this: after saving humanity from the aggressive forces of the Locust Hordes in hit shooterGears of War, grizzled, gun-toting hero Marcus Fenix sweeps team-mate Dom Santiago into a tender embrace, and the pair kiss passionately as the credits roll.It's fantasy, of course. Not only in the context of the imaginary worlds that provide much of video gaming's currency but also in the uncomfortable&nbsp;reality that would make such a relatively innocuous event almost unthinkable in a game released today. Fenix is, inevitably, in a heterosexual relationship within the game – a snapshot of the underwhelming job the industry is doing of presenting the diversity of its&nbsp;audience in the titles it produces."The majority of game protagonists are still straight, white and male, whereas the audience is increasingly more diverse," explainsMitu Khandaker, independent developer atThe Tiniest Shark. "Besides the question of who developers perceive their audience to be, game protagonists are simply not representative enough of people in the real world," she adds. "Unfortunately, a disappointingly overwhelming amount of the time, non-white, female or LGBT characters in games do little more than parrot existing media stereotypes – particularly within mainstream games."Khandaker touches on an important point – as video games have begun to mature as an art form, they have adopted the same lazy cliches that long dominated film and television. Women are often to be rescued or ogled; non-white characters are sidekicks or villains; gay people are invisible or caricatures. However, games are still at a stage in their development comparable to the movie industry of the 1930s. As cinema grew and matured, slowly tackling more complex themes and appealing to wider audiences, so too must gaming challenge its own inherent biases.Part of the problem may be the players themselves, or at least a segment of the player base that is vocally resistant to change. "Mainstream fan communities tend to be overly hostile when diversity issues are brought up, and I feel that they tend to get much more hostile and abusive when the person bringing up the issue is a member of a minority demographic," saysRegina Buenaobra, North American online community team leader forGuild WarsdeveloperArenaNet. "Games are meeting the needs of straight white male gamers, but when others say that their needs aren't being met, they just can't empathise. A market that doesn't cater to them is beyond their experience."To larger publishers, dealing with high-budget titles carrying considerable financial risk, this creates a mixed message – the familiar core audience seemingly decrying change, while an untapped one demands visibility."Without speaking for others, I think there's a fear of exclusion, rather than an appreciation for the opportunity for inclusion," says Noah Hughes, creative director on the recently rebootedTomb Raider. "They might be losing people by making these choices, as opposed to flipping it around and seeing that you can invite more people to have these experiences."The issue of representation has drawn increasing focus over the last 12 months from those working in the industry. At last month'sGame Developers Conferencein California, the subject was a key talking point. Microsoft's Tom Abernathy went as far as stating that "women are the new core", and called for greater diversity in games, saying: "Our industry, our art, and our business stand to gain in every sense simply by holding a mirror up to our audience and reflecting their diversity in what we produce."Promisingly, parts of the mainstream industry are already heading in that direction.Telltale Games' episodic adaptation ofThe Walking Deadwon near universal acclaim last year for its emotional clout and sympathetic cast, including black lead Lee Everett, and developers at Sony'sNaughty Dogstudio fought forco-lead Ellieto be prominently featured on box art for forthcoming post-apocalyptic thrillerThe Last of Us.Elsewhere, Capcom's impending sci-fi action titleRemember Meintroduces Nilin, a mixed-race woman. "I want to keep faith in humanity and in the fact that gender doesn't matter when a protagonist is created,"Remember Me's creative director Jean-Maxime Moris says. "We are in 2013. It&nbsp;is high time game companies noticed what has been happening in other forms of storytelling in the past couple of thousands of years. In the world and the story ofRemember Me, the only choice we had was to go&nbsp;with&nbsp;Nilin. We didn't consider having a male character, and we hope&nbsp;she resonates well with players&nbsp;from all ages and countries."The calls for diversity in games have never been greater, and though smaller independent studios are better positioned to capitalise, the bigger, more monolithic companies are likely to find it harder to ignore the demand. It may be a while yet before a mainstream shooter is bold enough to subvert macho expectations with a gay lead but the visibility of types other than the straight white male is increasing – and that can only be a good thing for the industry, the medium and, of course, the players.Five games that break the mouldThe Longest Journey(Funcom, 2000) presents leading lady April Ryan, a directionless young artist, as an intelligent, flawed and realistic human being. April's fantasy adventure also explores themes of youth, responsibility and growing up. Of note is the game's portrayal of supporting characters Fiona and Mickey, a pair of middle-aged lesbians in a committed relationship.Its sequel,Dreamfall(Funcom, 2007), introduced new heroes Zoë Castillo, a young woman of mixed Chinese and Spanish descent, and Kian Alvane, a black&nbsp;apostle raised in a matriarchal religious society, while further exploring April's destiny.On the surface,Catherine(Atlus, 2011) seems to be little more than Japanese fanservice, but look closer and you'll find a mature exploration of sex, obsession and psychosis that also presents one of the few transgender characters in games. Although waitress Erica's birth gender isn't mentioned until the end of the game, the revelation paints other characters' interactions with her throughout the game in a different light, reflecting the real fears and stigmas trans people face.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004) and its own sequels featured Alyx Vance, another woman of dual heritage, here Afro-Asian. A scientific genius and determined survivor in the wake of an alien invasion, the only disappointment is that she isn't a playable character.More recently,Prototype 2(Radical Entertainment/Activision, 2012) introduced James Heller, a black male hero who wasn't an aspiring criminal or slogan-quoting urban stereotype but a desperate man out to save his wife and daughter. Perhaps more interestingly, the game recasts Alex Mercer, the white lead of the firstPrototype, as the mad villain Heller must overcome.
Infectious diseases, says the World Health Organisation, "are caused by pathogenic microorganisms, such as bacteria, viruses, parasites or fungi; the diseases can be spread, directly or indirectly, from one person to another." Quite so. Just like Facebook addiction, which also spreads from person to person and has now reached pandemic proportions, with more than a billion sufferers worldwide.The Facebook pathogen doesn't kill people, of course, for the good reason that dead people don't buy stuff. But it does seem to affect victims' brains. For example, it reduces normally articulate and sophisticated people to gibbering in the online equivalent of grunts. Likewise, it obliges them to coalesce all the varieties of human relationships into a simply binary pair: "friends" v everyone else. I have some real friends – as opposed to "friends" – on Facebook and every so often one of them posts a comment on something I've written. I've just looked at one such observation. It's thoughtful, subtle and nicely written. But beneath it is a button simply labelled "Like". If I click on it, my friend will doubtless receive a message from Facebook telling him that I "like" his comment. Big deal.What's interesting about this is the way a software system has been designed to strip all of the nuances and complexities that characterise human interaction and compress them into a channel with the bandwidth of Morse code. Actually, the bandwidth is even more attenuated than that. At least with Morse, something can be either a dot or a dash, but Facebook lacks even that binary sophistication. It only has a "Like" button, possibly because a "Dislike" one might facilitate a higher level of discourse than that deemed desirable by the system's architect.Cultural critic Neil Postman once observed that you can't use smoke signals for philosophical discussions: the communication channel simply doesn't have the necessary bandwidth. One wonders what he would have made of Facebook, or of the fact that a sixth of the world's population is apparently satisfied by such a primitive medium of communication.Meanwhile, the efforts of Facebook's owners to "monetise" these poor saps continue unabated. The basic idea is to use their personal data to refine the targeting of ads at them, which means that, as time goes on, the system becomes more and more tiresome to use. This raises the spectre that, one day, the worms might turn and depart.But – hey! – Facebook management has a plan for that too. It's revealed in afascinating patent applicationjust published. Like all patent applications, it consists of three coats of prime technical verbiage, and the devil is in the detail,but the essence of itis that in exchange for a monthly payment Facebook users will be able to get rid of adsand specify exactly what should replace themon their personal profiles. This is subtly different from what other "freemium" services like Spotify currently offer.You have to admire the chutzpah implicit in this. First, you bombard your hapless users with ads. Then you offer them relief in return for payment. There's a word for this in English, but m'learned friends don't approve of it, so I will avoid it. I'll be surprised if the patent is approved, but the US Patent and Trademark Office has a track record in granting daft patents, as, for example, US Patent 5,443,036 for amethod of exercising a cat by getting it to follow a spot generated by a laser pointer,so I might be unduly optimistic.For fiendish ingenuity, however, Facebook's latest move into the mobile phone business takes the biscuit. Neatly avoiding the trap of getting into the handset-manufacturing game, the company has instead developed an Android app that really ought to be codenamed Cuckoo because it effectively takes over any handset on which it is installed. It can be downloaded for a subset of recent Android handsets and last week HTC unveiled the first phone that comes with Facebook Home pre-installed. The app conceals the array of apps that normally dominate Android home screens and instead putsFacebook activity squarely in the centre of the phone's screen. It splashes status updates across the phone's lock and home screens and makes Facebook's messenger application ubiquitous with little "Chat Heads" that follow you from app to app, thereby making it easy to keep up with what pass for "conversations" on Facebook.What Facebook Home means, of course, is that Facebook will be the first – and perhaps the only – thing that new users of smartphones, especially in emerging markets (ie poor countries), see when they fire up their phones. And when they want to search for something, why, they will use Facebook's search engine rather than that of Google, the company that created the operating system on which Facebook's app runs. Howzat!
The Longest Journey(Funcom, 2000) presents leading lady April Ryan, a directionless young artist, as an intelligent, flawed and realistic human being. April's fantasy adventure also explores themes of youth, responsibility and growing up. Of note is the game's portrayal of supporting characters Fiona and Mickey, a pair of middle-aged lesbians in a committed relationship.Its sequel,Dreamfall(Funcom, 2007), introduced new heroes Zoë Castillo, a young woman of mixed Chinese and Spanish descent, and Kian Alvane, a black&nbsp;apostle raised in a matriarchal religious society, while further exploring April's destiny.On the surface,Catherine(Atlus, 2011) seems to be little more than Japanese fanservice, but look closer and you'll find a mature exploration of sex, obsession and psychosis that also presents one of the few transgender characters in games. Although waitress Erica's birth gender isn't mentioned until the end of the game, the revelation paints other characters' interactions with her throughout the game in a different light, reflecting the real fears and stigmas trans people face.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004) and its own sequels featured Alyx Vance, another woman of dual heritage, here Afro-Asian. A scientific genius and determined survivor in the wake of an alien invasion, the only disappointment is that she isn't a playable character.More recently,Prototype 2(Radical Entertainment/Activision, 2012) introduced James Heller, a black male hero who wasn't an aspiring criminal or slogan-quoting urban stereotype but a desperate man out to save his wife and daughter. Perhaps more interestingly, the game recasts Alex Mercer, the white lead of the firstPrototype, as the mad villain Heller must overcome.
You know how car thieves sometimes put a fishing rod through your letterbox, fish the&nbsp;keys off the radiator (or the little table in the&nbsp;hall, if you're posh), reel them&nbsp;back out through the letterbox&nbsp;and then vamoose in your&nbsp;vehicle? Well, that&nbsp;ain't going&nbsp;to happen with this&nbsp;one. It&nbsp;doesn't have a key, or even one&nbsp;of&nbsp;those keyless entry fobs. This&nbsp;has&nbsp;a&nbsp;key card – flat and credit card-sized, with nothing for the jam&nbsp;jar tea leaf to hook his hook on to. Even if it did, he probably wouldn't, because he wouldn't recognise the key card as the thing he needs in order to relieve you of your brand new Clio.And I'm glad. I don't want it stolen&nbsp;– I like it. Sometimes a&nbsp;car just&nbsp;has a&nbsp;nice feel about it, and this&nbsp;is one of them. In fact, searching&nbsp;around for something to&nbsp;find fault with, I discovered that&nbsp;the carpet in the back doesn't fit&nbsp;brilliantly – it's a bit loose. But&nbsp;because I'd already been totally&nbsp;won&nbsp;over, I saw this less as&nbsp;shoddy build quality and more as&nbsp;endearing,&nbsp;like the loose skin of&nbsp;a&nbsp;puppy. Perhaps it will grow into&nbsp;its&nbsp;carpet.The new Clio is very pretty. It's&nbsp;nicely scooped out a bit at the sides,&nbsp;so that it has a waist (it's hard&nbsp;not to think ofNicole, even though she's sadly long gone). Va-va-voom, too – there is plenty of&nbsp;that, if va‑va‑voom means looking&nbsp;like a&nbsp;coupe when it's actually a five-door hatchback (via&nbsp;the old hidden rear door handle&nbsp;trick). Inside, it's&nbsp;not luxurious, but it's clean and chic (and puppyish). And it handles responsively and, reassuringly, feels like a more grown-up car than previous Clios.This 1.5-litre diesel has plenty of torque (I am now going to get the T&nbsp;word intoeveryone of my car reviews, to show that I'm not just a&nbsp;famous motoring journalist, but&nbsp;also a serious one). Fuel consumption and emissions figures&nbsp;are seriously impressive. It&nbsp;is&nbsp;quite expensive, though,&nbsp;for an&nbsp;inexpensive little car.&nbsp;The much cheaper 0.9-litre turbo petrol version, which still emits less than&nbsp;100g/km of C02, might make more sense.What's not to like? Nothing, really.&nbsp;Well, apart from that key&nbsp;card,&nbsp;actually. It may be unfishable, and so make your car&nbsp;less nickable, but it's also a&nbsp;bit&nbsp;silly and gimmicky. And annoying. I lost it down the side of&nbsp;the seat. Keys are so much easier&nbsp;to find at the end of a&nbsp;journey.&nbsp;They're in the ignition, always. And is turning one really such a terrible chore that they have&nbsp;to be phased out?Renault Clio dCi 90Photograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£15,095Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption83.1mpgCO2emissions90g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating8/10
Microsoft Studios' creative director Adam Orth found himself at the business end of an online lynch mob after using Twitter to announce that the next Xbox would require "always-on" Internet access to work. Coming mere weeks after Electronic Arts' always-on Sim City debacle, which left many paying customers unable to play the game, his comments were pitched somewhere between arrogance and hubris. Twitter's hive mind brought him to book, to which he responded "#DealWithIt", prompting an official apology from Microsoft ...Games out this week includeJewel Quest IV Heritage(3DS), a four-year-old PC game repackaged for handheld with some bolted-on 3D frippery, adding nothing of note to the classic gameplay for which the series is famed; andMystery Case Files: Ravenhearst(DS), an even creakier and more venerable hidden-object-finding remake.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewTelling the story of a tiny hovering robot whose two glowing, quirkily wide-set eyes give it an immediate air of anthropomorphic innocence, Unmechanical is a charming physics-based puzzle game. Entirely wordless, it introduces its challenges by letting you experiment with the environment, moving about by dragging a finger in front of your robot and tapping it to produce a tractor beam that lets you manipulate nearby objects. Your explorations reveal organic-looking structures as well as mechanical ones, leaving you to work out what's going on; the pathos of its mute android protagonist is implied rather than overt, as you clink unavoidably against walls and ceilings in the game's sometimes cluttered, sometimes cavernous surroundings. The soundscape shifts subtly as you move between areas, and the beauty of its art style creates a rare ambience of bashed-up metal mixed with living tissue as you make good your escape. Its problems are intensely satisfying to solve and while none prove all that strenuous, many are refreshingly original. Unmechanical is a wonderfully relaxing way to spend a few hours.
On the show this week Editor of the Guardian's Datablog Simon Rogers joins Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss to discuss his new bookFacts Are Sacredand the evolution of data-journalism here at the Guardian.  And we have a special offer for Tech Weekly listeners.  You can get a hardback copy of Facts Are Sacred for just £10 sterling, saving 50% off RRP, just go toguardianbookshop.co.uk/factsand use code TECHWEEK10.Offer is valid until 3 May 2013.Also Charles Arthur speaks to Phil Libin, CEO of theEvernotethe multipurpose notes and data application about the future of his fast growing company and his recent tie-in with Deutsche Telekom.We have a round up of this week's tech news includingrumors of a Google bid to buy Whatsappandhow many gadgets the BBC are losing each year.
Google has opened a new service to let people control what happens to their email, online photos and blogposts saved in its accounts, as concern grows over what happens to users' "digital life" when they die.Called Inactive Account Manager – which Google's Andreas Tuerkacceptsis "not a great name" – it will let users decide whether to trigger it if they haven't logged in for three, six, nine or 12 months, and then either delete their data or send all or selected elements to a nominated person of their choice.The move comes after increasing concern about problems encountered by families who have been trying to access or shut down accounts on sites such as Facebook after the sudden death of relatives, and amid controversy over the proposed "right to be forgotten" that the European Union is trying to introduce over digital information.Google's new service joins a number of offerings to handle the aftermath of a "digital death", typified by services such asEntrustet, which let people decide what messages and access to information they want surviving relatives or friends to see after their death. With use of social networks becoming prevalent and an important window into peoples' lives and friends, there have been recent examples of relatives of the dead being unable to gain access to the dead peoples' accounts: the family of one soldier was refused access to his email by Yahoo, and some families have had to seek court orders to gain access to the Facebook accounts of the deceased.A spokesperson for Facebook said that the company already offers "memorialising" services where an account can be kept open but will not be used for advertising."Immediate family members can have an account removed completely – but they may be required to provide proof of their familial status in addition to proof of death," Facebook's spokesperson said.But the company is insistent that it will not simply give access to accounts to relatives of the deceased. "We are only able to consider requests for account contents of a deceased person from an authorised representative. The application to obtain account content is a lengthy process and will require you to obtain a court order," it says in its guidance.Google's system will only work if set up by the user. Otherwise, family members who want to get access to email, video or other Google accounts will still have to provide a court order, due to data protection laws.Google's system will first send a warning text message to a mobile registered with the account, and a message to a backup email account nominated by the main account owner. If the user then checks in, the account is deemed active again and no action is taken.Among the choices Google offers are having your data deleted (after three, six, nine or 12 months of inactivity) or to have data from various of the Google services you use sent to "trusted contacts". Among the services survivors could receive are all the pages where you clicked the "+1" buttons, any blogposts and comments from the Blogger service, your Google contacts and the members of your Google+ Circles, the files in your Google Drive, your Gmail email, Google+ Profiles, Picasa photo albums, Google Voice phone data and YouTube viewing."We hope that this new feature will enable you to plan your digital afterlife in a way that protects your privacy and security – and make life easier for your loved ones after you've gone," says Tuerk.It is unclear whether a "right to be forgotten", as proposed by the EU, could be applied retrospectively after death. At present, the proposals only cover the deletion of information relating to a living individual.
Apple and Twitter are both expected to make significant incursions into the music space in the near future in moves that could challenge Spotify, Pandora and other independent music services.Apple is understood to be preparing a music streaming service that would challenge existing ones such as Spotify and Pandora in the US, after reports said that it was close to securing licensing deals with Universal Music and Warner Music, two of the three major music labels. Negotiations with the third, Sony Music, are said to be "less advanced", while there is no indication of independent labels' willingness to sign.But industry gossip points to a launch of the service, perhaps called "iRadio", later this year. That would cement Apple's position in the digital music space, where its iTunes Music Store – which is ten years old this month – already makes it the biggest music retailer in the world.Music streaming is a fast-growing space, where the number of subscribers grew 44% in 2012 to 20m.Twitter, meanwhile, is expected to launch a dedicated product optimised for music, being readied by Twitter for launch at this weekend's Coachella music festival, where artists including Blur will be playing.Twitter Music, which is being teased with a holding page, is thought to offer users aversion of Twitter optimised for music, including enhanced player tools supporting Soundcloud and iTunes, rich follower tools for favourite bands, suggestions and trends, and a recommendation service between friends.The service has been built by the We Are Hunted team, an Australian music discovery and sharing tool quietly acquired by Twitter this year. The deal was only announced yesterday with a statement on theWe Are Huntedsite which said: "While we are shutting down wearehunted.com, we will continue to create services that will delight you, as part of the Twitter team."There's no question that Twitter and music go well together. Artists turn to Twitter first to connect with fans, and people share and discover new songs and albums every day. We can't wait to share what we've been working on at Twitter ... you will hear more from us."Apple's negotiations with labels were reported byThe Verge, noting that talks with Sony were less advanced. Apple hopes that iRadio, as the planned new service had been dubbed, will help push download sales by helping users discover new music – implying that its Genius recommendation tool and Ping networkhave not done the job.Negotiations have not run smoothly; Apple had initially been pushing for a royalty rate of around 6c per 100 streamed songs – roughly half what rival service Pandora currently pays. Current negotiations have doubled that rate. There has been speculation that the basic iRadio service would be free and ad-supported, and launch at Apple's next developer conference in summer.Music analyst Alice Enders said that Twitter Music was unlikely to present any challenge to the mainstream commercial music space. "It is not a game changer – it's niche, a recommendation-based service for people that aren't representative of the billions of people that consume music," she said. A commission-based system for sales on a third-party site would be an unlikely revenue stream, she said, because it would drive users off the Twitter platform, so further promotional advertising products are the most likely revenue streams for the service.But Apple's service was most likely to present a challenge to Pandora, the online radio service that now claims to be used by as much as one third of the US online audience, she said."The real question is Apple going to attract users away from Pandora," said Enders. "It's a big decision for the recorded music industry whether Apple should become a subscription service, noting that the all-you-can-eat service seems to be the nirvana for the music industry even though there is the potential to cannibalise download sales."She added that though successful in the US, the Pandora model has not achieved that scale in other markets which would limit the potential for an Apple product based on that model.Soundcloud declined to comment on Twitter Music, and Twitter said it could not comment beyond the statement onWe Are Hunted's site.Apple did not respond to a request for comment. Universal Music made no comment.
This is a story of theft, loss, discovery – and of mortification – designed for the digital age. It tells how a laptop stolen in London found its way to a family in Tehran and how, via a hidden app, the rightful owner was able to photograph those using his computer and expose them on the web. There is however, a happy ending.The laptop in question belonged to Dom del Torto, a Londoner who works for an animation company in London's Shoreditch. In February his computer was stolen in a burglary at his home in Holloway Road, north London.A month later a tracking app he had installed in the laptop revealed not only that his computer was in Tehran but was transmitting pictures back of the family using it.Intrigued, Del Torto set up a Tumblr page,Dom's Laptop in Iran, showing his computer's new owners' interactions with his machine taken through the Mac's camera. The pictures, to which Del Torto attached witty captions, showed a young woman and an older man. In one image the younger woman has a towel on her head; in another she is wearing a hood.He speculates about the relations within the family, and how his laptop ended up with them – comments and images he now says he regrets posting."My laptop was stolen from my home in February 2013," he said on his blog this week. "In March 2013 tracking software revealed that it had turned up in Tehran, Iran. I shared this information with the UK police dealing with the matter and they said that they were regretfully unable to help.Another picture sent from the laptop. Photograph: Dom del Torto/Tumblr"On 12 April 2013 I decided to share the data from the laptop on [a] Tumblr blog as an amusing story for my friends to enjoy. It seemed to me that a laptop that went missing from London and turned up in Iran was like a space probe landing on a distant planet and beaming back proof of intelligent life."The story began to go viral. "As the story circulated, I started to receive messages from concerned individuals warning of privacy issues and the possible harm and distress the blog may cause the people in the photos. I hadn't really considered any of this, as I hadn't expected the story to get so much attention. So I hid the identity of the people in the photos."Then one of the people in the photos contacted him to ask him to remove the pictures. "They were very upset. I could understand why. The people shown on the blog site are not thieves. The safety and wellbeing of private individuals is more important than any possession. Although I still miss my laptop I do not wish ill on anyone."The people who now have my laptop have been good enough to get in touch and therefore the tracking software has done its job."There are questions that remain unanswered. Del Torto, who feels he made a "huge error of judgment" posting pictures of the family undisguised, was not returning calls. And how his computer made its way to Iran and into the hands of its new owners remains a mystery.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day. Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Drawnimal (Free)This is a wonderful, creative app for children that gets them drawing on real paper rather than on the screen. The idea: diagrams showing kids how to draw ears, whiskers, legs, tails and other animal parts around the iPhone or iPad, which sits on top of the paper. The screen then becomes the animal's animated face. There's an animal for every letter of the alphabet, with letters D to Z unlocked with a single £1.49 in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadNinja Jamm (Free)This nifty music-remixing app comes from Ninja Tune, which has long been one of the more innovative music labels when it comes to digital. Ninja Jamm gets you remixing and jamming with samples from various Ninja Tune artists, from Coldcut to Mr Scruff, using touch, tilt and shaking controls to make music. The results can be shared on SoundCloud, Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Individual "Tunepacks" are sold in-app, most for 69p.iPhoneDungeon Hunter 4 (Free)Gameloft's dungeon-crawling adventure is back for its fourth iteration on the App Store, and like the third instalment, this is freemium. Buying gems in-app beefs up your prospects as you wander through sprawling environments laying waste to enemies. Like Real Racing 3, it may peeve gamers who don't like the free-to-play model, but there's plenty of fun here for others.iPhone / iPadDocuments by Readdle (Free)Documents has been available for iPad for some time, but it's now made the transition to Apple's smaller-screened devices too. It's a productivity app for writing and viewing documents, as well as annotating other kinds of files, and even listening to music or viewing photos.iPhoneZeds – Play Your Dreams (Free)This is an intriguing game from Channel 4: its levels are based on your real-life sleeping patterns. The app records movement and sound in the night, and transforms that into levels for the swipe-based action game. So it's part serious sleep-recorder, and part quirky game. An interesting idea.iPhoneLookAway Player (Free)This is as much a technical demo as a standalone app – not a criticism. It's a player for YouTube videos that pauses them if you look away from the screen, and mutes or unmutes the volume when you put your finger to your lips. A hint at possible user interfaces for future entertainment apps.iPhone / iPadHomestyler (Free)This is Autodesk's latest iPad app, aimed at homeowners who are planning a spot of home improvement. The idea: "Watch your home design ideas come to life within a photograph of your own space." You take a photo of a room, then can change the wall colours, insert 3D models of furniture, and browse the app's "Design Stream" for more inspiration.iPadStatus Board (£6.99)"You've got data. Status Board makes it beautiful," explains the App Store listing for this stylish productivity app. It pulls in emails, diary dates, tweets, weather forecasts, news and other information and displays it on a customisable homescreen: useful if you tend to work at a desk with your iPad somewhere nearby – particularly in a dock.iPadMail Pilot (£10.49)There is no shortage of apps trying to help people solve email overload, and while this one's expensive (for now) it has some good ideas. The key principle is turning your inbox into a to-do list, complete with due dates for dealing with specific emails. Lists, gesture controls and an ability to work with all IMAP providers rather than just Gmail make it worth a look.iPhone / iPadLions Official (Free)As the next British and Irish Lions tour to Hong Kong and Australia hoves into view, there's an official app. It'll offer news, videos, fixture details, and competitions for rugby union fans, along with information on the tour's sponsor Microsoft.iPhone / iPadPocket Village (Free)Social games publisher Wooga has been making waves on Facebook for some time, but it's also ambitious on mobile. Pocket Village is its latest game, and as the name implies, involves building a village full of "Pocketeers" characters. In-app purchases of diamonds and coins fuel the action.iPhone / iPadLingualia – Language Courses (Free)Remember the days when a good way to learn a new language was with cassettes? In 2013, there are a fair few apps for that. Lingualia is the latest, offering a choice of Spanish and English courses for now, teaching key vocabulary, expressions and grammatical rules, while promising to learn from your usage and adapt its courses accordingly.iPhoneShip &amp; Duck (Free)Magazines and online shopping are merging in all sorts of interesting ways in the app world, from Grazia's shoppable digital issues to the app-mags released by the likes of ASOS and Harrods. Ship &amp; Duck is the latest innovative example, launched in the UK and combining editorial and shopping across categories including music, art, films and sports.iPadBlue Toad Murder Files: A Touch of Mystery (£1.99)Fans of traditional whodunnit murder-mysteries will love Blue Toad Murder Files: the latest iOS game from Relentless Software (which made its name with the PlayStation Buzz! quiz games). This game sees you trying to solve a murder in the village of Little Riddle, with animation, 36 puzzles, and AirPlay support to play on a bigger-screen TV with friends or family.iPhone / iPadDa Vinci's Demons: Citizens of Florence (Free)While at the MIPTV conference last week, Icaught a session with David S. Goyertalking about his new TV drama Da Vinci's Demons, which looks very good indeed. And Americans have a just-as-good looking app for that on the iPad: a companion app that synchronises with the show as you watch it, unlocking artefacts and video clips.iPadDr. Seuss Short Story Collection (£5.49)App publisher Oceanhouse Media has spent the last three years busily bringing pretty much everything Dr. Seuss ever wrote to iOS (and Android). This new app includes eight stories in one, taken from various other Seussian collections that are available on the App Store. Kids will be meeting tiger-licking cats, boastful rabbits and multiple sons named Dave among others.iPhone / iPadThe Coldest Journey (Free)The Coldest Journey is an expedition launched in March to cross the Antarctic continent in Winter and raise $10m for charity, co-led by Sir Ranulph Fiennes and Anton Bowring. This official iPhone app provides blog posts and news from the expedition as it goes.iPhoneDonna, Meeting Assistant (Free)This app's US-only for now in private beta, and is the latest exploration of Siri-style personal assistant technology for iOS. Incredible Labs' app promises to take "care of the little things to you can stop worrying", telling you when you need to leave for an appointment, notifying you about meetings in advance, and even pulling in the weather.iPhoneGolfStar (Free)Just in time for The Masters golf tournament comes this free-to-play golf game from Com2uS, making grand claims about being "the most realistic golf game of all time". That means whizzy 3D graphics, lots of physics and five different game modes – as well as social tournaments to compare your skills against friends.iPhone / iPadPikiLicensing reasons mean we're not seeing Piki outside the US for now, but it's one to watch. It's a music discovery app from one of the co-founders of Turntable.fm – the avatar-based music site that made a splash in 2012, again in the US only. Promising "music powered by people, not algorithms", it's a way to follow friends, find new music and stream it for free.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The raison d'être of the glamorous and globally renowned TED conferences is the dissemination of "ideas worth spreading" – and, if there's any organisation that thinks it has one of those, it's the Vatican.Next week, in a somewhat unusual pairing of the Catholic church and California trend-setting, the two will come together for aVatican-sponsored day-long series of talks in Rome. Among the speakers are an Italian cardinal, a Serbian basketball star, a Muslim graffiti artist from Birmingham and the Cuban-born American singer Gloria Estefan."We wanted to listen to stories from every walk of life," said Giovanna Abbiati, who, along with a group of lay academics at the Pontifical Athenaeum Regina Apostolorum, a pontifical university, came up with the idea of holding a TEDx event with the backing of the Vatican.Rather than focusing on Catholicism, the day's theme is religious freedom, and its promotion of inter-faith dialogue appears to chime with the thinking of the new pope.Francis, a theological conservative, raised some eyebrows on Maundy Thursday bywashing the feet of two women, one of whom was a Muslim.He hasspoken of the need to foster inter-faith dialogue, particularly between Catholicism and Islam.Although the planning for the TEDx event started a year ago and had been timed to coincide with the eighth anniversary of Benedict XVI's election, its spirit had become very timely, Abbiati said. "Now we have a new pope and I can say that this is one of the priorities of the church now: religious freedom and dialogue between different cultures and religions," she said. Francis, she added, had of course been invited to the day, but they had as yet had "no feedback" on whether he would make an appearance or not.One man who is hoping he will is Mohammed Ali, a British street artist who has been expressing his excitement about the event on Twitter in the form of the hashtag "brummyintheVatican". Ali, who is known for blending graffiti art with Islamic culture, is preparing a unique talk and would like to present Francis with a resulting canvas as a gift."I'm excited about the Vatican being open enough to say a) we've brought a street artist in, which is unusual in itself, and b) someone who's of Muslim faith," he said. "For me, it's brilliant. It's exactly what I hoped for that people out there are open-minded enough to say: 'Yeah, you know what? We need to find new ways of engaging.'"The host of the TEDx event next Friday will be Gianfranco Ravasi, the Lombardy-born cardinal who heads the pontifical council for culture and was hailed by one Vatican observer as arguably "the most interesting man in the Catholic church" after he launched an initiative to forge links and prompt dialogue with non-believers known as the Courtyard of the Gentiles.He is scheduled to be joined on stage by 17 other speakers, including Daniel Libeskind, the architect and designer among whose works is the Jewish Museum in Berlin; Brother Guy Consolmagno, a planetary scientist at the Vatican Observatory; and Barrie Schwortz, who was raised as an Orthodox Jew and is an expert on the Turin Shroud.Abbiati, who works at theInstitute for Advanced Studies on Womenat the Athenaeum, said Estefan, meanwhile, had "an amazing story" to tell about religious freedom that drew on her family's escape from Cuba after the revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.The Room (£1.49)Atmospheric puzzler The Roompassed the 1m sales mark on iOSin mid-January, and after making its Android debut earlier this month as part of the Humble Bundle, it's now available on the Google Play store. As before, it sees you exploring a beautifully-crafted 3D room solving puzzles with tactile touchscreen controls.Lions Official (Free)As the next British and Irish Lions tour to Hong Kong and Australia hoves into view, there's an official app. It'll offer news, videos, fixture details, and competitions for rugby union fans, along with information on the tour's sponsor Microsoft.I AM PLAYR (Free)Social football game I AM PLAYR has a growing and devoted community of players online and on iOS. Now it's bringing its charms to Android as a "companion" game for the main web version. It includes mini-games to practise your skills, earning "match fitness" to be used online.Cinemagram (Free)Cinemagram is one of numerous apps aiming to be the Instagram of video, helping you share video clips to social networks including Facebook and Twitter, as well as blogging service Tumblr. It's a slick way to record a four-second video and turn it into an animated GIF for sharing.Disney Fairies: Lost &amp; Found (£0.65)This latest children's app from Disney focuses on its fairy characters, from Tinker Bell downwards. It's a hidden-object game for children where they unlock parts of a story as they go along, working against the clock.Tiny Legends: Heroes (Free)Trinity Interactive's characterful fantasy-action game swings onto Android, sword in hand. It sees you battling monsters and looting dungeons, working  your way through 70 floors with your party of heroes.Everything.me Launcher Beta (Free)Android launchers are all the rage, what with Facebook Home's imminent release. Everything.me Launcher is available in beta for now, promising to turn your Android phone into a device that's "constantly adapting to your interests, your location, your life". The idea being that you type in a phrase (a film, a band, a sports team etc) and it arranges your most relevant apps ready to launch. A neat idea with lots of potential.Just Eat (Free)British takeaway website Just Eat has launched its official Android app this week, providing menus and ordering capabilities for more than 15k takeaway outlets around the UK. You can browse, order and pay for your food within the app, filtering results by cuisine, customer reviews and location.Rando (Free)Here's a fun skew on photo-sharing: an app that gets you to snap a pic (using a circular frame) and then send it to... Well, you don't know who it's going to: Rando handles the job of pinging it "anonymously to somebody completely random" – somebody else using the Rando app, obviously. "You will never know who received the rando, they will never know who sent it," explains the Google Play listing.Worms 2: Armageddon (£2.99)After a limited initial release, Team 17's Worms 2: Armageddon has launched more widely on Google Play, including the UK. It brings the classic worm-on-worm action to Android, with 30 single-player missions and pass-and-play multiplayer modes.Dr. Panda's Beauty Salon (£1.31)The Dr. Panda apps are making a name for themselves among parents, particularly those with Android devices still waiting for Toca Boca to make the leap from iOS. This latest app sees children playing in a virtual beauty salon, painting faces and nails, dressing customers and (ouch!) plucking nose hairs.Mr Frog The Neighbours Dog (£0.69)Here's something else for children: a fun tale starring a frog who's pretending to be a dog, seemingly just to enrage the next-door neighbour. Aimed at 2-5 year-olds, it blends mini-games, animation and voice narration. And frogs.Basemark X 1.0 (Free)A serious tool for games developers, this, helping provide "objective cross platform comparisons of game graphics performance between Android, iOS and Windows Phone 8 devices". Built on top of the Unity 4 game engine, it's the work of Rightware.Hills of Glory 3D (Free)This is the latest tower defence game on Android – a popular genre on Google Play. Here, your job is to win the Second World War, defending a bunker with all manner of military weaponry. Colourful 3D graphics and 21 missions to work through make it well worth a look.Repulze (£1.99)Repulze is the work of Pixelbite, the developers behind the Reckless Racing games. It's a future hovercraft-racing game that's clearly inspired by Wipeout, with seven craft and 24 tracks to work your way through.DJ Space (Free)DJ with decks? Why, when you can DJ with planets? That's the idea behind this app, at least: a "virtual mixer on a spacial plane". The idea being that you create music by placing planets on an orbit around a star. More than 1,000 audio samples are included.DJ Funkmaster Flex (Free)Talking of DJs, how about Funkmaster Flex? He's a genuine hip-hop legend, and now he has an official mobile app. It provides news, daily mixes and instrumentals from the man himself, with the promise of "exclusive content" to treat fans.Knock²+ (£1.35)This is an interesting new app trying to do something different around notifications on Android – already one of the areas Google has done pretty well in itself. It supports apps including WhatsApp, Facebook and Google+, as well as text messages, promising to make them look "stylish on the lockscreen".Epic Pirates Story (£1.01)If you're a fan of Japanese simulation developer Kairosoft... Well, you'll probably recognise that the developer of this game, Epic Devs, is also inspired by them. Epic Pirate Story takes many of the same ingredients, and puts them into a game where you build a pirate town and army. Derivative, but potentially fun.Colourform (HD Widgets Theme) (£0.69)Finally, how about some widgets? More than 50 for the Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean variants of Android here, with the twist being that you can change all the colours. It works with the HD Widgets app, which you'll need to use these.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Free iPad and smartphone games which can result in children running up hefty bills for their parents through expensive in-game features are to come under scrutiny from the Office of Fair Trading.More than a quarter of children aged between five and 15 now own smartphones according to Ofcom, and many more have access to their parents' devices. A whole industry has grown up around apps for them. Many are based on popular characters including the Smurfs and Playmobil and while the initial game can be downloaded for free, players are offered a range of costly upgrades.Reports of children running up bills for hundreds of pounds by clicking through to this paid-for content are increasingly common, and in one case a parent reported being hit with charges of more than £3,000."We are concerned that children and their parents could be subject to unfair pressure to purchase when they are playing games they thought were free, but which can actually run up substantial costs," said Cavendish Elithorn, the OFT's senior director for goods and consumer.The regulator will look into the marketing of these "in-app purchases" – additional content such as virtual currency, extra levels and upgraded features which can cost anything up to £70 a time. On the Smurfs Village game, for example, a wagon of Smurfberries costs £69.99. It has written to games developers and hosting services, and is asking parents and consumer groups to contact it with information about any potentially misleading or commercially aggressive practices they are aware of.The OFT has not estimated the size of the market, but it said that of the 100 top grossing apps in the Android store, 80 were offered for free and made their money through sales of additional content. In a further indication of how much the market could be worth, in February Apple agreed to pay around $100m compensation to parents in the US whose children ran up huge bills using free apps downloaded from its iTunes store.Justine Roberts, founder and CEO of the parenting website Mumsnet, said she had seen regular complaints about children unwittingly running up gigantic phone bills. "It's all too easy for children to get sucked into games and before you know it they've racked up huge costs buying coins, berries and doughnuts," she said.Many of the parents reporting unexpected bills have talked about the ease of making a purchase, with children only having to click on a link to buy content if the device is already logged in to the Apple or Android store. However, the OFT's initial investigation will not focus on the mechanisms of making a purchase, but on whether the way the add-ons are marketed breaches consumer law.It said it would look in particular at "whether these games include 'direct exhortations' to children – a strong encouragement to make a purchase, or to do something that will necessitate making a purchase, or to persuade their parents or other adults to make a purchase for them".It will also consider whether the full cost of some of these games is made clear when they are downloaded or accessed.Eithorn said the OFT was not looking to ban in-app purchases, but that the games industry needed to ensure it was complying with the relevant regulations. "We are speaking to the industry and will take enforcement action if necessary," he said.The OFT expects to publish its next steps by October 2013.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian's games writers.CVG UK Blog: BioShock Infinite is 'horrendous', claims indie dev - but why? - CVG UKDan Dawkins tackles the seemingly unstoppable Bioshock: Infinite backlash, the debate now centering on a Tweet from indie developer Kris Piotrowski, whowrote, "I am worried that there was almost ZERO critical discussion of the game, when the game is so charged with problematic content. You should have heard a lot more about what is wrong with it. A lot more."Dawkins:What's really interesting is how Piotrowski's comments - albeit inadvertently - highlight the widening chasm between some AAA and indie games developer. It often feels like a subset of journalists and forum posters take glee in the latest major financial disaster, or enforced CEO departures.Conversely, some indie games are so disproportionately praised, you're made to feel like a porridge-chugging simpleton for even half-enjoying Warhammer 40k: Space Marine.Violent games can enable would-be mass murderers, say CA Senator | GameSpot.comDemocratic California Senator Dianne Feinstein has again spoken out against violent video games. Today on MSNBC's Morning Joe, Feinstein said these games can be enablers for would-be mass murderers."I think the really violent video game becomes a kind of simulator to practice on. And it enables the individual to become much more familiar with that depiction of death and blood," Feinstein said, referencing the exaggerated way in which some games depict violence and death."Of course it's not the way it is in real life," she added.During an event last week, Feinstein said violent games play a "very negative role for young people." She said if the game industry continues to make games that glorify guns, Congress may intervene.There is a lot of this talk swirling around US politics again. The timing is... interesting... what with a gun control bill passing through.Here's everything you can pay for in action-RPG Dungeon Hunter 4 | Pocket GamerMark Brown:The in-app purchases in Gameloft's latest hack 'n' slash Diablo-like game Dungeon Hunter 4 are really something else.In this game, the French studio employs an "if you can see it, you can buy it" system, encouraging you to pay for new weapons, better skills, more health, extra potions, instant revival, and more inventory slots.And then you can take your ill-gotten gains online and best all those poor peasants in the free-for-all arena.Brown then goes on to list all the microtransaction possibilities in the game, making a rather damning statement about Gameloft's free-to-play mechanics.Clifford Unchained - "Deal With It"Cliff Bleszinski deals with the whole situation around EA employee Adam Orth who told Twitter uses to 'deal with it' in reference to our 'always online' future – and then promptly left the company.My gut is telling me that an always online future is probably coming. It's coming fast, and possibly to the majority of the devices you enjoy. Adam's analogies weren't that far off; although the vacuum one was kind of weird. Sim City, with all of its' troubles on launch, seems to be selling briskly. Diablo 3, the poster child of a messy launch, is estimated to be at 12 million units. (Remember the internet rage over the art style shift? I barely do. But it seemed so important at the time!) I would bet money that without the always online elements of Diablo 3 that it would have sold half of that.EA: "Gaming isn't mass market yet" | GamesIndustry International"We have to make sure that game companies know what a mass market really is. We're not one yet," Hilleman says when we meet after his talk. "The closest thing we've had to a mass market, frankly, has been the social and mobile spaces. From my perspective, television is the mass market and we're the fringe. The challenge in front of us is, does the customer think about it that way? Do they see us as so distinct we can't merge those two experiences?"EA Mobile suffers heavy layoffs, publisher refutes studio's closure | MCVSignificant layoffs have hit EA, specifically affecting hundreds of employees at EA Mobile Montreal.Gamasutra first reported the redundancies, with a Montreal-based source telling the site that around 200 to 250 jobs were lost. EA has since swooped in to refute that claim, stating that the number is too high – though it wasn't made clear by how much. The publisher also denied rumours that the studio will close.EA has released a statement explaining the layoffs are part of a streamlining effort, as the company looks to 'sharpen' its focus on providing games for mobile and other new platforms.Xbox 360 News: Rumour: four next gen Xbox launch titles | The Official MagazineCrytek's Roman-era punch-'em-up Ryse and Microsoft's own next-gen Forza are both rumoured to be launch titles for the putative and unconfirmed (but daft if it doesn't happen) next generation Xbox (itself rumoured to be announced at the end of May.)The others are meant to be a zombie game and a, "family game set on an island with Pixar-quality graphics". Okaaaaay...Zombie Mondo Monday | Plymouth Arts CentreHad to sneak this in: Plymouth Arts Centre is doing a regular Monday slot of cult movies and next week it's a double bill of undead classics: Reanimator and Zombie Flesh Eaters. Essential viewing!You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
There was a moment in the Dark Souls 2 presentation in New York last week that I feel aptly sums up the entire aesthetic of From Software's belligerently difficult RPG series.Picture the scene: an armour-clad warrior is walking down a dimly lit hallway in a medieval castle. His footsteps clank against the paving stones, echoing into the bowl of darkness in the roof high above him and cutting through the wind whispering ominously through his surroundings. A growl sounds off to his left. He turns and sees a solid wooden door with thick bars set in a window in one of its upper panels.Through the bars, he can see a gigantic beast moving about in the next room.The beast is humanoid in shape, but its arms and legs are as thick as tree trunks. In essence, it looks like what would happen if you spliced a rhino with an armadillo. Its face is a mass of teeth and hatred. The warrior produces a bow, strings an arrow and fires it through the bars of the door into the monster's head.Now, in most other games of this type, players could use the barrier provided by the door to kill off their quarry safely. They'd simply fire arrow after arrow, removing the creature's health as it scrabbled against a piece of the environment, which prevented it from reaching them. This doesn't happen in Dark Souls 2. Once the first arrow enters its skull, the monster starts hammering its huge noggin against the door. On its third blow, the door is reduced to kindling and the monster advances on the warrior with the plain intention of turning him into paint.Death is just the beginningYou see, in Dark Souls 2 – as was the case in the first Dark Souls – there are no easy confrontations. There are no battles one can simply walk through and every enemy is horribly lethal. The entire game is built from the ground up like a minefield. According to From Software's director of Dark Souls 2, Yui Tanimura, the starting point of the development cycle begins with death."I try to concrete the concept of what I want the player to feel," he said. "Then I try to design different types of deaths they will face and what kind of challenges they will face and what kind of tactics we want them to learn."Every death, then, in Dark Souls 2 should be looked at as a learning experience – just as in the first title. For instance, Tanimura tells us, firing arrows at Mr ArmaRhino will likely "piss him off". Darks Souls 2 boasts a reactive AI that adjusts to what the player does both immediately and tactically.For example, in an earlier stage of the demo, we watched as a warrior ran into a pair of armoured brutes in a corridor. Initially, the player controlling the warrior tried to roll to one side of them and attack from behind. The target in question, however, waited for a split second and then reacted to the blow against its hind quarters by hurling itself backwards onto its attacker. The warrior was flattened and a sizeable chunk of his health was removed. It wasn't long before the two brutes finished him off."We wanted to implement as many [AI] reactions to player actions as possible, so that players will be forced to think up their own strategies to get past certain parts of the game," says Tanimura.Players will also activate objects in their environment in Dark Souls 2. In one example, a player picked up a glowing item in an atrium decorated with the bones of a dragon. Once they did, the skeleton of a winged monster behind them shuddered to life and made an attempt to swallow the player whole.In another instance, a player activated something called a Key Mouth by placing an item in what appeared to be the mouth of a face carved in stone set in a wall. Once they did this, the hallway they were standing in was flooded with warm light from torches bursting into flame at intervals along the walls.The latter mechanic looks like it may come in handy because Dark Souls 2, it seems, will be closer in spirit to the aesthetic of a survival horror game than its predecessor. At intervals in the demo, the player guided the warrior on screen into passages where the darkness engulfed them. Only a few steps ahead in the passage were visible and the only sounds one could hear was the ever-present wind and the footsteps of the player's avatar.In these instances, we were told, players will have to choose between either daring to move through an environment they literally can't see in, or use a torch to light their way forward. Doing this, however, will mean they're be unable to wield a sword and shield at the same time, which, as any Dark Soul veteran will tell you, is taking a rather a big risk.Mind you, players take a risk by turning a corner, stepping onto a bridge or walking through one of the game's many swirling portals. Dark Souls 2 offers players some familiar trappings in the form of bonfire save-points and Covenant perks – although we are told you won't be able to import your character from Dark Souls across. But above all, Dark Souls 2 is a deadly beast of a game – as if we expected anything different.Life isn't fairDuring the demo, the words YOU DIED appeared on the screen around five or six times – and the presentation itself lasted only 10 or so minutes. And if you ever felt a twinge of incredulity at the unfairness of it all during Dark Souls (or its spiritual predecessor, Demon's Souls), you had better prepare yourself.In one scene, the player was sent falling to his death after a Wyvern ripped a bridge he was walking across in pieces; when this occurred, the player was halfway across and the creature who caused his death flew in from offscreen without any warning at all.In another scene, a player was run over by a glowing chariot that came hurtling through a tunnel, which was too narrow to allow for any space to avoid it. Naturally these examples prompted knowing laughter from the journalists in attendance, but you had to wonder how on earth players were expected to conquer these sections in the final game. But then, we spent many of the early hours of Dark Souls feeling the same things. You live (eventually) and you learn.Indeed, according to Tanimura, both scenarios can be beaten and in both instances, death is meant to act as a tutor. The aim here, he said, was to teach the player something. Hints, tips and clues will be dotted around to help us move forward and ultimately, the goal is to make the player realise that their expectations are flawed – not their desire to move forward."No matter what sort of deaths the player to experiences," said Tanimura, "the player needs to understand the reason that they died."That is Dark Souls 2 – and indeed, Dark Souls – in a nutshell. This is a game in which death moves the player forward. If you don't learn from adversity, you don't deserve to move forward. Kind of like life …
Friday - yay!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJava applet attack wipes out Bitcoin accounts on Mt.Gox &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJohn Biggs details a phishing site that grabs Bitcoins from the unwary, Not so much "wipes out" as empties. His conclusion:Bitcoin phishing is not new and as more and more users enter the BTC fray it's clear that it will be a bigger problem. AsTwitter novelty account Bitcoin.txtnotes, the market is frothy and full of folks who have little experience investing in anything, let alone an imaginary digital currency that could be part of a future economic engine – or could spell ruin for investors who click bit.ly links.Novelty account != parody account.Don't ask court to 'mop up mess' over patents, Apple, Google told &gt;&gt; The Seattle TimesApple and Google's Motorola Mobility unit are more interested in using litigation as a business strategy than in resolving disputes over the use of patented technology, a federal judge in Florida said."The parties have no interest in efficiently and expeditiously resolving this dispute; they instead are using this and similar litigation worldwide as a business strategy that appears to have no end," U.S. District Judge Robert Scola in Miami said in an order dated yesterday. "That is not a proper use of this court."Motorola began by suing Apple. Apple sued back. Motorola (with Google's explicit approval) sued even more back. Apple... you get the idea. (Thanks @candidcanon on Twitter for the link.)Touchscreen to become standard specification for third-generation ultrabooks &gt;&gt; DigitimesIntel has decided to make touchscreen functions a standard specification for its third-generation ultrabooks, which is expected to launch shortly after the release of its Haswell platform in early June, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.However, overall related costs will increase by at least US$70-80, and while Intel hopes its brand partners to offer their ultrabooks at a price level in the sweet spot of the market, the sources are concerned that the strategy will greatly shrink ODM profits, despite Intel marketing subsidies.Digitimes etc etc. But: we're in thethirdgeneration of ultrabooks? And: they think higher assembly costs will let them sell at the same price?JPMorgan: Samsung will ship 320m smartphones this year, 80m being the S4 &gt;&gt; AndroidBeatStefan Constantinescu:I've been searching high and low for an analyst prediction on the success of Samsung's Galaxy S4, and today, in the French paper Les Échos, I finally found one. JPMorgan says Samsung will likely ship 320m smartphones in 2013, of which 80m will be the high end Galaxy S4.Is that goal reachable?Last week I covered a DigiTimes report that said Samsung has an internal goal of hitting half a billion phone sales. If JPMorgan's estimate of 320m smartphone sales turns out to be true, that means 64% of the mobile phones Samsung will sell this year will be "smart". Another analyst firm, Gartner, says53.5% of the phones Samsung sold during 2012 were "smart", so that 64% figure for 2013 does indeed sound right.How many iPads did Apple sell last quarter? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechFor the most recent quarter - the one that ended March 29 - the positions of the two groups are reversed, with the pros more bullish than the amateurs. The consensus among the professionals is that Apple will report Q2 sales of 18.4m iPads; the average among the indies is 17.7m.Compares to 11.8m in the year-ago quarter.  This just-gone quarter, HP shifted 12m PCs. Tablets are knocking on the door.Eighteen and Abandoned &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMatthew JX Malady (that's him):when I recently logged into an old Yahoo e-mail account I still use for ordering flowers and entering N.C.A.A. basketball-tournament bracket contests, a message from "Google Account Recovery" greeted me with a cold reminder of my past e-mail-related shenanigans. It offered no salutation, cutting right to the chase: "To initiate the password-reset process for your eighteen@gmail.com Google Account, click the link below." I followed the instructions and found myself in the in-box of a Gmail account that had not been checked since George W. Bush was serving his first term as President and "Thefacebook" was something available only to certain college kids. What I discovered was a treasure trove of bizarre and ridiculous e-mail messages.The puzzle is how many of those apparently real emails were some subtle form of spam or phishing.September 2012: Ballmer says 400m devices will be running Windows 8 next year &gt;&gt; AllThingsDInterviewed in September 2012:"One year from now, between Windows phones, Windows tablets and Windows PCs, we'll see close to … 400 million new devices running those new operating systems," Ballmer said during the unveiling of Nokia's new Lumia smartphones this morning. "Those devices running Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 represent the single largest opportunity for software developers today. Four hundred million per year? That is unrivaled. I'll bet you right now, the next app developer to hit it really big will do so on Windows."That's an average of 100m per quarter of everything. Let's see - 60m Windows 8 licences sold to January. About 7m Windows Phone sold in Q4 2012. About a million Surfaces (if you're generous) sold in Q4 2012. Some distance to make up.Computer sales in free fall &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAdding some colour to the picture about Windows 8:Carrie Soukup, a 32-year old tech support contractor living in Austin, Texas, is among the skeptics about the new [Windows 8] software.As she has been researching a new laptop she plans to purchase this year, she said a PC running Windows 7 was more appealing than the newer designs. "I'm not entirely thrilled with Windows 8," she said. "There's a lot of show I don't see the functionality in."Other consumers, like Gene Elmer Munson, have held off buying PCs all together as they increasingly rely on mobile gadgets.Mr. Munson, a 40-year-old human resources-and-finance worker, has a desktop, a laptop and a smartphone and 7-inch tablet powered by Google Inc.'s Android software.He bought the 7-inch Google Nexus tablet in December, and now finds himself using his laptop less and his tablet more, especially for personal work, including the novels he writes in his spare time."If I didn't have a smartphone and a tablet I would have replaced it by now," said Mr. Munson of his HP laptop. "I don't see myself buying a laptop in the foreseeable future."Also has a fascinating graph showing sales growth since the iPad launched. It's pretty much a straight line down. (Subscription probably required.)Best Android phones for smaller hands &gt;&gt; TalkAndroid.comIt's pretty obvious that handset makers think the bigger the phone, the better. We've seen phones slowly climb in screen size, up from 3.5in to 4in to 4.7in, and now even past 5in. These bigger screens are fantastic, but it's easy to see how people who prefer smaller phones may feel a little left out.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Appeals court likely to give German iCloud users push email back on 24th, lift Google's injunction &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsGoogle's German push email injunction against Apple is presently the only injunction any "Android company" is presently enforcing anywhere in the world against Apple (and nothing is being enforced against Microsoft). In two weeks' time, even this one will likely be history. There are people out there saying that there are wins and losses on both sides, but the fact of the matter is that the only "wins" the Android camp scores are non-defeats, not true wins in terms of offensive achievements.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
After nearly a year of negotiation, Google has submitted a package of concessions to the European commission to head off an antitrust investigation that has ground on for two and a half years.The search company is understood to be offering to label results where its own properties, such as YouTube or Google Shopping, appear in listings when people perform searches, in a response to the principal complaint from the EC's antitrust division.But the move is unlikely to pacify companies that originally complained to the EC. They have complained that Google artificially boosts its own properties and penalises rivals.The proposals from Google will now undergo "market testing" with complainants, including the British "vertical search" company Foundem, which was one of the first companies in Europe toraise concerns.Last month a coalition of 11 European companies, including Foundem,wrote to Joaquin Almunia, the EC competition commissioner, urging him to raise a formal "statement of objections" to Google's behaviour. "Google's search manipulation practices lay waste to entire classes of competitors in every sector where Google chooses to deploy them," the companies said in the letter.Almunia has always said he would prefer a negotiated settlement with Google rather than a long court case.The ECwrote to Google in May 2012saying it had concerns about the way that Google displayed its own "vertical search" services; its "scraping" of content from third-party sites to display in search results; exclusivity agreements for search adverts on third-party sites; and lack of portability of ad campaigns.Google chairman Eric Schmidtsubsequently deniedthat the company was violating European antitrust laws. But Google made changes to its scraping of content in what was seen as the first move to mollify the EC, which could impose fines of up to 10% of the company's global turnover.
The divergent fortunes within the $200bn (£130bn) global smartphone market were laid bare this week when Taiwan's HTC reported a 98% slump in profits, confirming Samsung and Apple's seemingly unassailable lead over their rivals.In 2010, HTC was the world's biggest maker of smartphones that used Google's Android operating system. Now it has joined two other former titans, Nokia and BlackBerry, in a desperate search for profit and growth.As HTC reported a slump in first-quarter profits to £0.9m, Samsung Electronics, the world's largest maker of mobile phones and smartphones, was basking in a forecast that its quarterly operating profit would be around 8.7trn (£5bn).The market is splitting into three tiers that allow only for high-end products in developed markets, a bevy of barely profitable products in the middle, and a hugely competitive low-cost segment in developing markets such as China.In the last quarter of 2012, the last period for which figures are available, Apple and Samsung together shipped 111.5m smartphones, according to researcher IDC. That's more than 50% of a market that has tripled in volume over that time – and compares to a combined share of less than 20% back in the second quarter of 2010, when the once mighty Nokia had 37%.Credit: Guardian graphicsThe plight of HTC is even more stark when its market position is viewed through the prism of Google's Android software. Android is the leading operating system thanks to Samsung, beating Apple's iOS system and Microsoft's Windows Phone, which is used by Nokia. If consumers are flocking to Android phones, they are choosing Samsung and not HTC.Benedict Evans, technology and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis, calls the Android smartphone market "Samsung and the seven dwarves" – a reference to the 1960s when IBM dominated the mainframe market, and its seven rivals fought for scraps. The modern equivalents are China's Huawei, Lenovo and ZTE, Korea's LG, Japan's Sony, the now Google-owned Motorola, and HTC.But Steve Brazier, chief executive of the research company Canalys, thinks that the HTC One phone, launched in February, offers a way back. "The HTC One is hot," he said. "The problem is it's not really shipping yet, which is why their first-quarter figures were bad. The product was delayed." Nonetheless, it faces a significant challenge from the Samsung Galaxy S4 phones, which also hits retailers' shelves this month.Brazier adds that there is hope too for the other also-rans. For BlackBerry, he thinks it first needs to calm its US government clients, who have been eyeing the iPhone as an alternative. For Nokia, the solution is easier said than done: "It needs something radically different from what's out there."HTC, BlackBerry and Nokia are fighting against a rapid decline. Since 2010, they have been squashed down from an aggregate market share of 61% to barely 10%. Now, none has more than 4% of the market. Samsung is at the top with 29%, ahead of Apple with nearly 22%.HTC's problems sum up the difficulties that competitors face when they are trying to overcome two players that dominate half the market. The One was delayed because, reports say, it couldn't get enough cameras at the required specification to satisfy its needs.Brazier said: "The big issue in the smartphone business is that Samsung and Apple are cornering the supply chain, so HTC can't get 'tier-one' components."To be tier one you have to order in large enough volumes to demand quality and timeliness along with price discounts. Once you slip from that position, it's hard to recover it.A decade ago, Apple cornered the markets in small hard drives and then solid-state storage to build its iPod, and then iPod nano, and dominate the music player market. Now it uses its growing cash pile to hire factories and production well ahead of time – locking rivals out. "HTC has a real scale problem," says Evans, the Enders analyst. "It's a problem that Nokia is starting to face as well. It's a problem of the reach and power that Apple and Samsung can bring to the market."Samsung, meanwhile, is completely vertically integrated, owning the factories that make everything from the memory chips to the screens, and writing its own apps and code to go on the only element of its smartphones that it doesn't make – Google's Android operating system. And even that is free. Buoyed by colossal advertising and marketing spend which dwarfs even the likes of Coca-Cola, and with worldwide distribution, it is determined to control the mobile phone market. It aims to ship 500m smartphones this year, more than the whole market in 2011.Analysts argue that Apple needs to do something radical too to catch the growth in emerging markets as the west becomes saturated. A low-cost iPhone is widely expected. That could consolidate the Apple-Samsung duopoly more firmly.Even, so Brazier thinks things can turn around. "The smartphone business is very dynamic. I don't think it's played out. HTC could bounce back."Does he think that bounceback will happen by the end of the year? He paused. "Well, no," he said.
The largest exchange for the digital currency Bitcoin halted trading Thursday, saying it needed to let the market "cool down" after amassive drop in value.Mt.Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange, blamed a surge in new accounts following a spike in the digital currency's value for the temporary suspension. The exchange said in a statement that it had been a "victim of our own success".The value of a Bitcoin plummeted more than $160 yesterday after hitting a new high of $266. It continued to fall on other exchanges Thursday, trading below $100 in many. Two months ago the digital currency was valued at $20.Mt.Gox claims to facilitate 80% of all Bitcoin trades made in dollars and more than 70% of all other currencies. It blamed the "astonishing" number of new accounts opened in the last few days for overwhelming the exchange.It said in a statement:As expected in such situation people started to panic, started to sell Bitcoin in mass (Panic Sale) resulting in an increase of trade that ultimately froze the trade engine! To give you an idea of how impressive things were here are some numbers that we would love to share with you guys: – The number of trades executed tripled in the last 24hrs. – The number of new account opened went from 60k for March alone to 75k new account created for the first few days of April! We now have roughly 20,000 new accounts created each day.Bitcoin was created four years ago by a person or group using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. The virtual currency is a favorite of libertarians critical of central banks as well as those involved in illegal gambling and drug trades.The value of the currency has risen sharply as theEurozone crisis has escalated, something Bitcoin representatives have dismissed as coincidence. In an interview with Der Spiegel this week Jon Matonis of the Bitcoin Foundation, the currency's promoter, denied a euro-bubble was being created. "Most transactions are still coming from affluent regions, like the United States and northern Europe. What we are seeing is not a Cyprus bubble," he said.
The conference tracking toolLanyrdintroduced its first paid-for service on Thursday, offering businesses a group management tool for executives and developers on the tech conference circuit.Facebook, Github, Stamen and Y Combinator are among the launch companies, which will pay $99 per month or $1070 annually to manage and promote their speaker listings, branded profiles, and slides and videos from their presentations through Lanyrd Pro.Lanyrd is also developing tablet and mobile apps for delegates. The service connects to social networking profiles to suggest and track recommended conferences among friends and colleagues.Chief executive Simon Willison said: "There are no plans to charge individual users, though lots of them are already using Lanyrd as part of larger teams – Github and Facebook already have hundreds of users. This won't be the only commercial stream and we have more in the pipeline, but it is our first monthly, regular revenue stream and as a software-as-a-service company, that's very important."Willison said that by focusing on the buoyant tech industry, Lanyrd had been largely protected from a broader economic downturn which has resulted in some falls in conference attendance. He added that the business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in the conference calendar, with peaks in March, April and September.London-based Lanyrd was launched in August 2010 by Willison and Natalie Downe, and has received $1.4m funding from Index, PROFounders and a handful of angel investors including Esther Dyson, Blaine Cooke and Joi Ito.
I have a box of vintage round discs, each in its own jacket. They are labelled and are photos of family subjects. I would love to have the pictures put on a DVD, but I don't know what these discs are called, and I don't know what type of camera they came from. I am enclosing a picture of one.LynnThis happens to be connected to my past life as an editor of photographic magazines. The disc is from a disc camera, a format Kodak launched in 1982 to replace110 film cartridges. At the time, photo processing labs joined together thousands of films to run them through their machinery, then cut them up later. Kodak's idea was that discs could be loaded onto rods, cutting out the joining and splitting operations.Unfortunately, the negatives measured roughly 8 x 11mm – the same size used by famous Minox subminiature "spy cameras" – so standard enprints were very poor quality, and enlargements were grainy. At 85mm2, each disc negative was only one tenth of the area of a 35mm negative (864mm2), which was already considered small. The system was soon discontinued, and Kodak stopped supplying films at the end of 1999.You can still get prints made, and your local camera store or photo processing shop (you live in the state of Maine, USA) may be able to send them away to a specialist company for printing and scanning. Examples include theRapid Photo Imaging Centerin the US andMS Hobbiesin the UK.Discs don't fit standard negative scanners so scanning isn't simple, and the negatives may be dirty or fading, so they may need cleaning, and the scans may need colour correction.Film Rescue Internationalspecialises in this sort of thing, and its base prices are reasonable: it will transfer one to five discs to CD-R for $25 plus $10 for US post and packing. A CD-R with prints costs $30. If you have lots of discs, there are discounts for quantity.Another American company,Old Photo, scans Kodak discs for $39 each.Whether it's worth it depends on the sentimental value of the photographs. As I said, the quality is likely to be quite poor, because of the small size of the negatives, and because they may have degraded over the past 20 or even 30 years.In general, I'd expect rescue operations to get more difficult and more expensive with the passing of time. This applies to odd sizes and formats of floppy disk and audio tape as well as to photographic negatives. If you are ever going to do it, do it now.Importing a French TVI read your very informative article onFreeview or Freesat: which to choose?I am planning to buy a new TV as mine is on the blink. However, I live in France, so have to have Freesat, but I am planning to come back to the UK in the near future. Can TVs have both?VirginiaYes, TVs can have both Freesat and Freeview, but these services can be added to any TV set using cheap set-top boxes. This isn't quite as tidy, but it is more flexible. Also, it's easier to upgrade a set-top box than an integrated TV set.A French digital TV should work in the UK, though I'm not sure about things like red button services. Most flat-screen TVs are made in Asia and are designed to handle the needs of as many countries as possible. However, they are usually set up for sale in local markets. If you buy one that lets you select a country setting, under a heading such as 'Digital channel country location', then it should set up local channels in a usable format. Some suppliers may lock the country setting, and possibly require you to type in a PIN, so it's a good idea to run some web searches before you buy a particular model.I believe the Freesat setup in the UK asks you to type in a post code, though I don't know what happens in France. Also, I'm not sure if French TVs can handle the DVB-T2 system used for Freeview HDTV in the UK. Fortunately, there are Ask Jack readers who know more about this than I do, so check the comments below for clarification.If you're moving in a few months, it would probably be safer to buy a cheap (small or second-hand) TV in France and resell it before leaving. That will also save transporting it.If you buy a new TV in the UK, I'm not convinced it's worth getting one that includes Freesat as well as the usual built-in Freeview tuner. It will restrict your choice to relatively few HDTV models, as listed on theFreesat website.Start with Freeview and add a Freesat box plus satellite dish if you need one. This might be because your Freeview reception is poor or non-existent, your choice of Freeview channels is limited (eg if you are in a 'Freeview Light' area), or you need channels that are only available on Freesat or the commercial Freesat from Sky version.UK Free TVlists the various channels available. If you click the 'compare TV' tab, it will tell you which channels are not available on the rival service.Which all-in-one PC TV?Sony's SVL2412Z1EB model offers easy switching to TVI have read some of youradvice about all-in-onesand wondered if you could give me a little advice. I have been looking at the Samsung Series 7 DP700A7D compared with the Sony SVL2412Z1EB. Spec-wise they both appear very high. The Sony model offers a great computer with the capability of easy switching to TV. The Samsung simply says it has a TV tuner.John BuckinghamI have not tested these two Windows 8 all-in-ones, only looked at them in PC World (where they now seem to be out of stock). I think your best bet is to do the same, as one may attract you more than the other. While I'm undoubtedly a fan of Amazon and other online shopping sites, I prefer hands-on experience if I'm spending around £1,500. I also like to be able to stick something in the back of the car and take it back to the shop.Both of these Windows 8 PCs have Intel Core i7 processors, 8GB of memory, Blu-ray drives, and a full HD screen resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. The Sony has a slight edge in having a 2TB hard drive instead of 1TB. However, as you appreciate, the Sony is the only all-in-one PC that works like a TV set: it has a physical TV switch, and a TV remote control. (Sony says it uses Bravia technology, whatever that means.)The Sony also costs more. In fact, theSony Vaio Lwith a 24in screen (£1,649.99) costs more than theSamsung Series 7with a 27in screen (£1,499.99).The Samsung is a PC with a built-in TV tuner, which is the traditional approach. However, if you want to use the PC like a TV set, the Sony looks like the best choice.
This week's "banning" – and then swift unbanning – of a digital issue of a comic named SAGA should serve as a lesson to anyone eager to jump to conclusions about Apple's App Store approval policies.But it's also just the latest reason for an important public debate on the nature and policies of the new wave of media and entertainment gatekeepers on smartphones and tablets: Apple, Google, Amazon, Microsoft and BlackBerry.Here's what happened with SAGA, a well-respected comic created by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples that has just published its 12th issue. Vaughan himself ignited the controversy with a blog post:A Statement on Apple's Banning of SAGA #12 from Brian K. Vaughan."Unfortunately, because of two postage stamp-sized images of gay sex, Apple is banning tomorrow's SAGA #12 from being sold through any iOS apps," wrote Vaughan."This is a drag, especially because our book has featured what I would consider much more graphic imagery in the past, but there you go. Fiona and I could always edit the images in question, but everything we put into the book is there to advance our story, not (just) to shock or titillate, so we're not changing shit."Pretty unambiguous stuff, and the spark for numerous news reports and blog posts criticising this latest example of Apple censoring art (yes,including The Guardian).The problem was that this was less censorship by Apple, and more self-censorship by one of SAGA's distributors on the App Store. ComiXology – one of the most popular digital comics aggregator operating on iOS and other platforms –confirmed its role in a blog postfrom its chief executive David Steinberger."As a partner of Apple, we have an obligation to respect its policies for apps and the books offered in apps.  Based on our understanding of those policies, we believed that Saga #12 could not be made available in our app, and so we did not release it today," he wrote.Steinberger went on to stress that his company's decision was not related to "any particular sexual orientation", and explained that Apple had quickly contacted ComiXology to set things straight."It should be clear that Apple did not reject Saga #12. After hearing from Apple this morning, we can say that our interpretation of its policies was mistaken," wrote Steinberger. "You'll be glad to know that Saga #12 will be available on our App Store app soon."All's well that ends well, and if nothing else, it may help a few more readers discover an excellent comic. But there are more lessons to be learned from the controversy.For journalists, it's a reminder that there are two (or three, in this case) sides to every story, and even with a primary-source accusation that Apple has banned a piece of content, it's not always so simple.(I'm not writing this from a high-horse of smuggery: if I hadn't been knee-deep in other work at a conference yesterday, I'd probably have been writing an 'Apple bans comic' story too – the lesson is for me as much as anyone.)For ComiXology, it's a warning of the downside of second-guessing Apple's approval policies at a potentially-sensitive time for the company.Apple is both strongly encouraging authors and publishers to distribute their work through its iBooks store, and making menacing noises behind the scenes (again) about apps that duplicate its own core iOS features.For a company like ComiXology, this may not be the best moment to be alienating either authors or Apple – something Steinberger's prompt and honest apology may mitigate.'We view Apps different than books or songs...'This is also a warning for Apple though, for approval policies that still need to be second-guessed.Fromsatirical cartoonsandbare breasts in a digital graphic-novel of James Joyce's Ulyssesin 2010, through games drawing attention to sweatshops and other dodgy labour practicesin 2011andagain in 2013, taking in atopical news game about Syriaalong the way, these controversies keep happening."We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it," explainedApple's App Store approval guidelinespublished back in September 2010.The overwhelming majority of iOS apps aren't anywhere near that line. But there's an important debate to be had about how developers and content distributors who are (as well as authors, artists, activists…) can recognise it – and, indeed, on whether the line is drawn in the right place."We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate," explained the same guidelines back in 2010."If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical app. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store."Itiscomplicated, especially when apps can be containers for distributing books (like ComiXology), magazines, newspapers, music (Lady Gaga's upcoming ARTPOP may reignite the music industry's interest in albums-as-apps), TV shows and films.Senior Apple executives have been unsurprisingly keen to point to the perceived downsides of Google's hands-off Android approval policies – malware in particular.They will surely understand, then, why their own store's stricter policies also need to be scrutinised for the benefit of iOS users and app developers alike.Apple may not have been the culprit in the SAGA censorship row, but to live up to its promises of sitting at the intersection of liberal arts and technology, the more clarity there is around its gatekeeping of the former, the better.
Remember the eighties? It's okay, you don't have to, Ubisoft has remembered them for you. Originally dismissed as an April Fools Day prank,Far Cry 3: Blood Dragonis real, and it's hitting PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 as astand-alonedigital release on 1 May.The set-up has nothing to do with Jason Brody or pirates. Imagined as an eighties sci-fi movie, the story takes place in the distant future – 2007 – where a nuclear war has all but destroyed the planet. Now Sergeant Rex Colt: Mark IV Cyber Commando (voiced by Terminator and Aliens actor Michael Biehn), must take his cyber army and raid an island where a new bioweapon holds the potential for peace. So, yes, it's on an island, but this place looks nothing like the sun-drenched tropical paradise of Far Cry 3.Drawing stylistic references from all those straight-to-video cyberpunk wannabes (think Trancers rather than Terminator), it's a hellhole of apocalyptic ruins and, somehow, robo-dinosaurs, stomping the landscape and laser-beaming people to charred skeletons. Usefully, though, Rex is able to gain control of these monsters, guiding them toward enemy camps. There's a simplified upgrade system, with cybernetic power-ups like the ability to fall huge distances without a scuff or stay underwater indefinitely. But with a seeming structure of main missions, surrounded by environmental mini-tasks, it's essentially Far Cry 3 with a neon-soaked, synth-soundtracked eighties makeover.From Eurogamer:Rook Island's replacement in Blood Dragon is a little smaller - it's said to be around the same size as the South Island in Far Cry 3 - and it's dotted with garrisons, shield-protected forts that are the equivalent of the original game's outposts. Attacking them presents the same type of open-ended play, but there's a lurid twist, with the option to coax in trundling laser-spewing dragons to finish off the job once the shields are down.Andfrom CVG:There was a nice mixture of normal and special enemy types in our skirmishes. Standard cyborgs were thrown at us in waves, with the occasional heavy or flamer thrown in to keep us on our toes. Miniguns, bows and flamethrower will be available, but for our demo we stuck to the standard assault rifle, which suited us just fine since it was well-suited for headshots. Nail a cyborg in with a bullet to the face and you'll get a satisfying explosion of blue juice as a reward.There will also be plenty of side quests; rare animal hunting is back, and wanted quests have been tweaked so they're hostage rescue missions.Anyway, here's that trailer. It is for mature viewers only:The big question is whether this frenzied assault on eighties aesthetics can remain amusing over the game's six-to-eight hour playing time. Well, it sustained the eighties for ten years, so the answer is surely yes, right?
A creative director at Microsoft has resigned after igniting a flame war on Twitter and beyond over the strategic future of the company's forthcoming Xbox gaming console.After a week of controversy,GameInformer reportsthat Adam Orth has now voluntarily resigned from the company, which had been forced to apologise for his comments and indiscreet references to the secretive new Xbox project.The next Xbox will be unveiled on 21 May, rumours say, and will behave more like acable TV boxthan a classic games console, building on Microsoft's relationships with cable TV providers.Orth has been working as a creative director at Microsoft Studios on a game – which is yet to be revealed – since February 2012. But he triggered a colossal online debate after he was involved in a sarcastic exchange with a friend about the benefits of being connected that was seized on and, arguably, misinterpreted by games fans, spiralling into lengthy discussions on fan sites includingNeoGaf.Orth appeared to confirm a rumour that the next Xbox will require an always-on internet connection. But games fans who have hit problems with games requiring persistent connections – most recently including SimCity and Diablo 3 – were concerned about the requirement. Internet connectivity varies enormously over the US, and some parents have also expressed worries that an always-on connection would break broadband caps without their knowledge.Microsoft issued a tersely worded statement about the incident but did not reference the console."We apologise for the inappropriate comments made by an employee on Twitter yesterday," said the company."This person is not a spokesperson for Microsoft, and his personal views do not reflect the customer-centric approach we take to our products or how we would communicate directly with our loyal consumers. We are very sorry if this offended anyone, however we have not made any announcements about our product roadmap, and have no further comment on this matter."
The PC market appears to have hit a wall after shipments for the first three months of 2013 fell at least 11%, market researchers Gartner and IDC warn.Marking a fourth successive quarter of falling sales, it was the biggest contraction since IDC began to keep records in 1994, the company said.The slump will put extra pressure on Microsoft's chief Steve Ballmer, whose new Windows 8 software released in October was blamed: "The Windows&nbsp;8 launch not only failed to provide a positive boost to the PC market, but appears to have slowed the market," said Bob O'Donnell, IDC program vice-president, clients and displays.The PC market has hit a wall – and now is sliding down it. Shipments shrank for the fourth successive quarter between January and March, dropping by at least 11% according to the research companies Gartner and IDC, which released figures late on Wednesday.The fall is also the largest-ever contraction since IDC began to keep records in 1994, the company said. Gartner said it points to a dramatic shift in the computing market that will see the number of consumer PCs in use dwindle over time.The drop will put extra pressure on Microsoft's chief Steve Ballmer, whose new Windows 8 software released in October is blamed by IDC for the slump in sales: "The Windows 8 launch not only failed to provide a positive boost to the PC market, but appears to have slowed the market," said Bob O'Donnell, IDC program vice-president, clients and displays.Shipments were down 11% year on year to79.2m by Gartner's figures, andjust 76.3m according to IDC, a 13.9% drop. The companies use slightly different methods to count shipments. That compares with a peak of about 96m in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 – since when sales have begun to slump.IDC research director David Daoud said: "The magnitude of the contraction is both surprising and worrisome. The industry is going through a critical crossroads, and strategic choices will have to be made as to how to compete with the proliferation of alternative devices and remain relevant to the consumer."Thedeath of the netbookat the end of 2012 has cut out a substantial chunk of low-end PC sales, said IDC, leaving a price gap that tablets and smartphones have absorbed.HP and Dell, two of the world's five biggest PC vendors, will also come under pressure as neither has a clear strategy in the tablet or smartphone market, to which consumers are shifting their business. Dell's founder Michael Dell is seeking to take the business private in order to retool it to cope with this challenge.Microsoft has been struggling to adapt since Apple shook up the low-end market with the release of its iPad tablet in April 2010. Windows 8, with its touch-friendly "tiles", is intended to be well positioned for touchscreen devices – but consumers have apparently found the combination of that interface and the normal Windows 7-style "desktop" confusing.Nor are people willing to buy more expensive touchscreen laptops or tablets with detachable keyboards in large numbers. "The PC industry is struggling to identify innovations that differentiate PCs from other products and inspire consumers to buy, and instead is meeting significant resistance to changes perceived as cumbersome or costly," IDC said.The figures from the two companies do not appear to include Microsoft's Surface RT tablet, launched last year, though they will include its Intel-based Surface Pro, which runs a full version of Windows.According to IDC, the PC market previously shrank in five successive quarters between the second quarter of 2001 and 2002 – but the falls then were never above 10%, and in four quarters were less than 5%.In contrast, the latest dip has seen three quarters where the shrinkage is 8% or more year on year, and it seems to be accelerating.The cause of the slump is that consumers – who historically make up roughly half of all PC purchases – are shifting their spending away to other devices such as tablets and smartphones, said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner, who offered the warning that "even emerging markets, where PC penetration is low, are not expected to be a strong growth area for PC vendors".However, Apple, whose main buyers are consumers, appears to have grown faster than the Windows PC market, according to IDC, Gartner and US data from NPD. Although IDC reckoned that its US sales shrank by 7% due to competition from iPads, that would still be growth compared with the overall market there, which it said shrank by 12.7%. Gartner, by contrast, said Apple's sales grew by 7% in a US market that shrank 9.6%. NPD, which monitors retail sales, says Apple's sales grew by 14% year on year.Businesses, meanwhile, seem to be buying at the same rate as before, and even expanding purchases, said Kitagawa: "The professional PC market, which accounts for about half of overall PC shipments, has seen growth, driven by continuing PC refreshes. Despite the fact that some regions already passed the peak of PC refresh, overall professional PC demand continued to grow."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.SimCity releasing for Mac in June | VG247SimCity will be released for Mac in June, and players of the PC version will be able to play with one another across servers. Players who have previously purchased SimCity for PC, either as a physical or a digital copy will receive the Mac version as a free digital download on Origin. It arrives on the digital distribution service June 11.Surely nothing can go wrong?!Dishonored's Harvey Smith releases a novel based on his own turbulent life | EurogamerRobert Purchese:Harvey Smith - the decorated game designer who helped bring games such as System Shock, Deus Ex and, more recently, Dishonored to life - has written a novel based on his own life.It's called Big Jack is Dead, and boy does Smith have some meaty real-life source material to draw on."Jack Hickman is an antisocial software exec who designs team-building applications in the late 1990s. Controlled and calculating, his world begins to splinter when he learns - in the middle of a corporate meeting - that his father has committed suicide," reads the book's blurb on Amazon.Possibly not a beach book?The Doctor is Out: Zeschuk on BioWare, EA and consoles' uncertain future | GamesIndustry InternationalGreg Zeschuk, the co-founder of Bioware, left the company last year to start a beer blog. GamesIndustry.biz has spoken to him about his decision to leave. He is very complimentary about – shock horror – EA:The best analogy I use, in a positive way, is EA gives you enough rope to hang yourself. It was really interesting because we really made all the choices we wanted to make ourselves; these are all things we wanted to try. And that's something to remember - while we were independent we didn't have quite the resources we had as part of EA, and then we got to EA and it was like "wow we can do all this stuff." We had to be really thoughtful about what we wanted to focus on.I remember this really distinct moment where - it was probably five or six months - we were just starting to wrap our head around how we worked with the company. And it took months for this formal period of joining EA, and learning how everything works, and when the initiation was done, we were sitting around asking how do we do stuff. It dawned on us, you just do it. That was the biggest revelation, that rope that EA gives you; they don't second-guess you, they don't say you shouldn't do that. We had complete creative control over a lot of it; some fans didn't like some of it and some of it was experimental, quite frankly.Ubisoft disables uPlay after exploit allows free game downloads | MCVErik Johnson:Ubisoft has disabled its digital rights management and distribution platform Uplay's PC game download service, following yesterday's breach allowing users to download Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon for free.An exploit discovered by hackers allowed users to download an executable that tricked the platform into providing a download for the upcoming Far Cry spin-off, along with other games from Ubisoft and other publishers on the Uplay service.Yet more misery for providers of digital distribution portals.Pick up Angry Birds Star Wars free with your latte, thanks to Starbucks | Pocket GamerSince 2008, Starbucks has provided its customers with free songs and apps via its Pick of the Week program. Now that program is about to expand into the realm of digital game distribution.Using the free Starbucks app, interested parties can pick up the Pocket Gamer Gold Award-winning Angry Birds Star Wars for the ever-popular price of free.This is an interesting development, although it's US-only right now.Skylanders Giants toys in Happy Meals this month | JoystiqStarting this Friday, when you feed your little giants at McDonalds (or find a friend's kid to help you have an excuse to buy a Happy Meal), they'll get some Skylanders Giants toys.Each of the nine Giants toys includes a "play feature" – think "shoots a missile" rather than "connects to the game" – and comes with a $10 coupon for Skylanders Giants, helping Activision clear out the warehouse before the new game hits.Again, US-only right now, but we're clearly seeing how games companies are now getting their 'franchises' into the same sorts of marketing spaces as music and movie companies.Next Xbox rumors point to HDMI passthrough and cable TV integration | EngadgetWhile the world waits to find out the facts about Microsoft's next videogame console, new rumors have popped up suggesting what its plans to go all-in on the Xbox-as-media center concept entail. According to The Verge, multiple unnamed sources suggest the plan is to include an HDMI passthrough and guide overlay, similar to the method used by Google TV. There's no word on any possible IR blaster (or IR GamePad, Wii U-style) integration, but thanks to Microsoft's partnerships with cable TV providers, it's trying to provide integration that goes a "step further" than what we've seen so far. That includes Kinect control, with next generation hardware that can recognize when viewers have turned their heads away and pause video automatically, with additional features rolling out after launch. There's no confirmation of controversial always-on requirements for gaming, but it will apparently need to be logged on for streaming (of course) and controlling incoming TV signals.A collection of rumors posted on Kotaku includes references to an "XTV", and a LinkedIn post that connects tagging of video to the project, similar to Shazam or IntoNow's features. Also dug up on various job profiles are mentions of a "cloud-driven, voice-optimized experience" and the next generation of SmartGlass.Capcom is holding live Monster Hunter classes on April 20 | DestructoidFrom 11 AM to 5 PM PST on Saturday, April 20, at the Capcom USA office in San Mateo, California, you'll be able to attend the first-ever Monster Hunter Community College. With a curriculum based entirely around the newly released Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate, MHCC will offer beginner and intermediary classes and even provide early access to DLC Event Quests. You are invited to bring your 3DS and, hell, even your Wii U along for local co-op, and you can even attempt some "Extra Credit" challenges broadcast live on Capcom's TwitchTV channel for a chance at secret unannounced prizes.Really hoping that Capcom puts on something similar in the UK. It has done in the past,taking over a London art galleryto provide a meeting place for Monster Hunter fans in 2009.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's Thursday.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNearly 60K low-quality apps booted from Google Play store In February, points to increased spam-fighting &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSarah Perez:To be clear, not all of these apps were deleted by Google. Some, such as a handful of Sprint bundles and apps, as well as the product from startup cautionary tale Color and several others, were likely pulled by the publishers themselves. But with a number as high as 60,000, it's clear that many of these were pulled by Google directly.We're shocked, shocked that an open store where anyone can add content might harbour tens of thousands of spammy apps. (Thanks @pedgington for the link.)Concluding the Saga #12 saga &gt;&gt; ComiXology BlogIn the last 24 hours there has been a lot of chatter about Apple banning Saga #12 from our Comics App on the Apple App Store due to depictions of gay sex. This is simply not true, and we'd like to clarify.Why Marissa Mayer Bought A $30M Startup &gt;&gt; Business InsiderNicholas Carlson:So why, exactly, did Yahoo buy Summly? We finally have an answer!Acquiring Summly seems to have been an almost incidental side effect of a deal Yahoo made with SRI for a piece of "summarization technology."A source tells us that Yahoo has "agreements in place" with SRI for "knowledge transfer," and the acquisition of IP, code, and technology. Until Yahoo bought it, SRI International held equity in Summly.SRI once held equity in another startup that was acquired by a big Silicon Valley company. That was Siri, which was funded by SRI International's venture arm, and was later acquired by Apple.And indeed, inside Yahoo, Summly is called "Yahoo's Siri."Hmm. (Thanks @corin for the link.)Chart of the day &gt;&gt; RedditBitcoin buys and sells and prices on Wednesday 10 April 2013.The first Bitcoin Crash &gt;&gt; broadstuffThe price of a Bitcoin climbed slowly but steadily until May, when Gawker and the tech blog Launch published two big stories about the phenomenon. Prices started zigzagging up, hitting a high of $33.11 last week after three weeks of increasingly frenzied trading, and then fell a spectacular 30 percent Friday morning, what the blogs dubbed "Digital Black Friday." As of now—3 p.m. Tuesday—a Bitcoin can be had for around $18.That was May 2011. Sorry, wasn't that clear?PC shipments post the steepest decline ever in a single quarter &gt;&gt; IDCWorldwide PC shipments totaled 76.3m units in the first quarter of 2013, down 13.9% compared to the same quarter in 2012 and worse than the forecast decline of 7.7%, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker.The extent of the year-on-year contraction marked the worst quarter since IDC began tracking the PC market quarterly in 1994. The results also marked the fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year shipment declines.…Fading mini-notebook shipments have taken a big chunk out of the low-end market while tablets and smartphones continue to divert consumer spending. PC industry efforts to offer touch capabilities and ultraslim systems have been hampered by traditional barriers of price and component supply, as well as a weak reception for Windows 8.Sayonara, netbooks. Sayonara indeed.Why I'm giving up on Android: the tyranny of 'moar' &gt;&gt; PCMag.comSascha Segan:I'm an extreme phone geek. I like to change devices every six months or so, in part because I'm constantly recommending devices to others. For a while now, I've been using the Windows Phone 8X by HTC. I like Windows Phone a lot and the 8X's hardware is gorgeous, but I miss Android, both for the flexible widgets and for the amazing array of third-party apps.But the Android world has been seized by the tyranny of moar. To switch back, I need a decent one-handed phone. Like about 25 million other Americans and Canadians, I take public transportation to work, and I really like to play games standing up.Using a phone one-handed poses physical limits based on the size of your thumb. Back in 2011, I measured the thumbs of 12 PCMag.com staffers and got them to try the Samsung Galaxy Nexus's 4.65in screen (slideshow below). I found that it takes about a 7cm thumb to properly operate today's larger phones, which is longer than most women and some men have.Segan distinguishes "moar" from "more": "Moar short circuits rational thought; it's the feeling you get when you eat some bacon, and then want 16 strips of bacon because bacon is delicious even though, if you thought about it, you know it'll make you ill."(Most people we see on public transport use two hands for their big-screen phones. One to hold, one to operate.)WTF: The Who to Follow Service at Twitter &gt;&gt; DatascholarsWTF ("Who to Follow") is Twitter's user recommendation service, which is responsible for creating millions of connections daily between users based on shared interests, common connections, and other related factors. This paper provides an architectural overview and shares lessons we learned in building and running the service over the past few years.Coining a new meaning for WTF.Why Google's acquisition of WhatsApp would be perilous to everyone's privacy &gt;&gt; The Privacy SurgeonSimon Davies (formerly of Privacy International):By thrusting its hand into every data stream running to or from user devices [using WhatsApp], Google will be in an unprecedented position to gather more data about more individuals than any other entity on the planet.  The transactional and associative data alone would be vast.This prospect – combined with Google's existing track record on privacy and compliance – is a cause for grave concern.  If Google indeed is planning to acquire WhatsApp, then regulators must examine the effect of that acquisition – not only on competition – but also on consumer privacy.  If they do, it will be quite clear that – at a minimum – Google should be prohibited from combining user data from WhatsApp with data collected through other products and services.Regulators were not able to stop Google from combining user data in the past.  They can and must start here.Sand won't save you this time &gt;&gt; In the PipelineCarrying on from dioxygen difluoride (aka FOOF):In a comment to my post on putting out fires last week, one commenter mentioned the utility of the good old sand bucket, and wondered if there was anything that would go on to set the sand on fire. Thanks to a note from reader Robert L., I can report that there is indeed such a reagent:chlorine trifluoride.I have not encountered this fine substance myself, but reading up on its properties immediately gives it a spot on my "no way, no how" list. Let's put it this way: during World War II, the Germans were very interested in using it in self-igniting flamethrowers, but found it too nasty to work with.…It's been used in the semiconductor industry to clean oxides off of surfaces, at which activity it no doubt excels.Maybe mention this stuff next time someone tells you how hard their job is. (Thanks @allanedwards on Twitter for the link.)Making rain &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:I propose a way to think about [Google's business model and decisions] as: Google tries to make a business succeed through having a huge amount of _flow_ in terms of data, traffic, queries and information that is indexed. So think about this idea of them tapping into a vast stream. The more volume that is flowing through the system the more revenue they generate.As so given this very rough analogy I try to sharpen it up by saying: imagine it more as a river. And even more than a river, as a watershed, a river basin. Perhaps a giant basin the size of a continent. The business is, let's say, capturing fish at the mouth of the biggest river, before it exits into the ocean at its delta.This is a fabulous extended metaphor which finally gets us away from the "good/evil" dichotomy that so many people apply to their thinking about Google and its business. If you only read one thing today...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The rollercoaster ride of Bitcoin's valuation has, after a couple of months of being pulled up the roller, hit the "coaster" part. Now is the time where the people on board have to decide if they're going to scream and jump out - which a fair chunk of money seems to be doing just now - or grit their teeth and hold on to the sides. And while they try to decide, things are going to move faster and faster.The crash - for that's very much what it looks like, with a week's gains lost in a matter of hours, and no sign of a bottom - has also exposed the fact that Bitcoin lacks many of the essential moving parts of a real modern currency that most of us don't see, but which are essential for it to be useful for exchanging things.On Tuesday morning, mindful that what was happening with Bitcoin was a classic bubble (where people hang on to a commodity because they expect the price to go up, and buyers buy because they expect the price to go up, and scarcity of supply keeps pushing the price up, until eventually someone triggers a tsunami of profit-taking), I askedAditya Chakrabortty, the Guardian's wonderful economics leader writer, whether we could predict when the bubble would burst.Here's what he said: "If economists could ever predict bubbles and busts, they'd be rather wealthier (and more useful) than they are. The most they do is point out when it looks bubbly (which it does, for the reasons you've pointed out and more) - and some are too cowardly even to do that. When does a crash happen? I go with the 'greater fool' theory laid out by the economic historian Charles Kindleberger (who wrote Manias, Panics and Crashes): an asset bubble can keep expanding for as long as you can find a bigger fool to sell an asset to."I think we know how long that was: until Wednesday afternoon UK time, when the price hit $266 and abruptly started falling - and falling. Money began flying out: sell trades of over 100 Bitcoins (that's over $10,000) against a few paltry buys putting new money into the market. And as the new owners who had bought those 100 Bitcoins looked at their value, it dropped - the classic market move that panics the unwary buyer, who then looks to unload their red-hot investment before it burns a hole in their electronic wallet too.Which is the first Bitcoin lesson: amateurs are terrible investors. They aren't in it for the long term, they don't know what they're getting in to, and they're easily moved by the herd mentality.The second lesson is more subtle. Bitcoin has been preened by geeks keen to call it "the world's first cryptocurrency". Certainly, it's cryptographic - you can't counterfeit a Bitcoin, which is a fabulous fundamental property for a currency. But it's not a currency, although it is a medium of exchange.This is a point that is lost on many geeks. Cowrie shells were a 13th-century medium of exchange: they were a fairly effective currency at a time when there was no risk that people might hoard them in order to speculate on their value rising. If one cowrie shell bought a fish, there wasn't any risk that some fisherman would try to corner the market and push the price of fish up in order to become rich. You didn't need a Central Bank of Cowrie.And indeed everything would be great with Bitcoin if it were just used as a medium of exchange for virtual goods - which is exactly how it was used for a long time. Hackers would pass them between each other for goods and services online. It was great: a sort of cryptographic cowrie shell for virtual fish. Sometimes a few would "leak" out into the real world, where people would put a finger in the air and guess at a fair value.But that's where the trouble lay. Using Bitcoin to buy real stuff - such asdrugs- exposes its woeful lack of rigour.First, there's nothing to keep Bitcoin liquid. It's not like pounds or dollars; it's more like gold, which all the nations abandoned as an exchange standard decades ago for the very good reason that it leads you into recessionary patterns - such as when people hoard it in the hope that the price will go up, and people buy it because they hear the price is going up, and then … yes. Like that.If you need to understand why hoardable commodities are bad, read the economistPaul Krugman's 1998 column on the Washington babysitting co-op. (It's worth it, really.) Even worse for Bitcoin, there's no Bank of Bitcoin which can release extra liquidity when people start hoarding (as they have been). At least when we had a gold standard, there was gold in vaults which could be moved around to create a sort of liquidity.But Bitcoin is just a bunch of people trading cryptographic cowrie shells - but now with internet-speed ability to see instantaneous prices, and with a burgeoning desire to spend it on "real" things. That's where Bitcoin encounters the feral world of "fiat" currencies - pounds, dollars, yen - which have gigantic reserves, enormous liquidity, and most of all can't be easily cornered (and have sharp teeth if you try). Trying to squeeze Bitcoins out through the narrow conduits of the virtual exchanges into the real world exposes them as barely-born things, which aren't really suited to the fierce demands of the real world.In short, there's no way that Bitcoins will become a global currency. There's no way they'll become a currency, unless they actually get a bank - which isn't likely, or even feasible. They're great for trading on the digital seashore. And one day, a cryptocurrency - impossible to counterfeit, entirely digital, instantly transmissible - could become really important in our real world.But it won't be Bitcoin. Sorry, folks. Especially if you lost out in that crash on Wednesday.
Bitcoin, the digital currency, lost more than $160 (£104) in value on Wednesday, just hours after hitting a record high.The currency hit a new high of $266 before falling to $105 and then bouncing back to $130. The fall is unlikely to put off speculators. Two months ago, a Bitcoin was worth $20.With Europe racked by economic uncertainty following the banking crisis in Cyprus, there have been fears that a "bubble" is being created with speculators piling into the four-year-old digital currency. But Bitcoin has crashed before only to bounce back. It hit a low of $7 in August 2011 after hitting a high of $32 two months earlier.Jon Matonis of the Bitcoin Foundation, the currency's promoter, denied a euro-bubble was being created in an interview with Der Spiegel this week."Most transactions are still coming from affluent regions, like the United States and northern Europe. What we are seeing is not a Cyprus bubble," he said.Until recently Bitcoin had been alargely obscure currency used by the tech-savvy, libertarians wishing to thumb their noses at central bankers and people involved in more nefarious activities such as online gambling (often illegal in the US)or drug deals.There are around 11m Bitcoins in circulation, 25 new bitcoins are produced every 10 minutes, and they are traded throughonline exchanges like Mt.Gox.Dealing in the currency is volatile as has been the history of the services that allow people to trade in Bitcoins. Mt.Gox has been subject to repeated hacking attacks. Instawallet, a popular service for storing Bitcoins, had to be suspended after it was hacked.Many financial experts have warned against Bitcoin. Veteran UBS stockbroker Art Cashin hascompared the interest in Bitcoin to the tulipmania that led many to financial ruin in the 17th century. But interest in the currency has shot up as the euro has become ever more embattled. The value of a Bitcoin passed the $200 mark for the first time on Tuesday.Wednesday's wild ride came as someone gave away thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoins on Reddit, the social news site. News blog Business Insider calculated  a Reddit user under the name"Bitcoinbillionaire" had given away $13,627.69896worth of Bitcoins to Reddit users over the day. The mystery donor signed off with a quote from Ron Paul, libertarian politician and one-time would-be presidential candidate: "It's no coincidence that the century of total war coincided with the century of central banking."
Look at your lunch. Is it a bit disappointing? Look around your office. I&nbsp;bet there are no slides or yoga studios. Your journey into work, you paid for it, right? How vulgar. You are clearly not a Googler.The perks of working at a Silicon Valley company have been the stuff of jealous legend for years.Airbnboffers a$2,000 (£1,300) holiday budgetto all employees. In-office massages, free beer and complimentary haircutsare commonplace. Facebook will do your laundry for you. Google's bounteous canteens overflow with gratis grub: sushi, mussels and oysters feature regularly.But, green-eyed Boots Meal Dealers, rejoice, for all this might be about to change. Spoilsports at the US internal revenue service have raised an objection. These perks, they believe, could constitute"fringe benefits"in the&nbsp;mould of old-school 1.0 perks such as a company car, on which employees should pay tax. In short, if your company's perks buffet works out at about $10,000 per annum in free food, free rides and table-tennis tutoring, then you need to pay tax on that $10,000.It might not be a terrible thing.&nbsp;Those unbearably talented techies have become quite spoilt. I heard of a US-based engineer who kept getting into trouble at theSXSW festivalfor taking food from shops and walking out without paying – he had forgotten how the food-buying process worked. One UK-based Googler recently told me of chateaubriand being served at lunch, and a co-worker's annoyance at being made to queue for the chocolate fondue at the company'snew central London offices. I asked if there would be uproar if the free food was withdrawn altogether. "Yes," came the instant reply.A fiscal deep-clean of Silicon Valley's canteens would be bounteous.Dropbox offers its workers Whisky Friday happy hours.LinkedIn has a perma-stocked ice-cream freezer. Facebook's inhouse culinary teamserved sake-braised short ribs, teriyaki seitan and tempura yamsthis week, according to itsFacebook page.But predictions of impending Silicon Valley hunger strikes and employees chaining themselves to pinball machines are probably a little wide of the mark. In similar perk-busting cases, employers havesettled with the tax officeand compensated their workers for any unpaid back taxes they were forced to cough up. Poor old Google might have to dip into its$10bnprofits.
Warning: this feature and all the articles it links to contain details of the game's story and outcome.Whatever you think aboutthatending, when ABC brought its hugely expensive series Lost to a close in 2010, it concluded perhaps the most fascinating and complex franchise in network television history. This was a mainstream show that constructed its own densely elaborate mythology, employing everything from number theory to ancient religion; a show that encouraged readers to explore the philosophy of John Locke and David Hume; a show that used alternative reality gaming and brilliant community management to broaden the reach of the fiction beyond linear storytelling. It was a shared viewing phenomenon that drew audiences into a cabal of co-conspirators and theorists. The value was as much in the conversations between fans as it was in the onscreen machinations devised by the scriptwriters.And this, ultimately, is the critical appeal of BioShock Infinite. Here is a mainstream, hugely expensive action game, developed by a team of hundreds over several years. And yet while most Triple A shooters confine themselves to achingly unimaginative military scenarios or archetypal man v alien slugfests, Infinite thrusts us into a bizarre rendering of early 20th-century America and places its combat within the context of religious hysteria, racial struggle and quantum mechanics. Like Lost, it blurs the boundaries between fantasy and scientific possibility, and like Lost it revels in ambiguity. It drops hints and red herrings, it throws in cultural and academic references; it provides the impression that its creators are mad scientist authors with notebooks filled with backstory.But yet it leaves players to figure out a lot of the stuff themselves – and the evidence it gives us is sometimes troubling. Its commentary on racial segregation and civil rights; its sheer violence; the lifelessness of its world – these have all fascinated and concerned players. And that is where the discourse comes in. Because it refuses clarity, for good or bad, BioShock Infinite has inspired a huge range of impassioned and conflicting responses.In case you've missed any or all of these, here is a selection of articles that interrogate the game in interesting ways. Some are from established writers, some from bloggers and game designers, one is from a politician, but all shed light on why this idiosyncratic release has provoked so much discussion.Bioshock Infinite is insanely, ridiculously violent. It's a real shame – Kirk HamiltonThe Kotaku contributor asserts that the outrageous violence in the game prevents it from being something that can be held up as a great work of art.BioShock Infinite is in many ways so, so close to being That Game, the one we can show to our non-gamer friends and say "See? Look at this! It is so awesome! Check out the story! It's like LOST! How neat is this?" But it's not That Game, because it's so hilariously, egregiously violent that a large number of people will never give it a chance.The gaming cringe – Rab FlorenceHere the writer and comedian addresses Hamilton's concerns and defends the level of violence in the game:If there is any game that can justify its violence, it is BioShock Infinite. It is a story about a violent man, and about the violence within society. It's a story about extreme beauty, and extreme ugliness. It's also saying a lot about video games, and as it delivers its story and themes, it does it through patterns and behavioural codes that we all understand. The violence isn't only justified by character, story or themes. It's justified by the language of game mechanics that the game is using.Game openings are important: Or the first 300 seconds of BioShock Infinite – Adrian ChmielarzThe designer of Bulletstorm questions the ambiguity of the game's opening and the damaging effect of littering the environment with too many shiny things to pick up.When I reach the second floor of the lighthouse, I am supposed to have a moment there. A moment of shock, I assume. A tortured man, apparently dead, is sitting in a chair. But my first thought is…"Oooh shiny!"Because when you enter the room with the corpse, two big shiny coins are winking at you from the nearby table. The table right next to the corpse.Booker DeWitt and the case of the young white lady leels: a Bioshock Infinite review – Courtney StantonAn opprobrious response to the game's depiction of race and racial struggle, as well as other elements of narrative and structure.When your super-liminally racist society ends up being destroyed by the only black characters in the game, who are depicted as violent, white-people-hating, child-murdering savages, you're just confirming the racist white people's ideas about black people and presenting them as true.Centering a story about people of colour fighting against racist oppression on a white person and making that white person the agent of the fight's success is racist. Showing people of colour as needing a white person on their side in order to win is racist.Bioshock Infinite and the terrible case for banning all white people from games journalism – Jeff KunzlerAn incendiary diatribe attacking games writers for failing to address the game's 'abhorrent' racial politics and wishing instead for a non-violent, immersive experience. Kunzler isn't messing around here.As white people, it's quite gross, utterly disgusting, to write fancy, long-form "articles" about how BioShock Infinite should have been a non-violent spectacle, how the guns are the problem, how much we want to "explore" and be "immersed" in Columbia. It really is a white people thing, to just really, utterly lack any sort of decency when it comes to America's racist history and creative interpretations and/or acknowledgements of it. You don't, well, you just don't sit there and rally against the violence against an establishment like Columbia. It's demented, it's sick, and it's really not okay.About a girl: assorted thoughts on BioShock Infinite – Kieron GillenThe veteran games writer and Marvel scribe considers the (for him) intended artificiality of the setting, the ramifications of the Vox Populi revolt and the central relationship between Elizabeth and Booker.It's not really about Columbia. Because for all the splendour of the city above the hills, it's a backdrop to the story of a man and his daughter. Columbia is both the setting and the ultimate threat to be averted at all costs. Not that Columbia doesn't try its hardest to be the star. As a game whose setting can be summarised as "The 1893 Chicago world fair takes off and becomes an American Exceptionalism Death Star." it shouldn't even have to try that hard. Still, she tries, but she fails. And that "she" feels important – I couldn't help note that rather than the conceptually named Rapture, this city is called the name of the goddess of America. Columbia is literally the other woman.BioShock Infinite: an intelligent, violent video game? – Daniel GoldingThe question presented here is whether Infinite is a smart game for attempting to tackle themes of race, history and morality, or whether it's stupid for simplifying hugely complex sociopolitical concepts. Golding favours the latter interpretation.In taking the game seriously, I want to be as clear as possible: BioShock Infinite uses racism for no other reason than to make itself seem clever. Worse, it uses racism and real events in an incredibly superficial way—BioShock Infinite seeks not to make any meaningful statement about history or racism or America, but instead seeks to use an aesthetics of 'racism' and 'history' as a barrier to point to and claim importance. BioShock Infinite presents a veneer of intelligence—with wholly unexplored and mystifying asides to complicated concepts like Manifest Destiny and the New Eden—without ever following through. Without any deeper exploration of these ideas, BioShock Infinite's use of American history and the Columbian Exposition is illusory, and already puts the lie to the claim that by engaging with these themes, BioShock Infinite is the place to find substance in mainstream videogames.BioShock Infinite: now is the best time – Leigh AlexanderThis is an interesting sort of companion piece to Gillen's, addressing the artifice of the world, but this time seeing in it a failure to convey meaning beyond the artfully constructed tableaus of misery.The spectre of Lady Comstock has loomed over us for this entire game, in legend and in portraiture, but we have no intimacy with her cartoonish corpse before we are literally chasing a spectre. This is not a game about American exceptionalism and the choice between obedient prison and chaotic freedom. This is a game where you have to chase a ghost among parallel realities. This is a game that lives in its own alternate universe, is in love with its own cleverness, instead of being genuinely clever. There are tears everywhere. And in the game.The Levine-led Irrational team has birthed a universe, now, of games about a dominant idealogue enforcing a slavish devotion to fearful systems, even after those systems have become irrelevant. It gives us worlds plunged into the stress of compartmentalized factions where teams don't communicate, where promises are grand and lovely, but terrible on execution.How Is BioShock Infinite a BioShock game? – Colin SnyderAnother take on the issue of violence, this time closely referencing the first BioShock title and drawing comparisons and distinctions between the two titles – especially in how they represent the 'reality' of their societies.Whereas in the original Bioshock you at least had the comfort of knowing the people you were killing have gone insane from splicing their genes so they can shoot fire and electricity out of their hands, in this game the only reason these people are hostile toward you is because you've been harolded a heretic, and later because you are mistaken for a ghost. Seriously. At times you'll question how superstitious those who live on the backs of zeppelins really can be, however they seem to think that shooting live crows from your hands by drinking a bottle is passé, as a collective sigh can be heard from the citizens. Early in the game you'll be in a Columbian exposition of sorts (World's Faire plays a big role in the aesthetic of the game), and more people will be gathered in awe over an electric horse than to see a man who can alter the physical properties of his hand to produce electricity by drinking snake oil.Shocking, isn't it? – Cliff BleszinskiThe Gears of War designer performs a fascinating post-mortem on the game from the perspective of another purveyor of digital violence. Bleszinski questions the mechanics and the depictions of race and gender but declares the game, "a true classic for the ages".With all of the discussion of misogyny in the industry lately, from sexual harassment, to "if you cosplay then you ask for it" mentality to the Tropes Vs. Women question of "Why's it always the damsel in distress?" I'm dying to know what the women of the industry think of the depiction of Elizabeth. I actually wanted to see her "tear things up" in another way more often. (There's that Whedon fanboy coming out in me again.) I was hoping for a moment similar to the end of Lunar. (High five if you get the reference.)Still, the moment when the Songbird snagged her away from me, or when we were cowered behind the desk together, or when she put my hand on her throat and asked me to finish her if she was going to have to go back…I was moved. During the (incredible) ending I had chills. This is the mother of all videogame endings, the new standard by which all will be judged. This is some Looper, Memento, Source Code, Moon, Usual Suspects, Fight Club, M. Night Shyamalamadingdong stuff. Next level work that can only be brought to you by a talented team and one defiant visionary.Reviewed: Bioshock Infinite – Tom Watson MPIf you needed further evidence for the wider impact of this game, look no further than this: Labour MP and enthusiastic gamer Tom Watson has reviewed it for the New Statesmen.Whatever the tiny defects, there is little doubt that BioShock Infinite will count sales in the millions. The attention to detail from the animation director, Shaun Robertson, and his team should win awards – just take Elizabeth from her Irish jig on the beach and let her explore, and you'll see her independently execute animated routines. It must have taken hundreds of hours of artist time to achieve this tiny piece of colour.I don't think I have ever played a video game that has confronted racism in such an upfront manner as BioShock. There are segregated toilets, exploited black workers and prejudice. Will this portrayal serve to challenge the less informed gamer about the dangers of apartheid? My hunch is that many will just see it as another shoot 'em up with an interesting backdrop as a storyline. It fails as a breakthrough polemical first-person shooter because the plot doesn't adequately integrate with the gameplay.BioShock Infinite vs. Quantum Mechanics: The Real Science of BioShock Infinite – Jane DouglasNot so much an article as a video exploration of the game's shaky hold on quantum mechanics. Outside Xbox co-editor Jane Douglas is a physics graduate and clearly had fun considering the authenticity of Irrational's Heisenberg-inspired universe. Fascinating stuff.Everything Bioshock Infinite Gets Wrong – Matt LeesA passionate and well-argued polemic about the game's narrative and environmental inconsistencies. I managed to leave this off the original list, despite it being one of the key inspirations.Intriguing material then – and the beauty of it is, all of these responses, however contradictory, are valid. Whatever faultlines run through it, Ken Levine's multiverse is one of interpretation as well as existence. Recently, I got into a Twitter conversation with developer and digital music producer Andy Kisaragi; I complained a little about how certain developers and script writers believe that obfuscation equals depth – that by making a narrative ambiguous, you are allowing readers to interpret and therefore elevating the experience to something more profound.It feels like a cheat; like profundity through the back door. Dot-to-dot depth. But Kisaragi made the great point that in games, it's best to think of obfuscation as part of the "ludology", the gameplay, rather than the narrative or setting. Ambiguity is a game device because as much as being able to choose left or right on a joypad, it allows gamers to invest in and interact with the onscreen action. Uncertainty is a playful state – even in linear media: it says to viewers, you must now involve yourself in this universe. And really, BioShock Infinite is about the perception rather than the reality of possibilities.Into these gaps of politics, meaning and representation come critical anger and discussion, and also intrigue. The best games are the ones that invite gamers to become critics of the environment, the narrative and the intent. BioShock Infinite has done that. Sure it loves telegraphing its own highly self-conscious "difference", but even that is a brave thing for a multi-million dollar title to do.In many ways, BioShock Infinite is a horror fiction. It explores fear, dread and visceral violence – and everything else, from racial politics to gender representation, is subsumed into that vortex. Comstock is Kurtz stranded at the edge of civilisation, with Booker as his foil and equal, Marlow. And what they whisper at the close isn't "what have we done?", it's simply "the horror, the horror".Final note: if you played the game from Elizabeth's perspective, it would be Portal 2, with Comstock as Glados and Booker as Wheatley. This is what I said to Christian Donlan, Simon Parkin and Will Porter on Friday. They looked at me as though I were mad. Sometimes you can go too far with this sort of thing
Dish Networks, the US satellite TV provider whose boss has been described as the "most hated man in Hollywood", made a surprise $25.5bn bid for mobile Sprint Nextel on Monday in a move that sent shock waves through the media industry.Dish, the US's second largest satellite TV company, has already angered many major media companies with Hopper, a TV service that allows viewers to skip ads in primetime shows.The company has been snapping up wireless spectrum in recent years. A successful bid for Sprint Nextel, the No 3 mobile provider, would add a cellphone network to its portfolio and allow Dish to offer high-speed internet and voice service across the country in one package – whether people are at home or not.The bid comes as Sprint is in the midst of negotiating the sale of 70% of its shares to Japan's SoftBank for $20bn. Dish is offering $4.76 in cash and about $2.24 in Dish stock – based on Friday's closing price of $6.22 – for every share of Sprint. Dish argues that the deal represents a 13% premium to Softbank's proposal.Earlier this month the Hollywood Reporter dubbed Charlie Ergen "the most hated man in Hollywood". Last year Dish subscribers briefly lost access to the Walking Dead and Mad Men, two of television's highest rated shows, after Dish clashed with AMC, the media firm that broadcasts the shows.ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC have filed lawsuits against Dish over Hopper, its DVR, with allows viewers to "AutoHop" commercials during primetime shows. Hopper is now available on some mobile devices, the fastest growing area for TV viewership."The Dish offer for Sprint is compelling and overall a bold move. This offer will not only pressure a response from Softbank, it may also ripple through the entire industry with impacts on the cable TV industry and Sprint's primary mobile competitors AT&amp;T, Verizon and T-Mobile," Kevin Roe, an analyst at Roe Equity Research, wrote in a note to clients.The bid comes as the US wireless industry is rapidly consolidating. Last year Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile agreed a merger with MetroPCS, combining the fourth and fifth largest players. Earlier this year Dish made an informal offer for Clearwire, a wireless carrier half-owned by Sprint. That deal has been held back by contractual obligations.David Joyce, an analyst at International Strategy and Investment, said it was a smart move for Dish to expand beyond its satellite video product."It will take the pressure off the company if it has a wider range of products," he said.Joyce added that he expected Dish to keep clashing with media firms. "I don't expect that to change any time soon."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.EA shutting down Playfish games | GamesIndustry InternationalEA is shutting it's last Facebook games: Sims Social, Pet Society and SimCity Social, the latter having been online for barely a year:Electronic Arts acquired Playfish for $300 million in late 2009. This weekend, the publisher revealed plans to shut down all remaining Playfish games.In a series of Playfish forum posts, an EA community manager has announced that SimCity Social, The Sims Social, and Pet Society will all be shutting down on June 14. Those will be preceded by the closures of Madden NFL Superstars 11 &amp; 12 and NHL Superstars, both of which will end on May 14. Those are the last remaining active Playfish games, but EA will retain a Facebook presence with games like Bejeweled Blitz."We know that you may be disappointed by this," the SimCity Social announcement reads. "Retiring games is never easy, we hope you've enjoyed playing SimCity Social as much as we enjoyed making it. Thank you to all of our passionate and dedicated players for supporting SimCity Social. We hope to see you in some of our other titles on Facebook and other platforms."Does this signal the end of our 'love affair' with Facebook gaming? Some suggest that the genre has failed to evolve, relying too heavily on familiar structures and tropes. Meanwhile, Zynga has moved into gambling...Pachter: Why Next Xbox Will Win Next Gen | NowGamerWell-known analyst Michael Pachter has explained his conclusion on GameTrailers'Bonus Roundshow that the Xbox 720 (or whatever it's called) will win the next-gen contest:"The reason I think Microsoft wins, I think that you're going to get a subsidy. So I think the price for the next Xbox is going to be subsidised either by a cable TV company or an internet service provider. I think ISPs have a reason, if you add broadband to get the next Xbox, we'll give it to you for 100 bucks. If you subscribe to our cable TV and sign up for a couple of years, we'll give you the next Xbox for 100 bucks."That's a gigantic advantage until Sony picks up the slack and does the same kind of thing and that's why I think TV is a killer app. I think you're going to see Xbox Live with tiered pricing, so if you get TV service you pay a little more because you get rid of your cable box. If you use Skype, they'll give you unlimited Skype calling to any place, even phones, for another few bucks."I'm not convinced that gamers think in the same way as, say, mobile phone users or cable TV subscribers, but this could well be a vital element of the coming generational shift.Xbox 360 Feature: Reviewing Dark Souls: the (Email) Chain of Pain - Xbox 360 - The Official MagazineThis fascinating feature collects some of the emails passed between a small group of games writers who found themselves reviewing Dark Souls before any of the many English language faqs, guides or forums had started helping out with some of the more arcane elements:Since From Software's masterful RPG hadn't been released yet, there were no wikis or strategy guides to consult for guidance. But we'd been taught as kids that it was dangerous to go alone so a group of us agreed to stay in touch by email and support each other in the struggle against a game that's both brutally hard and wilfully, bafflingly opposed to telling you how to play it.It's a rather fascinating record of trial and community. I'm hoping for a radio play.Rivet Wars: Turning universe creation on its head | Eurogamer.netChristian Donlan:Terranova's spent the last few years engaged in creating what the video game industry refers to rather bloodlessly as an intellectual property or - even worse - a universe. Frequently, these deep dives of the imagination seem to start in boardrooms, their fundamental cosmogonies sketched out on the canary yellow pages of a legal pad. This makes sense if you're sinking millions of dollars into a project, of course, as does - to a lesser extent - the ceaseless focus-testing that ensures you're building something that's at least palatable to as large a group of people as possible. You could also argue that it does destroy a little of the magic of creation, though. The danger is that you end up with something that offends almost nobody, but that doesn't really thrill anyone either.Rivet Wars, however - the project that keeps Terranova toiling in his home office late into the night and has delighted all those toy collectors around the world - is different. It's a hobby that got pleasantly out of hand. It's a universe he built because he wanted to - and because of that he's built it without obvious compromise. Happily, it turns out that there's probably something to be said for this way of doing things. Early this year, when Rivet Wars headed to Kickstarter with a board game pitch, it asked for $25,000 and received, in the space of a month, $582,316 instead. That's pretty astonishing. What brought Terranova to this point? Why has his particular approach to creativity proven so successful?This is another fascinating article from Donlan looking at the birth of a new board game, which has interesting things to say about video game 'universes'.My 90 year old grandmother tries the Oculus Rift | YouTubeMy 90 year old grandmother tries the Oculus Rift. We were using the Tuscany demo.With this simple introduction, a YouTube user presents a wonderful video of his grandma using the VR headset Oculus Rift. At times she seems convinced that she has been transported to a Tuscan beach. Her wonderment is utterly transfixing.Xbox Live downtime serves as timely reminder of connected console perils | Games industry news | MCVMany UK and American players were left unable to log into Xbox Live over the weekend."We are still hard at work fixing the issue members are having signing in to Xbox Live," a statement read. "Rest assured we have every available resource working on fixing the problem."It also meant that players of games like Minecraft were unable to access some of their saved content.Added Microsoft: "If you're an Xbox Silver member having problems using existing or newly-created saves in Minecraft, please know we're working hard to fix this issue! We'll update you as soon as we have more information."The issue has since been resolved and Xbox Live is now fully operational, but the news serves as a timely reminder for Microsoft of the perils of internet connected consoles.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
The National Audit Office is to investigate the low amountraised by Ofcom's auction of the 4G airwaves, which in June generated £2.3bn – a total of £1.2bn less than the Treasury had forecast, and£3bn less than the theoretical maximum.In a letter seen by the Guardian, the NAO's auditor general, Amyas Morse, told the Labour MP Helen Goodman, shadow minister for media and communications: "I intend to conduct a value-for-money study of Ofcom's recent auction of 4G spectrum."The Treasury's forecast of £3.5bn from the auction was included in the government finances in the autumn statement last December, and allowed the chancellor, George Osborne, to claim that government borrowing was falling.The Guardian understands that the NAO is preparing the terms of an investigation after complaints from Goodman, who pointed to remarks by the Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards, indicating  the government had not made maximising revenues the prime aim of the auction."By not making maximising the auction's revenues an objective for Ofcom, the government has failed to get value for money on this project," Goodman complained to Morse.The 4G auction sold off more radio spectrum than ever before to bidders including the four main mobile networks and BT. By comparison the 3G auction in April 2000 raised £22.5bn.Figurespublished by Ofcom in Marchshowed that the highest bids for 4G spectrum came to a total of £5.2bn. But Ofcom said those were only theoretical because it was using a rule whereby winners only paid slightly more than the second-highest bidder – similar to an eBay auction – a measure taken to make the auctions harder to rig.Goodman said she welcomed the NAO's intervention: "It is entirely right that the National Audit Office has launched this investigation. Serious questions must be answered as to why the Conservative-led government ended up £1bn short of the estimate George Osborne had provided just months earlier. When the 3G auction took place, Labour ensured that maximising revenue was an objective. The Conservative-led government did not do the same for the 4G auction, which I believe was a serious mistake."Some sources at bidders felt that the design of the auction, using a system known as "combinatorial clock" – which has been used in other countries to sell off 4G airwaves – not only worked against maximising revenue but was also unsatisfactory for bidders. "[Ofcom] neither raised the amount that the government was looking for, nor did it ensure that spectrum found its way into the hands of everybody who wanted it," one bidder said.Their dissatisfaction could also become part of the study. Morse told Goodman that Ofcom had "a responsibility to ensure that the auction delivered an economically efficient allocation of spectrum".The allocation after the auction means that Vodafone's share of all UK mobile spectrum has leapt from 23% to 28%, while that of its rival O2 has dropped from 20% to 15%, and that of the smaller Three network from 18% to 12%.Though the NAO does not have the power to order a rerun of the auction, a report will go to the Commons public accounts committee, which in turn can censure the government and demand a response from Osborne.Ofcom defended the auction. A spokesman said: "The 4G auction was a success, which will deliver the maximum benefit to UK citizens and consumers – in line with Ofcom's statutory duties. It will create competition, with five companies able to launch competitive 4G services. This will lead to investment in new services, greater innovation and lower prices, plus enhanced coverage with a rule to cover almost all of the UK population by 2017 at the latest."The auction was designed to promote competition and ensure coverage, rather than to raise money."A Treasury spokesman said it was the Office for Budget Responsibility, not the Treasury, that estimated the auction would raise £3.5bn. He also said that, even if the actual figure raised had been available at the time of the autumn statement, the Treasury would still have been able to say  it was on course to lower borrowing.
it's Tuesday.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft smart watch would be 'snipe hunt' distraction from Windows 8 &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMicrosoft is reportedly working on designs for a touch-enabled smart watch, a move one analyst called a "snipe hunt" that would distract it from the critical chore of getting Windows 8 off the ground.Another expert, however, said Microsoft needs to keep up with the technology Joneses, and is certainly able to do more than one thing at a time.That fence sure is comfy.Study: many searchers choose Google over Bing even when Google's name is on Bing's results &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandIn a recent study by SurveyMonkey examining SEO assumptions, respondents were given two search result pages, one with a page header labeled "Google" and the other with a page header labeled "Bing," and asked which page of results they preferred. Even when the page header labels were swapped, more users preferred the Google search results.Of 641 survey respondents, 379 participants received a survey asking which of two search result pages they preferred. One page of results for the term "file taxes" included true Google results and the other page included true Bing results. The Google page was chosen by majority of the respondents.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)The changing web platform landscape: more fragmentation? &gt;&gt; Adobe Digital Media BlogIn this new web platform landscape, what about Adobe's contributions to open source browsers? What impact does additional browser fragmentation has on Adobe's efforts?Adobe contributes to standards in open browser implementations formany reasons.One of them is that our new generationEdge toolsuse a 'web design surface'. For well over a year now, we have chosen to use the Chromium Embeded Framework (CEF) to provide this 'web design surface'. So naturally, we will contribute to Blink since it is now the core engine that powers CEF.Another reason for contributing to open browsers is to accelerate the availability ofnew features on the web. This is why we collaborate with Mozilla on a number of standards and contribute code to Gecko (like thispatchon masking for canvas). And this is why we will also contribute to WebKit, in addition to Blink, now that the two are separate projects.Singapore's NFC sign-ups are "slow" - report &gt;&gt; Mobile World LiveThe rate at which mobile subscribers are signing up for NFC-based services in Singapore is "slow", according to a report in the Straits Times.Since last August about 15,000 users have upgraded to NFC-based SIM cards that enable mobile payments, sources told the publication.Singaporehas adopted a modelwhereby the country's three mobile operators – SingTel, M1 and Starhub – have built a shared NFC infrastructure with partners in a government-backed approach.Although the underlying infrastructure is shared, the operators offer competitive retail services which they launched last summer.Of the 15,000 figure, around half paid to upgrade their SIM cards to NFC, while the rest were given the cards as part of promotions.Time travel in movies &gt;&gt; Mr. DalliardA logic chart of many of your favourite time travel movies (and a few you might not have considered) in case you need to figure out whether they conform to the Novikov self-consistency principle, and other questions.Taiwan probes Samsung 'dirty tricks' vs HTC' &gt;&gt; AFPTaiwanese authorities said Monday they had launched an investigation into allegations that South Korean tech giant Samsung hired students to post malicious comments about local rival HTC online."The case was set up last week after we received complaints," Fair Trade Commission spokesman Sun Lih-chyun told AFP.He said the probe would look into allegations that Samsung engaged in false advertising and that if the allegations were upheld, Samsung and its local advertising agent could face a fine of up to Tw$25 million ($835,000).Complaints emerged this month, with internet users alleging that Samsung, through its local agent, had hired students to write online articles attacking HTC and recommending Samsung cellphones, the United Evening News said…in a statement on its Facebook page, www.facebook.com/SamsungTaiwan, Samsung Taiwan said it regretted "any inconvenience and confusion from the Internet event"."Samsung Taiwan has halted all internet marketing such as posting articles on websites," it said.Samsung was fined Tw$300,000 by the commission earlier this year for a misleading advertisement about the camera functions on Samsung's Galaxy Y Duos GT-S6102, according to Taiwan's state Central News Agency.Gosh.iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment, Instapaper developer, on naming:A year later, when Apple did release a model named "iPhone 5" that was far better than the 4S and had an external redesign, the inertia of Apple pessimism was so strong and the press had become such petulant children about Apple products that they shat all over it even though it was a huge update that gave them everything they asked for, plus more.Now, Apple pessimism is even stronger. No matter what they release and no matter how well it sells, they won't win over the press, the pundits, the stock market, or the rhetoric. Not this year. They could release a revolutionary 60-inch 4K TV for $99 with built-in nanobots to assemble and dispense free smartwatches, and people would complain that it should cost $49 and the nanobots aren't open enough.You built what?!: A tractor for the apocalypse &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceSeeking a fresh start, [Marcin] Jakubowski bought 30 acres of Missouri farmland and a tractor. Life in relative seclusion proved uneventful until, one day in 2008, his tractor broke down for the second and last time, spurring him to start an open-source industrial revolution.To Jakubowski, the tractor seemed designed to fail. Why should he sink more money into fixing it or buy a replacement? He wanted a simple and useful machine, and one he could repair and upgrade on the fly. "It boiled down to lower cost in the long run," he says.Jakubowski built the first LifeTrac, as he calls his DIY tractor, in three months for $6,000—about $30,000 less than a comparable mass-produced model. Seeing room for improvement, he built a second prototype in just six days. He posted his progress on the tractor and other machines to an online wiki, which attracted followers, who suggested their own design tweaks. Some even visited in person to help with builds — and Open Source Ecology took off.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Code Hard or Go Home &gt;&gt; HypercriticalSome people wonder how Google can possibly have any power in the Android ecosystem if the source code is free. Facebook Home has been cited as an example of Google's ineffectualness. Look at how one of Google's fiercest enemies has played it for a fool, they say. Google did all the hard work, then Facebook came in at the last minute and co-opted it all for its own purposes.But look again at thegraphsabove. Now imagine similar graphs for the Android source code. Any company with Android-based products that wants to be truly free from Google's control has to be prepared—and able—to match Google's output. Operating systems don't write themselves; platforms don't maintain themselves; developers need tools and support; technology marches on. It's not enough just to just fix bugs and support new hardware. To succeed with an Android fork, a company has to drive development in the same way that Apple did when it spawned WebKit from KHTML, just as Google is doing as it forks Blink from WebKit.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Animoca: Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 line and the Kindle Fire family are still the most popular Android tablets worldwide &gt;&gt; Android PoliceAccording to the firm — which distributes games and entertainment apps — the Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 is the top Android tablet with 11.8% of its network, followed closely by the 10.1 model of the same line. Following that is the Kindle Fire and the Kindle Fire HD which collectively make up another 12.4% of Animoca's users. All told, before we get to the fan-favorite Nexus 7, a whopping 37.3% of the market has already gone to Samsung and Amazon (the former of which has plenty more share with other, less popular devices).So, what's the deal? Those of us who live in the Nexus bubble would assume the Nexus 7 [with 3.8% of the Android market] would be the most popular, right? Well, funny story. As of right now, Google's seven inch slate is available in just ten countries. Only five of those have the 3G variant available.  Granted, this only examines Play Store availability, but the offerings are still pretty sparse."All data obtained from individual users of Animoca games worldwide who used Google Play and who played an Animoca game on a tablet device between February 18 and March 20, 2013." Sample size: 978,000.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, has said the social network stands by its mobile advertising plan, despite concerns that users will be bombarded with unwanted messages.New software to be released by Facebook this year will mean companies can send ads directly to users' smartphones – even if the homescreen is locked.The move is part of Facebook's drive to take over the mobile platform, which Sandberg said may soon be a more important advertisement vehicle than television."The size of the audience makes this – the phone – a mass medium. It's as important to a marketer as TV," she told journalists at Facebook's headquarters in London on Monday. "This is as important – if not more important – than television."Sandberg, who is Facebook's No 2 behind the founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said the company had monitored the aggregate engagement of users who saw ads on their mobile apps and those who did not. "So far, we're very pleased with the results," she said.Asked whether the social network was concerned about placing too many ads on users' handsets, she said: "Our goal is not to increase the number of ads you receive but to increase the usefulness of those ads to you." Facebook introduced ads on its apps on Apple iPhones and Google Android handsets last year, placing messages from brands alongside wall posts, photos and other content in users' news feeds.The move received a mixed reception from some of the social network's billion regular users, but advertisers and shareholders welcomed the chance to get their message on to the smaller screen.According to the research firm eMarketer, Facebook earned more US mobile display revenue than any other publisher last year, with an 18.4% share of the entire market, thanks to ads in the news feed. The move helped overall ad revenues rise 36% year-on-year to $4.27bn (£2.8bn) in 2012, according to the company's most recent full-year results.
Once upon a time, a very bad man stalked the shadows of the video game world. Garrett, the mononymous anti-hero of the Thief games, presented a uniquely amoral figure compared to the usual selection of wise-cracking cops and right-thinking space marines. Even as developers began to experiment with more complex characters, few could compare to the brooding, cynical swagger of this avaricious figure.The games themselves – Thief: The Dark Project (1998), Thief II: The Metal Age (2000), and Thief: Deadly Shadows (2004) – were first-person offerings that saw the grim protagonist skulk around a quasi-medieval world, robbing the wealthy for no nobler purpose than lining his own pockets. As the series progressed, it addressed surprisingly deep themes of oppression, theocracy and the cost of industrialism, all while arguably doing more to advance the cause of stealth-based gameplay than even Metal Gear Solid.However, with the first two games appearing on PC only (the third ventured onto the original Xbox, adding an awkward third-person view in places) the series struggled to expand beyond cult hit status. The original developers, Looking Glass Studios, folded shortly after the second entry; the third game passed to Ion Storm before that company suffered the same fate. All of which goes some way to explaining the decade-long absence of the franchise – an absence that is soon to end.Photograph: Eidos MontrealWith two defunct studios in the game's wake, it could be seen as something of a poisoned chalice; but this hasn't stopped Eidos Montreal from shepherding Garrett and his world back to players' hands. Following the exceptionalDeus Ex: Human Revolution– another much-loved series of PC games reimagined for a wider and more modern audience – the Canadian team has more than proven up to the challenge.The return was originally announced as far back as 2009, then under the awful moniker of 'Thi4f'. The numeral has been dropped and the finished product – due for release in 2014 – is simply 'Thief'. Simple and blunt, like its lead character."It's 'Thief' because we want to restart it, to reinvent it," says Stéphane Roy, producer on the game. "We want it to be part of the future, the next generation, and not part of the past. It's not a sequel. It's something new."Seeing the game in action, it becomes clear that Roy and his team have actually been very clever in how the game is introduced to players, reboot or not. An early shot of Garrett sneaking back into the corrupt, nameless city where he plies his trade opens with the line, "I've been away… but I couldn't tell you where." It's almost cute – a wry nod to long-term fans that allows those earlier games to still count, without alienating the intended new audience with any weighty continuity. "The big challenge on our side was to adapt the franchise to the expectations of the modern gamer," Roy adds. "The way we play games today and the way we played ten or 15 years ago has changed a lot."As for Roy's intention to be next generation? That can be considered fully realised. Currently confirmed for PS4 and PC – and "other next-generation formats" – Thief is simply a breathtaking sight to take in, even at this early stage. The city is both towering and expansive, a blend of baroque architecture, slovenly hovels and booming industry. It's meticulously planned and designed, a hive of alleys, rooftops and living shadows for Garrett to exploit. Light effects diffract in real time through ambient air particles, which sounds jargon-y but produces striking and atmospheric results as the mists and steam of the streets swirl around street lamps or torches. Most buildings can be entered, each representing the lifestyles of its inhabitants. The game world is frankly gargantuan, inside and out.Photograph: Eidos MontrealFor all that the technical prowess and raw power of the impending hardware cycle can be leveraged to create subtle beauty, perhaps the most impressive part is how unspectacular it all seems. The detail is sharper, certainly, and everything looks better than most games can currently offer, but it's not until you realise that there's no time wasted on loading screens that you get an idea of the real power at work."Where the next-gen tech gets useful for us is the immersion. You'll believe in the universe," promises Roy. "You'll look at something and it'll be like a real object instead of pixels. I think when people notice that, it feels natural and that's mission accomplished. There are lots of NPCs in a room and you can go over and open the window, you go up, down and back with no loading. With another platform, it might not have been possible."Story details for the new Thief game are being kept largely under wraps at present. What is clear is that the city is undergoing some level of gentrification, with a wealthy baron profiting from the exploitation of the masses. His enforcers at the city's Watch Foundation spread and impose his propaganda, as a seemingly unrelated plague ravages the populace. Easy comparisons can be made to recent global strife caused by economic disparity, although Thief wisely seems to avoid lampooning any actual real-world figures too closely. Garrett's involvement is initially one of greed, an attempt to relieve the baron of his wanton riches. No doubt, like the classic titles, that detached resolve will soften somewhat over the course of the game.Despite the time away, the sarcastic, caustic nature of the lead remains intact. As a solitary figure, there are few opportunities for interaction with others, but Garrett's biting commentary on the people and situations around him proves both darkly humorous and important. Besides giving insight into his own personality, the inner monologues call out aspects of the game world that may be of importance.Gameplay seems largely unchanged from its forebears, with the emphasis unflinchingly placed on the stealth elements. As a master thief, Garrett owns the night, able to dart between shadows almost undetected. With the city providing an almost entirely open environment, objectives can be completed in numerous ways. A prime target for pickpocketing might be mugged while walking down side streets, or you may choose to follow him to greater rewards, for example. Or, tasked with infiltrating an opulent opium den and taking off with pricey jewels and even more valuable client information, you could drug the entire building through the air vents to reduce opposition to a brazen escape. If it's as well implemented throughout the game as it appears in the build shown to press, the freedom to explore and experiment could be one of Thief's greatest strengths…• Read part two on Tuesday
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 13 April 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (33)PC (5)32 (2)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (4)63 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)Wii (6)VITA (5)294 (3)Defiance (18+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (20)PC (5)25 (5)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)36 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (1)227 (8)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)Wii U (4)248 (6)Gears of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)49 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (17)PS3 (17)DS (15)4010 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (42)PC (8)2011 (10)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (40)VITA (10)Wii U (2)2412 (17)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)313 (16)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (22)PS3 (21)DS (10)1714 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (26)PC (19)6715 (9)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (17)3DS (5)2616 (14)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)2017 (20)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (37)3DS (23)PS3 (21)Wii U (13)1618 (–)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (82)Xbox 360 (15)Wii U (2)PS3 (1)2319 (18)SimCity(7+)PC (100)620 (19)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)PC (2)5UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
While Facebook, Twitter and Instagram may have the biggest numbers when it comes to mobile photo-sharing, there are plenty of other companies making innovative (and popular) apps to help people shoot and share their own snaps, while discovering those of friends and strangers.Coolirisis one of them. The company has been active in this area for some time – its LiveShare app came out for iOS in July 2010 – but more recently the company has been focusing more on its separateCooliris app.It's a slick application for browsing photos on the device itself, but also on Instagram, Facebook, Flickr, Twitter, Google+ and cloud storage services including Google Drive and Dropbox, among others. Photos can be re-shared between these services, or bundled into private groups with friends on Cooliris itself.The app has been installed more than 3m times since its launch in August 2012, with its most recent update emphasising its "endless discovery" – something that works particularly well in the iPad version."It's all about providing a visual lens onto the different services," chief technology officer Austin Shoemaker told me when I met him and vice president of business development Sebastian Blum at the Mobile World Congress conference in February, ahead of the update's release in early April.Shoemaker said the integration of Dropbox and Google Drive is particularly important for Cooliris, as it tries to evolve alongside people's photo-sharing habits."Those services are very agnostic: they want you to put in your videos, your PDFs, your other files. But what's happening, as all these companies will tell you, is that the number one file type and volume is pictures. People are using them for pictures," said Blum."We are the best experience on tablet for bringing that media to the surface, because those vendors tend to have an enterprise/general look for their apps."It's a stronger pitch than, say, a brand new photo-sharing service trying to win people away from their established apps and social networks. Rather than do that, Cooliris is trying to simplify the actions of browsing and sharing across all of those existing services."Adding another silo to my life is probably not going to fly," said Shoemaker, who added that Cooliris is working on an Android version of the app, to position the company as a bridge between the different smartphone and tablet operating-system silos too."It's crying out for a third-party neutral company," said Blum.While Cooliris' first 3m installs have come from its consumer-facing iOS app, the company is clearly thinking about other distribution channels, and about how to make money from all this photo-sharing.Blum said the company is looking to partner with telco companies who are launching their own locker services to compete with Dropbox, with the pitch that for the ISPs and mobile operators to differentiate their lockers, they'll need to offer a better experience around personal media."We can give them a head start in their services," said Blum, who also pointed to Cooliris' partnerships with Yandex in Russia and Renren in China to boost the distribution of its technology.
With over 2000 staff and a range of triple A games, Ubisoft Montreal is one of the largest and consistently most interesting mainstream developers in the world. Currently working on the cyberpunk-fuelled conspiracy adventure, Watch Dogs, as well as the long-running Assassin's Creed and Far Cry series' it will be fascinating to see what this place does with the next generation consoles.To find out how it is preparing, we spoke to the studio's CEO, Yannis Mallat, a 13-year Ubisoft veteran who originally started out as a producer on the Prince of Persia titles. Can the Montreal hit factory remain at the cutting edge of mainstream development in the next era? And if so, what will that take? Here's what Mallat had to say.So how does a studio the size of Ubisoft Montreal prepare for the switch to next generation machines?From a studio and a team perspective, we needed to get ready on two fronts - the technological front, of course, but also the mindset. We were pretty prepared on the technology side of things - we didn't wait for the console manufacturers to provide the specs, we'd already invested in high-end PCs and made sure our engines and pipelines were ready to tackle the next-gen machines. We were ready on that side.The mindset preparation was in asking ourselves, 'what will define the next generation games?' It will be more about the connected experience, and all the services that go with that. From a creator's perspective then it's about how we craft the connected experiences that are going to represent new ways of playing. This is where we rely on the studio's strength, which is to empower the developers and the creative minds, and allow them to come up with their own vision of the next generation. This is what we've been able to propose with Watch Dogs and other titles – new connected experiences for the next generation.Okay, the next generation is going to be about connected experiences. But what do you mean by that? How will it differ from what we already have today, in terms of online multiplayer, social gaming, etc?We have to understand that it is intrinsically linked to how we see the market. We used to say that we're not competing against other games, we're competing for leisure time. We have to craft our experiences around the way people are now consuming entertainment. For example, with the online multiplayer aspects of a game, we can say – and this is true already of Watch Dogs – that the next generation will help us to blur the lines between on and offline play and between single and multiplayer. It will be a totally new way to play. I think we showed that last year with the Watchdog trailer and also the live demo we did in February at the Sony PlayStation 4 event. Essentially it will be possible for friends to jump in and out of each other's games without completely changing the experience or becoming an essential part of the storyline that players craft for themselves.Watch Dogs: the big surprise from Ubisoft at E3 2012Essentially then, we'll see more, sort of jump-in, jump-out collaboration and competition. But Watch Dogs also has a companion app, allowing players to interact with facets of their game world on a tablet or smartphone. Do you also see gaming become more pervasive? Will more big games allow us to access elements of the experience while out and about?Yeah, absolutely. Look at TV. I'm pretty sure you watch TV with a second screen on, be it a tablet or a smartphone, so we know that consumers are ready to consumer 90 minutes of entertainment in 45 minutes – if you know what I mean. We will have companion games that let you stay immersed in the universe even when you're not in your living room. In the future, all those fantastic universes, Assassin's Creed, Watch Dogs, Far Cry – they'll stay alive thanks to those devices, within our players' minds.With all of those games it makes great sense actually, to have a pervasive element. They're all set in open worlds so its logical that you should be able to somehow exist in those worlds away from your console.Yes, I think it's obvious now why Ubisoft Montreal decided to go for open-world games - which was terribly difficult at the time, in terms of tech and the skills needed to craft those games. It's just the beginning, though, not only because of the successes we're experiencing thanks to those games, but also to understand how those kinds of games lend themselves very well to what the next-generation will bring.There are controversial aspects of very connected gaming experiences though. If you look at what happened with SimCity, and with the rumours that the next Xbox will require a constant online connection… Are you concerned that a lot of people are worried about the implications and demands of 'always online' gaming?The answer lies in the question – as soon as players don't have to worry, then they will only take into account the benefits that those services bring. And I agree, these services need to provide clear benefits. It's important to be able to provide direct connections between us and our consumers, whether that's extra content or online services, a lot of successful games have that.But are we ready for 'always online' consoles?Well, that's a question you should put to Microsoft and Sony! I would say that a lot of people are already always online through other devices – I would suspect that the audience is ready.I suspect that team sizes will need to grow with the demands of the next generation. If that's the case, can Ubisoft remain creative? The risks are going to increase aren't they? How do you ensure you're still able to explore original new ideas?If there is one question thing that keeps me awake at night it's this one. It's an everyday concern in terms of studio DNA and how we approach production. There is no magical recipe to making successful new games – you can only ever adopt the best practises. Actually, the only recipe I know is that you take the best team, you give them the means, you give them faith and confidence and you give them incredible challenges to tackle – and they usually come back with great stuff.As for creating new experiences, we really believe in ourBreakthrough Strategy, which is linked with technological evolution. Our successes in the past, whether that was the first Splinter Cell, or the first Assassin's Creed, each time we found a technological breakthrough that led to a new way to play that no one had experienced before. It was dynamic lighting that allowed the stealth gameplay in Splinter Cell; when you think about the free-running in Assassin's Creed, the ability of a character to grasp and climb any architectural detail, that was also derived from a technological breakthrough. And this new way to play through technology, was a minimum guarantee to the players of a new game experience. I don't think technology will impair our ability to be creative. On the contrary, you have to embrace technological evolution.And I guess it's important though that your games are never about technology - that they instead use technology as a creative springboard?Absolutely. And you know, we're all game designers - the engineers are game designers, the level creators are game designers, the programmers are game designers. It's all about the mindset.In the past, generational leaps in console technology have really been about graphical evolution. But do you think things will be different with the next generation consoles? Do you think games will lookradicallydifferent in three years time?I don't think you're going like my answer! I think yes and no. Yes, because of all we've talked about – the connectivity, the social aspects, that will shape new play experiences. But also no, because games will be games - the gameplay is at the heart of it. Good gameplay provides immense pleasure and satisfaction - that is going to stay forever, as long as we're talking about video games.
A selection of links hand selected by the Guardian games writersThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt first look - slaying giants in CD Projekt RED's icy open world RPG | PC GamerTom Senior:I know this is exactly what a brooding fantasy RPG anti-hero would want you to think, but Geralt really is misunderstood. At first glance, The Witcher's reticent protagonist is a walking cliché. He has silver hair, a scar over one eye and two swords permanently fastened to his back. If you asked an artist to sketch a typical troubled, dark-fantasy badass the results would look suspiciously similar, but these aren't frivolous artistic embellishments – they're the marks of a man who has survived for decades in the gloomiest of dark fantasy worlds.Thus begins an interesting preview of the forthcoming Witcher instalment.Wii News: Nintendo closing Wii channels and online services this June | Official Nintendo MagazineNintendo will shut down many of its Wii Channels on 28 June, including the Nintendo Channel, News Channel, Forecast Channel, Everybody Votes Channel and Mii Contest Channel.Additionally, you'll no longer be able to send and receive messages using the Wii Message board. However, the Wii Shop Channel will stay open so you'll still be able to download WiiWare and Virtual Console games.And so Nintendo begins to pull back from its record-breaking console. These channels were part of the initial placing of Wii as a family entertainment platform – even if many users never explored them.Elder Scrolls Online video shows 20 minutes of in-game footage | PCGamesNJulian Benson:As captured footage goes, it's not the liveliest of affairs. I'd have liked to have seen fewer than the seven minutes of 'I'm on a boat' video that we did but we do get a good spread of what to expect as players of the game. There are no hovering quest icons over NPCs but we can set the interface to show friendly NPCs, highlighting those most likely to need our aid; we'll be managing health, mana, and stamina in our fights against the local fauna; at about 12 minutes in we also see something of how developer Zenimax Online hope to make MMO combat their own, adding in the block technique from the Elder Scrolls games and not leaving dodges and deflections up to unseen dice rolls.State of Decay to finally release in June on Xbox Live | VG247Undead Labs has set a June release window for State of Decay, its upcoming survival horror title. That's not all: the developer saw fit to release a new video for it as well, and it's below. The game has been in development since at least 2009, and the game was confirmed for XBLA back in 2011, when it was still known as Class3. The game is the platform its MMO, Class4, will be build upon.Preview: Hiversaires | TIGSourceThe world of Hiversaires is presented through detailed pre-rendered stills with very little motion involved, and a pure monochromatic palette (with one notable exception). The game is played by stepping through the world frame by frame, making simple input in order to open up more of the environment to explore. Described by its creator as 'an adventure puzzler in the genre of Myst and Drowned God', Hiversaires offers little consolation for players, providing minimal feedback or reward, and demanding patient observation before progress can be made.This looks fascinating.The Weblog Freeware Pick: KTX-1, cyberpunk espionage adventure aboard a sabotaged train | IndieGames.comKTX-1 is a short cyberpunk espionage adventure game by the developer known as DoorKnobHandle, or DKH. The game won last month's MAGS (Monthly Adventure Game Studio) Competition, and with good reason. Only about 90 hours of work over the course of one month went into the game's development, but it's as polished as many commercial adventure games. The KTX-1 of the title is a high-speed train on which terrorists have planted a bomb. As the agent of a shady government, it's your job to find and defuse the bomb while avoiding detection yourself.Love the look of this – will we ever tire of retro visuals? I don't think so.
Monday! How was your weekend?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's 'Coach' Campbell sees Google Glass starting era of intimate objects &gt;&gt; BusinessweekNoting that he was not at liberty to give away specific details on future Apple gizmos, [Apple board member Bill] Campbell did tell the audience to expect to see "a lot of things going on with the application of technology to really intimate things." He pointed to Google Glass as one such intimate object. "It's a phenomenal breakthrough," he said. "When you start to think about glasses or watches, they become as intimate as the cell phone was."A short while later, Campbell celebrated Nest, the company started by former Apple executive Tony Fadell that makes a fancy thermostat. "You would think that people would yawn at something as boring as a thermostat," Campbell said. "So, I've been surprised at how it has done and is doing. It will be the first of many products that come out of that company, which has a brilliant CEO and engineering team."On Teens and iPhones &gt;&gt; The AxxAlex Guyot, 17-year-old attendee at CDO High School in Tuscon, Arizonia, following on from the in-some-quarters doubted survey by Piper Jaffray about US teens' eagerness to get iPhones (saying 48% had one, 62% planned to get one as their next mobile, 23% expect to buy an Android):Overall, Apple has simply done an amazing job at entrenching themselves in the minds and hearts of teenagers. Despite the results of any studies or articles saying otherwise, I can easily assert that the demand for iPhones from the teenage audience is in no way waning. In fact, more teens seem to want iPhones than ever before. Certainly there is still a presence of Android owners, which while clearly not as large as the number of students with iPhones, is still a competitive force, but the loyalty of this presence to it's chosen operating system seems to be shrinking much faster than it's growing. Android isn't in any danger of extinction in this high school's population, but the dominance of the iPhone is blatantly obvious.What I learned about mobile in China… &gt;&gt; Robert Scoble on Google+ -In China I met several entrepreneurs and others at the Bluetooth World conference there. China has a very different mobile culture, so thought I'd share what I learned here:Truly fascinating on iPhones, Android, and BlackBerry and Windows Phone, as well as the firewall, VPNs and jailbreaking. A must-read, along with other data points in the comments. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)Bernstein ponders lengthening PC cycle &gt;&gt; Barrons.comTablets and smartphones aren't replacing PCs, says [Bernstein Research's Toni] Sacconaghi, but they are likely "lengthening the replacement cycle" as they cut into some of the PC's workload and make their replacement less urgent. This could last a bit before things stabilize:About 360M PCs were sold in 2011; of which we estimate that 75% were replacement PCs, or about 270M. If the average replacement cycle increases over time from 4 to 5 years, annual replacement units would drop by 20% over time to 216M, a decline of 54M from the prevailing run rate. In 2012, total PC units fell 3% or about 12M units in total, and if down 6% in CY13 it would represent another ~21M units, suggesting that this lengthening replacement cycle could continue to have a toll on PC market volumes going forward.Regarding HP's big 24% unit decline in the quarter, Sacconaghi writes that it may be because HP didn't slash prices.Dell did better (in share terms) because it has a smaller consumer mix. Sacconaghi's numbers also suggest a PC market where the installed base is close to peaking. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)The Economist explains: How might your choice of browser affect your job prospects? &gt;&gt; The EconomistAmong other things, its analysisfound thatthose applicants who have bothered to install new web browsers on their computers (such as Mozilla's Firefox or Google's Chrome) perform better and stay in their posts for 15% longer, on average, than those who use the default pre-installed browser that came with their machine (ie, Internet Explorer on a Windows PC and Safari on an Apple Mac). This may simply be a coincidence, but Evolv's analysts reckon that applicants' willingness to go to the trouble of installing a new browser shows decisiveness, a valuable trait in a potential employee.Presents a problem for Chromebook users wanting to impress. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)Why don't cell phones have a dialtone? &gt;&gt; Dan GoldinWhile readingThe Idea Factory, I came across an interesting passage that explained why cell phones don't have dialtones:Meanwhile, Phil Porter, who had worked with [Richard] Frenkiel on the original system, came up with a permanent answer to an interesting question. Should a cellular phone have a dial tone? Porter made a radical suggestion that it shouldn't. A caller should dial a number and then push "send." That way, the mobile caller would be less rushed; also, the call would be connected for a shorter time, thus putting less strain on the network. That this idea—dial, then send—would later prove crucial to texting technology was not even considered.It's amazing that although this suggestion was made in 1971, we're leveraging it more than 40 years later with text messaging. How many other technologies and businesses are built on top of SMS that wouldn't have existed without this decision? I'm sure an SMS-like technology would have come along regardless of this decision but it still makes me wonder how significantly past technological decisions influence us in the present.Microsoft looks like being next with two-factor authentication &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityPaul Ducklin, on what look like leaked screenshots of Microsof's 2FA:It's not clear exactly what the "Don't ask me for a code" tickbox is for, but it looks as though you will be able to exempt your most commonly-used device (say, your day-to-day laptop) from needing 2FA-protected logins.I hope that's not the case, because 2FA adds real value if you use it as a matter of routine, not if you use it only in special cases.Sure, you can argue that an oft-used and cherished laptop is less likely to get you into trouble with a keylogger than, say, a PC in an internet cafe or a kiosk at the airport.But if you care about security, you won't read your email, personal or business, on kiosks or in internet cafes at all.And if you genuinely cherish that oft-used laptop, and your oft-used accounts, you'll want only the best levels of security every time you use them.Crazy question #4 — Can Google Docs replace Microsoft Office in my business? &gt;&gt; The PlatformShort answer: Yes.Long answer: It's complicated.This depends a lot on the use case. We know that Office is a huge product with a collection of extremely rich features. Really, there isn't anything that Office can't do — especially when you look at complex operations available within Word and Excel in particular.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Age:31.Appearance:Clean-cut, square-jawed, all-American, identical.AKA:Cameron and Tyler; the Winklevii.Occupation:Olympic rowers, social media entrepreneurs, chronic litigators.Something to do with Facebook, right?Yes!Would you care to elaborate on that?No.Go on, please …OK, way back in 2003 the Winklevii, along with a Harvard classmate, developed a university-based social network called&nbsp;HarvardConnection, then claimed that&nbsp;fellow student Mark Zuckerburg appropriated both their idea and their source code to create Facebook.And then they sued him.Exactly. After four years&nbsp;of legal wrangling, they finally reached a $65m settlement.And then the Winklevoss twins lived happily ever after.No, then they sued Facebook again, claiming the stock portion of the settlement had&nbsp;been undervalued. This second effort was not&nbsp;successful.If they can't make a living suing people, how will the Winklevoss twins survive?On Bitcoin.Come again?Surely you've heard of Bitcoin, the digital virtual currency beloved of speculators and online drug dealers that suddenly climbed to a rate of $260 per bitcoin last week before crashing again, and then rallying again?Yes, of course. But how do Tyler and Cameron figure? Are they claiming to have invented Bitcoin?No, they just have a lot of them.How many?About 1% of all the bitcoins in circulation, so in the neighbourhood of 108,000.And how much is that worth?Hard to say. $11m is a conservative estimate, but the price of a Bitcoin now fluctuates so wildly that trading was suspended last week. The Winklevii could potentially be billionaires today, and paupers tomorrow. "We could be totally wrong, " said Tyler, "but we are curious to see this play out a lot more."If they are wrong, what will become of them?They'll be OK. Their Facebook shares – the ones that they said were undervalued, remember – are now worth $200m.Do say:"Nothing ventured, nothing gained."Don't say:"If all else fails, you could always sue each other."
Price £24,995MPG 36.2Top speed 140mphThese days admitting that you actually enjoy driving can raise a few eyebrows. Like fell running, or ferreting, it's seen as the preserve of the unrefined mind, a pastime for simple folk who still think going fast is a thrill. Honestly, how unreconstructed! If I tell someone I love cars because I love driving, I have to accompany it with a shrug of incomprehension, as if to say: "I know, how weird! And did you&nbsp;know I like eating Vaseline, too?"But there are obviously a few of us out there, because why else wouldToyotahave dared to build a car like the GT86? It's a full-bore, unmitigated, back-to-basics driver's coupé; a car that celebrates the most elemental pleasure of firing up an engine, engaging the gearbox and accelerating…Over the past several decades what manufacturers call progress has been nothing more than an attempt to make driving less like driving and cars less like cars. Open the bonnet today and you can't even see the engine, let alone get your hands dirty and oil over the front of your trousers. Modern cars are opened with a bleep on a fob, turned on with the push of a button. You don't have to change gear or turn on the lights or wipers. You don't have to worry about losing traction or getting cold. You can't hear the engine or the road. You are insulated, isolated, a bit numbed. Of course it's all bloody brilliant. But occasionally you should sit in a car that reminds you just how incredible a propulsive car can be. We've had wild&nbsp;swimming – maybe&nbsp;this should be called wild driving?And that's where theGT86comes in. Toyota has a bit of form when it comes to sporting coupés. It's given us theCelica,Supraand the brilliant mid-enginedMR2. And it's now rolled out the GT86. It's the result of a joint venture betweenSubaruand Toyota – Subaru's version, which is exactly the same, is called theBRZ. It's up to you to decide which you think sounds cooler.The GT86 (or, if you wish, the BRZ) isn't going to stop the show with its looks. Yes, it's pretty, but it's not a stunner. From the front it has elegant wing bulges and a&nbsp;low-scooping open grill; round the back it boasts two handsome chrome tail pipes and nicely cut lights – it's nothing you haven't seen before. Inside things are more promising. It has bucket seats, a stitched red steering wheel and a stubby matching gearstick. Therearetwo back seats, but they are tiny. Although I did manage to get two lanky teenage boys in there – sort of flatpacked.Start up the four-cylinder petrol engine and you begin to realise what all the fuss is about. Squeeze the throttle and the engine note builds. The rear-wheel drive and instant steering make it feel snappy, the power comes in snatches. There's nothing smooth about the ride. It bounces over speed bumps as if it has no suspension at all. My wife hated sitting in the passenger seat. But once you get out on to a long snaky road, the growl in your throat starts to match that coming from the engine. It really does fly, this little car. Fast, flat, balanced, light and lithe – it's addictive. A touch on the wheel and you whip from side to side. It's basic, but the engineers have been smart enough to create a&nbsp;car that flatters your driving. An hour at the wheel and you start to channel your innerJames Hunt."Many of our rivals have turbos, big tyres and four-wheel drive," says Yoshi Sasaki of Toyota. "They have become sports cars that control their own behaviour – they have become boring." Until now…How to avoid a 'nervous' breakdownThe RAC is to turn the breakdown industry on its head this year with the launch of its 'magic box' for members which will remotely communicate with base to provide diagnostic information which could potentially identify certain vehicle faults before they result in a stressful and inconvenient breakdown.The revolutionary RAC Advance early warning system builds on current telematics technology but utilises the latest diagnostic software to build a comprehensive picture of how a car's systems are performing. In the event of a breakdown it will alert the RAC's response team who can remotely connect with its onboard diagnostic software to identify the fault and give an accurate location for the motorist, enabling the rescue service to swiftly despatch a patrol pre-armed with the diagnosis and the appropriate repair solution or parts, or order up a recovery vehicle if the problem cannot be fixed at the roadside.The simple device, the size of a matchbox, can be self-installed in minutes and can be accessed via a mobile app on the driver's phone or tablet enabling them to check multiple levels of performance including their own 'driver score', accurate 'taxman friendly' mileage records, GPS tracking and other key information.The RAC is keen to conduct extensive consumer testing on its system and will be recruiting a team of 1,000 members to put RAC Advance through its paces on UK roads – you can register your interest viarac.co.uk/advance.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Picture this: after saving humanity from the aggressive forces of the Locust Hordes in hit shooterGears of War, grizzled, gun-toting hero Marcus Fenix sweeps team-mate Dom Santiago into a tender embrace, and the pair kiss passionately as the credits roll.It's fantasy, of course. Not only in the context of the imaginary worlds that provide much of video gaming's currency but also in the uncomfortable&nbsp;reality that would make such a relatively innocuous event almost unthinkable in a game released today. Fenix is, inevitably, in a heterosexual relationship within the game – a snapshot of the underwhelming job the industry is doing of presenting the diversity of its&nbsp;audience in the titles it produces."The majority of game protagonists are still straight, white and male, whereas the audience is increasingly more diverse," explainsMitu Khandaker, independent developer atThe Tiniest Shark. "Besides the question of who developers perceive their audience to be, game protagonists are simply not representative enough of people in the real world," she adds. "Unfortunately, a disappointingly overwhelming amount of the time, non-white, female or LGBT characters in games do little more than parrot existing media stereotypes – particularly within mainstream games."Khandaker touches on an important point – as video games have begun to mature as an art form, they have adopted the same lazy cliches that long dominated film and television. Women are often to be rescued or ogled; non-white characters are sidekicks or villains; gay people are invisible or caricatures. However, games are still at a stage in their development comparable to the movie industry of the 1930s. As cinema grew and matured, slowly tackling more complex themes and appealing to wider audiences, so too must gaming challenge its own inherent biases.Part of the problem may be the players themselves, or at least a segment of the player base that is vocally resistant to change. "Mainstream fan communities tend to be overly hostile when diversity issues are brought up, and I feel that they tend to get much more hostile and abusive when the person bringing up the issue is a member of a minority demographic," saysRegina Buenaobra, North American online community team leader forGuild WarsdeveloperArenaNet. "Games are meeting the needs of straight white male gamers, but when others say that their needs aren't being met, they just can't empathise. A market that doesn't cater to them is beyond their experience."To larger publishers, dealing with high-budget titles carrying considerable financial risk, this creates a mixed message – the familiar core audience seemingly decrying change, while an untapped one demands visibility."Without speaking for others, I think there's a fear of exclusion, rather than an appreciation for the opportunity for inclusion," says Noah Hughes, creative director on the recently rebootedTomb Raider. "They might be losing people by making these choices, as opposed to flipping it around and seeing that you can invite more people to have these experiences."The issue of representation has drawn increasing focus over the last 12 months from those working in the industry. At last month'sGame Developers Conferencein California, the subject was a key talking point. Microsoft's Tom Abernathy went as far as stating that "women are the new core", and called for greater diversity in games, saying: "Our industry, our art, and our business stand to gain in every sense simply by holding a mirror up to our audience and reflecting their diversity in what we produce."Promisingly, parts of the mainstream industry are already heading in that direction.Telltale Games' episodic adaptation ofThe Walking Deadwon near universal acclaim last year for its emotional clout and sympathetic cast, including black lead Lee Everett, and developers at Sony'sNaughty Dogstudio fought forco-lead Ellieto be prominently featured on box art for forthcoming post-apocalyptic thrillerThe Last of Us.Elsewhere, Capcom's impending sci-fi action titleRemember Meintroduces Nilin, a mixed-race woman. "I want to keep faith in humanity and in the fact that gender doesn't matter when a protagonist is created,"Remember Me's creative director Jean-Maxime Moris says. "We are in 2013. It&nbsp;is high time game companies noticed what has been happening in other forms of storytelling in the past couple of thousands of years. In the world and the story ofRemember Me, the only choice we had was to go&nbsp;with&nbsp;Nilin. We didn't consider having a male character, and we hope&nbsp;she resonates well with players&nbsp;from all ages and countries."The calls for diversity in games have never been greater, and though smaller independent studios are better positioned to capitalise, the bigger, more monolithic companies are likely to find it harder to ignore the demand. It may be a while yet before a mainstream shooter is bold enough to subvert macho expectations with a gay lead but the visibility of types other than the straight white male is increasing – and that can only be a good thing for the industry, the medium and, of course, the players.Five games that break the mouldThe Longest Journey(Funcom, 2000) presents leading lady April Ryan, a directionless young artist, as an intelligent, flawed and realistic human being. April's fantasy adventure also explores themes of youth, responsibility and growing up. Of note is the game's portrayal of supporting characters Fiona and Mickey, a pair of middle-aged lesbians in a committed relationship.Its sequel,Dreamfall(Funcom, 2007), introduced new heroes Zoë Castillo, a young woman of mixed Chinese and Spanish descent, and Kian Alvane, a black&nbsp;apostle raised in a matriarchal religious society, while further exploring April's destiny.On the surface,Catherine(Atlus, 2011) seems to be little more than Japanese fanservice, but look closer and you'll find a mature exploration of sex, obsession and psychosis that also presents one of the few transgender characters in games. Although waitress Erica's birth gender isn't mentioned until the end of the game, the revelation paints other characters' interactions with her throughout the game in a different light, reflecting the real fears and stigmas trans people face.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004) and its own sequels featured Alyx Vance, another woman of dual heritage, here Afro-Asian. A scientific genius and determined survivor in the wake of an alien invasion, the only disappointment is that she isn't a playable character.More recently,Prototype 2(Radical Entertainment/Activision, 2012) introduced James Heller, a black male hero who wasn't an aspiring criminal or slogan-quoting urban stereotype but a desperate man out to save his wife and daughter. Perhaps more interestingly, the game recasts Alex Mercer, the white lead of the firstPrototype, as the mad villain Heller must overcome.
Infectious diseases, says the World Health Organisation, "are caused by pathogenic microorganisms, such as bacteria, viruses, parasites or fungi; the diseases can be spread, directly or indirectly, from one person to another." Quite so. Just like Facebook addiction, which also spreads from person to person and has now reached pandemic proportions, with more than a billion sufferers worldwide.The Facebook pathogen doesn't kill people, of course, for the good reason that dead people don't buy stuff. But it does seem to affect victims' brains. For example, it reduces normally articulate and sophisticated people to gibbering in the online equivalent of grunts. Likewise, it obliges them to coalesce all the varieties of human relationships into a simply binary pair: "friends" v everyone else. I have some real friends – as opposed to "friends" – on Facebook and every so often one of them posts a comment on something I've written. I've just looked at one such observation. It's thoughtful, subtle and nicely written. But beneath it is a button simply labelled "Like". If I click on it, my friend will doubtless receive a message from Facebook telling him that I "like" his comment. Big deal.What's interesting about this is the way a software system has been designed to strip all of the nuances and complexities that characterise human interaction and compress them into a channel with the bandwidth of Morse code. Actually, the bandwidth is even more attenuated than that. At least with Morse, something can be either a dot or a dash, but Facebook lacks even that binary sophistication. It only has a "Like" button, possibly because a "Dislike" one might facilitate a higher level of discourse than that deemed desirable by the system's architect.Cultural critic Neil Postman once observed that you can't use smoke signals for philosophical discussions: the communication channel simply doesn't have the necessary bandwidth. One wonders what he would have made of Facebook, or of the fact that a sixth of the world's population is apparently satisfied by such a primitive medium of communication.Meanwhile, the efforts of Facebook's owners to "monetise" these poor saps continue unabated. The basic idea is to use their personal data to refine the targeting of ads at them, which means that, as time goes on, the system becomes more and more tiresome to use. This raises the spectre that, one day, the worms might turn and depart.But – hey! – Facebook management has a plan for that too. It's revealed in afascinating patent applicationjust published. Like all patent applications, it consists of three coats of prime technical verbiage, and the devil is in the detail,but the essence of itis that in exchange for a monthly payment Facebook users will be able to get rid of adsand specify exactly what should replace themon their personal profiles. This is subtly different from what other "freemium" services like Spotify currently offer.You have to admire the chutzpah implicit in this. First, you bombard your hapless users with ads. Then you offer them relief in return for payment. There's a word for this in English, but m'learned friends don't approve of it, so I will avoid it. I'll be surprised if the patent is approved, but the US Patent and Trademark Office has a track record in granting daft patents, as, for example, US Patent 5,443,036 for amethod of exercising a cat by getting it to follow a spot generated by a laser pointer,so I might be unduly optimistic.For fiendish ingenuity, however, Facebook's latest move into the mobile phone business takes the biscuit. Neatly avoiding the trap of getting into the handset-manufacturing game, the company has instead developed an Android app that really ought to be codenamed Cuckoo because it effectively takes over any handset on which it is installed. It can be downloaded for a subset of recent Android handsets and last week HTC unveiled the first phone that comes with Facebook Home pre-installed. The app conceals the array of apps that normally dominate Android home screens and instead putsFacebook activity squarely in the centre of the phone's screen. It splashes status updates across the phone's lock and home screens and makes Facebook's messenger application ubiquitous with little "Chat Heads" that follow you from app to app, thereby making it easy to keep up with what pass for "conversations" on Facebook.What Facebook Home means, of course, is that Facebook will be the first – and perhaps the only – thing that new users of smartphones, especially in emerging markets (ie poor countries), see when they fire up their phones. And when they want to search for something, why, they will use Facebook's search engine rather than that of Google, the company that created the operating system on which Facebook's app runs. Howzat!
The Longest Journey(Funcom, 2000) presents leading lady April Ryan, a directionless young artist, as an intelligent, flawed and realistic human being. April's fantasy adventure also explores themes of youth, responsibility and growing up. Of note is the game's portrayal of supporting characters Fiona and Mickey, a pair of middle-aged lesbians in a committed relationship.Its sequel,Dreamfall(Funcom, 2007), introduced new heroes Zoë Castillo, a young woman of mixed Chinese and Spanish descent, and Kian Alvane, a black&nbsp;apostle raised in a matriarchal religious society, while further exploring April's destiny.On the surface,Catherine(Atlus, 2011) seems to be little more than Japanese fanservice, but look closer and you'll find a mature exploration of sex, obsession and psychosis that also presents one of the few transgender characters in games. Although waitress Erica's birth gender isn't mentioned until the end of the game, the revelation paints other characters' interactions with her throughout the game in a different light, reflecting the real fears and stigmas trans people face.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004) and its own sequels featured Alyx Vance, another woman of dual heritage, here Afro-Asian. A scientific genius and determined survivor in the wake of an alien invasion, the only disappointment is that she isn't a playable character.More recently,Prototype 2(Radical Entertainment/Activision, 2012) introduced James Heller, a black male hero who wasn't an aspiring criminal or slogan-quoting urban stereotype but a desperate man out to save his wife and daughter. Perhaps more interestingly, the game recasts Alex Mercer, the white lead of the firstPrototype, as the mad villain Heller must overcome.
You know how car thieves sometimes put a fishing rod through your letterbox, fish the&nbsp;keys off the radiator (or the little table in the&nbsp;hall, if you're posh), reel them&nbsp;back out through the letterbox&nbsp;and then vamoose in your&nbsp;vehicle? Well, that&nbsp;ain't going&nbsp;to happen with this&nbsp;one. It&nbsp;doesn't have a key, or even one&nbsp;of&nbsp;those keyless entry fobs. This&nbsp;has&nbsp;a&nbsp;key card – flat and credit card-sized, with nothing for the jam&nbsp;jar tea leaf to hook his hook on to. Even if it did, he probably wouldn't, because he wouldn't recognise the key card as the thing he needs in order to relieve you of your brand new Clio.And I'm glad. I don't want it stolen&nbsp;– I like it. Sometimes a&nbsp;car just&nbsp;has a&nbsp;nice feel about it, and this&nbsp;is one of them. In fact, searching&nbsp;around for something to&nbsp;find fault with, I discovered that&nbsp;the carpet in the back doesn't fit&nbsp;brilliantly – it's a bit loose. But&nbsp;because I'd already been totally&nbsp;won&nbsp;over, I saw this less as&nbsp;shoddy build quality and more as&nbsp;endearing,&nbsp;like the loose skin of&nbsp;a&nbsp;puppy. Perhaps it will grow into&nbsp;its&nbsp;carpet.The new Clio is very pretty. It's&nbsp;nicely scooped out a bit at the sides,&nbsp;so that it has a waist (it's hard&nbsp;not to think ofNicole, even though she's sadly long gone). Va-va-voom, too – there is plenty of&nbsp;that, if va‑va‑voom means looking&nbsp;like a&nbsp;coupe when it's actually a five-door hatchback (via&nbsp;the old hidden rear door handle&nbsp;trick). Inside, it's&nbsp;not luxurious, but it's clean and chic (and puppyish). And it handles responsively and, reassuringly, feels like a more grown-up car than previous Clios.This 1.5-litre diesel has plenty of torque (I am now going to get the T&nbsp;word intoeveryone of my car reviews, to show that I'm not just a&nbsp;famous motoring journalist, but&nbsp;also a serious one). Fuel consumption and emissions figures&nbsp;are seriously impressive. It&nbsp;is&nbsp;quite expensive, though,&nbsp;for an&nbsp;inexpensive little car.&nbsp;The much cheaper 0.9-litre turbo petrol version, which still emits less than&nbsp;100g/km of C02, might make more sense.What's not to like? Nothing, really.&nbsp;Well, apart from that key&nbsp;card,&nbsp;actually. It may be unfishable, and so make your car&nbsp;less nickable, but it's also a&nbsp;bit&nbsp;silly and gimmicky. And annoying. I lost it down the side of&nbsp;the seat. Keys are so much easier&nbsp;to find at the end of a&nbsp;journey.&nbsp;They're in the ignition, always. And is turning one really such a terrible chore that they have&nbsp;to be phased out?Renault Clio dCi 90Photograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£15,095Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption83.1mpgCO2emissions90g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating8/10
Microsoft Studios' creative director Adam Orth found himself at the business end of an online lynch mob after using Twitter to announce that the next Xbox would require "always-on" Internet access to work. Coming mere weeks after Electronic Arts' always-on Sim City debacle, which left many paying customers unable to play the game, his comments were pitched somewhere between arrogance and hubris. Twitter's hive mind brought him to book, to which he responded "#DealWithIt", prompting an official apology from Microsoft ...Games out this week includeJewel Quest IV Heritage(3DS), a four-year-old PC game repackaged for handheld with some bolted-on 3D frippery, adding nothing of note to the classic gameplay for which the series is famed; andMystery Case Files: Ravenhearst(DS), an even creakier and more venerable hidden-object-finding remake.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewTelling the story of a tiny hovering robot whose two glowing, quirkily wide-set eyes give it an immediate air of anthropomorphic innocence, Unmechanical is a charming physics-based puzzle game. Entirely wordless, it introduces its challenges by letting you experiment with the environment, moving about by dragging a finger in front of your robot and tapping it to produce a tractor beam that lets you manipulate nearby objects. Your explorations reveal organic-looking structures as well as mechanical ones, leaving you to work out what's going on; the pathos of its mute android protagonist is implied rather than overt, as you clink unavoidably against walls and ceilings in the game's sometimes cluttered, sometimes cavernous surroundings. The soundscape shifts subtly as you move between areas, and the beauty of its art style creates a rare ambience of bashed-up metal mixed with living tissue as you make good your escape. Its problems are intensely satisfying to solve and while none prove all that strenuous, many are refreshingly original. Unmechanical is a wonderfully relaxing way to spend a few hours.
On the show this week Editor of the Guardian's Datablog Simon Rogers joins Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss to discuss his new bookFacts Are Sacredand the evolution of data-journalism here at the Guardian.  And we have a special offer for Tech Weekly listeners.  You can get a hardback copy of Facts Are Sacred for just £10 sterling, saving 50% off RRP, just go toguardianbookshop.co.uk/factsand use code TECHWEEK10.Offer is valid until 3 May 2013.Also Charles Arthur speaks to Phil Libin, CEO of theEvernotethe multipurpose notes and data application about the future of his fast growing company and his recent tie-in with Deutsche Telekom.We have a round up of this week's tech news includingrumors of a Google bid to buy Whatsappandhow many gadgets the BBC are losing each year.
Google has opened a new service to let people control what happens to their email, online photos and blogposts saved in its accounts, as concern grows over what happens to users' "digital life" when they die.Called Inactive Account Manager – which Google's Andreas Tuerkacceptsis "not a great name" – it will let users decide whether to trigger it if they haven't logged in for three, six, nine or 12 months, and then either delete their data or send all or selected elements to a nominated person of their choice.The move comes after increasing concern about problems encountered by families who have been trying to access or shut down accounts on sites such as Facebook after the sudden death of relatives, and amid controversy over the proposed "right to be forgotten" that the European Union is trying to introduce over digital information.Google's new service joins a number of offerings to handle the aftermath of a "digital death", typified by services such asEntrustet, which let people decide what messages and access to information they want surviving relatives or friends to see after their death. With use of social networks becoming prevalent and an important window into peoples' lives and friends, there have been recent examples of relatives of the dead being unable to gain access to the dead peoples' accounts: the family of one soldier was refused access to his email by Yahoo, and some families have had to seek court orders to gain access to the Facebook accounts of the deceased.A spokesperson for Facebook said that the company already offers "memorialising" services where an account can be kept open but will not be used for advertising."Immediate family members can have an account removed completely – but they may be required to provide proof of their familial status in addition to proof of death," Facebook's spokesperson said.But the company is insistent that it will not simply give access to accounts to relatives of the deceased. "We are only able to consider requests for account contents of a deceased person from an authorised representative. The application to obtain account content is a lengthy process and will require you to obtain a court order," it says in its guidance.Google's system will only work if set up by the user. Otherwise, family members who want to get access to email, video or other Google accounts will still have to provide a court order, due to data protection laws.Google's system will first send a warning text message to a mobile registered with the account, and a message to a backup email account nominated by the main account owner. If the user then checks in, the account is deemed active again and no action is taken.Among the choices Google offers are having your data deleted (after three, six, nine or 12 months of inactivity) or to have data from various of the Google services you use sent to "trusted contacts". Among the services survivors could receive are all the pages where you clicked the "+1" buttons, any blogposts and comments from the Blogger service, your Google contacts and the members of your Google+ Circles, the files in your Google Drive, your Gmail email, Google+ Profiles, Picasa photo albums, Google Voice phone data and YouTube viewing."We hope that this new feature will enable you to plan your digital afterlife in a way that protects your privacy and security – and make life easier for your loved ones after you've gone," says Tuerk.It is unclear whether a "right to be forgotten", as proposed by the EU, could be applied retrospectively after death. At present, the proposals only cover the deletion of information relating to a living individual.
Apple and Twitter are both expected to make significant incursions into the music space in the near future in moves that could challenge Spotify, Pandora and other independent music services.Apple is understood to be preparing a music streaming service that would challenge existing ones such as Spotify and Pandora in the US, after reports said that it was close to securing licensing deals with Universal Music and Warner Music, two of the three major music labels. Negotiations with the third, Sony Music, are said to be "less advanced", while there is no indication of independent labels' willingness to sign.But industry gossip points to a launch of the service, perhaps called "iRadio", later this year. That would cement Apple's position in the digital music space, where its iTunes Music Store – which is ten years old this month – already makes it the biggest music retailer in the world.Music streaming is a fast-growing space, where the number of subscribers grew 44% in 2012 to 20m.Twitter, meanwhile, is expected to launch a dedicated product optimised for music, being readied by Twitter for launch at this weekend's Coachella music festival, where artists including Blur will be playing.Twitter Music, which is being teased with a holding page, is thought to offer users aversion of Twitter optimised for music, including enhanced player tools supporting Soundcloud and iTunes, rich follower tools for favourite bands, suggestions and trends, and a recommendation service between friends.The service has been built by the We Are Hunted team, an Australian music discovery and sharing tool quietly acquired by Twitter this year. The deal was only announced yesterday with a statement on theWe Are Huntedsite which said: "While we are shutting down wearehunted.com, we will continue to create services that will delight you, as part of the Twitter team."There's no question that Twitter and music go well together. Artists turn to Twitter first to connect with fans, and people share and discover new songs and albums every day. We can't wait to share what we've been working on at Twitter ... you will hear more from us."Apple's negotiations with labels were reported byThe Verge, noting that talks with Sony were less advanced. Apple hopes that iRadio, as the planned new service had been dubbed, will help push download sales by helping users discover new music – implying that its Genius recommendation tool and Ping networkhave not done the job.Negotiations have not run smoothly; Apple had initially been pushing for a royalty rate of around 6c per 100 streamed songs – roughly half what rival service Pandora currently pays. Current negotiations have doubled that rate. There has been speculation that the basic iRadio service would be free and ad-supported, and launch at Apple's next developer conference in summer.Music analyst Alice Enders said that Twitter Music was unlikely to present any challenge to the mainstream commercial music space. "It is not a game changer – it's niche, a recommendation-based service for people that aren't representative of the billions of people that consume music," she said. A commission-based system for sales on a third-party site would be an unlikely revenue stream, she said, because it would drive users off the Twitter platform, so further promotional advertising products are the most likely revenue streams for the service.But Apple's service was most likely to present a challenge to Pandora, the online radio service that now claims to be used by as much as one third of the US online audience, she said."The real question is Apple going to attract users away from Pandora," said Enders. "It's a big decision for the recorded music industry whether Apple should become a subscription service, noting that the all-you-can-eat service seems to be the nirvana for the music industry even though there is the potential to cannibalise download sales."She added that though successful in the US, the Pandora model has not achieved that scale in other markets which would limit the potential for an Apple product based on that model.Soundcloud declined to comment on Twitter Music, and Twitter said it could not comment beyond the statement onWe Are Hunted's site.Apple did not respond to a request for comment. Universal Music made no comment.
This is a story of theft, loss, discovery – and of mortification – designed for the digital age. It tells how a laptop stolen in London found its way to a family in Tehran and how, via a hidden app, the rightful owner was able to photograph those using his computer and expose them on the web. There is however, a happy ending.The laptop in question belonged to Dom del Torto, a Londoner who works for an animation company in London's Shoreditch. In February his computer was stolen in a burglary at his home in Holloway Road, north London.A month later a tracking app he had installed in the laptop revealed not only that his computer was in Tehran but was transmitting pictures back of the family using it.Intrigued, Del Torto set up a Tumblr page,Dom's Laptop in Iran, showing his computer's new owners' interactions with his machine taken through the Mac's camera. The pictures, to which Del Torto attached witty captions, showed a young woman and an older man. In one image the younger woman has a towel on her head; in another she is wearing a hood.He speculates about the relations within the family, and how his laptop ended up with them – comments and images he now says he regrets posting."My laptop was stolen from my home in February 2013," he said on his blog this week. "In March 2013 tracking software revealed that it had turned up in Tehran, Iran. I shared this information with the UK police dealing with the matter and they said that they were regretfully unable to help.Another picture sent from the laptop. Photograph: Dom del Torto/Tumblr"On 12 April 2013 I decided to share the data from the laptop on [a] Tumblr blog as an amusing story for my friends to enjoy. It seemed to me that a laptop that went missing from London and turned up in Iran was like a space probe landing on a distant planet and beaming back proof of intelligent life."The story began to go viral. "As the story circulated, I started to receive messages from concerned individuals warning of privacy issues and the possible harm and distress the blog may cause the people in the photos. I hadn't really considered any of this, as I hadn't expected the story to get so much attention. So I hid the identity of the people in the photos."Then one of the people in the photos contacted him to ask him to remove the pictures. "They were very upset. I could understand why. The people shown on the blog site are not thieves. The safety and wellbeing of private individuals is more important than any possession. Although I still miss my laptop I do not wish ill on anyone."The people who now have my laptop have been good enough to get in touch and therefore the tracking software has done its job."There are questions that remain unanswered. Del Torto, who feels he made a "huge error of judgment" posting pictures of the family undisguised, was not returning calls. And how his computer made its way to Iran and into the hands of its new owners remains a mystery.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day. Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Drawnimal (Free)This is a wonderful, creative app for children that gets them drawing on real paper rather than on the screen. The idea: diagrams showing kids how to draw ears, whiskers, legs, tails and other animal parts around the iPhone or iPad, which sits on top of the paper. The screen then becomes the animal's animated face. There's an animal for every letter of the alphabet, with letters D to Z unlocked with a single £1.49 in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadNinja Jamm (Free)This nifty music-remixing app comes from Ninja Tune, which has long been one of the more innovative music labels when it comes to digital. Ninja Jamm gets you remixing and jamming with samples from various Ninja Tune artists, from Coldcut to Mr Scruff, using touch, tilt and shaking controls to make music. The results can be shared on SoundCloud, Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Individual "Tunepacks" are sold in-app, most for 69p.iPhoneDungeon Hunter 4 (Free)Gameloft's dungeon-crawling adventure is back for its fourth iteration on the App Store, and like the third instalment, this is freemium. Buying gems in-app beefs up your prospects as you wander through sprawling environments laying waste to enemies. Like Real Racing 3, it may peeve gamers who don't like the free-to-play model, but there's plenty of fun here for others.iPhone / iPadDocuments by Readdle (Free)Documents has been available for iPad for some time, but it's now made the transition to Apple's smaller-screened devices too. It's a productivity app for writing and viewing documents, as well as annotating other kinds of files, and even listening to music or viewing photos.iPhoneZeds – Play Your Dreams (Free)This is an intriguing game from Channel 4: its levels are based on your real-life sleeping patterns. The app records movement and sound in the night, and transforms that into levels for the swipe-based action game. So it's part serious sleep-recorder, and part quirky game. An interesting idea.iPhoneLookAway Player (Free)This is as much a technical demo as a standalone app – not a criticism. It's a player for YouTube videos that pauses them if you look away from the screen, and mutes or unmutes the volume when you put your finger to your lips. A hint at possible user interfaces for future entertainment apps.iPhone / iPadHomestyler (Free)This is Autodesk's latest iPad app, aimed at homeowners who are planning a spot of home improvement. The idea: "Watch your home design ideas come to life within a photograph of your own space." You take a photo of a room, then can change the wall colours, insert 3D models of furniture, and browse the app's "Design Stream" for more inspiration.iPadStatus Board (£6.99)"You've got data. Status Board makes it beautiful," explains the App Store listing for this stylish productivity app. It pulls in emails, diary dates, tweets, weather forecasts, news and other information and displays it on a customisable homescreen: useful if you tend to work at a desk with your iPad somewhere nearby – particularly in a dock.iPadMail Pilot (£10.49)There is no shortage of apps trying to help people solve email overload, and while this one's expensive (for now) it has some good ideas. The key principle is turning your inbox into a to-do list, complete with due dates for dealing with specific emails. Lists, gesture controls and an ability to work with all IMAP providers rather than just Gmail make it worth a look.iPhone / iPadLions Official (Free)As the next British and Irish Lions tour to Hong Kong and Australia hoves into view, there's an official app. It'll offer news, videos, fixture details, and competitions for rugby union fans, along with information on the tour's sponsor Microsoft.iPhone / iPadPocket Village (Free)Social games publisher Wooga has been making waves on Facebook for some time, but it's also ambitious on mobile. Pocket Village is its latest game, and as the name implies, involves building a village full of "Pocketeers" characters. In-app purchases of diamonds and coins fuel the action.iPhone / iPadLingualia – Language Courses (Free)Remember the days when a good way to learn a new language was with cassettes? In 2013, there are a fair few apps for that. Lingualia is the latest, offering a choice of Spanish and English courses for now, teaching key vocabulary, expressions and grammatical rules, while promising to learn from your usage and adapt its courses accordingly.iPhoneShip &amp; Duck (Free)Magazines and online shopping are merging in all sorts of interesting ways in the app world, from Grazia's shoppable digital issues to the app-mags released by the likes of ASOS and Harrods. Ship &amp; Duck is the latest innovative example, launched in the UK and combining editorial and shopping across categories including music, art, films and sports.iPadBlue Toad Murder Files: A Touch of Mystery (£1.99)Fans of traditional whodunnit murder-mysteries will love Blue Toad Murder Files: the latest iOS game from Relentless Software (which made its name with the PlayStation Buzz! quiz games). This game sees you trying to solve a murder in the village of Little Riddle, with animation, 36 puzzles, and AirPlay support to play on a bigger-screen TV with friends or family.iPhone / iPadDa Vinci's Demons: Citizens of Florence (Free)While at the MIPTV conference last week, Icaught a session with David S. Goyertalking about his new TV drama Da Vinci's Demons, which looks very good indeed. And Americans have a just-as-good looking app for that on the iPad: a companion app that synchronises with the show as you watch it, unlocking artefacts and video clips.iPadDr. Seuss Short Story Collection (£5.49)App publisher Oceanhouse Media has spent the last three years busily bringing pretty much everything Dr. Seuss ever wrote to iOS (and Android). This new app includes eight stories in one, taken from various other Seussian collections that are available on the App Store. Kids will be meeting tiger-licking cats, boastful rabbits and multiple sons named Dave among others.iPhone / iPadThe Coldest Journey (Free)The Coldest Journey is an expedition launched in March to cross the Antarctic continent in Winter and raise $10m for charity, co-led by Sir Ranulph Fiennes and Anton Bowring. This official iPhone app provides blog posts and news from the expedition as it goes.iPhoneDonna, Meeting Assistant (Free)This app's US-only for now in private beta, and is the latest exploration of Siri-style personal assistant technology for iOS. Incredible Labs' app promises to take "care of the little things to you can stop worrying", telling you when you need to leave for an appointment, notifying you about meetings in advance, and even pulling in the weather.iPhoneGolfStar (Free)Just in time for The Masters golf tournament comes this free-to-play golf game from Com2uS, making grand claims about being "the most realistic golf game of all time". That means whizzy 3D graphics, lots of physics and five different game modes – as well as social tournaments to compare your skills against friends.iPhone / iPadPikiLicensing reasons mean we're not seeing Piki outside the US for now, but it's one to watch. It's a music discovery app from one of the co-founders of Turntable.fm – the avatar-based music site that made a splash in 2012, again in the US only. Promising "music powered by people, not algorithms", it's a way to follow friends, find new music and stream it for free.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The raison d'être of the glamorous and globally renowned TED conferences is the dissemination of "ideas worth spreading" – and, if there's any organisation that thinks it has one of those, it's the Vatican.Next week, in a somewhat unusual pairing of the Catholic church and California trend-setting, the two will come together for aVatican-sponsored day-long series of talks in Rome. Among the speakers are an Italian cardinal, a Serbian basketball star, a Muslim graffiti artist from Birmingham and the Cuban-born American singer Gloria Estefan."We wanted to listen to stories from every walk of life," said Giovanna Abbiati, who, along with a group of lay academics at the Pontifical Athenaeum Regina Apostolorum, a pontifical university, came up with the idea of holding a TEDx event with the backing of the Vatican.Rather than focusing on Catholicism, the day's theme is religious freedom, and its promotion of inter-faith dialogue appears to chime with the thinking of the new pope.Francis, a theological conservative, raised some eyebrows on Maundy Thursday bywashing the feet of two women, one of whom was a Muslim.He hasspoken of the need to foster inter-faith dialogue, particularly between Catholicism and Islam.Although the planning for the TEDx event started a year ago and had been timed to coincide with the eighth anniversary of Benedict XVI's election, its spirit had become very timely, Abbiati said. "Now we have a new pope and I can say that this is one of the priorities of the church now: religious freedom and dialogue between different cultures and religions," she said. Francis, she added, had of course been invited to the day, but they had as yet had "no feedback" on whether he would make an appearance or not.One man who is hoping he will is Mohammed Ali, a British street artist who has been expressing his excitement about the event on Twitter in the form of the hashtag "brummyintheVatican". Ali, who is known for blending graffiti art with Islamic culture, is preparing a unique talk and would like to present Francis with a resulting canvas as a gift."I'm excited about the Vatican being open enough to say a) we've brought a street artist in, which is unusual in itself, and b) someone who's of Muslim faith," he said. "For me, it's brilliant. It's exactly what I hoped for that people out there are open-minded enough to say: 'Yeah, you know what? We need to find new ways of engaging.'"The host of the TEDx event next Friday will be Gianfranco Ravasi, the Lombardy-born cardinal who heads the pontifical council for culture and was hailed by one Vatican observer as arguably "the most interesting man in the Catholic church" after he launched an initiative to forge links and prompt dialogue with non-believers known as the Courtyard of the Gentiles.He is scheduled to be joined on stage by 17 other speakers, including Daniel Libeskind, the architect and designer among whose works is the Jewish Museum in Berlin; Brother Guy Consolmagno, a planetary scientist at the Vatican Observatory; and Barrie Schwortz, who was raised as an Orthodox Jew and is an expert on the Turin Shroud.Abbiati, who works at theInstitute for Advanced Studies on Womenat the Athenaeum, said Estefan, meanwhile, had "an amazing story" to tell about religious freedom that drew on her family's escape from Cuba after the revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.The Room (£1.49)Atmospheric puzzler The Roompassed the 1m sales mark on iOSin mid-January, and after making its Android debut earlier this month as part of the Humble Bundle, it's now available on the Google Play store. As before, it sees you exploring a beautifully-crafted 3D room solving puzzles with tactile touchscreen controls.Lions Official (Free)As the next British and Irish Lions tour to Hong Kong and Australia hoves into view, there's an official app. It'll offer news, videos, fixture details, and competitions for rugby union fans, along with information on the tour's sponsor Microsoft.I AM PLAYR (Free)Social football game I AM PLAYR has a growing and devoted community of players online and on iOS. Now it's bringing its charms to Android as a "companion" game for the main web version. It includes mini-games to practise your skills, earning "match fitness" to be used online.Cinemagram (Free)Cinemagram is one of numerous apps aiming to be the Instagram of video, helping you share video clips to social networks including Facebook and Twitter, as well as blogging service Tumblr. It's a slick way to record a four-second video and turn it into an animated GIF for sharing.Disney Fairies: Lost &amp; Found (£0.65)This latest children's app from Disney focuses on its fairy characters, from Tinker Bell downwards. It's a hidden-object game for children where they unlock parts of a story as they go along, working against the clock.Tiny Legends: Heroes (Free)Trinity Interactive's characterful fantasy-action game swings onto Android, sword in hand. It sees you battling monsters and looting dungeons, working  your way through 70 floors with your party of heroes.Everything.me Launcher Beta (Free)Android launchers are all the rage, what with Facebook Home's imminent release. Everything.me Launcher is available in beta for now, promising to turn your Android phone into a device that's "constantly adapting to your interests, your location, your life". The idea being that you type in a phrase (a film, a band, a sports team etc) and it arranges your most relevant apps ready to launch. A neat idea with lots of potential.Just Eat (Free)British takeaway website Just Eat has launched its official Android app this week, providing menus and ordering capabilities for more than 15k takeaway outlets around the UK. You can browse, order and pay for your food within the app, filtering results by cuisine, customer reviews and location.Rando (Free)Here's a fun skew on photo-sharing: an app that gets you to snap a pic (using a circular frame) and then send it to... Well, you don't know who it's going to: Rando handles the job of pinging it "anonymously to somebody completely random" – somebody else using the Rando app, obviously. "You will never know who received the rando, they will never know who sent it," explains the Google Play listing.Worms 2: Armageddon (£2.99)After a limited initial release, Team 17's Worms 2: Armageddon has launched more widely on Google Play, including the UK. It brings the classic worm-on-worm action to Android, with 30 single-player missions and pass-and-play multiplayer modes.Dr. Panda's Beauty Salon (£1.31)The Dr. Panda apps are making a name for themselves among parents, particularly those with Android devices still waiting for Toca Boca to make the leap from iOS. This latest app sees children playing in a virtual beauty salon, painting faces and nails, dressing customers and (ouch!) plucking nose hairs.Mr Frog The Neighbours Dog (£0.69)Here's something else for children: a fun tale starring a frog who's pretending to be a dog, seemingly just to enrage the next-door neighbour. Aimed at 2-5 year-olds, it blends mini-games, animation and voice narration. And frogs.Basemark X 1.0 (Free)A serious tool for games developers, this, helping provide "objective cross platform comparisons of game graphics performance between Android, iOS and Windows Phone 8 devices". Built on top of the Unity 4 game engine, it's the work of Rightware.Hills of Glory 3D (Free)This is the latest tower defence game on Android – a popular genre on Google Play. Here, your job is to win the Second World War, defending a bunker with all manner of military weaponry. Colourful 3D graphics and 21 missions to work through make it well worth a look.Repulze (£1.99)Repulze is the work of Pixelbite, the developers behind the Reckless Racing games. It's a future hovercraft-racing game that's clearly inspired by Wipeout, with seven craft and 24 tracks to work your way through.DJ Space (Free)DJ with decks? Why, when you can DJ with planets? That's the idea behind this app, at least: a "virtual mixer on a spacial plane". The idea being that you create music by placing planets on an orbit around a star. More than 1,000 audio samples are included.DJ Funkmaster Flex (Free)Talking of DJs, how about Funkmaster Flex? He's a genuine hip-hop legend, and now he has an official mobile app. It provides news, daily mixes and instrumentals from the man himself, with the promise of "exclusive content" to treat fans.Knock²+ (£1.35)This is an interesting new app trying to do something different around notifications on Android – already one of the areas Google has done pretty well in itself. It supports apps including WhatsApp, Facebook and Google+, as well as text messages, promising to make them look "stylish on the lockscreen".Epic Pirates Story (£1.01)If you're a fan of Japanese simulation developer Kairosoft... Well, you'll probably recognise that the developer of this game, Epic Devs, is also inspired by them. Epic Pirate Story takes many of the same ingredients, and puts them into a game where you build a pirate town and army. Derivative, but potentially fun.Colourform (HD Widgets Theme) (£0.69)Finally, how about some widgets? More than 50 for the Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean variants of Android here, with the twist being that you can change all the colours. It works with the HD Widgets app, which you'll need to use these.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Free iPad and smartphone games which can result in children running up hefty bills for their parents through expensive in-game features are to come under scrutiny from the Office of Fair Trading.More than a quarter of children aged between five and 15 now own smartphones according to Ofcom, and many more have access to their parents' devices. A whole industry has grown up around apps for them. Many are based on popular characters including the Smurfs and Playmobil and while the initial game can be downloaded for free, players are offered a range of costly upgrades.Reports of children running up bills for hundreds of pounds by clicking through to this paid-for content are increasingly common, and in one case a parent reported being hit with charges of more than £3,000."We are concerned that children and their parents could be subject to unfair pressure to purchase when they are playing games they thought were free, but which can actually run up substantial costs," said Cavendish Elithorn, the OFT's senior director for goods and consumer.The regulator will look into the marketing of these "in-app purchases" – additional content such as virtual currency, extra levels and upgraded features which can cost anything up to £70 a time. On the Smurfs Village game, for example, a wagon of Smurfberries costs £69.99. It has written to games developers and hosting services, and is asking parents and consumer groups to contact it with information about any potentially misleading or commercially aggressive practices they are aware of.The OFT has not estimated the size of the market, but it said that of the 100 top grossing apps in the Android store, 80 were offered for free and made their money through sales of additional content. In a further indication of how much the market could be worth, in February Apple agreed to pay around $100m compensation to parents in the US whose children ran up huge bills using free apps downloaded from its iTunes store.Justine Roberts, founder and CEO of the parenting website Mumsnet, said she had seen regular complaints about children unwittingly running up gigantic phone bills. "It's all too easy for children to get sucked into games and before you know it they've racked up huge costs buying coins, berries and doughnuts," she said.Many of the parents reporting unexpected bills have talked about the ease of making a purchase, with children only having to click on a link to buy content if the device is already logged in to the Apple or Android store. However, the OFT's initial investigation will not focus on the mechanisms of making a purchase, but on whether the way the add-ons are marketed breaches consumer law.It said it would look in particular at "whether these games include 'direct exhortations' to children – a strong encouragement to make a purchase, or to do something that will necessitate making a purchase, or to persuade their parents or other adults to make a purchase for them".It will also consider whether the full cost of some of these games is made clear when they are downloaded or accessed.Eithorn said the OFT was not looking to ban in-app purchases, but that the games industry needed to ensure it was complying with the relevant regulations. "We are speaking to the industry and will take enforcement action if necessary," he said.The OFT expects to publish its next steps by October 2013.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian's games writers.CVG UK Blog: BioShock Infinite is 'horrendous', claims indie dev - but why? - CVG UKDan Dawkins tackles the seemingly unstoppable Bioshock: Infinite backlash, the debate now centering on a Tweet from indie developer Kris Piotrowski, whowrote, "I am worried that there was almost ZERO critical discussion of the game, when the game is so charged with problematic content. You should have heard a lot more about what is wrong with it. A lot more."Dawkins:What's really interesting is how Piotrowski's comments - albeit inadvertently - highlight the widening chasm between some AAA and indie games developer. It often feels like a subset of journalists and forum posters take glee in the latest major financial disaster, or enforced CEO departures.Conversely, some indie games are so disproportionately praised, you're made to feel like a porridge-chugging simpleton for even half-enjoying Warhammer 40k: Space Marine.Violent games can enable would-be mass murderers, say CA Senator | GameSpot.comDemocratic California Senator Dianne Feinstein has again spoken out against violent video games. Today on MSNBC's Morning Joe, Feinstein said these games can be enablers for would-be mass murderers."I think the really violent video game becomes a kind of simulator to practice on. And it enables the individual to become much more familiar with that depiction of death and blood," Feinstein said, referencing the exaggerated way in which some games depict violence and death."Of course it's not the way it is in real life," she added.During an event last week, Feinstein said violent games play a "very negative role for young people." She said if the game industry continues to make games that glorify guns, Congress may intervene.There is a lot of this talk swirling around US politics again. The timing is... interesting... what with a gun control bill passing through.Here's everything you can pay for in action-RPG Dungeon Hunter 4 | Pocket GamerMark Brown:The in-app purchases in Gameloft's latest hack 'n' slash Diablo-like game Dungeon Hunter 4 are really something else.In this game, the French studio employs an "if you can see it, you can buy it" system, encouraging you to pay for new weapons, better skills, more health, extra potions, instant revival, and more inventory slots.And then you can take your ill-gotten gains online and best all those poor peasants in the free-for-all arena.Brown then goes on to list all the microtransaction possibilities in the game, making a rather damning statement about Gameloft's free-to-play mechanics.Clifford Unchained - "Deal With It"Cliff Bleszinski deals with the whole situation around EA employee Adam Orth who told Twitter uses to 'deal with it' in reference to our 'always online' future – and then promptly left the company.My gut is telling me that an always online future is probably coming. It's coming fast, and possibly to the majority of the devices you enjoy. Adam's analogies weren't that far off; although the vacuum one was kind of weird. Sim City, with all of its' troubles on launch, seems to be selling briskly. Diablo 3, the poster child of a messy launch, is estimated to be at 12 million units. (Remember the internet rage over the art style shift? I barely do. But it seemed so important at the time!) I would bet money that without the always online elements of Diablo 3 that it would have sold half of that.EA: "Gaming isn't mass market yet" | GamesIndustry International"We have to make sure that game companies know what a mass market really is. We're not one yet," Hilleman says when we meet after his talk. "The closest thing we've had to a mass market, frankly, has been the social and mobile spaces. From my perspective, television is the mass market and we're the fringe. The challenge in front of us is, does the customer think about it that way? Do they see us as so distinct we can't merge those two experiences?"EA Mobile suffers heavy layoffs, publisher refutes studio's closure | MCVSignificant layoffs have hit EA, specifically affecting hundreds of employees at EA Mobile Montreal.Gamasutra first reported the redundancies, with a Montreal-based source telling the site that around 200 to 250 jobs were lost. EA has since swooped in to refute that claim, stating that the number is too high – though it wasn't made clear by how much. The publisher also denied rumours that the studio will close.EA has released a statement explaining the layoffs are part of a streamlining effort, as the company looks to 'sharpen' its focus on providing games for mobile and other new platforms.Xbox 360 News: Rumour: four next gen Xbox launch titles | The Official MagazineCrytek's Roman-era punch-'em-up Ryse and Microsoft's own next-gen Forza are both rumoured to be launch titles for the putative and unconfirmed (but daft if it doesn't happen) next generation Xbox (itself rumoured to be announced at the end of May.)The others are meant to be a zombie game and a, "family game set on an island with Pixar-quality graphics". Okaaaaay...Zombie Mondo Monday | Plymouth Arts CentreHad to sneak this in: Plymouth Arts Centre is doing a regular Monday slot of cult movies and next week it's a double bill of undead classics: Reanimator and Zombie Flesh Eaters. Essential viewing!You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
There was a moment in the Dark Souls 2 presentation in New York last week that I feel aptly sums up the entire aesthetic of From Software's belligerently difficult RPG series.Picture the scene: an armour-clad warrior is walking down a dimly lit hallway in a medieval castle. His footsteps clank against the paving stones, echoing into the bowl of darkness in the roof high above him and cutting through the wind whispering ominously through his surroundings. A growl sounds off to his left. He turns and sees a solid wooden door with thick bars set in a window in one of its upper panels.Through the bars, he can see a gigantic beast moving about in the next room.The beast is humanoid in shape, but its arms and legs are as thick as tree trunks. In essence, it looks like what would happen if you spliced a rhino with an armadillo. Its face is a mass of teeth and hatred. The warrior produces a bow, strings an arrow and fires it through the bars of the door into the monster's head.Now, in most other games of this type, players could use the barrier provided by the door to kill off their quarry safely. They'd simply fire arrow after arrow, removing the creature's health as it scrabbled against a piece of the environment, which prevented it from reaching them. This doesn't happen in Dark Souls 2. Once the first arrow enters its skull, the monster starts hammering its huge noggin against the door. On its third blow, the door is reduced to kindling and the monster advances on the warrior with the plain intention of turning him into paint.Death is just the beginningYou see, in Dark Souls 2 – as was the case in the first Dark Souls – there are no easy confrontations. There are no battles one can simply walk through and every enemy is horribly lethal. The entire game is built from the ground up like a minefield. According to From Software's director of Dark Souls 2, Yui Tanimura, the starting point of the development cycle begins with death."I try to concrete the concept of what I want the player to feel," he said. "Then I try to design different types of deaths they will face and what kind of challenges they will face and what kind of tactics we want them to learn."Every death, then, in Dark Souls 2 should be looked at as a learning experience – just as in the first title. For instance, Tanimura tells us, firing arrows at Mr ArmaRhino will likely "piss him off". Darks Souls 2 boasts a reactive AI that adjusts to what the player does both immediately and tactically.For example, in an earlier stage of the demo, we watched as a warrior ran into a pair of armoured brutes in a corridor. Initially, the player controlling the warrior tried to roll to one side of them and attack from behind. The target in question, however, waited for a split second and then reacted to the blow against its hind quarters by hurling itself backwards onto its attacker. The warrior was flattened and a sizeable chunk of his health was removed. It wasn't long before the two brutes finished him off."We wanted to implement as many [AI] reactions to player actions as possible, so that players will be forced to think up their own strategies to get past certain parts of the game," says Tanimura.Players will also activate objects in their environment in Dark Souls 2. In one example, a player picked up a glowing item in an atrium decorated with the bones of a dragon. Once they did, the skeleton of a winged monster behind them shuddered to life and made an attempt to swallow the player whole.In another instance, a player activated something called a Key Mouth by placing an item in what appeared to be the mouth of a face carved in stone set in a wall. Once they did this, the hallway they were standing in was flooded with warm light from torches bursting into flame at intervals along the walls.The latter mechanic looks like it may come in handy because Dark Souls 2, it seems, will be closer in spirit to the aesthetic of a survival horror game than its predecessor. At intervals in the demo, the player guided the warrior on screen into passages where the darkness engulfed them. Only a few steps ahead in the passage were visible and the only sounds one could hear was the ever-present wind and the footsteps of the player's avatar.In these instances, we were told, players will have to choose between either daring to move through an environment they literally can't see in, or use a torch to light their way forward. Doing this, however, will mean they're be unable to wield a sword and shield at the same time, which, as any Dark Soul veteran will tell you, is taking a rather a big risk.Mind you, players take a risk by turning a corner, stepping onto a bridge or walking through one of the game's many swirling portals. Dark Souls 2 offers players some familiar trappings in the form of bonfire save-points and Covenant perks – although we are told you won't be able to import your character from Dark Souls across. But above all, Dark Souls 2 is a deadly beast of a game – as if we expected anything different.Life isn't fairDuring the demo, the words YOU DIED appeared on the screen around five or six times – and the presentation itself lasted only 10 or so minutes. And if you ever felt a twinge of incredulity at the unfairness of it all during Dark Souls (or its spiritual predecessor, Demon's Souls), you had better prepare yourself.In one scene, the player was sent falling to his death after a Wyvern ripped a bridge he was walking across in pieces; when this occurred, the player was halfway across and the creature who caused his death flew in from offscreen without any warning at all.In another scene, a player was run over by a glowing chariot that came hurtling through a tunnel, which was too narrow to allow for any space to avoid it. Naturally these examples prompted knowing laughter from the journalists in attendance, but you had to wonder how on earth players were expected to conquer these sections in the final game. But then, we spent many of the early hours of Dark Souls feeling the same things. You live (eventually) and you learn.Indeed, according to Tanimura, both scenarios can be beaten and in both instances, death is meant to act as a tutor. The aim here, he said, was to teach the player something. Hints, tips and clues will be dotted around to help us move forward and ultimately, the goal is to make the player realise that their expectations are flawed – not their desire to move forward."No matter what sort of deaths the player to experiences," said Tanimura, "the player needs to understand the reason that they died."That is Dark Souls 2 – and indeed, Dark Souls – in a nutshell. This is a game in which death moves the player forward. If you don't learn from adversity, you don't deserve to move forward. Kind of like life …
Friday - yay!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJava applet attack wipes out Bitcoin accounts on Mt.Gox &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJohn Biggs details a phishing site that grabs Bitcoins from the unwary, Not so much "wipes out" as empties. His conclusion:Bitcoin phishing is not new and as more and more users enter the BTC fray it's clear that it will be a bigger problem. AsTwitter novelty account Bitcoin.txtnotes, the market is frothy and full of folks who have little experience investing in anything, let alone an imaginary digital currency that could be part of a future economic engine – or could spell ruin for investors who click bit.ly links.Novelty account != parody account.Don't ask court to 'mop up mess' over patents, Apple, Google told &gt;&gt; The Seattle TimesApple and Google's Motorola Mobility unit are more interested in using litigation as a business strategy than in resolving disputes over the use of patented technology, a federal judge in Florida said."The parties have no interest in efficiently and expeditiously resolving this dispute; they instead are using this and similar litigation worldwide as a business strategy that appears to have no end," U.S. District Judge Robert Scola in Miami said in an order dated yesterday. "That is not a proper use of this court."Motorola began by suing Apple. Apple sued back. Motorola (with Google's explicit approval) sued even more back. Apple... you get the idea. (Thanks @candidcanon on Twitter for the link.)Touchscreen to become standard specification for third-generation ultrabooks &gt;&gt; DigitimesIntel has decided to make touchscreen functions a standard specification for its third-generation ultrabooks, which is expected to launch shortly after the release of its Haswell platform in early June, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.However, overall related costs will increase by at least US$70-80, and while Intel hopes its brand partners to offer their ultrabooks at a price level in the sweet spot of the market, the sources are concerned that the strategy will greatly shrink ODM profits, despite Intel marketing subsidies.Digitimes etc etc. But: we're in thethirdgeneration of ultrabooks? And: they think higher assembly costs will let them sell at the same price?JPMorgan: Samsung will ship 320m smartphones this year, 80m being the S4 &gt;&gt; AndroidBeatStefan Constantinescu:I've been searching high and low for an analyst prediction on the success of Samsung's Galaxy S4, and today, in the French paper Les Échos, I finally found one. JPMorgan says Samsung will likely ship 320m smartphones in 2013, of which 80m will be the high end Galaxy S4.Is that goal reachable?Last week I covered a DigiTimes report that said Samsung has an internal goal of hitting half a billion phone sales. If JPMorgan's estimate of 320m smartphone sales turns out to be true, that means 64% of the mobile phones Samsung will sell this year will be "smart". Another analyst firm, Gartner, says53.5% of the phones Samsung sold during 2012 were "smart", so that 64% figure for 2013 does indeed sound right.How many iPads did Apple sell last quarter? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechFor the most recent quarter - the one that ended March 29 - the positions of the two groups are reversed, with the pros more bullish than the amateurs. The consensus among the professionals is that Apple will report Q2 sales of 18.4m iPads; the average among the indies is 17.7m.Compares to 11.8m in the year-ago quarter.  This just-gone quarter, HP shifted 12m PCs. Tablets are knocking on the door.Eighteen and Abandoned &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMatthew JX Malady (that's him):when I recently logged into an old Yahoo e-mail account I still use for ordering flowers and entering N.C.A.A. basketball-tournament bracket contests, a message from "Google Account Recovery" greeted me with a cold reminder of my past e-mail-related shenanigans. It offered no salutation, cutting right to the chase: "To initiate the password-reset process for your eighteen@gmail.com Google Account, click the link below." I followed the instructions and found myself in the in-box of a Gmail account that had not been checked since George W. Bush was serving his first term as President and "Thefacebook" was something available only to certain college kids. What I discovered was a treasure trove of bizarre and ridiculous e-mail messages.The puzzle is how many of those apparently real emails were some subtle form of spam or phishing.September 2012: Ballmer says 400m devices will be running Windows 8 next year &gt;&gt; AllThingsDInterviewed in September 2012:"One year from now, between Windows phones, Windows tablets and Windows PCs, we'll see close to … 400 million new devices running those new operating systems," Ballmer said during the unveiling of Nokia's new Lumia smartphones this morning. "Those devices running Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 represent the single largest opportunity for software developers today. Four hundred million per year? That is unrivaled. I'll bet you right now, the next app developer to hit it really big will do so on Windows."That's an average of 100m per quarter of everything. Let's see - 60m Windows 8 licences sold to January. About 7m Windows Phone sold in Q4 2012. About a million Surfaces (if you're generous) sold in Q4 2012. Some distance to make up.Computer sales in free fall &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAdding some colour to the picture about Windows 8:Carrie Soukup, a 32-year old tech support contractor living in Austin, Texas, is among the skeptics about the new [Windows 8] software.As she has been researching a new laptop she plans to purchase this year, she said a PC running Windows 7 was more appealing than the newer designs. "I'm not entirely thrilled with Windows 8," she said. "There's a lot of show I don't see the functionality in."Other consumers, like Gene Elmer Munson, have held off buying PCs all together as they increasingly rely on mobile gadgets.Mr. Munson, a 40-year-old human resources-and-finance worker, has a desktop, a laptop and a smartphone and 7-inch tablet powered by Google Inc.'s Android software.He bought the 7-inch Google Nexus tablet in December, and now finds himself using his laptop less and his tablet more, especially for personal work, including the novels he writes in his spare time."If I didn't have a smartphone and a tablet I would have replaced it by now," said Mr. Munson of his HP laptop. "I don't see myself buying a laptop in the foreseeable future."Also has a fascinating graph showing sales growth since the iPad launched. It's pretty much a straight line down. (Subscription probably required.)Best Android phones for smaller hands &gt;&gt; TalkAndroid.comIt's pretty obvious that handset makers think the bigger the phone, the better. We've seen phones slowly climb in screen size, up from 3.5in to 4in to 4.7in, and now even past 5in. These bigger screens are fantastic, but it's easy to see how people who prefer smaller phones may feel a little left out.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Appeals court likely to give German iCloud users push email back on 24th, lift Google's injunction &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsGoogle's German push email injunction against Apple is presently the only injunction any "Android company" is presently enforcing anywhere in the world against Apple (and nothing is being enforced against Microsoft). In two weeks' time, even this one will likely be history. There are people out there saying that there are wins and losses on both sides, but the fact of the matter is that the only "wins" the Android camp scores are non-defeats, not true wins in terms of offensive achievements.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
After nearly a year of negotiation, Google has submitted a package of concessions to the European commission to head off an antitrust investigation that has ground on for two and a half years.The search company is understood to be offering to label results where its own properties, such as YouTube or Google Shopping, appear in listings when people perform searches, in a response to the principal complaint from the EC's antitrust division.But the move is unlikely to pacify companies that originally complained to the EC. They have complained that Google artificially boosts its own properties and penalises rivals.The proposals from Google will now undergo "market testing" with complainants, including the British "vertical search" company Foundem, which was one of the first companies in Europe toraise concerns.Last month a coalition of 11 European companies, including Foundem,wrote to Joaquin Almunia, the EC competition commissioner, urging him to raise a formal "statement of objections" to Google's behaviour. "Google's search manipulation practices lay waste to entire classes of competitors in every sector where Google chooses to deploy them," the companies said in the letter.Almunia has always said he would prefer a negotiated settlement with Google rather than a long court case.The ECwrote to Google in May 2012saying it had concerns about the way that Google displayed its own "vertical search" services; its "scraping" of content from third-party sites to display in search results; exclusivity agreements for search adverts on third-party sites; and lack of portability of ad campaigns.Google chairman Eric Schmidtsubsequently deniedthat the company was violating European antitrust laws. But Google made changes to its scraping of content in what was seen as the first move to mollify the EC, which could impose fines of up to 10% of the company's global turnover.
The divergent fortunes within the $200bn (£130bn) global smartphone market were laid bare this week when Taiwan's HTC reported a 98% slump in profits, confirming Samsung and Apple's seemingly unassailable lead over their rivals.In 2010, HTC was the world's biggest maker of smartphones that used Google's Android operating system. Now it has joined two other former titans, Nokia and BlackBerry, in a desperate search for profit and growth.As HTC reported a slump in first-quarter profits to £0.9m, Samsung Electronics, the world's largest maker of mobile phones and smartphones, was basking in a forecast that its quarterly operating profit would be around 8.7trn (£5bn).The market is splitting into three tiers that allow only for high-end products in developed markets, a bevy of barely profitable products in the middle, and a hugely competitive low-cost segment in developing markets such as China.In the last quarter of 2012, the last period for which figures are available, Apple and Samsung together shipped 111.5m smartphones, according to researcher IDC. That's more than 50% of a market that has tripled in volume over that time – and compares to a combined share of less than 20% back in the second quarter of 2010, when the once mighty Nokia had 37%.Credit: Guardian graphicsThe plight of HTC is even more stark when its market position is viewed through the prism of Google's Android software. Android is the leading operating system thanks to Samsung, beating Apple's iOS system and Microsoft's Windows Phone, which is used by Nokia. If consumers are flocking to Android phones, they are choosing Samsung and not HTC.Benedict Evans, technology and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis, calls the Android smartphone market "Samsung and the seven dwarves" – a reference to the 1960s when IBM dominated the mainframe market, and its seven rivals fought for scraps. The modern equivalents are China's Huawei, Lenovo and ZTE, Korea's LG, Japan's Sony, the now Google-owned Motorola, and HTC.But Steve Brazier, chief executive of the research company Canalys, thinks that the HTC One phone, launched in February, offers a way back. "The HTC One is hot," he said. "The problem is it's not really shipping yet, which is why their first-quarter figures were bad. The product was delayed." Nonetheless, it faces a significant challenge from the Samsung Galaxy S4 phones, which also hits retailers' shelves this month.Brazier adds that there is hope too for the other also-rans. For BlackBerry, he thinks it first needs to calm its US government clients, who have been eyeing the iPhone as an alternative. For Nokia, the solution is easier said than done: "It needs something radically different from what's out there."HTC, BlackBerry and Nokia are fighting against a rapid decline. Since 2010, they have been squashed down from an aggregate market share of 61% to barely 10%. Now, none has more than 4% of the market. Samsung is at the top with 29%, ahead of Apple with nearly 22%.HTC's problems sum up the difficulties that competitors face when they are trying to overcome two players that dominate half the market. The One was delayed because, reports say, it couldn't get enough cameras at the required specification to satisfy its needs.Brazier said: "The big issue in the smartphone business is that Samsung and Apple are cornering the supply chain, so HTC can't get 'tier-one' components."To be tier one you have to order in large enough volumes to demand quality and timeliness along with price discounts. Once you slip from that position, it's hard to recover it.A decade ago, Apple cornered the markets in small hard drives and then solid-state storage to build its iPod, and then iPod nano, and dominate the music player market. Now it uses its growing cash pile to hire factories and production well ahead of time – locking rivals out. "HTC has a real scale problem," says Evans, the Enders analyst. "It's a problem that Nokia is starting to face as well. It's a problem of the reach and power that Apple and Samsung can bring to the market."Samsung, meanwhile, is completely vertically integrated, owning the factories that make everything from the memory chips to the screens, and writing its own apps and code to go on the only element of its smartphones that it doesn't make – Google's Android operating system. And even that is free. Buoyed by colossal advertising and marketing spend which dwarfs even the likes of Coca-Cola, and with worldwide distribution, it is determined to control the mobile phone market. It aims to ship 500m smartphones this year, more than the whole market in 2011.Analysts argue that Apple needs to do something radical too to catch the growth in emerging markets as the west becomes saturated. A low-cost iPhone is widely expected. That could consolidate the Apple-Samsung duopoly more firmly.Even, so Brazier thinks things can turn around. "The smartphone business is very dynamic. I don't think it's played out. HTC could bounce back."Does he think that bounceback will happen by the end of the year? He paused. "Well, no," he said.
The largest exchange for the digital currency Bitcoin halted trading Thursday, saying it needed to let the market "cool down" after amassive drop in value.Mt.Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange, blamed a surge in new accounts following a spike in the digital currency's value for the temporary suspension. The exchange said in a statement that it had been a "victim of our own success".The value of a Bitcoin plummeted more than $160 yesterday after hitting a new high of $266. It continued to fall on other exchanges Thursday, trading below $100 in many. Two months ago the digital currency was valued at $20.Mt.Gox claims to facilitate 80% of all Bitcoin trades made in dollars and more than 70% of all other currencies. It blamed the "astonishing" number of new accounts opened in the last few days for overwhelming the exchange.It said in a statement:As expected in such situation people started to panic, started to sell Bitcoin in mass (Panic Sale) resulting in an increase of trade that ultimately froze the trade engine! To give you an idea of how impressive things were here are some numbers that we would love to share with you guys: – The number of trades executed tripled in the last 24hrs. – The number of new account opened went from 60k for March alone to 75k new account created for the first few days of April! We now have roughly 20,000 new accounts created each day.Bitcoin was created four years ago by a person or group using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. The virtual currency is a favorite of libertarians critical of central banks as well as those involved in illegal gambling and drug trades.The value of the currency has risen sharply as theEurozone crisis has escalated, something Bitcoin representatives have dismissed as coincidence. In an interview with Der Spiegel this week Jon Matonis of the Bitcoin Foundation, the currency's promoter, denied a euro-bubble was being created. "Most transactions are still coming from affluent regions, like the United States and northern Europe. What we are seeing is not a Cyprus bubble," he said.
The conference tracking toolLanyrdintroduced its first paid-for service on Thursday, offering businesses a group management tool for executives and developers on the tech conference circuit.Facebook, Github, Stamen and Y Combinator are among the launch companies, which will pay $99 per month or $1070 annually to manage and promote their speaker listings, branded profiles, and slides and videos from their presentations through Lanyrd Pro.Lanyrd is also developing tablet and mobile apps for delegates. The service connects to social networking profiles to suggest and track recommended conferences among friends and colleagues.Chief executive Simon Willison said: "There are no plans to charge individual users, though lots of them are already using Lanyrd as part of larger teams – Github and Facebook already have hundreds of users. This won't be the only commercial stream and we have more in the pipeline, but it is our first monthly, regular revenue stream and as a software-as-a-service company, that's very important."Willison said that by focusing on the buoyant tech industry, Lanyrd had been largely protected from a broader economic downturn which has resulted in some falls in conference attendance. He added that the business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in the conference calendar, with peaks in March, April and September.London-based Lanyrd was launched in August 2010 by Willison and Natalie Downe, and has received $1.4m funding from Index, PROFounders and a handful of angel investors including Esther Dyson, Blaine Cooke and Joi Ito.
I have a box of vintage round discs, each in its own jacket. They are labelled and are photos of family subjects. I would love to have the pictures put on a DVD, but I don't know what these discs are called, and I don't know what type of camera they came from. I am enclosing a picture of one.LynnThis happens to be connected to my past life as an editor of photographic magazines. The disc is from a disc camera, a format Kodak launched in 1982 to replace110 film cartridges. At the time, photo processing labs joined together thousands of films to run them through their machinery, then cut them up later. Kodak's idea was that discs could be loaded onto rods, cutting out the joining and splitting operations.Unfortunately, the negatives measured roughly 8 x 11mm – the same size used by famous Minox subminiature "spy cameras" – so standard enprints were very poor quality, and enlargements were grainy. At 85mm2, each disc negative was only one tenth of the area of a 35mm negative (864mm2), which was already considered small. The system was soon discontinued, and Kodak stopped supplying films at the end of 1999.You can still get prints made, and your local camera store or photo processing shop (you live in the state of Maine, USA) may be able to send them away to a specialist company for printing and scanning. Examples include theRapid Photo Imaging Centerin the US andMS Hobbiesin the UK.Discs don't fit standard negative scanners so scanning isn't simple, and the negatives may be dirty or fading, so they may need cleaning, and the scans may need colour correction.Film Rescue Internationalspecialises in this sort of thing, and its base prices are reasonable: it will transfer one to five discs to CD-R for $25 plus $10 for US post and packing. A CD-R with prints costs $30. If you have lots of discs, there are discounts for quantity.Another American company,Old Photo, scans Kodak discs for $39 each.Whether it's worth it depends on the sentimental value of the photographs. As I said, the quality is likely to be quite poor, because of the small size of the negatives, and because they may have degraded over the past 20 or even 30 years.In general, I'd expect rescue operations to get more difficult and more expensive with the passing of time. This applies to odd sizes and formats of floppy disk and audio tape as well as to photographic negatives. If you are ever going to do it, do it now.Importing a French TVI read your very informative article onFreeview or Freesat: which to choose?I am planning to buy a new TV as mine is on the blink. However, I live in France, so have to have Freesat, but I am planning to come back to the UK in the near future. Can TVs have both?VirginiaYes, TVs can have both Freesat and Freeview, but these services can be added to any TV set using cheap set-top boxes. This isn't quite as tidy, but it is more flexible. Also, it's easier to upgrade a set-top box than an integrated TV set.A French digital TV should work in the UK, though I'm not sure about things like red button services. Most flat-screen TVs are made in Asia and are designed to handle the needs of as many countries as possible. However, they are usually set up for sale in local markets. If you buy one that lets you select a country setting, under a heading such as 'Digital channel country location', then it should set up local channels in a usable format. Some suppliers may lock the country setting, and possibly require you to type in a PIN, so it's a good idea to run some web searches before you buy a particular model.I believe the Freesat setup in the UK asks you to type in a post code, though I don't know what happens in France. Also, I'm not sure if French TVs can handle the DVB-T2 system used for Freeview HDTV in the UK. Fortunately, there are Ask Jack readers who know more about this than I do, so check the comments below for clarification.If you're moving in a few months, it would probably be safer to buy a cheap (small or second-hand) TV in France and resell it before leaving. That will also save transporting it.If you buy a new TV in the UK, I'm not convinced it's worth getting one that includes Freesat as well as the usual built-in Freeview tuner. It will restrict your choice to relatively few HDTV models, as listed on theFreesat website.Start with Freeview and add a Freesat box plus satellite dish if you need one. This might be because your Freeview reception is poor or non-existent, your choice of Freeview channels is limited (eg if you are in a 'Freeview Light' area), or you need channels that are only available on Freesat or the commercial Freesat from Sky version.UK Free TVlists the various channels available. If you click the 'compare TV' tab, it will tell you which channels are not available on the rival service.Which all-in-one PC TV?Sony's SVL2412Z1EB model offers easy switching to TVI have read some of youradvice about all-in-onesand wondered if you could give me a little advice. I have been looking at the Samsung Series 7 DP700A7D compared with the Sony SVL2412Z1EB. Spec-wise they both appear very high. The Sony model offers a great computer with the capability of easy switching to TV. The Samsung simply says it has a TV tuner.John BuckinghamI have not tested these two Windows 8 all-in-ones, only looked at them in PC World (where they now seem to be out of stock). I think your best bet is to do the same, as one may attract you more than the other. While I'm undoubtedly a fan of Amazon and other online shopping sites, I prefer hands-on experience if I'm spending around £1,500. I also like to be able to stick something in the back of the car and take it back to the shop.Both of these Windows 8 PCs have Intel Core i7 processors, 8GB of memory, Blu-ray drives, and a full HD screen resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. The Sony has a slight edge in having a 2TB hard drive instead of 1TB. However, as you appreciate, the Sony is the only all-in-one PC that works like a TV set: it has a physical TV switch, and a TV remote control. (Sony says it uses Bravia technology, whatever that means.)The Sony also costs more. In fact, theSony Vaio Lwith a 24in screen (£1,649.99) costs more than theSamsung Series 7with a 27in screen (£1,499.99).The Samsung is a PC with a built-in TV tuner, which is the traditional approach. However, if you want to use the PC like a TV set, the Sony looks like the best choice.
This week's "banning" – and then swift unbanning – of a digital issue of a comic named SAGA should serve as a lesson to anyone eager to jump to conclusions about Apple's App Store approval policies.But it's also just the latest reason for an important public debate on the nature and policies of the new wave of media and entertainment gatekeepers on smartphones and tablets: Apple, Google, Amazon, Microsoft and BlackBerry.Here's what happened with SAGA, a well-respected comic created by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples that has just published its 12th issue. Vaughan himself ignited the controversy with a blog post:A Statement on Apple's Banning of SAGA #12 from Brian K. Vaughan."Unfortunately, because of two postage stamp-sized images of gay sex, Apple is banning tomorrow's SAGA #12 from being sold through any iOS apps," wrote Vaughan."This is a drag, especially because our book has featured what I would consider much more graphic imagery in the past, but there you go. Fiona and I could always edit the images in question, but everything we put into the book is there to advance our story, not (just) to shock or titillate, so we're not changing shit."Pretty unambiguous stuff, and the spark for numerous news reports and blog posts criticising this latest example of Apple censoring art (yes,including The Guardian).The problem was that this was less censorship by Apple, and more self-censorship by one of SAGA's distributors on the App Store. ComiXology – one of the most popular digital comics aggregator operating on iOS and other platforms –confirmed its role in a blog postfrom its chief executive David Steinberger."As a partner of Apple, we have an obligation to respect its policies for apps and the books offered in apps.  Based on our understanding of those policies, we believed that Saga #12 could not be made available in our app, and so we did not release it today," he wrote.Steinberger went on to stress that his company's decision was not related to "any particular sexual orientation", and explained that Apple had quickly contacted ComiXology to set things straight."It should be clear that Apple did not reject Saga #12. After hearing from Apple this morning, we can say that our interpretation of its policies was mistaken," wrote Steinberger. "You'll be glad to know that Saga #12 will be available on our App Store app soon."All's well that ends well, and if nothing else, it may help a few more readers discover an excellent comic. But there are more lessons to be learned from the controversy.For journalists, it's a reminder that there are two (or three, in this case) sides to every story, and even with a primary-source accusation that Apple has banned a piece of content, it's not always so simple.(I'm not writing this from a high-horse of smuggery: if I hadn't been knee-deep in other work at a conference yesterday, I'd probably have been writing an 'Apple bans comic' story too – the lesson is for me as much as anyone.)For ComiXology, it's a warning of the downside of second-guessing Apple's approval policies at a potentially-sensitive time for the company.Apple is both strongly encouraging authors and publishers to distribute their work through its iBooks store, and making menacing noises behind the scenes (again) about apps that duplicate its own core iOS features.For a company like ComiXology, this may not be the best moment to be alienating either authors or Apple – something Steinberger's prompt and honest apology may mitigate.'We view Apps different than books or songs...'This is also a warning for Apple though, for approval policies that still need to be second-guessed.Fromsatirical cartoonsandbare breasts in a digital graphic-novel of James Joyce's Ulyssesin 2010, through games drawing attention to sweatshops and other dodgy labour practicesin 2011andagain in 2013, taking in atopical news game about Syriaalong the way, these controversies keep happening."We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it," explainedApple's App Store approval guidelinespublished back in September 2010.The overwhelming majority of iOS apps aren't anywhere near that line. But there's an important debate to be had about how developers and content distributors who are (as well as authors, artists, activists…) can recognise it – and, indeed, on whether the line is drawn in the right place."We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate," explained the same guidelines back in 2010."If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical app. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store."Itiscomplicated, especially when apps can be containers for distributing books (like ComiXology), magazines, newspapers, music (Lady Gaga's upcoming ARTPOP may reignite the music industry's interest in albums-as-apps), TV shows and films.Senior Apple executives have been unsurprisingly keen to point to the perceived downsides of Google's hands-off Android approval policies – malware in particular.They will surely understand, then, why their own store's stricter policies also need to be scrutinised for the benefit of iOS users and app developers alike.Apple may not have been the culprit in the SAGA censorship row, but to live up to its promises of sitting at the intersection of liberal arts and technology, the more clarity there is around its gatekeeping of the former, the better.
Remember the eighties? It's okay, you don't have to, Ubisoft has remembered them for you. Originally dismissed as an April Fools Day prank,Far Cry 3: Blood Dragonis real, and it's hitting PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 as astand-alonedigital release on 1 May.The set-up has nothing to do with Jason Brody or pirates. Imagined as an eighties sci-fi movie, the story takes place in the distant future – 2007 – where a nuclear war has all but destroyed the planet. Now Sergeant Rex Colt: Mark IV Cyber Commando (voiced by Terminator and Aliens actor Michael Biehn), must take his cyber army and raid an island where a new bioweapon holds the potential for peace. So, yes, it's on an island, but this place looks nothing like the sun-drenched tropical paradise of Far Cry 3.Drawing stylistic references from all those straight-to-video cyberpunk wannabes (think Trancers rather than Terminator), it's a hellhole of apocalyptic ruins and, somehow, robo-dinosaurs, stomping the landscape and laser-beaming people to charred skeletons. Usefully, though, Rex is able to gain control of these monsters, guiding them toward enemy camps. There's a simplified upgrade system, with cybernetic power-ups like the ability to fall huge distances without a scuff or stay underwater indefinitely. But with a seeming structure of main missions, surrounded by environmental mini-tasks, it's essentially Far Cry 3 with a neon-soaked, synth-soundtracked eighties makeover.From Eurogamer:Rook Island's replacement in Blood Dragon is a little smaller - it's said to be around the same size as the South Island in Far Cry 3 - and it's dotted with garrisons, shield-protected forts that are the equivalent of the original game's outposts. Attacking them presents the same type of open-ended play, but there's a lurid twist, with the option to coax in trundling laser-spewing dragons to finish off the job once the shields are down.Andfrom CVG:There was a nice mixture of normal and special enemy types in our skirmishes. Standard cyborgs were thrown at us in waves, with the occasional heavy or flamer thrown in to keep us on our toes. Miniguns, bows and flamethrower will be available, but for our demo we stuck to the standard assault rifle, which suited us just fine since it was well-suited for headshots. Nail a cyborg in with a bullet to the face and you'll get a satisfying explosion of blue juice as a reward.There will also be plenty of side quests; rare animal hunting is back, and wanted quests have been tweaked so they're hostage rescue missions.Anyway, here's that trailer. It is for mature viewers only:The big question is whether this frenzied assault on eighties aesthetics can remain amusing over the game's six-to-eight hour playing time. Well, it sustained the eighties for ten years, so the answer is surely yes, right?
A creative director at Microsoft has resigned after igniting a flame war on Twitter and beyond over the strategic future of the company's forthcoming Xbox gaming console.After a week of controversy,GameInformer reportsthat Adam Orth has now voluntarily resigned from the company, which had been forced to apologise for his comments and indiscreet references to the secretive new Xbox project.The next Xbox will be unveiled on 21 May, rumours say, and will behave more like acable TV boxthan a classic games console, building on Microsoft's relationships with cable TV providers.Orth has been working as a creative director at Microsoft Studios on a game – which is yet to be revealed – since February 2012. But he triggered a colossal online debate after he was involved in a sarcastic exchange with a friend about the benefits of being connected that was seized on and, arguably, misinterpreted by games fans, spiralling into lengthy discussions on fan sites includingNeoGaf.Orth appeared to confirm a rumour that the next Xbox will require an always-on internet connection. But games fans who have hit problems with games requiring persistent connections – most recently including SimCity and Diablo 3 – were concerned about the requirement. Internet connectivity varies enormously over the US, and some parents have also expressed worries that an always-on connection would break broadband caps without their knowledge.Microsoft issued a tersely worded statement about the incident but did not reference the console."We apologise for the inappropriate comments made by an employee on Twitter yesterday," said the company."This person is not a spokesperson for Microsoft, and his personal views do not reflect the customer-centric approach we take to our products or how we would communicate directly with our loyal consumers. We are very sorry if this offended anyone, however we have not made any announcements about our product roadmap, and have no further comment on this matter."
The PC market appears to have hit a wall after shipments for the first three months of 2013 fell at least 11%, market researchers Gartner and IDC warn.Marking a fourth successive quarter of falling sales, it was the biggest contraction since IDC began to keep records in 1994, the company said.The slump will put extra pressure on Microsoft's chief Steve Ballmer, whose new Windows 8 software released in October was blamed: "The Windows&nbsp;8 launch not only failed to provide a positive boost to the PC market, but appears to have slowed the market," said Bob O'Donnell, IDC program vice-president, clients and displays.The PC market has hit a wall – and now is sliding down it. Shipments shrank for the fourth successive quarter between January and March, dropping by at least 11% according to the research companies Gartner and IDC, which released figures late on Wednesday.The fall is also the largest-ever contraction since IDC began to keep records in 1994, the company said. Gartner said it points to a dramatic shift in the computing market that will see the number of consumer PCs in use dwindle over time.The drop will put extra pressure on Microsoft's chief Steve Ballmer, whose new Windows 8 software released in October is blamed by IDC for the slump in sales: "The Windows 8 launch not only failed to provide a positive boost to the PC market, but appears to have slowed the market," said Bob O'Donnell, IDC program vice-president, clients and displays.Shipments were down 11% year on year to79.2m by Gartner's figures, andjust 76.3m according to IDC, a 13.9% drop. The companies use slightly different methods to count shipments. That compares with a peak of about 96m in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 – since when sales have begun to slump.IDC research director David Daoud said: "The magnitude of the contraction is both surprising and worrisome. The industry is going through a critical crossroads, and strategic choices will have to be made as to how to compete with the proliferation of alternative devices and remain relevant to the consumer."Thedeath of the netbookat the end of 2012 has cut out a substantial chunk of low-end PC sales, said IDC, leaving a price gap that tablets and smartphones have absorbed.HP and Dell, two of the world's five biggest PC vendors, will also come under pressure as neither has a clear strategy in the tablet or smartphone market, to which consumers are shifting their business. Dell's founder Michael Dell is seeking to take the business private in order to retool it to cope with this challenge.Microsoft has been struggling to adapt since Apple shook up the low-end market with the release of its iPad tablet in April 2010. Windows 8, with its touch-friendly "tiles", is intended to be well positioned for touchscreen devices – but consumers have apparently found the combination of that interface and the normal Windows 7-style "desktop" confusing.Nor are people willing to buy more expensive touchscreen laptops or tablets with detachable keyboards in large numbers. "The PC industry is struggling to identify innovations that differentiate PCs from other products and inspire consumers to buy, and instead is meeting significant resistance to changes perceived as cumbersome or costly," IDC said.The figures from the two companies do not appear to include Microsoft's Surface RT tablet, launched last year, though they will include its Intel-based Surface Pro, which runs a full version of Windows.According to IDC, the PC market previously shrank in five successive quarters between the second quarter of 2001 and 2002 – but the falls then were never above 10%, and in four quarters were less than 5%.In contrast, the latest dip has seen three quarters where the shrinkage is 8% or more year on year, and it seems to be accelerating.The cause of the slump is that consumers – who historically make up roughly half of all PC purchases – are shifting their spending away to other devices such as tablets and smartphones, said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner, who offered the warning that "even emerging markets, where PC penetration is low, are not expected to be a strong growth area for PC vendors".However, Apple, whose main buyers are consumers, appears to have grown faster than the Windows PC market, according to IDC, Gartner and US data from NPD. Although IDC reckoned that its US sales shrank by 7% due to competition from iPads, that would still be growth compared with the overall market there, which it said shrank by 12.7%. Gartner, by contrast, said Apple's sales grew by 7% in a US market that shrank 9.6%. NPD, which monitors retail sales, says Apple's sales grew by 14% year on year.Businesses, meanwhile, seem to be buying at the same rate as before, and even expanding purchases, said Kitagawa: "The professional PC market, which accounts for about half of overall PC shipments, has seen growth, driven by continuing PC refreshes. Despite the fact that some regions already passed the peak of PC refresh, overall professional PC demand continued to grow."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.SimCity releasing for Mac in June | VG247SimCity will be released for Mac in June, and players of the PC version will be able to play with one another across servers. Players who have previously purchased SimCity for PC, either as a physical or a digital copy will receive the Mac version as a free digital download on Origin. It arrives on the digital distribution service June 11.Surely nothing can go wrong?!Dishonored's Harvey Smith releases a novel based on his own turbulent life | EurogamerRobert Purchese:Harvey Smith - the decorated game designer who helped bring games such as System Shock, Deus Ex and, more recently, Dishonored to life - has written a novel based on his own life.It's called Big Jack is Dead, and boy does Smith have some meaty real-life source material to draw on."Jack Hickman is an antisocial software exec who designs team-building applications in the late 1990s. Controlled and calculating, his world begins to splinter when he learns - in the middle of a corporate meeting - that his father has committed suicide," reads the book's blurb on Amazon.Possibly not a beach book?The Doctor is Out: Zeschuk on BioWare, EA and consoles' uncertain future | GamesIndustry InternationalGreg Zeschuk, the co-founder of Bioware, left the company last year to start a beer blog. GamesIndustry.biz has spoken to him about his decision to leave. He is very complimentary about – shock horror – EA:The best analogy I use, in a positive way, is EA gives you enough rope to hang yourself. It was really interesting because we really made all the choices we wanted to make ourselves; these are all things we wanted to try. And that's something to remember - while we were independent we didn't have quite the resources we had as part of EA, and then we got to EA and it was like "wow we can do all this stuff." We had to be really thoughtful about what we wanted to focus on.I remember this really distinct moment where - it was probably five or six months - we were just starting to wrap our head around how we worked with the company. And it took months for this formal period of joining EA, and learning how everything works, and when the initiation was done, we were sitting around asking how do we do stuff. It dawned on us, you just do it. That was the biggest revelation, that rope that EA gives you; they don't second-guess you, they don't say you shouldn't do that. We had complete creative control over a lot of it; some fans didn't like some of it and some of it was experimental, quite frankly.Ubisoft disables uPlay after exploit allows free game downloads | MCVErik Johnson:Ubisoft has disabled its digital rights management and distribution platform Uplay's PC game download service, following yesterday's breach allowing users to download Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon for free.An exploit discovered by hackers allowed users to download an executable that tricked the platform into providing a download for the upcoming Far Cry spin-off, along with other games from Ubisoft and other publishers on the Uplay service.Yet more misery for providers of digital distribution portals.Pick up Angry Birds Star Wars free with your latte, thanks to Starbucks | Pocket GamerSince 2008, Starbucks has provided its customers with free songs and apps via its Pick of the Week program. Now that program is about to expand into the realm of digital game distribution.Using the free Starbucks app, interested parties can pick up the Pocket Gamer Gold Award-winning Angry Birds Star Wars for the ever-popular price of free.This is an interesting development, although it's US-only right now.Skylanders Giants toys in Happy Meals this month | JoystiqStarting this Friday, when you feed your little giants at McDonalds (or find a friend's kid to help you have an excuse to buy a Happy Meal), they'll get some Skylanders Giants toys.Each of the nine Giants toys includes a "play feature" – think "shoots a missile" rather than "connects to the game" – and comes with a $10 coupon for Skylanders Giants, helping Activision clear out the warehouse before the new game hits.Again, US-only right now, but we're clearly seeing how games companies are now getting their 'franchises' into the same sorts of marketing spaces as music and movie companies.Next Xbox rumors point to HDMI passthrough and cable TV integration | EngadgetWhile the world waits to find out the facts about Microsoft's next videogame console, new rumors have popped up suggesting what its plans to go all-in on the Xbox-as-media center concept entail. According to The Verge, multiple unnamed sources suggest the plan is to include an HDMI passthrough and guide overlay, similar to the method used by Google TV. There's no word on any possible IR blaster (or IR GamePad, Wii U-style) integration, but thanks to Microsoft's partnerships with cable TV providers, it's trying to provide integration that goes a "step further" than what we've seen so far. That includes Kinect control, with next generation hardware that can recognize when viewers have turned their heads away and pause video automatically, with additional features rolling out after launch. There's no confirmation of controversial always-on requirements for gaming, but it will apparently need to be logged on for streaming (of course) and controlling incoming TV signals.A collection of rumors posted on Kotaku includes references to an "XTV", and a LinkedIn post that connects tagging of video to the project, similar to Shazam or IntoNow's features. Also dug up on various job profiles are mentions of a "cloud-driven, voice-optimized experience" and the next generation of SmartGlass.Capcom is holding live Monster Hunter classes on April 20 | DestructoidFrom 11 AM to 5 PM PST on Saturday, April 20, at the Capcom USA office in San Mateo, California, you'll be able to attend the first-ever Monster Hunter Community College. With a curriculum based entirely around the newly released Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate, MHCC will offer beginner and intermediary classes and even provide early access to DLC Event Quests. You are invited to bring your 3DS and, hell, even your Wii U along for local co-op, and you can even attempt some "Extra Credit" challenges broadcast live on Capcom's TwitchTV channel for a chance at secret unannounced prizes.Really hoping that Capcom puts on something similar in the UK. It has done in the past,taking over a London art galleryto provide a meeting place for Monster Hunter fans in 2009.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's Thursday.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNearly 60K low-quality apps booted from Google Play store In February, points to increased spam-fighting &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSarah Perez:To be clear, not all of these apps were deleted by Google. Some, such as a handful of Sprint bundles and apps, as well as the product from startup cautionary tale Color and several others, were likely pulled by the publishers themselves. But with a number as high as 60,000, it's clear that many of these were pulled by Google directly.We're shocked, shocked that an open store where anyone can add content might harbour tens of thousands of spammy apps. (Thanks @pedgington for the link.)Concluding the Saga #12 saga &gt;&gt; ComiXology BlogIn the last 24 hours there has been a lot of chatter about Apple banning Saga #12 from our Comics App on the Apple App Store due to depictions of gay sex. This is simply not true, and we'd like to clarify.Why Marissa Mayer Bought A $30M Startup &gt;&gt; Business InsiderNicholas Carlson:So why, exactly, did Yahoo buy Summly? We finally have an answer!Acquiring Summly seems to have been an almost incidental side effect of a deal Yahoo made with SRI for a piece of "summarization technology."A source tells us that Yahoo has "agreements in place" with SRI for "knowledge transfer," and the acquisition of IP, code, and technology. Until Yahoo bought it, SRI International held equity in Summly.SRI once held equity in another startup that was acquired by a big Silicon Valley company. That was Siri, which was funded by SRI International's venture arm, and was later acquired by Apple.And indeed, inside Yahoo, Summly is called "Yahoo's Siri."Hmm. (Thanks @corin for the link.)Chart of the day &gt;&gt; RedditBitcoin buys and sells and prices on Wednesday 10 April 2013.The first Bitcoin Crash &gt;&gt; broadstuffThe price of a Bitcoin climbed slowly but steadily until May, when Gawker and the tech blog Launch published two big stories about the phenomenon. Prices started zigzagging up, hitting a high of $33.11 last week after three weeks of increasingly frenzied trading, and then fell a spectacular 30 percent Friday morning, what the blogs dubbed "Digital Black Friday." As of now—3 p.m. Tuesday—a Bitcoin can be had for around $18.That was May 2011. Sorry, wasn't that clear?PC shipments post the steepest decline ever in a single quarter &gt;&gt; IDCWorldwide PC shipments totaled 76.3m units in the first quarter of 2013, down 13.9% compared to the same quarter in 2012 and worse than the forecast decline of 7.7%, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker.The extent of the year-on-year contraction marked the worst quarter since IDC began tracking the PC market quarterly in 1994. The results also marked the fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year shipment declines.…Fading mini-notebook shipments have taken a big chunk out of the low-end market while tablets and smartphones continue to divert consumer spending. PC industry efforts to offer touch capabilities and ultraslim systems have been hampered by traditional barriers of price and component supply, as well as a weak reception for Windows 8.Sayonara, netbooks. Sayonara indeed.Why I'm giving up on Android: the tyranny of 'moar' &gt;&gt; PCMag.comSascha Segan:I'm an extreme phone geek. I like to change devices every six months or so, in part because I'm constantly recommending devices to others. For a while now, I've been using the Windows Phone 8X by HTC. I like Windows Phone a lot and the 8X's hardware is gorgeous, but I miss Android, both for the flexible widgets and for the amazing array of third-party apps.But the Android world has been seized by the tyranny of moar. To switch back, I need a decent one-handed phone. Like about 25 million other Americans and Canadians, I take public transportation to work, and I really like to play games standing up.Using a phone one-handed poses physical limits based on the size of your thumb. Back in 2011, I measured the thumbs of 12 PCMag.com staffers and got them to try the Samsung Galaxy Nexus's 4.65in screen (slideshow below). I found that it takes about a 7cm thumb to properly operate today's larger phones, which is longer than most women and some men have.Segan distinguishes "moar" from "more": "Moar short circuits rational thought; it's the feeling you get when you eat some bacon, and then want 16 strips of bacon because bacon is delicious even though, if you thought about it, you know it'll make you ill."(Most people we see on public transport use two hands for their big-screen phones. One to hold, one to operate.)WTF: The Who to Follow Service at Twitter &gt;&gt; DatascholarsWTF ("Who to Follow") is Twitter's user recommendation service, which is responsible for creating millions of connections daily between users based on shared interests, common connections, and other related factors. This paper provides an architectural overview and shares lessons we learned in building and running the service over the past few years.Coining a new meaning for WTF.Why Google's acquisition of WhatsApp would be perilous to everyone's privacy &gt;&gt; The Privacy SurgeonSimon Davies (formerly of Privacy International):By thrusting its hand into every data stream running to or from user devices [using WhatsApp], Google will be in an unprecedented position to gather more data about more individuals than any other entity on the planet.  The transactional and associative data alone would be vast.This prospect – combined with Google's existing track record on privacy and compliance – is a cause for grave concern.  If Google indeed is planning to acquire WhatsApp, then regulators must examine the effect of that acquisition – not only on competition – but also on consumer privacy.  If they do, it will be quite clear that – at a minimum – Google should be prohibited from combining user data from WhatsApp with data collected through other products and services.Regulators were not able to stop Google from combining user data in the past.  They can and must start here.Sand won't save you this time &gt;&gt; In the PipelineCarrying on from dioxygen difluoride (aka FOOF):In a comment to my post on putting out fires last week, one commenter mentioned the utility of the good old sand bucket, and wondered if there was anything that would go on to set the sand on fire. Thanks to a note from reader Robert L., I can report that there is indeed such a reagent:chlorine trifluoride.I have not encountered this fine substance myself, but reading up on its properties immediately gives it a spot on my "no way, no how" list. Let's put it this way: during World War II, the Germans were very interested in using it in self-igniting flamethrowers, but found it too nasty to work with.…It's been used in the semiconductor industry to clean oxides off of surfaces, at which activity it no doubt excels.Maybe mention this stuff next time someone tells you how hard their job is. (Thanks @allanedwards on Twitter for the link.)Making rain &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:I propose a way to think about [Google's business model and decisions] as: Google tries to make a business succeed through having a huge amount of _flow_ in terms of data, traffic, queries and information that is indexed. So think about this idea of them tapping into a vast stream. The more volume that is flowing through the system the more revenue they generate.As so given this very rough analogy I try to sharpen it up by saying: imagine it more as a river. And even more than a river, as a watershed, a river basin. Perhaps a giant basin the size of a continent. The business is, let's say, capturing fish at the mouth of the biggest river, before it exits into the ocean at its delta.This is a fabulous extended metaphor which finally gets us away from the "good/evil" dichotomy that so many people apply to their thinking about Google and its business. If you only read one thing today...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The rollercoaster ride of Bitcoin's valuation has, after a couple of months of being pulled up the roller, hit the "coaster" part. Now is the time where the people on board have to decide if they're going to scream and jump out - which a fair chunk of money seems to be doing just now - or grit their teeth and hold on to the sides. And while they try to decide, things are going to move faster and faster.The crash - for that's very much what it looks like, with a week's gains lost in a matter of hours, and no sign of a bottom - has also exposed the fact that Bitcoin lacks many of the essential moving parts of a real modern currency that most of us don't see, but which are essential for it to be useful for exchanging things.On Tuesday morning, mindful that what was happening with Bitcoin was a classic bubble (where people hang on to a commodity because they expect the price to go up, and buyers buy because they expect the price to go up, and scarcity of supply keeps pushing the price up, until eventually someone triggers a tsunami of profit-taking), I askedAditya Chakrabortty, the Guardian's wonderful economics leader writer, whether we could predict when the bubble would burst.Here's what he said: "If economists could ever predict bubbles and busts, they'd be rather wealthier (and more useful) than they are. The most they do is point out when it looks bubbly (which it does, for the reasons you've pointed out and more) - and some are too cowardly even to do that. When does a crash happen? I go with the 'greater fool' theory laid out by the economic historian Charles Kindleberger (who wrote Manias, Panics and Crashes): an asset bubble can keep expanding for as long as you can find a bigger fool to sell an asset to."I think we know how long that was: until Wednesday afternoon UK time, when the price hit $266 and abruptly started falling - and falling. Money began flying out: sell trades of over 100 Bitcoins (that's over $10,000) against a few paltry buys putting new money into the market. And as the new owners who had bought those 100 Bitcoins looked at their value, it dropped - the classic market move that panics the unwary buyer, who then looks to unload their red-hot investment before it burns a hole in their electronic wallet too.Which is the first Bitcoin lesson: amateurs are terrible investors. They aren't in it for the long term, they don't know what they're getting in to, and they're easily moved by the herd mentality.The second lesson is more subtle. Bitcoin has been preened by geeks keen to call it "the world's first cryptocurrency". Certainly, it's cryptographic - you can't counterfeit a Bitcoin, which is a fabulous fundamental property for a currency. But it's not a currency, although it is a medium of exchange.This is a point that is lost on many geeks. Cowrie shells were a 13th-century medium of exchange: they were a fairly effective currency at a time when there was no risk that people might hoard them in order to speculate on their value rising. If one cowrie shell bought a fish, there wasn't any risk that some fisherman would try to corner the market and push the price of fish up in order to become rich. You didn't need a Central Bank of Cowrie.And indeed everything would be great with Bitcoin if it were just used as a medium of exchange for virtual goods - which is exactly how it was used for a long time. Hackers would pass them between each other for goods and services online. It was great: a sort of cryptographic cowrie shell for virtual fish. Sometimes a few would "leak" out into the real world, where people would put a finger in the air and guess at a fair value.But that's where the trouble lay. Using Bitcoin to buy real stuff - such asdrugs- exposes its woeful lack of rigour.First, there's nothing to keep Bitcoin liquid. It's not like pounds or dollars; it's more like gold, which all the nations abandoned as an exchange standard decades ago for the very good reason that it leads you into recessionary patterns - such as when people hoard it in the hope that the price will go up, and people buy it because they hear the price is going up, and then … yes. Like that.If you need to understand why hoardable commodities are bad, read the economistPaul Krugman's 1998 column on the Washington babysitting co-op. (It's worth it, really.) Even worse for Bitcoin, there's no Bank of Bitcoin which can release extra liquidity when people start hoarding (as they have been). At least when we had a gold standard, there was gold in vaults which could be moved around to create a sort of liquidity.But Bitcoin is just a bunch of people trading cryptographic cowrie shells - but now with internet-speed ability to see instantaneous prices, and with a burgeoning desire to spend it on "real" things. That's where Bitcoin encounters the feral world of "fiat" currencies - pounds, dollars, yen - which have gigantic reserves, enormous liquidity, and most of all can't be easily cornered (and have sharp teeth if you try). Trying to squeeze Bitcoins out through the narrow conduits of the virtual exchanges into the real world exposes them as barely-born things, which aren't really suited to the fierce demands of the real world.In short, there's no way that Bitcoins will become a global currency. There's no way they'll become a currency, unless they actually get a bank - which isn't likely, or even feasible. They're great for trading on the digital seashore. And one day, a cryptocurrency - impossible to counterfeit, entirely digital, instantly transmissible - could become really important in our real world.But it won't be Bitcoin. Sorry, folks. Especially if you lost out in that crash on Wednesday.
Bitcoin, the digital currency, lost more than $160 (£104) in value on Wednesday, just hours after hitting a record high.The currency hit a new high of $266 before falling to $105 and then bouncing back to $130. The fall is unlikely to put off speculators. Two months ago, a Bitcoin was worth $20.With Europe racked by economic uncertainty following the banking crisis in Cyprus, there have been fears that a "bubble" is being created with speculators piling into the four-year-old digital currency. But Bitcoin has crashed before only to bounce back. It hit a low of $7 in August 2011 after hitting a high of $32 two months earlier.Jon Matonis of the Bitcoin Foundation, the currency's promoter, denied a euro-bubble was being created in an interview with Der Spiegel this week."Most transactions are still coming from affluent regions, like the United States and northern Europe. What we are seeing is not a Cyprus bubble," he said.Until recently Bitcoin had been alargely obscure currency used by the tech-savvy, libertarians wishing to thumb their noses at central bankers and people involved in more nefarious activities such as online gambling (often illegal in the US)or drug deals.There are around 11m Bitcoins in circulation, 25 new bitcoins are produced every 10 minutes, and they are traded throughonline exchanges like Mt.Gox.Dealing in the currency is volatile as has been the history of the services that allow people to trade in Bitcoins. Mt.Gox has been subject to repeated hacking attacks. Instawallet, a popular service for storing Bitcoins, had to be suspended after it was hacked.Many financial experts have warned against Bitcoin. Veteran UBS stockbroker Art Cashin hascompared the interest in Bitcoin to the tulipmania that led many to financial ruin in the 17th century. But interest in the currency has shot up as the euro has become ever more embattled. The value of a Bitcoin passed the $200 mark for the first time on Tuesday.Wednesday's wild ride came as someone gave away thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoins on Reddit, the social news site. News blog Business Insider calculated  a Reddit user under the name"Bitcoinbillionaire" had given away $13,627.69896worth of Bitcoins to Reddit users over the day. The mystery donor signed off with a quote from Ron Paul, libertarian politician and one-time would-be presidential candidate: "It's no coincidence that the century of total war coincided with the century of central banking."
Look at your lunch. Is it a bit disappointing? Look around your office. I&nbsp;bet there are no slides or yoga studios. Your journey into work, you paid for it, right? How vulgar. You are clearly not a Googler.The perks of working at a Silicon Valley company have been the stuff of jealous legend for years.Airbnboffers a$2,000 (£1,300) holiday budgetto all employees. In-office massages, free beer and complimentary haircutsare commonplace. Facebook will do your laundry for you. Google's bounteous canteens overflow with gratis grub: sushi, mussels and oysters feature regularly.But, green-eyed Boots Meal Dealers, rejoice, for all this might be about to change. Spoilsports at the US internal revenue service have raised an objection. These perks, they believe, could constitute"fringe benefits"in the&nbsp;mould of old-school 1.0 perks such as a company car, on which employees should pay tax. In short, if your company's perks buffet works out at about $10,000 per annum in free food, free rides and table-tennis tutoring, then you need to pay tax on that $10,000.It might not be a terrible thing.&nbsp;Those unbearably talented techies have become quite spoilt. I heard of a US-based engineer who kept getting into trouble at theSXSW festivalfor taking food from shops and walking out without paying – he had forgotten how the food-buying process worked. One UK-based Googler recently told me of chateaubriand being served at lunch, and a co-worker's annoyance at being made to queue for the chocolate fondue at the company'snew central London offices. I asked if there would be uproar if the free food was withdrawn altogether. "Yes," came the instant reply.A fiscal deep-clean of Silicon Valley's canteens would be bounteous.Dropbox offers its workers Whisky Friday happy hours.LinkedIn has a perma-stocked ice-cream freezer. Facebook's inhouse culinary teamserved sake-braised short ribs, teriyaki seitan and tempura yamsthis week, according to itsFacebook page.But predictions of impending Silicon Valley hunger strikes and employees chaining themselves to pinball machines are probably a little wide of the mark. In similar perk-busting cases, employers havesettled with the tax officeand compensated their workers for any unpaid back taxes they were forced to cough up. Poor old Google might have to dip into its$10bnprofits.
