Cost, games, functionality - it's all too easy to criticise the PS3. But while the big titles are still lacking things are apparently getting better for the embattled console. Sony Europe boss David Reevesrecently announcedthe one millionth PS3 sell-through in PAL territories - faster than both PSOne, and more relevantly, PS2. Not bad for nine and half weeks.Predictably the biggest game successes have been Resistance Fall of Man and Motorstorm, while 460,000 PS3 owners have signed up to the PlayStation Network online service. Elsewhere Reeves confirmed that the 20Gb and 80 Gb consoles were unlikely to launch in Europe any time soon. Quietly impressive figures then, which confirm the endearing popularity of the PlayStation brand in Europe. And surprising too, especially when there is no real reason to buy a PS3 at the moment.There's no doubt that some timely PS3 updates have improved the online experience - although it still doesn't compare to Xbox Live - and beefed up the the media elements. The latter, especially the PSP connectivity, is really beginning to fulfil potential. And you can't underestimate how important reliability and build quality are - two areas where PS3 trounces the 360. But unless you are really desperate to watch Blu-ray movies then it pays to wait. This time next year the PS3 should actually have some games worth shouting about - hopefully a PS3 "Gears of War" that really highlights the graphical potential of the console - plus the more intriguing draws like Home and LittleBigPlanet will have launched.Whether that will be enough to tempt you away from the 360 version of multiformat games - with decent online play, achievements etc - remains to be seen, but the PS3 will be only get more attractive over the next 18 months. Currently 360 has the games and Wii has the momentum, but does PS3 have the future?
Dick Costello, whojust soldhis RSS advertising companyFeedburnerto Google for arumoured $100m, talks briefly to John Battelle over atSearchblog.He's asked the basic questions of "why this deal", "why now", and "what does it mean for Feedburner". The answers, unfortunately, are high in corporate jargon.Take this, for example:What does this mean for Feedburner's ad sales? Will it be taken over by Adsense, or will you continue to sell it independently?We're definitely looking forward to leveraging Google's existing sales efforts. Selling it independently wouldn't provide the scale we'd like to offer to publishers as quickly as we'd like to provide it.That translates as "Yes, it will be taken over by Adsense". Of course, this is the major reason for the acquisition - using Google's existing power to take over RSS advertising - so it's no surprise.Still, Costello might be a nice chap, but this is a good example of why I don't believe (unlike our columnistJeff Jarvis) that email interviews are the way forward - aside from their limited journalistic potential they're justless human.
Sulking on the road outside my house, listing slightly as if carrying an old shoulder injury, is a large grey Volvo estate. It has no hub caps - they were stolen months ago - and the rear windscreen wiper, like a drooping tulip, hangs downwards so that the only thing it cleans is the number plate. Where once there was gleaming paintwork, there is now just a crisscross of scratches and white keylines, as if the car was a self-harmer in some traumatic earlier life.My car is 10 years short of being a classic and 14 years long of being showroom fresh. It cost me &pound;1,550 (in &pound;50 notes) three years ago and it has just clocked up its 150,000th mile - that's more than halfway to the moon. But its glory days are behind it and I don't know whether to replace it or keep it limping on...Why don't you just buy a new car, ask my incredulous neighbours, as they watch it oozing brake fluid on to the street. I make the usual excuses: it's so practical, you can leave it anywhere, the dog would just wreck a new car... The neighbours nod, knowing full well that the truth is, I can't afford a new one.But now I have a new excuse. 'I'm keeping it because it's environmentally friendly...' Surely not, they gasp. How can an emissions-belching, gas-guzzling old trooper possibly compete with, say, a Prius or a Honda Civic?Consider the three Rs, I say, the creed of the ethical movement: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. Keeping an old car going fits the ethos perfectly. The average lifespan of a motor on Britain's roads is only 13 years, and many are abandoned at the 100,000 milestone. But why? Every Mercedes-Benz, for instance, comes with a 30-year corrosion warranty, and tales of cars going 'round the clock' are common - a taxi in Greece recently passed the 2m kilometre mark.On the other hand, buying a modern car means you'll have a more efficient, cleaner product. Stringent exhaust limits known as Euro 4 have seen emissions fall to the extent that a car built today produces 20 times fewer local pollutants than one made 30 years ago.So at what point does it become more eco-efficient to buy a new car than to keep your dodgy old one running? 'It's complicated, and depends on which pollutants you want to reduce,' says Dr Ben Lane, a leading environmental consultant (www.ecolane.co.uk). 'If you look at the carbon emissions produced during an average car's lifecycle, only 10 per cent are created in the vehicle manufacturing process, 10 per cent are created producing the fuel and getting it to garages, and the remaining 80 per cent are emitted during the vehicle's use.'A tremor enters my voice: 'So has my car become an eco-liability?''It also depends on your mileage,' Dr Lane adds. 'If you have an old small car that does 40mpg or better and you cover less than 4,000 miles a year, and you live in the country, then I'd keep it. But if you are a high-mileage driver and live in a city centre, then trade up to a newer model with good fuel economy.'Gulp... that's me. But is there nothing I can do to 'green my ride'? The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders says that if your car is properly maintained, with correctly inflated wheels, and no unnecessary weight in the boot, and if you change gear at the right time and avoid excessive acceleration, you can save as much as 10 per cent of your carbon output. But ultimately, in a dirty car that isn't really enough.A conversion to LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) could save up to 15 per cent of my CO2 emissions, and running costs are about half the price of diesel. But the cheapest conversion quote I could get was &pound;1,750 - more than the car is worth. So is there no hope? I ask Dr Lane what I should do. The answer is unequivocal. 'When you can, cycle, walk, take public transport and, if you have to, buy a smaller car with the best fuel economy you can get.'And so, farewell old friend.The cleanest cars on the marketFord Focus Flexifuelruns on any combination of petrol and bioethanol, &pound;14,345NICE Mega City EVa plug-in city car with a range of 50 miles, &#163;9,995Toyota Prius II hybridthe first choice for Hollywood's greenest celebs, &#163;17,777Honda Civic hybridrecharges its own battery during braking, &#163;16,300Reva G-Wiz EVrechargeable, battery-powered. 'Fuel' costs 2p a mile, &#163;6,999Saab 9-3 BioPowerSaab is the biggest seller of flexfuel bioethanol cars in Europe, &#163;21,320SMART ForTwo EVNew electric version, with a range of 72 miles per charge, coming soonIf you want to know how clean (or dirty) your car is, and it was built after 2000, you can 'score your car' atwww.whatgreencar.com.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Forza Motorsport 2Xbox 360 |If you like games to be a quick dabble, Forza Motorsport 2 may not be for you. If, by contrast, you enjoy losing yourself, sometimes for months, and revel in fastidiously detailed artificial recreations of cars, Forza 2 will appear tailor made. Retaining the handling model and exhaustive level of detail of its predecessor and adding more cars, this no-nonsense driving simulator favours caution, finding the right line and correct braking distances over the messy rough and tumble of Burnout or the concentration-demanding Colin McRae: DiRT. Its honed structure continually feeds you new races and its authenticity goes as far as optional live in-car telemetry data, designed to appeal to the sort of person you wouldn't want to be stuck next to at a dinner party. Incredible variety, fully formed online modes and a nifty auction mechanic for your pimped up rides.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;45Pirates Of The Caribbean: At World's EndPS3Rushed out on PS3 in time for the film's release and soon to be available on every conceivable console and handheld device, Pirates Of The Caribbean: At World's End is that most moribund of properties, the movie cash-in. Initially giving you control of the swaggering Captain Jack, gameplay consists of a series of braindead collection tasks interspersed with sword fights of such repetitive and numbing dullness it feels more like community service than recreation. There's a bit of token lever pulling and block pushing and you occasionally switch to one of the other characters, but with virtually no challenge and every action patronisingly signposted, the desire to play devolves rapidly. Lifeless, dreary and devoid of invention, this humourless dirge lacks even the film's decency to supply the odd giggle. At World's End should be avoided like a dose of ebola.&#183;Disney Interactive, &pound;50
The reason many Xbox owners shopped with Microsoft in the first place is Halo, the first person shooter that is still the system's killer application. Halo 3 is therefore accorded appropriate reverence for its third coming and is already losing its acolytes sleep following public release of the multiplayer beta, which makes players around the world part of the game's final rounds of testing. Actually playing it (which involves buying a specially marked copy of the also rather special Crackdown) isn't exactly revelatory, but the game is, as you'd expect, a prettier, slightly differently weighted take on Halo. Most noticeable among some new guns and equipment are the shield bubble, which provides a fleeting transparent protective dome; spikers, a sort of sci-fi nailgun; and the Spartan laser, which can incinerate in a single shot. You'll have to wait until September to play the finished game.
Seat calls it "crono yellow", but you and I probably know it better as "banana". Whatever word we use, though, we can all agree, surely, that this is the mother and father of all paint jobs, presenting the driver with its own unique set of social challenges. For, strapped into a highly polished, box-fresh, banana car, the possibility of slipping unobtrusively through the traffic recedes immediately to the distant horizon, to be replaced by the prospect of being permanently on parade, as if mounted on the roof of a procession-leading, rosette-winning carnival float. I spent a week in the "crono yellow" Seat Leon Cupra and the car couldn't have drawn more attention to itself if I had driven it with both feet out the driver's window and my backside on the horn.Still, this may mean only that the car feels it has nothing to hide - and you could reasonably feel the same. Not only have you opted for a Seat, thus demonstrating both a fine level of discernment and a financially shrewd interest in undersung Spanish cars constructed from old-generation VW parts, but you have also gone for the extra-spicy Cupra version of the Leon hatchback, which is essentially a racing car stripped of its decals and undergoing slow but uncertain rehabilitation within the community. Which choice makes you a bit of a devil on the quiet, if not actually a former serially offending teenage car-booster revisiting the glory days of your youth.Some hot hatches aren't really hot at all. They are barely warmed-through versions of their modest relatives, still cold in the middle but with a set of unusual alloys bolted on to suggest a new-found interest in risk-taking. Not so the Cupra, which is officially Seat's most powerful production model and is fitted with a re-imagined engine, recklessly lowered suspension and a specially orchestrated exhaust system, constructed to produce an ominous burble while the car idles, and a full-blown, cow-startling whine when the engine is pressed hard - ie, under acceleration or when revving unpleasantly at traffic lights in order to issue the traditional challenge to the driver of the underpowered Polo in the adjacent lane.The idea, as ever, is to drop the skirts to the point where you can barely get a phone directory or, as may be, a squirrel that has adopted the brace position, between the bottom of the car and the road, thus creating the illusion that your Cupra is drawn down on to the tarmac by suction, mixed, just possibly, with a measure of helpless adoration.The car is, of course, firm and hilariously fast, but everyday use is not beyond the bounds of possibility. It just depends how you feel about having to strap yourself into a bucket seat for a trip to, say, the doctor. But it doesn't have to be yellow, of course. Other, less self-trumpeting colours are available, including a searing shade of strawberry which is shy by comparison.Opinion may divide over the black, cutaway front air intakes, which either lend the car a hard, edgy, "lower lip" or simply look as though something got knocked off in an encounter with a traffic calming device. I grew to admire this area of the car warmly for not being banana. Less banana is always more.
The SANS Institute is warning of aFake Microsoft Security Bulletinthat leads to the installation of a malicious browser add-on.Microsoft issues patches on a regular monthly schedule and information is always available from the Microsoft Security site athttp://www.microsoft.com/security/. This provides links to the latest security bulletins and to Windows Update.There's also a page onHow to tell whether a security e-mail message is really from Microsoft.The general rule is never to download a security update (whether from Microsoft or anybody else) directly by clicking on a link in email. Only download these updates from the company's Web site, which usually means Windows Update. For preference, have updates downloaded in the background by going to the Windows Security Center and setting Automatic Updates to ON.
Fake Steve Jobsis beating the Real Steve at aBusiness 2.0 poll on People Who Matter. Which is fair enough. However, don't be surprised if the final winner in the Top 100 is.... Kevin Rose.At the moment, the Digg-founder is ahead of RSJ and only a couple of points behind FSJ. He's well ahead of near-nonentities such as Sergey Brin and Larry Page, Rupert Murdoch and Michael Dell. To put this in perspective, Rose has received 18.05% of the votes cast, whereas MIT's Nicholas Negroponte has received 0.19% and Intel boss Paul Otellini only 0.13%. An influx of sheep-like diggers could easily swing the result.Curiously, neither Uncle Fester nor My Little Pony is on the list....Update 1: There aren't enough Fake Steve fans around, apparently. He's now plunged to 27th place, behind even Richard Branson. Also, the suprise No 1 is Mel Karmazin, boss of Sirius Satellite Radio (well, it's a surprise to me). Kevin Rose is still second. Rose and Karmazin have 65% of the votes cast, against 1.7% for Steve Jobs. We're still seeing a mob effect, but the Digg mob currently isn't winning.It's also interesting to see the people who look as though they are being deliberately voted down: Jason Calacanis (82nd), Michael Arrington (94th) and Nick Denton (100th). They have more influence than these numbers imply, so I'd assume their influence is resented by some.Update 2: Kevin Rose now has an amazing 58% of the vote, compared with Steve Jobs's puny 1.17%, but Rose is still second to Mel Karmazin. Diggers aren't quite bright enough to figure out that they need to vote for both, rating Rose at 100 and Karmazin at 1...
For the past week's blog posts on one page, clickhereHighlights include:TiVo warns that GPL3 could hurt its businessScientists, hold off on that upgrade to Office 2007...HTC Touch launched in the UK (updated twice)New double-blind study shows no evidence for mobile phones causing headaches etcIs Apple going to use ZFS for OSX?The BBC and Microsoft want your photos to synthesise Britain
Extended warranties are supposed to buy peace of mind and mostly they do - for the retailer. The profits they rake in compensate amply for dwindling returns on electronic goods. So lucrative are these paper promises that sales staff are adept at alarming customers with the woes that might bedevil them should they fail to insure their purchases.The salesman who served Helena Almeida said that PC World charges all customers &pound;7.99 a month to guarantee their new laptops for more than 28 days and unless she paid up she would have to deal with the manufacturer should any faults arise after the first month. In four years, Almeida calculates, she would have reimbursed PC World for the entire cost of her laptop.Such a policy is, of course, in flagrant breach of the Sale of Goods Act, which obliges the retailer to sort out any problems if faults arise within a reasonable period (which can be up to six years). However, PC World claims that it is a misunderstanding. "There are certain repair tasks that we subcontract to specialists," says a spokesman for its parent company, the Dixons Group. "To do so, we set up specialist helplines with the manufacturer. Occasionally a customer will interpret this as us absolving ourselves of any responsibility, which really isn't the case. The lines are set up to make life easier for the customer."There is little doubt who benefits most from this initiative - PC World, which can get on with the important business of selling rather than problem-solving. If the manufacturer misbehaves, PC World will step in, it promises, and a customer may choose to deal with the store direct, but this was not mentioned to Almeida and I suspect that the confusion works in PC World's favour. Customers should beware: extended warranties are rarely worth the money and you certainly don't need one within the first months of ownership when you are still protected by the Sale of Goods Act.&#183;Send your consumer grievances to Dear Anna, at Shopping, 3rd Floor, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER emailconsumer@guardian.co.uk
MondayHOw to game without knowing it: Mark EylesPerplex City shuts downTuesdayRelating games and academia: Mark EylesWii and GatesWednesdayPhoning you on my PSPPrince goes 360ThursdayGame ratings are brokenReviews etcFridayUncanny valley: where game developers have one up over psychologists?Forza 2
Today's big release is not for the fainthearted - yes, Forza Motorsport 2 is here. The 360 racing odyssey - game is too faint a description - is a stunning example of what happens when petrolhead developers get the opportunity to create their dream game. Quite frankly if you have any interest in cars - plus own a 360 of course - then you should get Forza 2. Even if not Forza is still a relatively accessible racing game - you can get by without a mechanics qualification - and has the added bonus of some innovative features such as an online auction house and extensive customization. The RPG-style structure works well too, with more cars, races and parts available to you as you "level-up".But spare a thought for the new Colin McRae game - Dirt - which is out next Friday. 99% of its audience will be totally preoccupied with Forza, and will ignore what would otherwise have been a must-buy. Dirt is the easier game to get into - the gorgeous pyramid menu system deserves a mention - but Forza is still the better long-term buy. You planning a Forza roadtrip this weekend?
Gamesindustry.biz has thelatest console sales figures from Japan. Guess what? DS and Wii are doing really well, while Sony platforms... aren't quite matching up. We'll start with DS:"Even though sales of the handheld dropped for the week ended June 3, the 123,211 units sold still leaves behind Sony's PSP, which during the same period managed 26,358 units sold. Year-to-date sales of the DS are now almost 3.5 million, compared to just under 1 million of the PSP."Meanwhile, Wii shifted 69,748 units in the last week, bringing this year's total to 1.6 million units. PlayStation 3 sold 8,998 units, with its domestic figures for the year now standing at 453,179. Sony shouldn't feel too glum though - PS2 managed 11,814 sales in the featured week - that's 369,024 altogether this year.Xbox 360? Er... 2,219 sales in the past week, with year-to-date figures of 101,944. In circulation terms it's sort of the console equivalent of a parish newsletter.StillVGChartz.com, a site that collates console sales figures from retailers worldwide, has Xbox 360 clinging to its position at the top of the heap with 9.91 million sales compared to Wii's 7.95m.Nextgenwars.comhas the Xbox 360 and Wii figures slightly higher, but Microsoft is still ahead.
Apologies if you've seen this elsewhere on the interwebnets, but I was away all week and this is the first I've heard of it.With all thefurore over the frankly horrible London 2012 logo, plenty of people have come up with creative replacements. But none as creative asb3tauser Sean Stayte, who came up with this glorious image - which was then shown on the local BBC news in London!You can watch the evidence onYouTube.Warning:those of a delicate disposition may want to steer clear of both b3ta and goatse in general. I am not responsible if you take offence/feel queasy.UPDATE:The video has now been removed from YouTube, which commenter GrahamIX says was the result of a copyright takedown notice from the BBC. "I had uploaded the same clip to YouTube and I received a DCMA take-down notice last night. So much for our much loved public broadcaster respecting fair-use of copyright material eh?". Come on Beeb, just admit you were caught out.
Spurious link: Denzel Washington in thrillerDeja Vu. Photograph: Robert ZuckermanStop me if you've heard this one before, but researchers at MIT think they may have cracked the mystery of deja vu.After a series of experiments to find out exactly what happens in the brain, they're pinning the phenomenon of mental flashbacks down to similarity in neural patterns. Or,more precisely:Researchers believe that a set of neurons called place cells fire to provide a sort of blueprint for any new space we encounter. The next time we see the space, those same neurons fire. Thus we know when we've been somewhere before and don't have to relearn our way around familiar turf.But if we enter a space very similar to one we have seen before, a new but overlapping set of neurons creates the blueprint. When there is enough overlap between the two sets, we experience an eerie feeling of déjà vu.So, not a spooky shadow of past lives or a future echo, then?
MSMobileNews.com has YouTubed a video of the new HTC Touch in use.On the site, Marc Pell writes: "You'll see the ease at which I can navigate around the software and that you can use it in other applications (seen here scrolling through my emails)."The way TouchFLO enables one-handed operation will interest many users. However, it doesn't show him making a call or using the keyboard.....There are dozens more videos if yousearch YouTube for HTC Touch, including an amusingGirlfriendadvert.
Research by Kyle B Murray and Gerald Häubl shows that familiarity breeds ease of use, and that people think that whatever they're familiar with is the best. The result is "cognitive lock-in". In tests using a web search, most of the people assigned the harder option came to prefer it to the easier one. According to a report inArs Technica:As the authors expected, the number of trials had a positive, linear effect on the subject's preference for the interface they were using. This effect was so strong that, afterwards, 81 percent of the subjects claimed that the interface they were assigned was the one they would have chosen, and very few of them believed that their choice had anything to do with their familiarity.Familiarity has a huge benefit in that people no longer have to think about something to get it done.The authors note that this is borne out by real-world data, as Internet usage statistics show that visit times at commercial web sites decline over time. That decline, in turn, leads to positive results: those which show the biggest decreases in visit times rack up the most sales.It also benefits market leaders. The research says: "the costs associated with thinking about and using a particular product decrease as a function of the amount of experience a consumer has with it. Thus, repeated consumption or use of an incumbent product results in a (cognitive) switching cost that increases the probability that a consumer will continue to choose the incumbent over competing alternatives."Unfortunately the article --Explaining Cognitive Lock-In: The Role of Skill-Based Habits of Use in Consumer Choice, in the Journal of Consumer Research-- is only available to paid subscribers.
Microsoft co-founder and chairman Bill Gates, a famous drop-out, finally has a Harvard degree for his CV, albeit only an honorary one.According to Reuters:"We recognize the most illustrious member of the Harvard College class of 1977 never to have graduated from Harvard," said Harvard University Provost Steven Hyman. "It seems high time that his alma mater hand over the diploma.""I've been waiting for more than 30 years to say this: Dad, I always told you I'd come back and get my degree," Gates, 51, told the crowd, which included his father, also named Bill.Gates met Microsoft's current chief executive Steve Ballmer at Harvard, and they have given their old school plenty of financial support. The Maxwell Dworkin Building, home to Harvard's electrical engineering and computer science departments, was named for their mothers, Mary Maxwell Gates and Beatrice Dworkin Ballmer.
If you are wondering why your comment didn't appear, it might be because you used a rude word. In which case your comment got diverted to the junk pile for review. I've dug a couple out....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Wired has agreat storyon a group of Moscow university students who have opened a Museum of Soviet Arcade Machines in a bomb shelter under their dormitory. As the article explains:"From the late '70s to the early '90s, Soviet military factories produced some 70 different video game models. Based largely (and crudely) on early Japanese designs, the games were distributed -- in the words of one military manual -- for the purposes of entertainment and active leisure, as well as the development of visual-estimation abilities.'"If you think the concept of government-produced arcade machines designed to enrich the lives of the workers is wonderful, wait til yousee the machines themselves. These great hulking beasts look like they've been ripped from the set of an early seventies BBC sci-fi series. Bulging monitors, rudimentary controls, brutalist design - of course, early US arcade machines were similarly ugly, but this lot were being produced until the nineties.Imagine if the Cold War were still raging (alright, don't bring the current Putin/missile situation into this, you know what I mean...) - how would communist gaming have developed if left in isolation from Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft?
It's been a while since the gamesblog has had a debate on the effects of game realism, perhaps because there (thankfully) hasn't been a big media link between gaming and violence in recent months. Now, in this relative moment of calm, is therefore the best time to consider what effects graphical realism and realistic artificial intelligence may have on the gamer, from a more diverse and less knee-jerk perspective.It seems we're not the only ones to think so.Gamasutra has an excellent cover featureon theUncanny Valley, describing the phenomenon in which behavioural and visual inconsistencies become more unsettling as the these aspects of simulation become more precise.From the article:Comprehensive knowledge of the mechanics upon which human behavior operates is a tall order, but luckily, while still a mountain we're yet to scale, a well informed AI performance is not so ambitious. By building towards more convincing AI, game developers are not becoming scientists, merely better magicians.A point well-taken, but I'd argue it's incomplete. Perhaps the people who currently make up the gaming population are willing to suspend their disbeliefs, and those elements we feel are just AI glitches are simply unacceptable to the population who doesn't game. Simulation of the human system surely comes from an understanding of underlying psychological knowledge. That's why I've always thought psychologists would make the best games; they're great at manipulating, and doing it well.As graphical realism continues to creep into games, it'll be very interesting to see whether more behavioural scientists are called upon to inform the creation process. Or, indeed, if psychology will become an important part of games degree courses.
There's never been any doubt what the world really needs, and it's finally here: a pink Hello Kitty notebook PC (Sanrio approved) complete with Swarovski crystals.According to an AP story at HappyNews.com, the lucky manufacturer is NEC, and La Vie G Hello Kitty is available online only for 199,500 yen ($1,650) in Japan.The key part of the spec is obviously that it has 299 Swarovski crystals, rather than the Windows Vista Home Premium operating system, 1GB of memory, 100GB hard drive, or unnamed processor (a Mobile Sempron 3400+).Go toNEC Directto order yours now.It's the ideal machine for taking to those Apple/Microsoft/Linux developer conferences....
The timeline of developing nations is littered with the husks of communities which have fallen at social challenge. Buoyed by initial triumphs and new ideas, their populations swell, but when a divisive innovation is introduced, formerly strong ties dissolve.Second Life, which has survived astounding immigration, devolution and severe economic adversity, is about to come under a new threat that could tear apart its very being. Who would have thought a little thing like voice communication in an online world could play such an historical role in the future of internet interaction?To date, people inside the virtual space have had to rely upon the swiftness of their typing fingers to get their messages across. Woe for the slow typist; real world Popular People with twisted fingers find themselves wallflowers unless they beef up their typing skills. But the introduction of voice technology offers a more direct communication method and adds a needed channel to an existing lean computer-mediated medium.You'd think that the growing community of Second Lifers would be over the moon. Voice should add another layer of validity to the medium as a 3D internet endeavour; and who knows what it'll add to those all-important sex chats? But no. Even more so than CopyBot, the technology which shut down hundreds of virtual stores (The duplicitious inhabitants of Second Life, November 23 2006) and inspired great debates, voice is the most divisive social innovation in the virtual world's history.Pro-voicers, represented by the large education community, offline businesses and the in-world sex industry, welcome this change, seeing it as the next step for the platform. Anti-voicers, represented by community groups and old-timers, view this as another example of Linden Lab ignoring the needs of its population in favour of commercial interests.This is a rabble concerned with a loss of anonymity, technological stability issues and threats to their civil liberties. Conversely, a recent article by Dmitri Williams and his colleagues at the University of Southern California argues that communities that remain text-dependent tend to fragment more quickly, whereas those using voice become stronger.At the centre of all of this is an age-old debate every new collective - whether digital or physical - has had to endure: the struggle over who owns the community. Is it the faithful or the founding fathers? Whatever the immediate outcome, once voice is launched in Second Life later this month, this brave new world will never be the same again.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Gamewad.com offers ashort postanalysing the sorts of reward systems games use to keep us playing. They start off with the obvious one - points - before going on to consider character development, the sheer enjoyment of the audio visual experience and the desire to attain unlockable content. It doesn't mention the Xbox achievement system, the most fabulously literal exploitation of our desire to 'gain' something from the experience - even if that something has no real transferable value to us.In fact, the article doesn't say much, but has been Dugg like crazy, suggesting gamers are genuinely interested in, and also somewhat unsure of, what makes them play. I often wonder this after a mammoth multiplayer session on GRAW, or a whole night dominating the planet in Civ 3. What the hell made me do that?I'm sure all gamers have different triggers, different moments when they think 'yes, this game has got me now'. And I think these link in with the habits we all develop as gamers - the little methods, the ludic idiosyncracies we bring to the games we play.Mine are pretty simple and probably universal - if I'm playing an FPS and wander into a room which offers more than one possible exit, I know I absolutely have to check them all out, immediately - even if one looks as though it's going to lead off in an interesting new direction - I absolutelywon'topen any doors on that route until I've opened all the others in the proceeding room. I can't just wander off on one route and think 'well, I'll come back later'. When I was a kid, I mapped games obsessively. I always had a pad of graph paper and a sharpened pencil next to my Commodore 64.What are your gaming habits? What are the things youalwaysdo? Any obsessive gaming disorders you need to come clean about? Because deep down, these are probably the things that keep you playing...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
In connection with its new series, How We Built Britain (BBC1) and Britain in Pictures (BBC Four),the BBC is collecting viewers' picturesfor 3-D displays using Microsoft's Photosynth software.This doesn't magically make your snaps three dimensional: it's more of a "virtual tourism" idea. The Microsoft Live Labs site athttp://labs.live.com/photosynth/bbc/says:Imagine hundreds of photos of the same building being seamlessly stitched together to create an experience where the user can follow their own path zooming in to see the smallest decorative detail or zooming out and panning through 360 to place the building in a wider context.However, you can't just upload snaps of your cute cats for this particular bit.The BBC's photosynth projectis limited to half a dozen major locations: Ely Cathedral, Blackpool Tower Ballroom, Burghley House, Royal Crescent, Bath, Trafalgar Square and Edinburgh's new Scottish Parliament Building.Photosynth uses the new Microsoft graphics system, Windows Presentation Foundation, so the 3-D bit only works with Windows XP SP2 and Vista, and a Vista-capable graphics card is recommended. The browser plug-in runs in IE6, IE7, Firefox 1.5 and Firefox 2.0. (The capabilities are also being added toSilverlight, which should make it available to Mac users.)ABBC Buswill visit five of the locations starting at Ely Cathedral on June 10, 10am-4pm, replacing Trafalgar Square with Tower Bridge. (Bath isn't on the list: has that been done?) It will be running photographic masterclasses and the BBC site says: "Take your photographs of the location and upload the best ones to the BBC Britain in Pictures gallery."The photo galleries will also be available on red-button digital TV -- Sky, Freeview and Cable.
Internet dating is now moving to the mobile phone with US-based services such as MeetMoi, Fast Flirting, Zogo and Love. And according to a story inThe Wall Street Journal: "many of the new services have capabilities that online-dating services haven't offered -- such as letting you search for a date in a location you can update as you move around, and letting you chat with other people seeking a date while you're out and about."However, there are obvious potential mis-uses. The story says:Mobile dating services also face pressure to prove that they are safe for users and can't be exploited by stalkers posing as daters. To address such concerns, MeetMoi makes its matches without divulging members' locations to each other, and it automatically logs users out of the location they put in after two hours.One use, or mis-use, not mentioned explicitly in the WSJ article is prostitution. It seems to me that this is potentially a huge market, though its use could be limited by the loss of anonymity involved when using a mobile phone.
It's about time that Nintendo's innovative console acquired some games with a bit of meat and depth to them. Mario Strikers Charged Football is not such a game.It is great fun to play, though, thanks to a well thought-out control system and several levels of amusing power-ups. Your team captain, for example (Mario, Luigi, Wario, Donkey Kong and co are all present), can launch a MegaStrike using a system typically found in golf games, which lets you score up to six goals at a time.Your sidekicks have keeper-befuddling Skill Shots, you can launch most of the power-up attacks seen in Mario Kart and, occasionally, you get to use a Super Ability. On the wrong end of a MegaStrike, you do get to use the Wiimote to save the multiple balls, in the manner of Duck Hunt.But slightly dodgy AI, the annoying need to press buttons when off the ball and a cursory single-player experience make Mario Strikers Charged Football in the fun but lightweight category.
Want to start a blog in Iran? Then you'll have to register it with the government - which has recently begun to require that all bloggers register atsamandehi.ir, a site established by the ministry of culture of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's government.All you need do is give your personal information, including your blog's username and password - otherwise it will be filtered and blocked so that nobody in Iran, and perhaps outside too, will be able to access it. This has led to an outcry among many Iranian bloggers who consider the net an independent and free forum for expression.You might think that's only going to inconvenience a few people - but you'd be wrong: Iran has nearly a million bloggers, around 10% of whom are active, according to Mehdi Boutorabi, manager of the Persianblog free blog hosting service.His company, the first such service founded in Iran, now hosts more than 780,000 Persian blogs; and the blog search engineTechnoratinow lists Farsi, Iran's native language, among the top 10 languages used online.And not everyone is going along. Parastoo Dokouhaki, a renowned blogger who writes on womens' rights, has put a banner on her blog at parastood.ir which reads: "I will not register my site!" (It's been made available for others tocopy).Government clampdownsConsequently, her blog is filtered in Iran. Many bloggers who have fallen foul of the government clampdowns have subsequently put the same banner in their web pages.But censorship isn't just for blogs. Most of Iran's reformist newspapers have been shut down, rooftop satellite dishes are banned, books are censored and relationships between boys and girls are limited. Yet blogs also play a major - even growing - role in modern Iranian society. This is why almost all the leading candidates for Iran's last presidential election ran their own blogs.Acknowledging the influence of blogging in Iran, President Ahmadinejad launched his own blog last year even while his government cracked down on bloggers. Thepresident's blogis available in Farsi,English, French and Arabic; he is aiming at an international audience.What has the president got to say? "I am sorry to say that the American people are kept in an absolute censorship concerning the outside world by their government," he wrote in March."I am certain if the American people know where and on what, their tax money is spent, even the strong supporters of the government would not stand it and rush to the street to show their opposition in regard to that issue," he went on, responding to a letter apparently from an American mother claiming her son was forcibly taken and sent to Iraq.In response, comments seem to be unfailingly positive and respectful: "Do you think we could all live together peacefully in this world if the Americans stopped aggressive interference in other countries?" asks one apparently English commenter.Blogging's influence in Iran is undeniable. Recently, when Seyed Reza Shokrollahi found that his friend Yaghoub Yadali, an Iranian writer, had been held illegally in jail for 40 days, he blogged it (atkhabgard.com); he got 5,000 hits. The next day the link had been spread through the Iranian blogosphere and into newspapers' headlines. Finally, the government was forced to release him.Space for dissentBlogging in Iran is not confined to particular groups. Even clergymen and hardliners who once viewed it as an "opposition" activity today have blogs of their own - along with gays and lesbians, who have their own communities online."In Iran there is no place to talk about your homosexuality except in your blog. Now I have hundreds of Iranian gay friends who are bloggers. When I read about their feelings in their blogs I'm healed that I'm not alone in the country," says one Iranian gay blogger writing athamzaaad.blogspot.com.And blogs also give a space for dissent - as happened when the British sailors were taken captive earlier this year. "Fifteen British sailors were captured, so what? Then sanctions are increased, Iran Industrial Ministry prohibited, domestic banks' relations with foreigners ceased, we were condemned in UN and the next vessel came to the Persian Gulf again in result of that," wrote Omid Valinasab, an Iranian blogger atiwishpolitic.blogfa.com, denouncing the government for the detainment.But the biggest problem most Iranian bloggers face is filtering. Using a search engine in Iran usually means being confronted again and again with a screen saying: "Dear customer, access to this site is forbidden."And this happens not when searching for sex, but using a phrase like "les livres" (books). The first time, it can be surprising. But persist, and you'll hit the wall of internet filtering again and again for words such as "stocking", "honey" and "teen".Are French books forbidden? Well, some are, but in this case it seems you have to blame the close orthography of the French article to the word "lesbian".Breeding innovationBut it's not just searches that can disappear behind the wall. The prizewinning novelist Reza Ghassemi, now based in France, woke up one morning and found his site (rezaghassemi.org) of the past six years simply banned.From getting more than 6,000 hits per day, the post-filter number was around 300. He didn't know who to complain to, or why; only later did others remind him - and in the end persuade him - that the reason was the presence of a file package, titled Eroticism in literature, displayed on his website. The censor had noticed it and cut his site off.But the move has also demonstrated one of the internet's strengths, and even borne out the way in which necessity breeds innovation. Ghassemi, like many of his colleagues, found that the clampdowns in Iran on the publication of physical books made it wiser to publish his latest novel in the form of an ebook. Bloggers have welcomed it, reviewing it as though it had been published in paper form.For clever users, filtering sounds pointless: thousands of proxy sites distribute the net's wider content to blogs or emails. But self-censorship is already affecting journalists, writers and intellectuals who fear prosecution.Whether the bloggers can fare any better remains to be seen; but what's clear is that they are all there, trying, working away at the edges that let the rest of the world creep through to tell Iran what the rest of the world is thinking, saying and doing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My grandpa -- 90 years old and counting -- has asked me to find a mobile phone to replace his, which was used as a paperweight on the Ark. I've tried Saga, the RNIB and several search engines, but nothing suggests itself. Anna LawsThe best phone I can find that is designed for older users is the Emporia Life, from an Austrian company (http://www.emporia.at/shop/). The BBC website wrote about it and published a photograph (http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/6462559.stm). Marketing was due to start last month, but the UK is not on the list of countries targeted.An alternative is the £140 Easy5 phone from Tekability (http://www.tekability.com/catalog/item346.htm). This has just five large buttons, each storing a single phone number on speed dial. It would suit someone who mainly wants a mobile for the security of being able to call a handful of people in a hurry.Otherwise you could shop for a secondhand Nokia, from the days when mobiles were actually designed to make phone calls, instead of as transitory multifunction fashion statements. The old Nokia 6310i and Nokia 3310 models were design classics, and they even have separate buttons so you don't end up pressing two or three at once. They're easy to use, and if your grandpa does get stuck, almost anybody will be able to help him out.It's hard to see anything as good at the basics among the current mobiles from any company, but the Nokia 3120 and possibly the 6021 might be worth a look. Get him to try the keypads before you buy. And if anyone knows of a more suitable mobile, please let us know.Backchat: Ian Thomson says he "looked into this last year for my 92 year old father" and ended up with a Motorola RAZR. "The keyboard is protected when it's closed so there's no need to lock it, it's easy to get into the address book, the flat keys are easy to use, and the font is reasonably large and clear."Tim Pearce points to a US solution, "the Jitterbug phone (http://www.jitterbugdirect.com) made by Samsung especially for oldies," but it has its own network.Roger Bessent from the RNIB points out that the RNIB sells the Easy5 (mentioned above) via itsonline shopfor £139. Also, he says,the Emporia Life phone will be available from the RNIB and Communic8. "Stock should be available for its launch at the end of June. It has not been advertised yet as it requires reboxing and a change of the charger type for the UK market." The RNIB price is £145 plus VAT.Classic: Nokia 6310i
The United Devices screensaver in aid of cancer research has been discontinued. Can you recommend similar screensavers to aid research into diseases? Mike MitchellThe UD screensaver donated your PC's processing power to do computations. There's a guide to alternatives, How to join distributed computing projects that benefit humanity, athttp://www.hyper.net/dc-howto.html
I downloaded a big ISO file, and instead of saving it where I indicated, Windows XP saved it in a temp directory first. How can I avoid this? Keith ScottWindows saves files to a temporary directory then, when it has finished, copies them to the folder you want. This means broken downloads can sometimes be resumed. However, it can be a problem if you are short of disk space because Windows needs up to 2GB of space to process a 700MB file, such as the ISO of a CD. Worse, Windows can sometimes "forget" to delete its temporary files, pointlessly consuming several gigabytes of space. The best solution is to use a file download manager such asFDM(Free Download Manager),FlashGetorLeechGet.These are faster, more reliable, can resume broken downloads, and don't involve an unnecessary copy stage. Also, you can use the freeware CCleaner (http://ccleaner.com/) to remove any stray temporary files.
When I start my PC, I get a long and complicated error message that begins: "The description for Event ID ( 12 ) in Source ( sfsync02 ) cannot be found." Then it freezes. Trevor GrantThe sfsync02 probably refers to the StarForce Protection Synchronization Driver from Protection Technology's StarForce Protection System. It's mainly used to protect computer games, and that's probably how you got it installed. Apparently, it can be very hard to get rid of it. However, you can download an official StarForce Removal Tool from an online security site (http://www.onlinesecurity-on.com/protect.phtml?c=55), so I reckon this is your best bet. Removing it will mean that whichever game installed StarForce will stop working, and if you reinstall the game, it will reinstall StarForce.
Peter Suciu on theSci Fi blogoffers a damning indictment of the current games ratings system, arguing that the system - at least in the US - is archaic, out-of-touch and confusing. He has a point. It's well worth a read.As he explains, it originated in the mid-1990s, when the worst thing on the market was the grisly fighting game Mortal Kombat. Since then, we've had all kinds of new and interesting things come to play, from Grand Theft Auto and Manhunt (and others not made by Rockstar), to online worlds where user-generated content regulation is nigh on impossible (and easily circumvented). Is it time for a re-think?Here in the UK, our ratings system complies with the pan-European, voluntary system organised byPEGI. TheBBFCalso gets a hand in as well. Yet there is still widespread confusion, highlighted usually around Christmastime or when a newsworthy tragedy is rightly or wrongly linked with the content in computer games. But ignorance is not an excuse; in fact, it's the worst possible solution, guaranteeing outcry, finger-pointing and the ultimate demise of the industry (nothing like being dramatic on a Thursday morning).So, avoiding the obvious comments about parents buying GTA for Little Jimmy even after they've been warned by signage and sales staff, what recommendations wouldyoumake for re-vamping the ratings system?
When I grumbled in the Technobile slot recently about the bad behaviour of Microsoft's beta converter for the Macintosh (to take documents saved in the new .docx format and convert them to RTFs), I had no idea of the vast hinterland of acrimony out there surrounding Office 2007.The most interesting was the discovery that the two leading science journals, Nature and Science, are discouraging scientists from submitting papers in the Word 2007 format. Science magazine notes that: "Equations created with the default equation editor included in Microsoft Word 2007 will be unacceptable in revision, even if the file is converted to a format compatible with earlier versions of Word; this is because conversion will render equations as graphics and prevent electronic printing of equations, and because the default equation editor packaged with Word 2007 - for reasons that, quite frankly, utterly baffle us - was not designed to be compatible with MathML."This prompted a lot of discussion on theTechnology blogearlier this week on the question of quite where the fault lies. Is it in the publishers not rushing to embrace the new format and encouraging scientists to make the expensive upgrade too? Or the publishers (again) in not getting scientists to use free software such as LaTex and OpenOffice?What's clear is that Microsoft isn't going to give up trying to impose its new formats on the world. It's built into its DNA, and indeed pretty much every software organisation's DNA: what you had before just doesn't cut it. Here, try this new shinier one. By the way, none of your friends on the old stuff will be able to use it - but that's OK, you can persuade them to upgrade, can't you?But the game has changed since Microsoft could assume that every new version of Office would automatically be snapped up by existing customers. I've never seen figures for the rates (or ratio) of upgrades from one version of Office to another. I'd assume it follows a pattern like infection in a population: as long as few people are "infected" with the new version, there's a sort of herd immunity against it (or its use); but as the new version spreads, more and more people acquire it until a tipping point is reached, leading to an outbreak of upgrading. Eventually, only a rump of "immune" - non-upgraded - users is left. With Office 2007, we're definitely in the early infection stage.This time feels different,though, because of the explosion in applications built around the older format. Dozens of products use .doc as their basis. Office 2007 wants to tear them up. But it's now trying to pull the 10-tonne truck of existing applications, documents, workflows and users with its teeth. We wouldn't tolerate it on web pages now, although when Netscape and Microsoft were vying for dominance in the browser wars of the mid 1990s, it was common to find that pages wouldn't work in one browser or the other. Microsoft won that by using its Windows leverage to force Explorer on people. But when the corporation dusted off the code for IE, it found that the web had moved on, and IE had to adapt.Science and Nature will probably upgrade some time in the next few years. But I suspect that the rump of non-users of Office 2007 will remain large as the web becomes an increasingly important repository for our files. Maybe Microsoft will need to introduce a few mutations into its DNA to cope. That's evolution in action. The alternative, of course, being extinction.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It is curious how the globalisation of people is happening much faster than the globalisation of goods. While trade talks to cut subsidies on products have been immobilised for years, the global expansion of relationships between people is probably the fastest growth area on the planet. I signed up to social websites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook mainly to keep up with what is going on. Not much happened because you have to work hard at entering all your "friends" and personal data to make it worthwhile.Until last week, that is, when my Facebook account suddenly acquired a life of its own. A couple of people I know here and in the US offered "friendship" (a word that is having its meaning devalued because of all the people who collect "friends" the way some collect stamps). I accepted, and soon after people I knew who saw my photo on their friend's list clicked on it offering me friendship - and I added one or two I recognised from their lists. Pretty soon, in a mini-version of chain letters, there were more than a dozen, with as many in the wings I had never heard of (to whom I didn't link).Soon interactive conversations (using text) were taking place over often quite trivial bits of information or comments on photos or pointing out interesting new web sites. You can either correspond with someone privately or reply on your "wall" so everyone can see. There is a function similar to the newly fashionabletwitter.comwhere you simply say what you are doing at that moment, which a lot of people find addictive. Small wonder that active Facebookers don't email any more: all their friends are there to be communicated with instantly, 24/7 - and you can see which of your friends is online at that moment. Groups can be set up to attract kindred spirits. There is even one for people who get steamed up because their names are regularly misspelt by others.Facebook is one of a number of social sites with different attractions. Bebo is much better for checking out bands and has a whiteboard you can draw on, while Rupert's Space, sorry, MySpace, by far the biggest, is full of in-your-face intrusive adverts.People invest large amounts of social capital in these sites - spending hours entering photos, address books, videos etc. They can import other sites, such asFlickr.com, so they in effect become a permanent home page from which they don't move away during the day. This makes a mockery of statistics based on page views, since users might be hyperactive on the web but seldom move from their home page, thereby embedding their loyalty. No wonder web giants such as Yahoo!, unable (interestingly) to use their own massive leverage to set up big enough social sites of their own, are gobbling up all the successful new-generation startups.These new sites are making personal relationships more intimate (based on communal interests or hobbies as well as flirting) on a global scale. The likes of Facebook have added a fresh layer of communication. Email facilitates links with people you would never otherwise keep up with. Text messaging conjures up conversations, 90% of which wouldn't have happened under previous technologies but only on a one-to-one (national) basis. The new generation of social sites with libraries of photos of your friends, their friends and their friends' friends generates a global intimacy that could go on and on. On Facebook I found myself in contact with friends after midnight about mundane things just because they were online. If I had texted it would have been seen as intrusive - and a telephone call completely over the top.On such sites you usually chat to people with whom you have a link. In virtual worlds such as Second Life you, or your avatar, can say Hi and talk with strangers. I have met people who, after saying Hi to strangers in virtual worlds, claim to do it more often in real life. Goodness knows what will be going on 10 years hence when global relationships come of age.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thereviewsare in the paper this week with Mario Strikers Charged Football (Wii), Shadowrun (360, PC) and Halo 2 (PC) all failing to really excite. Mario is the most interesting of the bunch, though it is hardly essential. Actually, none of them are bad games - even Shadowrun should be applauded for some innovative elements - but it's hard to get excited by Halo 2. Would you really want to upgrade to Vista and then splash out a further 40 quid for Live membership just to play an elderly Xbox game? No, me neither.ElsewhereAleks talksvoice communication in Second Life and thereis a lookat the relationship between controversy and games development - with particular focus on the Chernobyl background of mediocre first person shooter STALKER.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Iran's big brother for bloggersRespectful comments on the president's blog are in sharp contrast to the censorship of ordinary web users in the Islamic republic, reports Saeed Kamali Dehghan from Tehran.Address database plan finally abandonedFree Our Data: Initiative collapsed because government agencies could not agree on how to share their information.Salving your green conscience via Dell will cost you an extra £3Dell hopes that people will pay another £1 for a notebook or £3 more for a desktop machine to part-fund the planting of trees to offset the CO2 generated by the electricity needed to power them over three years. Charles Arthur reports.Newly Asked Questions:Just how much does the internet actually weigh?About two ounces (60 grams), or perhaps 0.2 millionths of an ounce (6 micrograms), depending which method you use to calculate the weight of the active electrons necessary to sustain the global network, writes Charles Arthur.Are Steve Jobs and Bill Gates friends once again?What do you mean, 'again'? They've never been enemies; in fact, they've been friends for decades, says Charles Arthur.Second Lifers get a voice and change the worldAleks Krotoski: The timeline of developing nations is littered with the husks of communities which have fallen at social challenge.GamesMario Strikers Charged Football | Halo 2 | ShadowrunThe self-recording craze is nothing new - but now we do it digitallyNicholas Carr: The unexamined life, said Socrates, is not worth living. Today, we seem to be operating under a new and very different dictum: the unrecorded life is not worth living.Collecting friends is the new philatelyVictor Keegan: These new sites are making personal relationships more intimate on a global scale. The likes of Facebook have added a fresh layer of communication.TechnobileWendy M Grossman: Remember the simpler days when we all had just one phone and having a second line was unusual?Making fun out of the Chernobyl disasterFrom Sony's goat to the GTA series, developers revel in controversy. But is it attention-seeking or can there be a loftier purpose? Alexander Gambotto-Burke reports.This time, it's Microsoft which must adapt or dieCharles Arthur: The game has changed since Microsoft could assume that every new version of Office would be snapped up.How we have been fooled by utopian visions of the futureOur expectations of technology are borne out of Cold War spin, according to a London academic. Christine Evans-Pughe investigates.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesHTC touches UK | Palm's mobile companion | Ask upgrades search | Memory drives on | TV to phone | LogMeIn for Macs | UK's net leadLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
In 1991, I bought myself a great luxury: a second phone line. Nominally, it was a fax line, but the best thing about it was being able to make phone calls while I was waiting for people to call back.Now I have six different phones and I am awash in telephone bills. Two are BT. One is a cable line that saved me at least &pound;1,800 from 1997 to 1999. There's a UK mobile phone and a US cell phone. And there's Skype, on the computer.This is luxury gone mad, like having a fleet of cars. How many phones can you talk on at once? And yet I can't really get rid of any of them.The incoming BT number is known to probably hundreds of people. The former fax line carries the ADSL. The cable line I certainly no longer need - but Virgin, which recently took over Telewest, either charges you for the phone or charges you the exact same amount more for TV without the phone.Skype is cheap, and overseas friends use it. The UK mobile - well, you've got to have a mobile here. Not having one is as antisocial as not drinking. The US mobile phone (over there, a "cell") makes life easier and cheaper when I'm in the US.The good news: from a peak of nearly &pound;2,500 in 1996 my annual bills have dropped to a little under &pound;1,000 (including ADSL). The bad news: it's all so complicated. And half the phones only work on their own phone line.I think I've figured out at least how to handle messages. Two of those lines, of course, get no incoming calls. The most convenient idea, I've finally decided, is to have everything forward to Skype - because I can access its voice messages from anywhere at minimal cost and if I want to I can save copies of the messages, something that's difficult with other services.There are, of course, other things that would be worse if I cared about them the way my friends do. For example, the fact that the capabilities we take for granted in mobile phones (which of course are computers) do not in general exist on landline phones.You can, if you have the right phone, get text messages on your home phone, but it's rare that you can have a full address book, and if you do you can't synchronise it with your mobile.My own solution to this is to memorise any number I'm likely to need unexpectedly, and keep everything else on the computer, synchronising that with the Treo 680 that is now my mobile phone.But it's still a kludge. They've been talking about convergence for more than a decade now. Isn't it time we had some?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After two years of talking, the government last week admitted defeat in its ambition to create a definitive list of postal addresses.A brief announcement on Friday afternoon said that the Department of Communities and Local Government had concluded that it should not carry out any further work on the "national spatial address infrastructure".The insuperable obstacle is not technical or financial, but the issue at the heart of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign: the government's proprietorial attitude to the data it holds.The address database, once seen as essential to efficient government, collapsed because different government-owned agencies could not agree how to share their data. One expert in spatial addressing - geographer and Warrington Borough councillor Robert Barr - described the cancellation as an "outrageous capitulation".It is not the only example of government paralysis over the question of how to make taxpayer-funded data more freely available. This week, the government is under fire for failing to respond in time to concerns raised by the Office of Fair Trading into potentially unfair practices by some public agencies.Fairer tradeLast December, the competition watchdog gave the government 90 days to respond to proposals aimed at creating a fairer trade in government information.Three months after that deadline, it has still not replied. The Department of Trade and Industry, which is coordinating the response, said this week that the response is expected before the end of June.Knowledge-economy businesses condemned the delay. "It's very disappointing," said Michael Nicholson, chair of the trade association Locus. "The private sector needs reassurance that their dealings with government will be fair."Whitehall sources blamed the delay on the need to marshal responses from different government departments, several of which appear to be dragging their feet.A particular culprit is Communities and Local Government, sponsor department for Ordnance Survey, the largest and most commercially successful trader in public-sector information.The OFT noted that the mapping agency stands out from other holders of public sector information because of the "nature and seriousness" of problems encountered by businesses re-using its data. The market study found that Ordnance Survey was reluctant to give access to its unrefined survey data - in contrast to British Geological Survey, which provides access to its library of physical samples and field notebooks.This reluctance poses two problems, the OFT found. One is to restrict opportunities for new businesses to develop products based on the data. The other is that, because Ordnance Survey does not separate its "upstream" and "downstream" activities, it cannot prove that it is offering data on fair terms.Ordnance Survey is understood to be fiercely resisting proposals for it to give more access to unrefined data, on the grounds that this would undermine its commercial position.Waiting for detailsAnother complication is the European Inspire directive, which will require Ordnance Survey to publish more "metadata" revealing what information it holds: executives say they will be delighted to do this, but must wait for details on how Inspire is to be transposed into British law to emerge from the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.These arguments appear to have persuaded ministers at Communities and Local Government. And last week's announcement suggests a department anxious to devolve responsibility for disputes over geographical data.Although the lack of accurate addresses still poses "challenges" to public administration, the announcement said local authorities and government departments would be able to run efficiently without the new database.Instead, they will rely on two existing databases, one collected by local authorities - the other run by Ordnance Survey.Cabinet Office report demands more informationA report by the Cabinet Office will today call on the government to consider the case for making geographical, meteorological and other public-sector data freely available. The Power of Information, an independent review by Ed Mayo, chief executive of the National Consumer Council, and Tom Steinberg, director of MySociety, says that the government should:&middot;create a web channel to gather requests for publication of public sector information&middot;carry out an independent review of the costs and benefits of supplying information through trading funds such as Ordnance Survey&middot;charge no more than the marginal cost of supplying raw information, including by trading funds&middot;strengthen the Office of Public Sector Information to ensure that it is fit for purpose&middot;consider offering information freely to non-commercial bodies on licences along the lines of those pioneered by the BBC and Google Maps.The review also says that the government should consult the operators and users of user-generated websites before building competing services. Sites should be closed, or modified to complement citizen-led endeavours such as MumsNet.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mario Strikers Charged FootballWii, &pound;34.99, cert 7+, Nintendo, 3/5It's about time that Nintendo's innovative console acquired some games with a bit of meat and depth to them. Mario Strikers Charged Football is not such a game. It is great fun to play, though, thanks to a well thought-out control system and several levels of amusing power-ups. Your team captain, for example (Mario, Luigi, Wario, Donkey Kong and co are all present), can launch a MegaStrike using a system typically found in golf games, which lets you score up to six goals at a time. Your sidekicks have keeper-befuddling Skill Shots, you can launch most of the power-up attacks seen in Mario Kart and, occasionally, you get to use a Super Ability. On the wrong end of a MegaStrike, you do get to use the Wiimote to save the multiple balls, in the manner of Duck Hunt. But slightly dodgy AI, the annoying need to press buttons when off the ball and a cursory single-player experience make Mario Strikers Charged Football in the fun but lightweight category.Steve BoxerHalo 2PC (Vista only), &pound;34.99, cert 16+, Bungee/Microsoft, 3/5Three full years after it appeared on the Xbox, Bungee's all-conquering shoot-em-up finally gets to the PC. Perhaps six months ago, when gamers were moaning loudest about Vista's indifferent games support, it might have made a difference. Now they're going to need more than glossy visuals and 16-player linkups with Xbox Live to pacify them. Halo 2 is still a slick, instinctive, story-driven game - with twin guns now at your disposal and the same non-stop mix of run-n-gun and vehicular combat. However, all this is old news on the PC and the battles, while frantic, are largely down to striking hard and early and always recharging your shields. Let's hope there's more to Vista gaming than this.Mike AnderieszShadowrunXbox 360/PC, &pound;39.99, cert 16+, FASA/Microsoft, 2/5Shadowrun, the first title playable simultaneously on both 360 and Vista, is a fast-paced multiplayer shooter, primarily playable online. It's also incredibly fiddly, with newcomers likely to be put off by the controls and learning curve. In fact the whole game feels overly complicated. Forget simple hit and run tactics; Shadowrun asks you to teleport through walls, plant trees to heal and generally prod the pad in the vague hope you have the right skill mapped to the right button. Yes, you can see the strategic potential on offer, but the lack of plot or incentive to carry on make it hard to get excited. Throw in the relative lack of content - no real single-player, lack of maps - and the need to play online, and it is clear that Shadowrun is hugely overpriced. Halo 3 fans tired of the wait may be tempted, but Shadowrun just feels a bit too clever for its own good.Greg Howson&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Our own digital divideWhich Laptop per child? (May 31) only mentioned the OLPC initiative in the context of developing countries. It appeared to assume that every child in the UK has easy access to a computer. Many deprived areas have similar challenges to those in the developing world. So, Nicholas Negroponte and Craig Barrett, what are you going to do about the situation under your benevolent noses?David Dixon, head teacher, Bowbridge Primary School&#183;Why wouldn't Mr Negroponte welcome the opportunity to bring the best computer to children? Just because the OLPC was the first doesn't mean it has to be the last.bungatech.comNo console-ationI bought my Xbox 360 in March 2006, thinking that it would have been fixed after observing the failure rate on the launch units (What is the real failure rate of the Xbox 360, May 31). But, oh, I was so wrong. Since then, my Xbox 360 has given me the red ring of death twice.Oscar Millan, El Paso, Texas&#183;If a user sets it up in a stuffy entertainment centre it will overheat and fail. The problem comes when the user has a repaired machine. They put it right back in the stuffy entertainment centre that killed their first one. Surprise, surprise. Machine #2 fails. Rinse, repeat - and you get five, six, seven replaced units.Jordan Lund, Portland, Oregon&#183;We have had seven 360s since November. My daughter and I now have PS3s.Barry Barton, CroydonGracenote's originsYou perhaps should have mentioned that Gracenote itself originated as cddb.org, a user-generated content index, which was commercialised in 2001, taking with it the user-generated database (Publishers sing new tune, May 31).Mike Whittaker, StapletonPorn againIt says a lot about MBS's business that the only companies prepared to use its software are pornographers (Legal wrangles over porn billing software, May 31).Yoav Tzabar, Houghton&#183;Any respectable software comes with uninstall facilities. MBS software comes with no such facility.Charles Brown(address withheld)Licensed to mapYour article (Councils bypass Ordnance Survey for Google Maps, May 31) implies that councils have to obtain special licences at an extra cost for using our data. This is far from the truth: all local authorities are licensed to use OS information under a centralised competitive procurement. It also means councils can use OS information to communicate with their employees or residents on the web at no extra charge.Vanessa Lawrence, director-general and chief executive, Ordnance Survey&#183;Perhaps Google Maps is cheaper than OS because it's a third-rate product. Google Maps is fine if all you need to find is a street, but even then there is no indication of the way house numbers go.Nick Davies, Coulsdon&#183;OK, I wouldn't use Google data for measurement and there is no info about source, quality, accuracy or date which are vital if you use it for legal reasons. But for showing where schools are, or where the library is - why not? OS data will not be lost to the nation but I believe the two can co-exist.geomaticsruth.blogspot.comDriven mad by DVLAI attempted to renew my road tax via the DVLA website (Whitehall must learn from Estonia, May 24). It froze and I gave up in disgust. Rather than ask for examples of failure, perhaps we could hear from anyone who has succeeded.Catherine Mowat,London
Children who receive a disproportionate amount of negative attention will misbehave more often; this is a basic tenet of child psychology. It helps to see the games industry this way, especially in cases like Sony's recent PR stunt for God of War II. To promote the violent action game rooted in Greek mythology, the publisher hosted a party with topless women and a decapitated goat as the centrepiece.Reactions to the incident were predictable. Animal rights campaigners complained, bloodsports advocates shrugged, and gamers considered it one of the final nails in Sony Computer Entertainment's ever-more-apparent coffin. But will it have any effect on God of War II's sales? There are those who are planning to boycott Sony as a result of the grotesque launch, but will all the negative attention actually end up giving the game greater exposure and, consequently, better sales?Questionable contentControversy has certainly shifted games in the past. One needn't look much further than Rockstar Games for evidence: Canis Canem Edit (n&eacute; Bully), Manhunt, and of course the Grand Theft Auto (GTA) series have all arguably become successes because of their questionable content and the outrage surrounding them. In the case of GTA, that included Senator Hillary Clinton, who in 2005 noted that "there is no doubting the fact that the widespread availability of sexually explicit and graphically violent video games makes the challenge of parenting much harder".Similarly, the Postal games, an ultraviolent and racist series by Running With Scissors, have - despite being commonly regarded as poor-quality - achieved enough exposure to be adapted into a film directed by Uwe Boll. Elsewhere, gamers seem not only attracted to controversial content, but actually demand it.The trend for second world war shooter games, for example, is a direct result of how popular these titles tend to become, even though they essentially make gameplay out of one of the biggest wars in modern history.None of this rings true to Rodney Walker of Rockstar Game. He thinks the success of his company's games has nothing to do with the heated discourse they have generated - if anything, he believes that it has hindered sales - and everything to do with quality."There's this casual assumption that any publicity is good for entertainment," he says, "but that's not actually how it works. It's so obvious that researched, constructive criticism that talks about the game mechanics, story elements and so on is more likely to influence a person into buying a game than someone who says, 'Here's this terrible thing.'"It's really insulting to what we all know about our favourite entertainment medium to think we choose it based on negative publicity, as opposed to proper critique. That kind of sensationalism doesn't contribute in any way. That sort of political and academic criticism has had a negative effect on the development of new media. If we're trying to attract an audience that has never played a videogame, there's no way hearing a political or academic leader describe it critically will enhance your appreciation of it."And in practical terms, where there's hostile criticism of videogames, that tends to affect where they can be sold and marketed - immediately. And that's precisely because of the gaps in media literacy. There's a stricter standard for new media than established media, and new media can't bear as much hostile criticism as established media. There's just no evidence to suggest it helps the industry or the medium to have people mischaracterise it. In fact, the evidence suggests the opposite."It's too early to tell whether GSC Game World's S.T.A.L.K.E.R., released in March, has managed to avoid the pitfalls Walker mentions. Still, its premise has certainly raised more than a few eyebrows since the game's announcement in 2001. It's a sandbox game, like the GTA series, where players can approach the virtual world around them with relative freedom. The odd part is that the sandbox in question happens to be the Chernobyl exclusion zone, site of the 1986 Chernobyl accident in which the roof of a Ukrainian nuclear reactor blew off during a test.It's not unusual to see other areas of the arts basing works on tragic situations and events, but as many critics of the games industry have pointed out, the interactivity of videogames means that the player is immersed in their fantasy worlds. Players in S.T.A.L.K.E.R. aren't just watching or reading a "what if?" about one of the most contaminated areas on Earth; they're moving around in it and exploring it. What's more, S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s Chernobyl now has to deal with the added stress of violent mutated wildlife, zombies and opportunistic militant treasure hunters. (Those at least are fantasy.)With Chernobyl still a very real problem - the concrete sarcophagus that covers the plant is crumbling, able to release further radioactive material into the atmosphere - it might seem a little tactless of GSC (whose office isn't that far from Chernobyl) to make fantasy out of genuine tragedy.However, GSC has argued all the way through that the Chernobyl setting is perfect for a game of S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s scope. The fact that it is more or less completely abandoned, that the Soviet government kept much of the incident a secret from the world, and that radiation and mutants are familiar science fiction bedfellows all weave into GSC's vision of a truly eerie and unsettling game. And judging by S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s initial sales and reviews, gamers seem to agree.Sergiy Grygorovych, S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s lead designer, elaborates: "Here in Ukraine, we are surrounded by splinters of the Soviet empire - forgotten productions, catacombs, neglected military facilities and so on. For example, our office is located at a no longer functioning Soviet factory. Walking here can't leave you untouched - it compares to a time that froze, a place of man-made catastrophe. Thus, we decided it's going to be a great setting for the game."Improbably, Chernobyl officials have been supportive. "To many people's surprise," Grygorovych says: "We got nothing but support from the Chernobyl officials. We even have some game fans among the power plant administration. They really liked the ideas behind the game and the way the world of the zone looks. One of them became an instant game fan when he recognised his office in one of the early game trailers. People working in Chernobyl helped us with information, photos, documentaries ... without this the game wouldn't be as authentic and believable."Part of their enthusiasm may stem from GSC's intentions for the game: they want S.T.A.L.K.E.R. to have a social message. By journeying through a post-apocalyptic world, players are supposed to become more aware of the problems Chernobyl still poses and the dangers of being careless with science."We want to remind people of the still existing problem of Chernobyl," Grygorovych says. "Secondly, by showing an alternative history of Chernobyl, the so-to-speak worst scenario, we'd like to create a kind of warning to mankind to prevent any possible fatal mistakes in the future."Even if S.T.A.L.K.E.R. doesn't achieve this lofty goal - although, it must be admitted, GSC has been very careful with its treatment of the zone; at no point does the game make light of the Chernobyl situation - developing the game has taught GSC quite a bit about the incident.Public scorn"Although we were witnesses of the accident in 1986," Grygorovych recalls, "we didn't know much about the real Chernobyl and how it looks before we went there ourselves in 2002. Going there was insane, and many people thought us crazy; we all understood that the place is far from safe. We took thousands of photos of the exclusion zone sites, which we later used as textures for the game. We tried to pick up every bit of information we could find and which could be useful for the game story or visuals. Our goal was to make the zone look authentic, with its notorious spots easily recognisable. In this respect, the trips to the zone were priceless."GSC's decision to set S.T.A.L.K.E.R. in Chernobyl may have been controversial, but the work they've put into respectfully recreating the exclusion zone seems to have saved the game from the public scorn GTA has endured since 1997. Has the game's shocking premise helped or hindered its sales? It's difficult to say, but the game's insanely long development cycle seems to have yielded some deep and fascinating gameplay. And history shows that that is what ultimately keeps games selling - not outrage.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Oldie phoneMy grandpa - 90 years old and counting - has asked me to find a mobile phone to replace his, which was used as a paperweight on the Ark. I've tried Saga, the RNIB and several search engines, but nothing suggests itself.Anna LawsJS:The best phone I can find that is designed for older users is the Emporia Life, from an Austrian company (emporia.at/shop). The BBC website wrote about it (news.bbc.co.uk). Marketing was due to start last month, but the UK is not on the list of countries targeted. An alternative is the &pound;140 Easy5 phone fromTekability. This has just five large buttons, each storing a single phone number on speed dial. It would suit someone who mainly wants a mobile for the security of being able to call a handful of people in a hurry.Otherwise you could shop for a secondhand Nokia, from the days when mobiles were actually designed to make phone calls, instead of as transitory multifunction fashion statements. The old Nokia 6310i and Nokia 3310 models were design classics, and they even have separate buttons so you don't end up pressing two or three at once. They're easy to use, and if your grandpa does get stuck, almost anybody will be able to help him out.It's hard to see anything as good at the basics among the current mobiles from any company, but the Nokia 3120 and possibly the 6021 might be worth a look. Get him to try the keypads before you buy. And if anyone knows of a more suitable mobile, please let us know.Donating PC cyclesThe United Devices screensaver in aid of cancer research has been discontinued. Can you recommend similar screensavers to aid research into diseases?Mike MitchellJS:The UD screensaver donated your PC's processing power to do computations. There's a guide to alternatives, How to join distributed computing projects that benefit humanity, athyper.net.Download managerI downloaded a big ISO file, and instead of saving it where I indicated, Windows XP saved it in a temp directory first. How can I avoid this?Keith ScottJS:Windows saves files to a temporary directory then, when it has finished, copies them to the folder you want. This means broken downloads can sometimes be resumed. However, it can be a problem if you are short of disk space because Windows needs up to 2GB of space to process a 700MB file, such as the ISO of a CD. Worse, Windows can sometimes "forget" to delete its temporary files, pointlessly consuming several gigabytes of space. The best solution is to use a file download manager such as FDM (Free Download Manager), FlashGet or LeechGet.These are faster, more reliable, can resume broken downloads, and don't involve an unnecessary copy stage. Also, you can use the freewareCCleanerto remove any stray temporary files.Crippled PCWhen I start my PC, I get a long and complicated error message that begins: "The description for Event ID (12) in Source (sfsync02) cannot be found." Then it freezes.Trevor GrantJS:The sfsync02 probably refers to the StarForce Protection Synchronization Driver from Protection Technology's StarForce Protection System. It's mainly used to protect computer games, and that's probably how you got it installed. Apparently, it can be very hard to get rid of it. However, you candownloadan official StarForce Removal Tool from an online security site, so I reckon this is your best bet. Removing it will mean that whichever game installed StarForce will stop working, and if you reinstall the game, it will reinstall StarForce.Backchat&middot;Ken Youde wanted to set up a webcam for bird watching. On the Ask Jack blog, Sid C recommends theGardenaturesite and says: "I've seen these working brilliantly. Wireless is recommended (up to 30m); power the camera with a battery."&middot;Bob Mawji wanted to find VideoPlus+ codes online and I pointed him to the Radio Times site. Billy Dods adds that: "TV Guide UKhas them for both terrestrial and satellite TV."
Would you pay more for a PC to offset its carbon dioxide emissions? Michael Dell - the founder, chairman and chief executive of the computer maker Dell - hopes that people will pay another &pound;1 for a notebook or &pound;3 more for a desktop machine to part-fund the planting of trees to offset the CO2 generated by the electricity needed to power them over three years.The initiative, called Plant A Tree For Me, has been extended to Europe as Dell this week announced its aim to become "the greenest technology company on Earth". The scheme includes a commitment to reduce the 'carbon intensity' of its operations by 15% by 2012, and a pledge to review its suppliers to demand that they too follow green practices.However, although Dell was enthusiastic about the potential of the scheme, he was unwilling to make a pledge to remediate the emissions that will have been caused by the electricity consumed by the computers his company has sold in its 23-year history. Last year, the company sold 39m computers, its highest total ever.Assuming the annual average over the company lifetime is half that, and offering &pound;2 per computer, that would cost &pound;897m. Dell's cash reserves are currently $6.8bn."It's a good idea," Dell said, but he offered no indication that he would implement it. Dell will also quiz its suppliers about their environmental practices, though it was reluctant to say whether it might relocate from suppliers in China, which is a notable user of inefficient fossil-fuelled power sources, to other countries. "We're at the measure, reward, report stage," said Tod Arbogast, Dell's director of sustainable business.Environmental concerns have become a growing focus for computer makers seeking to distinguish themselves from rivals. Dell said, though, that the impetus for the initiative had come from corporate customers, who demand machines that use less power because of fuel bills and limits on power availability to data centres.Dell's calculations suggest that a single tree sequesters 1.3 tonnes of carbon during a 70-year lifespan, while the electricity needed to power a computer releases 0.42 tonnes into the atmosphere in three years - meaning that a tree is needed to compensate for every three Dell machines.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
HTC touches UKThe HTC Touch touchscreen smartphone running Windows Mobile 6 is due to go on sale now from T-Mobile and Orange. Outsiders (not HTC) have compared the P3450 to Apple's iPhone.htc.comPalm's mobile companionPalm has unveiled the Foleo, a Linux-based notebook computer that synchronises automatically with a mobile phone.palm.comAsk upgrades searchThe Ask search engine, formerly Ask Jeeves, has been upgraded to Ask3D, with a new but not three-dimensional user interface.blog.ask.comMemory drives onSanDisk introduced a Flash-based 64GB SSD (solid state disk) for notebook PCs at the Computex Taipei 2007 trade show.sandisk.comTV to phoneResearch company Datamonitor predicts that the number of mobile broadcast TV subscribers will grow from 4.4m today to 155.6m by the end of 2012. This includes 42.7m in Europe.datamonitor.comLogMeIn for MacsThe free LogMeIn program, which allows users to log in to their PCs remotely, is now available for Apple computers.logmein.comUK's net leadThe UK has Europe's most active online population, with the highest number of usage days per month (21 per user), and the highest average time spent online (34.4 hours per month), according to comScore research.comscore.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Since the 1960s, politicians and pundits have predicted the imminent arrival of a digital utopia in which robots would do the washing up and we would live in peace and harmony in an electronically connected, global village, thanks to the net.So why are the utopian visions of 40 years ago strangely similar to the ones we hold today? Because business and political leaders have consistently pushed a carefully orchestrated fantasy of the future to distract us from the present, says Richard Barbrook, who explores the subject in Imaginary Futures - From Thinking Machines to the Global Village.Warping timeBarbrook, a senior lecturer in politics at the University of Westminster, has been researching this topic for more than four years. What he wants is to show how ideology is used to warp time. "In other words," he says, "how we're told that the importance of a new technology lies not in what it can do in the here and now, but what the more advanced models might be able to do one day." He is particularly interested in exposing the "nonsense of technological determinism", which he describes as "the theory that someone builds a machine, the machine sprouts legs and runs around the world changing it".Barbrook believes we can trace today's deterministic views of technology to the cold war; when the USSR and the United States dedicated huge resources to demonstrating which empire better represented progress and modernity. During that period, the US repackaged the space rockets, atomic reactors and computer mainframes it was developing in the pursuit of atomic Armageddon into prototypes of better things to come."Nasa's spaceships would evolve into luxurious interplanetary passenger liners," says Barbrook. "General Electric's nuclear fission reactors would become fusion plants providing limitless energy for all. IBM's computers were prototypes of artificial intelligence." Soon, the implication went, loyal obedient robots would be at humanity's beck and call.But America's packaging of the internet in the service of anti-communism has been the most significant influence on our thinking today, by Barbrook's analysis. Otherwise, he says, why do most of us today pick the internet as the technology that has transformed our lives? After all, if we really considered what has made a difference, "it's as likely to be soap or the contraceptive pill or antibiotics, which you could argue are more important than the convergence of computing, telecommunications and the media".So in 2007, with our mobile phones, computers and high-speed broadband connections, are we still hypnotised by cold war spin, patiently waiting for technology to deliver our utopian future? In his book, Barbrook outlines how the internet was always a political and ideological project. America decided to build it because the CIA discovered the Russians were building it first, "and the Americans didn't want a rerun of Sputnik", he says.The central idea that the fusion of broadcasting, computing and telecommunications would create a new - and better - social order. The "information society" came from a US government remix of the ideas of Marshall McLuhan, the professor who coined the phrases "the global village" and "the medium is the message". We have been living with the belief that technologies "transform society" ever since, he claims.Moreover, the same idea has been recycled with different terminology for at least four decades. "In the 1970s it was futurology, in the 1980s Silicon Valley hype, in the 1990s the dotcom bubble and now we have Web 2.0," Barbrook points out.It seems ridiculous when explained like this. So why do we continue to believe that some sort of digital utopia is just around the corner? Barbrook says that it is partly because the concept of the information age came complete with new types of workers who, instead of producing goods and services, would create "knowledge". He describes these "knowledge workers" along the lines of the Leninist vanguard party: "Lenin always appeals to people on the left selling newspapers because Lenin said the people who sell the newspapers are leading the revolution."In this case, the "vanguard" comprises technologists, academics and journalists who perpetuate the idea that technology is changing the world. "People who are writing about technology love a theory that says they are the most important people in society," Barbrook says. "How flattering to be told that 'you are the future', rather than train drivers or hospital workers."But as he admits, technological determinism is also appealing because of the complex society we live in. "When you use your Oyster card in the tube, you're not thinking that you're creating a relationship between the work you're doing and all the people who are working on the tube," he says. "But that is exactly what's going on. We don't see it because it is all mediated through technology.'Completely bonkers'"Because we live in this sort of society, you can see why technology gets fetishised. So it seems to make sense to say that the internet is transforming the world, but it in fact it's completely bonkers because it is simply a set of protocols."Today the internet is ubiquitous and to all intents and purposes we live in the information age. The global village hasn't healed the divisions of nations, class and culture or marked the birth of a new humanistic civilisation. Our virtual world might be a strange combination of cybernetic communism and dotcom capitalism, but in the real world, wars continue and governments and large corporations behave as always.In a final effort to destroy any vestiges of belief in technological determinism, Barbrook says: "Although they would see each other as ideologically opposite, Tony Blair and Osama bin Laden both have the same view of the world - they are both McLuhanists." Five years before 9/11, the leader of al-Qaida was declaring that the "world is becoming like a small village" says Barbrook, referring to a passage in Abdel Bari Atwan's book, The Secret History of al-Qaida. "Three years ago Tony Blair stood up at the Labour party conference and said we are entering the knowledge economy."Barbrook has an amusing take on our distorted - if not delusional - relationship with technology, but his underlying point is serious: future visions of technology are used to distract us and also control us, and if we forget these imaginary futures, we are likely to repeat them.&#183;Imaginary Futures: From Thinking Machine to the Global Village, by Richard Barbrook (Pluto Press, &pound;16.99)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
About two ounces (60 grams), or perhaps 0.2 millionths of an ounce (6 micrograms), depending which method you use to calculate the weight of the active electrons necessary to sustain the global network.But whichever number you end up with, it's clear that the net is the most expensive substance known to humans: think how much you pay for your internet connection, and then consider what a tiny part of the global network that is, and it's clear that these are super-precious electrons.Why the 10m-fold variation? Because it depends on whether you useRussell Seitz's method, which is to guess at the number of servers running the net (between 75m and 100m), their average power consumption (between 350W and 550W), the average voltage inside a logic gate (3V), and the average speed of those chips (1GHz)."An ampere is some 1018 electrons a second," Seitz writes, totting up the power use at 40bn Watts (40GW): "Straightforward calculation reveals that some 50 grams of electrons in motion make up the internet." Always bearing in mind that each electron has a resting mass of 9.1x10-31 kilograms, of course - so it takes a lot of them to make up even that tiny weight.Discover magazine, however, used the weight of a "bit" - comprised of 40,000 electrons stored in a capacitor on a chip. Bear in mind that the average 8-bit byte only contains four "1" bits (and four "0" bits), multiply it by the total volume of information passing around the net, estimated at40 petabytes, and voila: 0.2 millionths of an ounce. Or so. Of course, once your electron starts moving, its weight will rise (due to relativistic effects). So perhaps the net really does get slower as more people use it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What do you mean, "again"? They've never been enemies; in fact, they've been friends for decades, and although their get-together on the stage of the Wall Street Journal's D5 conference last week marked the first time (and perhaps the last) that they have been together answering questions on a stage since the 1980s, there has never been any real animosity between them.In fact in the 1980s, when the PC industry was in its infancy and the soon-to-be-famous pair weren't that far out of it, they occasionally went on "double dates" with their women of the moment, until Bill made the move to Seattle. Since then they've occasionally met for pleasure (such as adinner in 2003for the same WSJ event). And for business? That's not known.While their rivalry is intense and consists of much needling, at least from Jobs's side (he described the widespread use of the Mac-created iTunes by Windows users as "like offering a glass of ice water to someone in hell"), it is also marked by an acceptance of who shakes which branches of the tree.They ceased being true rivals once Jobs was kicked out of Apple in 1985 and headed off to found NeXT Computer. At that time, Apple was still a bigger business than Microsoft, which only passed it in revenues in 1997 (seeMicrosoft's10-year revenue chart, andApple's,) building on the success of Windows95, while Apple was considered a basket case, financially speaking.That also marked the last year the duo was seen on a stage together, though Gates then loomed huge via a telescreen over Jobs, who was explaining to the non-adoring Mac faithful that Microsoft had bought a $150m non-voting share in Apple. Well, what are friends for? But last week's appearance marks a peculiar time for the computer industry. Gates is preparing to step down from Microsoft to focus on his charitable work; Jobs is a board member at Disney. A year from now, if they didn't have their common past, it's hard to imagine a scenario outside a film script in which they'd come together.The transcript of their onstage talk is availablehereand shows Jobs in reflective mood: "When Bill and I first met each other and worked together in the early days, generally, we were both the youngest guys in the room, right? ... And now when we're working at our respective companies, I don't know about you, but I'm the oldest guy in the room most of the time."Their final estimations of each other? "I think the world's a better place because Bill realised that his goal isn't to be the richest guy in the cemetery," said Jobs. And Gates? "I'd give a lot to have Steve's taste ... The way he does things is just different and, you know, I think it's magical."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
