Media shy Xbox chief Peter Moore has been chummying up to Nintendo again. Yesterday hetold news site next-gen.bizthat, "I have been on the record many times talking about my admiration for Nintendo and the innovation that Wii brings." But his flirtatious endorsement wasn't entirely without reservations. "The controller is innovative but it remains to be seen how innovative your shoulder will feel after an hour's play," he later exclaimed nonsensically.Moore also envisages a utopia in which canny gamers shun PS3 in favour of owning both a 360 and a Wii. "Dual platform ownership of Xbox 360 and Wii could be as high as 40%... The influence of the Wii-60 movement seems to be growing enormously," he whispered, perhaps while performing some kind of quasi-political arm gesture.'The Wii-60 movement'? I like it. It elevates the otherwise benign consumer act of purchasing two games consoles into some kind of cultural revolution. Is this, at last, a cause our apathetic generation can finally get behind? Humanitarian crisis in Darfur? 'Hmm, sounds awful but...' The bloody scandal of the war in Iraq? 'Well, I know Ishouldprotest...', Wii-60?! 'Yes, let's rise up and embrace a unified solution to the Sony hegemony. Let us play both hardcore shootersandinnovative movement-controlled RPGs!'.So, areyouplanning to join up?
If you, like me, are intrigued by novel interactive approaches to scientific data collection (now that's an intro line, ain't it?),gamepoliticshas information about an experiment that's addressing what one commentator has described as "sheeple" theory: play games and help science develop an understanding of social behaviour. From the description:"Collective behavior is potentially more controllable than isolated individual behavior because of the strong influences among the individuals' behavior." Rob Goldstone's research uses video games to "observe, explain, and computationally model how groups of people behave."There are a series of quick, casual, decision-making games that you can play, so if you're looking for a distraction from the daily grind, head to theIndiana Universitysite.
"Breakfast?" said the ticket-seller at Carlisle station. "Oh, no, there's nowhere around here that would serve you breakfast at this time of the morning. There's a 24-hour Tesco on the Newcastle Road, though.""On the Newcastle Road? Is it within walking distance?" I asked."Oh, no, not at all. You could try the hotel next door..."To be fair, it was barely 5am on a Thursday morning and still pitch black outside. The train attendant had knocked on our cabin door at 4.30am to let us know that the sleeper would be arriving at Carlisle early and we should be ready to alight. Impressed though I was by the train's punctuality, it was well before the scheduled time of 0503 when the Caledonian Sleeper pulled away and headed towards the Scottish border, and I could have done with another hour or two in bed: the service had left Euston only five hours before.Still, I had consoled my partner with the promise of a shower at Carlisle. The Network Rail website said it existed and we were prepared to pay for the privilege."Showers? No, there's never been a shower at this station," said a greatcoated station staffer apologetically as he headed for his office.One of our fellow passengers had wheeled his bike to the station newsagent and lay down beside it to sleep; a handful of others disappeared into the night. We retreated to a bench on the platform and watched the station clock count out the seconds until 0700, when the nearby hotel would serve us breakfast.Passengers who slumbered all the way to Scotland would have enjoyed a much more satisfactory experience. Showers are available at Edinburgh Waverley, Glasgow Central and Inverness (and at Euston, too, if you travel first class), and the later wake-up call makes an enormous difference to the quality of the journey. And those who need to arrive in time for a breakfast meeting will have no difficulty making it. But the lack of facilities at Carlisle was a pity, particularly since the sleeper itself had exceeded my expectations. Boarding at Euston, which begins at 11pm, has nothing in common with the stresses of airport travel. A train attendant crossed our name off a list and directed us to our cabin.Inside were two bunks. People travelling alone can choose to pay a supplement of &pound;49 each way or pay the first class rate to ensure they travel alone, but are never placed with someone of the opposite sex. (Regular users of the service say they often end up alone, anyway.) Underneath the window was a British Rail-era sink with a cover and above it a small luggage rack. Two sets of padded hangers are provided for clothes. Those travelling with big suitcases will find it a squeeze, but most business travellers will have ample space.It should be added that there is no danger of falling out of the top bunk, thanks to the thick straps suspending it from the ceiling. The sheets are cotton and the blankets tartan: travellers familiar with BA's Club World bed will notice that the sleeper bunks are six inches longer and somewhat wider. First ScotRail also provides towels, a toothbrush and potable water in a neat package. Single-sex toilets are located at the end of the carriage. It took a few minutes for the slow wheeze and snort of the train to lull me to sleep. If you are sharing a cabin and have a poor tolerance of snoring, earplugs are advisable.First class passengers can order food and a Laphroaig or another nightcap to be delivered to their cabin. Anyone else has to make the journey to the dining car. Despite the predominance of oats and shortbread snacks on the menu, there is no rule against eating in bed.Those hoping to recharge their laptop overnight, however, will be disappointed to find there is no power socket like the one Virgin provides in first class. Although the sleeper is popular among some Scottish MPs and MSPs - Charles Kennedy is a fan - First ScotRail has tended to market it as a leisure service rather than an environmentally-sound and unhassled alternative to the plane. Occupancy rates are therefore highest at weekends, when long-distance commuters head home or back to work and holidaymakers are travelling north. "We have various ticket offers with which we try to encourage people to travel midweek," says a spokeswoman for First ScotRail. These include the "bargain berths" at &pound;19 each way. There is even talk of a &pound;5 single.Booking complexitiesCritics point out, however, that the cheap berths are currently only available on one part of the First ScotRail website and the standard fares on another. Neither can be booked via thetrainline.com. The complexities of a sleeper booking - upper and lower berths, and the need to keep male and female strangers apart - are too much for The Trainline's existing software. Indeed, First ScotRail, which is contracted to run the Caledonian Sleeper franchise until 2011, does not even display pictures of the cabins on its website.First ScotRail's spokeswoman added that the company had no power to improve the facilities at Carlisle: "It would probably fall under Network Rail. It's not something we have any say in." It is hard to imagine Network Rail regarding the provision of showers as a priority, given the handful of people alighting there. Yet it would not be beyond the wit of First ScotRail to negotiate a deal with one of the local hotels to offer, if not washing facilities, then at least an armchair in a warm room.Meanwhile, after the ill-advised withdrawal of its first class breakfast service, the company is bringing back the china, silver teapots and cutlery as part of a &pound;1m refurbishment. Although our carriage had not yet been revamped, the standard breakfast bag was remarkably good: muesli soaked in yoghurt in the Swiss style, a muffin and a mini croissant, with orange juice or hot tea or coffee delivered to the bunk a few minutes before arrival.Punctuality is not as good as it might be: even allowing for a delay of up to half an hour, only just under 92% of the Caledonian sleepers reached their destination on time in 2005-06, although this figure rose to 95.4% over the summer. Fares, the bargain berths excepted, are relatively high (an Apex return to Carlisle, Glasgow or Edinburgh is &pound;95, a single &pound;63; last-minute standard fares are &pound;149 and &pound;105 respectively; and a first class return will set you back &pound;205). Regular travellers can buy a 10-journey flexipass for &pound;885, which is transferable and valid for a year. It guarantees a private first class cabin. Alternatively, the Scottish Executive return costs &pound;319 and includes first class travel by sleeper in one direction and on GNER in the other.The Caledonian Sleeper's best hope of a revival lies in the increasingly onerous demands of airport security and the possibility of carbon trading for businesses or a "green" tax on domestic air travel. Yet the 133-year-old service has much to recommend it. Travellers who are prepared to pay thousands for a flat bed in what amounts to a flying dormitory will find the sleeper cabin offers far more privacy and comfort than a commercial jet can. If only it had taken a little longer to reach Carlisle.
BooksStart-up secrets laid bareMaxine Clark describes herself as founder and chief executive bear of the Build-A-Bear Workshop, which is a bit twee and might put some people off reading her book, The Bear Necessities of Business (Wiley &pound;16.99). But that would be a shame, because you'd be missing out on some pretty decent business advice.Clark began her business, in which kids make their own teddy bears, with a single outlet in 1997 and it now operates in 200 countries. The idea is simple and popular, but even the best ideas won't work unless they're backed by some pretty good marketing and communications nous.Bits of advice dotted around this volume include: don't concentrate on selling but instead focus on connecting with the customer; show a willingness to do any job - that way employees won't feel left out and you'll discover first-hand which processes work and which ones don't; and pay attention to the packaging as well as the core products you offer. Business owners should pay particular attention the part that advises against sitting around waiting for your first break, encouraging would-be entrepreneurs to instead make their own luck.There will be a lot for the beginner as well as the seasoned entrepreneur - and it's structured so that people can easily dip in and out. Worth reading whatever your line of business.LegislationChanges to hit small firmsThe Forum for Private Business (FPB) is making its members aware of some of the forthcoming maternity legislation that it believes will increase the burden on the smaller organisation.The changes will in effect mean that companies with fewer than five employees will cease to be exempt from maternity obligations; employees won't have to serve a minimum term before being entitled to full rights and employers will be obliged to offer the same or similar work when they return.Nick Goulding, chief executive of the FPB, believes this will hit smaller firms quite badly: "There is a danger that firms will be left with the costly and difficult task of replacing staff who have entered into the job knowing they will be taking extended leave very early in their employment." He welcomed some of the changes, however, including the increase in notice period a worker will have to give if she changes her plans to return or leave after giving birth.The same organisation is warning that the increase in the minimum wage will have the effect of putting prices up. It polled 100 of its small business members and found that 40% thought they would have to put prices up to counter the effect of the change on their overheads. The adult rate will rise from &pound;5.05 to &pound;5.35 per hour from Sunday.Of the companies contacted, 70% said they would not be employing any further staff, and that this was a direct result of the minimum wage increasing. "The problem with increasing the national minimum wage at a rate greater than the increase in average earnings is there is greater pressure on small employers to give higher pay rises to their higher earners," says FPB campaigns manager Victoria Carson. "If they don't, they are left with disgruntled workers who feel that their skills deserve a greater financial reward than those colleagues who perhaps have fewer skills, but are earning much closer to their pay bracket than ever before."CommunicationsHuman element still vitalIn spite of all of the hype, it seems people still aren't buying into the great dream of the "virtual organisation". Working on behalf of Cisco, occupational psychologists Pearn Kandola found that trust issues persist when dealing with people who aren't actually in front of you.An over-reliance on email, failure to respond to those emails and the use of inappropriate means of communications have contributed to the breakdown of business relationships, the Psychology of Effective Business Communications study concludes. It suggests a numberof strategies and protocols to overcome the difficulties it identifies. These include agreeing to protocols on response times and establishing rules for how often you communicate and through which medium.In spite of claims made about how efficient electronic communications can be, the report finds that an electronic exchange can take up to four times as long as a standard one. It also points out that non-verbal cues can account for 63% of the content of a conversation, and that all of the nuances will be lost using text-only media.HardwareDesktop delightsGadget of the month is the new set of keyboards from Kensington Micro. Comprising one basic model at &pound;18 called the PilorBoard Multimedia Desktop, a wireless version at &pound;32 and a laser desktop set for &pound;48, the range aims to save space while looking modern and stylish. The high-end set is probably the most interesting because it is the first wireless set on the market to offer a laser mouse that is more accurate than the standard sort.The company will be aiming the products squarely at the home business user, and all three keyboards are compatible with both PCs and Macs. As well as the extra features and programmability of the more advanced keyboard, a lot of people are likely to end up choosing it because of the battery life. Kensington claims the mouse will go on for an impressive nine months without the need for new batteries and the keyboard will last even longer.
I used to think the summer season had pretty much died at the point holidaymakers switched allegiance from the British seaside to the Spanish Costas, Disneyland or anywhere else with guaranteed sunshine. But since I moved to Ibiza I've found it's alive and well, albeit in a rather different guise.In a strange way the discos here have replaced the end-of-the-pier shows that used to entertain the Brits during their annual holidays. Just as the seaside variety theatres were dark for most of the year, so it is with the clubs in the "clubbing capital of the world". This Sunday one of the biggest, Space, holds its closing party and that marks the end of the season until June 2007.Theoretically the clubs have three months a year to make a return on their outlay on highly sophisticated decor, lighting and sound systems. In practice the timescale is much shorter than that; a couple of weeks either side of August is the only time they get close to capacity.Although only a proportion of the 1.8 million visitors to Ibiza are clubbers, they reflect the island's most obvious unique selling proposition. I've become fascinated by the economics of it all, if only because the sums are so huge and so shrouded in mystery. I even had one meeting with a promoter cancelled at the last minute because anybody connected with the club is barred from speaking to the British media.Officially the seven largest clubs on Ibiza had a combined income of a little over &euro;25m, about &pound;17m, in 2003, the most recent year for which figures are available. But that's only part of the story. During the summer here you don't go out to a disco - you go to a "night" or a "party", because each day the clubs are taken over by a separate promoter.The scale of the competition can be imagined from the maths. Seven clubs and seven nights means 49 promoters are vying for custom. Privilege, proudly the world's largest nightclub, has a capacity of over 10,000. Each of the others can hold several thousand people.Admission prices vary, but for a night in August it's usually around &euro;45-60 (&pound;30-&pound;40). Drinks in the ultra-fashionable Pacha range from &euro;8 (&pound;5.50) for a small, still water to &euro;15 (&pound;10) for a mixed drink. In the VIP area a bottle of vodka with mixers is &euro;250 (over &pound;170). Prices in the other clubs are not much less.Of course, not every club is full to capacity each night, far from it. That's where the promoters come in. Since disco fever petered out at the end of the 1980s, a predominantly British crew has competed to fill the venues.It's a delicate balancing act they have to follow because nobody wants to go on to an empty dancefloor, but accusations of "selling out" can be almost as damaging. After a number of successful years, for instance, Britain's best-known clubbing brand, Ministry of Sound, has virtually disappeared from the island.The trick is to get the right word-of-mouth buzz, which is why it's always easier to get in free on the guest list at the start of the season. You'll tell your friends not just about the music and superstar DJs, but the transvestite stilt walkers, scantily-clad male and female dancers, even the live sex show that used to be part of Manumission's Privilege party.For Manumission differentiation has come in the form of live music, rather than DJs, under the banner Ibiza Rocks. It gives you some idea of how much the clubbing business is worth to the island when Manumission promoter Andy McKay says: "We lost &pound;100,000 last year. This year we've budgeted to lose &pound;60,000, but we might just break even."That was achieved thanks to sponsorship from mobile phone company Sony Ericsson and a TV deal with Channel 4. Sponsorship money is flowing into other clubs along with cash from merchandise and souvenir CDs.So how much is it all worth? Nobody knows. Despite the sums involved, the whole clubbing business seems to be run with less concern for accountancy practices than you'd find at the average village barn dance. I'm sure they must have had a better idea when they ran end-of-the-pier shows.
The difficulty with growing as a business is that you constantly need to update yourself with different skills as your organisation changes. Self-discipline and focus might be exactly what someone needs while they're working from their bedroom, but that has nothing to do with the sort of people management skills a more substantial concern is going to need.In short, you need training, whether on leadership or on some other specific skill you feel you require. And this is where it gets difficult. For every excellent trainer who knows precisely what he or she is doing, there are several who are pretty hopeless. And although there is no barrier to prevent time-wasters setting up in business, there are questions you can ask to help determine whether a training organisation is the real deal (see below).Initially, however, the onus is on the potential trainee. Essentially you need to identify why you need training and what your objectives will be. David Harman, a trainer with LDL, has put together bespoke courses for business leaders and agrees that a lot of entrepreneurs will start off with mostly instinctive skills. "One big challenge as they grow a business is how much they hang on to it and stay hands-on and how much they hand on to others," he says. "In terms of skills they need, often one fundamental thing is the ability to let go, and another is to share their vision of where the business is heading."What you get with a lot of entrepreneurs is this amazing passion - they know what they want to achieve. They then bring in executive directors sometimes to challenge their preconceptions."Any training or mentoring Harman offers starts with the client's objectives. "It may be they want to increase turnover, profitability of market share, or they may want to increase the motivation of people around them," he says. Sometimes people want a 360-degree evaluation of themselves and sometimes they simply want to feel supported in what can be a lonely role at the top of a company.Personal developmentTrainer Rachael Garside, director of Tall Spaghetti Ltd, chooses to base her business around personal development. "Personal development makes all the difference to outcomes," she says. "We have all encountered people who are highly qualified and have strong vocational skills, but are ineffective in their role for reasons such as poor people skills, lack of self-esteem or a negative attitude. Personal development allows you to address these areas and many more."The difficulty can often be that personal development inevitably involves taking some sort of criticism on board, and not everyone can handle that. Harman agrees that this can be the case and adds that when someone opts for a company like his to perform a full 360-degree evaluation as a starting point, they need to be ready for anything they might hear. "Basically they're asking, 'what do people think of me as a leader?' They have to make sure they know why they're asking and what they're going to do with the information." If an evaluation concludes that someone isn't a very good leader, for example, but they choose to ignore it, the result is likely to be a highly unmotivated workforce.When it works, however, the results can be spectacular. Victor Tettmar is now managing partner with law firm Bond Pearce, which he joined as a trainee lawyer. The firm brought in Kaisen Consulting when it identified a gap four years ago. "We started to look at succession planning," he says. "Essentially we needed to think about who was going to be looking after the firm in a few years' time."Kaisen began by using psychometric testing to identify where in the organisation the next likely leaders would come from. The next task was to find out which essential skills potential new leaders already possessed and which needed to be identified as areas for training. Meanwhile, Tettmar and some colleagues were attending a course at Harvard Business School to acquire business rather than purely legal skills.Tettmar explains that one of the major gaps Kaisen identified in his case was people management. "My training was as a lawyer. People management isn't something you naturally learn," he says. "[I needed to learn] how to motivate my colleagues, how to get the best out of them." Kaisen soon put that right - and taking this approach with the whole company offered a threefold benefit: pointing Tettmar towards what was to become an entirely new career as a manager, putting succession management in place and revitalising the structure of the business so it could see where it would be in five years' time.The cost of these services varies dramatically, of course. Harman offers a one-to-one intensive day for several hundred pounds, or a much more intensive approach that begins with a full evaluation of a business and moves on from there for several thousands. "The question is how much they want to invest and what they can save by doing it," says Harman. It can be more like a non-executive director role and can really push up profitability."Top tips - What to look out for in a trainerKim Parish, chief executive of the Institute of Leadership and Management, identifies 10 things to look out for in a good management trainer:1. QualityBe sure that the training company is approved by an awarding body such as the Institute of Leadership and Management2. Business focusCan the trainer demonstrate how they would deliver improvements in individual and business performance? Look for evidence of a training team who have recent industry experience and can "talk the language of business"3. Flexible learning designHave it your way. There are many different ways to deliver training. Bite-size learning and learning based on real business problems are both good methods4. Experienced and competentAre they able to demonstrate familiarity with Management and Leadership Standards and trends in management development? Can they talk fluently about some of the drivers for change in management and leadership behaviour?5. CredibleDoes the trainer listen to you and inspire confidence that they can deliver?6. Cost effectiveLook at courses that provide creative ways of doing what you want: ways of spreading the cost, using computer-based learning to reduce time out of work etc7. ChallengingDoes the trainer really make you work hard to nail down your objectives? And do they sometimes admit that training won't solve all your problems? The great ones will give you free management consultancy as well as training8. Client referencesMake sure references are recent, specific and from your sector9. QualificationsIs the trainer able to offer qualifications, so you and your colleagues gain external recognition for the course?10. ResourcesMake sure the trainer has adequate staff, systems support, learning material, access to quality speakers etc
Here's a scenario: you've been working on your business for 10 years. It's profitable and seems steady. But you're now in your 40s and you feel like you're not seeing enough of your family. Your business employs 20 people and turns over a couple of million a year - but now feels like the right time to take the money and run.This is the first time it has occurred to you that you could sell your organisation and, to be honest, you rather like the thought. The problem is that according to a number of experts and people with real-life experience, you've already left it very late to start planning your exit.Cedric Robertshaw, an advisor at Birmingham Business Link, says it's very difficult to persuade entrepreneurs with new start-ups to think about planning their exit from the beginning. "Most people starting a business just can't take it in," he says. "Most of the people we advise have very little direct experience of business."This can lead to difficulties when people are ready to sell - and many people eventually do want to sell: after all, they've worked for some sort of reward. "When they come to sell they find they've put in no infrastructure," says Robertshaw. "It's very difficult to sell at that stage."Typically, an entrepreneur will have been so engrossed in running the business that they will have put themselves almost irretrievably at its centre, so they find if they sell and try to exit there's nothing left. This will hammer the value of the business into the ground. "A lot of people have to wind up instead," says Robertshaw - which presumably demolishes the plan for an easier life on retirement.Mark Roy founded data management company the REaD Group in 1991 and is still chief executive. But he is planning to leave by the time he is 50, and everybody who works with him is aware of this. "The key point of an exit strategy is to achieve value," he says. "One needs to be aware of that strategy from a long way back. And if you're looking at how to achieve that strategy you need to have an active timeline, or else you can drift."Having agreed the timeline with his board, some of the decisions the board might otherwise have taken have changed. "Over the last 12 months we've acquired some companies, and we've learned that acquisition is probably the most expensive thing you can do. We're absolutely adamant that over the next 12 months there are not going to be any distractions to the business. We've invested in organisations to enhance our product offering, but our next target for this year is a step mark in the value of the company." This means keep the cash in the bank and don't buy any other companies for a while. "We've looked at the way the organisation is run and what we're not going to do - we're not going to add lots of products to our portfolio and we're not going to acquire anything else."Strategical planningThis is the effect of a decision taken years ago, and it appears unlikely that people will achieve the value they want if they don't allow themselves some time. Indeed, Robertshaw reckons people should start thinking about getting out about three or four years before they actually need to. "It depends on the complexity of your business, but that's true for a lot of businesses we talk to who have, say, 20 people."Actually selling a business can be a complex process, but before you even get there you have to consider how to sustain your staff's interest. Everybody who has worked with any substantial business will be aware, when there's an acquisition, that the first thing the newly-acquired personnel start doing is fretting about their jobs. Roy's belief is that full disclosure to everyone as early as possible is in everyone's best interests. "For the last three or four years I've made it clear that my 50th is the target. The thing is not to have it as a surprise for the members of staff; whoever buys our business will have ideas about positioning it and it should become exciting as the staff think about it."Clearly the next stage is valuing your company and actually finding a buyer. Russell Veitch, a director at specialist business seller KWS, finds a lot of clients get the process slightly skewed. "They come to us and ask, 'what's our business worth', and I have to tell them it's worth whatever someone will pay for it." The identity of the buyer can be crucial. Veitch quotes one company that sold security tags to the retail trade. It attracted a &pound;600,000 offer from a business angel investor but also a &pound;1.7m offer from a trade buyer whose business was compatible and who wanted the organisation rather than just money. It won't come as much of a surprise to hear that they opted for the &pound;1.7m.Again, getting the most value out of a company has a lot to do with planning an exit in advance. "The thing to do is to try to spend time working on the business rather than in it," says Veitch. So for example if you're a hairdresser, he says, you could try to do less hairdressing - the fact that your employees do the work will be among your assets when you come to sell - and instead look at the shape of the business. Do you own or lease your equipment, for example. Does it add value to your company? Veitch also urges people to buy the premises on which they work wherever possible as the plant then becomes an asset on the balance sheet. "I suppose in this instance you'd need to become a businessperson who happens to be a hairdresser rather than the other way around."The biggest potential blocker of a sale, he says, has to be the manager who is intrinsically part of the business. "Too many owners are too embedded in their company," he says. "You can almost always double the value of a company if the owner isn't too heavily involved in the day to day stuff."He also advises forgetting anything you've been told about working out how much a company is worth. All the multiples on all the spreadsheets in the world won't help when it comes to an apathetic market that just doesn't want to bite. All our experts agree that there's no substitute for an exit planned extremely well in advance. If you can somehow put this into the initial business plan, then so much the better. If you can identify the right people to start taking over a year or two in advance, great, and if you can plant the idea that they might want to buy the whole shebang themselves, so much the better.But whatever you do, the time to start thinking about it is probably well before you actually want to get out. "Last week" would be a good time to start.Advice - Selling up and staying inNot everyone who sells a business actually wants to leave the organisation. Ed Bartlett was a computer game writer who saw a lot of his market implode when Microsoft and Sony started dominating and 30 game companies went to the wall in a year. He decided to move sideways and founded The Hive, which effectively acted as an ad agency for product placement in computer games. He signed up clients including Red Bull and in a short while the organisation was in profit.His decision to sell came not because trading was tough or because of any adverse circumstances, but because software company IGA made an offer at the end of 2004. IGA had the technology to track adverts and responses in games - it was a natural fit and came with the opportunity to go international immediately. Bartlett took a stake in IGA by way of payment for his organisation -and he hasn't regretted it. "It was a matter of owning 100% of something very small or 10% of something bigger," he says.The experience has left him with strong views about being acquired and where some people go wrong. Selling when you're short of cash, he says, is the worst thing you can do since it'll come out in the due diligence and the buyer will have an absolute view of the situation. They'll be in a good position to take you for every penny they can. "Your planning will be very different if you're looking to exit to retire, compared with exiting in order to increase your ultimate potential return or exiting to change direction or focus," he says.He also advises against over-valuing your business as you'll almost certainly be shot down. It's very easy to find you've been objective and businesslike for years and then find yourself inflating your concern's value because, dammit, it's your baby...
Three of the five contestants who took part in the Business Sense eBay challenge - which ended in March - have moved on from using the marketplace website to run a business. In the case of winner Roger Eigenheer, much of this movement has been uphill. He stopped selling second-hand bicycles to concentrate on training for L'Etape du Tour, in which amateurs cycle a stage of the Tour de France.On July 10, he was one of 7,548 cyclists riding one of the toughest stages of the tour, the 119-mile stretch from Gap to L'Alpe d'Huez. It included two summits and several miles of steep, zig-zagging road up to the finishing line. Eigenheer took 10 hours and four minutes to become one of 5,477 to complete the race. "I was pleased to finish," he says. Training took up the weekend spare time he had used to run the eBay business: "Pretty much every Sunday from the end of the competition onwards was a six- to eight-hour bike ride."With a promotion at work, Eigenheer says he does not have time to return to trading on eBay, but adds: "I do think there are opportunities in the future." He still uses the site for buying cycling goods.Clare Tomkins has continued to develop her eBay-based business, selling personalised children's bags and associated items, since the competition ended. Her feedback rating is around 300, compared with 130 in March, and as Business Sense went to press she had retained a 100% positive feedback score.Indeed, the business has been going a bit too well: "We got back from a week away on holiday and every item that was up for auction in the shop had been bought," she says. "I had 12 bags to do. I re-listed and they were all bought again."To allow her to spend time with her children over the summer holidays she stopped listing items requiring personalisation. But she continued to receive emails asking for bags, with increasing demands for customisation. "In the beginning people were happy to have what I was selling," says Tomkins. "But now, people are saying, 'it needs to be a red bag with a pocket', or, 'it needs to be 100 by 170cm in royal blue, double-lined so it can take football boots'."She has developed pricing for such extras - she prefers fixed, "buy it now" sales to auctions - but still lists such customised orders on eBay. This provides her with some protection over disputed payments, but can also mean that someone other than the person who emailed the request can buy it - meaning she makes two similar items.Although Tomkins says eBay's dispute system has helped her get payment in almost all cases, she has avoided "unpaid item strikes", reporting an eBay user for non-payment. This is to protect her own online reputation, although she says she gets the odd grumble from buyers who haven't read the description properly.Change in policyA change in eBay's policies has also damaged Tomkins' sales: at the start of August, the site reduced the visibility of items for sale in its online shops, which cost sellers at least &pound;6 a month but allow items to be listed from 3p each, compared with the usual 15p minimum listing fee. The change means that shop items appear in a search only if few normally-listed items are found.Tomkins says this hasn't caused problems with personalised bags - they are fairly unusual, so her shop items still appear. But it has badly hit sales of children's books and Fairtrade children's clothes (which she buys, rather than makes): "I've sold one book in six weeks. I used to sell six a week," she says, and she is unlikely to buy further stock.Although Tomkins says she plans to run her business as a part-time job in future, she does have a new idea: baby bunting, with names spelt out on the flags. She has already made a test batch: "I've only seen one kind of personalised bunting on eBay, and it doesn't look as good."Denice Purdie, who runs Purdie's Scottish Soap Company with her husband, has also retained her eBay shop, but mainly as a way of getting the attention of retailers. As well as providing visibility through eBay itself, the shop also does well in search engine rankings: "It's even cheaper than Google," she says, comparing it to the search engine's paid-for AdWords service. "Google loves eBay."The Purdies, who live in the small village of Colintraive on Scotland's west coast, have been concentrating on large orders from retailers, including the Clan Albanach chain of kilt-makers, distillery visitor centres such as those for the Macallan and Glengoyne whiskies, as well as the shops of the National Trust of Scotland and the country's tourist board, VisitScotland. Last autumn, the Purdies were distributing their goods through 18 retailers. That figure has now risen to 96, and Denice Purdie says the business is three times the size it was a year ago.This means they can move forward with their plans to expand local manufacturing. "We've got a plot in hand, and we're hoping to get a soapery up," says Denice Purdie. "We're hoping to employ people with learning difficulties in our area." They are applying for a grant from Highlands and Islands Enterprise, which promotes the area's economic and social development, and have already received one from Scotland Unlimited, which supports social entrepreneurs.They are also planning a new range where 5% of the price will go to Cancer Research Scotland. As well as being socially worthwhile, this will help get across the purity of their products, Purdie says. "We've started this business with nothing carcinogenic."Purdie's Scottish Soap Company will focus mainly on selling through retailers rather than direct to customers online, even if eBay does serve as a virtual shop window. But Purdie says she continues to use the site for purchasing, both for the business - it is a good place to find small quantities of supplies such as candle equipment, ribbons and packaging - and for their new house.Wrong productBy the end of the competition, both Stuart Reed and Paul Edwards, selling sporting goods and conservatories respectively, had come to the conclusion that their businesses were not well-suited to eBay. Reed, now working as an online trading consultant, says he may try starting an eBay business again, but adds that he needs more funding to buy goods in bulk at cheaper prices. "I think the downside of what I was doing was wrong product, wrong price," he says.Paul Edwards agrees with Denice Purdie that eBay is a good form of advertising: he reckons some conservatory companies run shops on the site that sell little or nothing, purely to generate leads. "There's nowhere else you could get national advertising for &pound;100," he says, but that amount a month pays for a substantial eBay presence.After the competition, Edwards experienced a serious setback when developing a new online business to sell custom-built doors. A few weeks after he started trading in April, a larger company contacted him, asserting its right to his domain name as it had taken a similar trademark around the time he had bought the online name."The first thing anyone should do with the name of a company is trademark it," says Edwards. "Then you can't go wrong." Without a trademark, and without the funding for a legal battle or a strong alternative domain name and a new round of marketing, he decided to cut his losses. Instead, he opened a trade outlet for builders in Hertfordshire for doors, conservatories and windows, as well as undertaking custom installation work for the public.Business is expanding, and Edwards is looking for venture capital funding. He has a new product: integral blinds for conservatories, where the blind is held between the two sheets of double glazed windows. He has gone directly to the Patent Office to apply for a trademark, rather than through a solicitor, and says the staff are helpful and fees are fairly low.He says he might return to eBay, although primarily as a method of advertising. But he reckons it is better suited to businesses adapted from hobbies, rather than large-scale enterprises. "It seems people fall into it," Edwards says. "I think it's difficult to launch a business on eBay - it's easier to turn a hobby into a business."WeblinksClare Tomkins' eBay store:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/back-to-schoolDenice Purdie's eBay store:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/purdies-the-scottish-soap-companyPaul Edwards' trade outlet for builders:www.tfstrade.co.uk
For the last few weeks I've been trying to find the catch in what sounds as if it's yet another dodgy internet get-rich-quick scheme. I'm now coming to the conclusion that there isn't a trick, although "rich" for most people should be seen in pocket money terms rather than moving them into Lotto-winner territory.The scheme is Google's AdSense which, since its launch three years ago, has revolutionised online advertising. In principle its concept is simple, extending the technology that Google uses to provide relevant answers for search queries to supplying relevant advertising to fit the context of a webpage.Advertisers pay Google every time somebody clicks on one of their ads, a system known as "pay-per-click", or PPC. The owner of the page receives a proportion of the fee. Google's revenue from the scheme last year was $2.7bn. Little surprise, then, that Microsoft and Yahoo have schemes of their own. In fact it was really pioneered by Overture, which is now owned by Yahoo. Google, however, is the company that's really brought contextual advertising to the masses.The scheme is popular with advertisers because they can monitor the minutiae of a campaign. They know exactly which ad a customer clicked on, what the ad looked like, what the wording was, where it was displayed, how much it cost and how much the customer spent. No longer is 90% of advertising expenditure wasted on people who'll never buy the product.Most of these facilities have been available for years, but only on large, commercial websites. Google's big breakthrough is democratising the service. Anybody can go through the simple registration process, followed by pasting a simple piece of code into a website or blog. There's no charge and, therefore, no risk.The way AdSense has spread across the web like a rash appeals to advertisers because it gives them access to highly-focused audiences. A niche blog can attract people who are fanatically interested in the product and the advertiser only needs to pay when a visitor is sufficiently interested to click on a link.I first became attracted to AdSense a few weeks ago when I was commissioned by this newspaper and the publisher A&C; Black to write a book on living and working abroad. Given that when it's completed this is supposed to be a manual with much of the research carried out online, it seemed logical to organise it around a website. I already owned the sitewww.adeskinthesun.com, the title of my column which appears elsewhere in this section, and I thought it would be nice to cover the small amount it costs to run.Although I make my living mostly as a business and technology writer, that doesn't mean I'm a web designer - and I'm certainly not a salesman. Neither of these limitations prevents me using AdSense, although design has a massive impact on the effectiveness of the adverts.Mark Edwards, online manager of specialist online newsletter publisher Electric Word, told me how optimising several websites had increased the income from advertising by a huge magnitude. He's reluctant to publicise exact figures, partly to deter imitators and also because Google has fairly draconian rules for AdSense participants."One of our sites is Sports Injury Bulletin," says Edwards. "It's fairly technical as it's aimed at professional therapists. It also has a high ranking on Google because it's been around for a while and includes a lot of original content."We were worried at first that putting ads on the site might reduce the number of paid subscriptions. It hasn't. What seems to have happened instead is that the sort of people who injure themselves playing Sunday morning football discover the site through Google and find it's too technical for them. They click on the ads instead."Clicks that pay wellSo visitors who would otherwise have gone elsewhere are now providing income. "It also helps us that many of the ads that appear on our site are for injury compensation lawyers and those clicks pay rather well," says Edwards.With AdSense not all clicks are created equally. Advertisers bid for AdWords, which may also be phrases, according to a secret and complex system involving levels of competition, product value and placement. The cost of individual AdWords is never made public, but it's well known that many of the most expensive involve US lawyers and financial services.Top of the list, according to theproguy.com, is $69.16 for "school loan consolidation". Student loans are big business across the pond. More obscurely, "abdominal mesothelioma" is always high up (it's a rare form of asbestos-linked cancer, popular with American occupational compensation attorneys).Armed with a list of these words, you might think the way to instant riches was to build a website featuring as many as possible. Sadly, you wouldn't be alone. Plenty of people have the same idea.It is, however, worth knowing the cost of buying AdWords because there's a profit to be made if you can use cheaper ones to bring the sort of people to your site who'll click on its more expensive ads. Dan Winchester, for instance, runs a number of sites, includingwww.houseprices.co.uk, which provides searchable access to the Land Registry's list of property transactions in England and Wales. He reckons he spends about &pound;3,000 a month promoting the site, &pound;200 on hosting and &pound;800 on fees to the Land Registry. Set against this, his income from AdSense last month was just over $10,000 - or around &pound;5,400 - not a huge profit, but worth having.Making money from AdSense, however, requires patience. It takes months before even the best-designed, most useful website appears in the rankings of Google and other search engines. When people start coming to a site it's unlikely that more than 3-4% of them will actually click on the ads.Improving click-through rate (CTR) can easily become an obsession because Google offers such detailed reports on numbers of visitors and how many click on the ads. There's much debate about the most effective methods of improving the percentage CTR, but there's general agreement that ads that blend in with the site and are displayed high up are most likely to be clicked on.This should be easy. Google provides AdSense subscribers with a fairly wide variety of shapes and sizes for ad blocks. There's even greater flexibility in colour schemes. However, those of us who are not web designers by trade and would prefer to use off-the-peg templates for blogging can find the compromise between content and advertising hard to make.Most blogs, for instance, have a wide space for text and pictures with a narrow column down the side for navigation, links and so on. AdSense really works better across three columns, an option that isn't always available from hosts.Worrying about design structure is, however, somewhat secondary. I know how excited I got when I found I'd earned $2.65 in a day, but that still falls short of even my limited financial targets. What's missing is traffic.For me that should come with time. The most successful websites and blogs, in AdSense terms, are specialist and with plenty of regularly updated, original text content.Meanwhile I'll keep signing into my AdSense account, hoping that the daily number of page impressions will move into triple figures and the number of clicks will increase too so that my page CTR will register a decent percentage. Maybe then my dollar income will cover the cost of hosting my website.Blogging: A nice little 30-year earnerThe idea of making money from a blog is particularly appealing to journalists, as former Lancashire Evening Telegraph reporter Craig McGinty explains: "When I write an article for a website it could be around for 20 or 30 years earning me money from advertising." That's rather different from the usually disposable nature of a journalist's work and income.Blogging is also something that can be done anywhere. McGinty started thisfrenchlife.com in the Dordogne, although he's currently back in Manchester helping with a site he sold. He reckons he now earns a little less than he would on a newspaper, but his disposable income is greater because he no longer has the cost of commuting."One of the most effective types of article is the simple 'how to' guide, especially if you can provide some good inside information," he says. "I wrote an article on when the best times are to get tickets on the Eurostar, and it's a consistently good earner as people click to buy after they've read it."Generally, he says, the most important thing for anybody wanting to try and make a living from online self-publishing is to try out lots of different ideas and see which ones work. The only major cost is time.
Back after a long summer break - if only in publishing editions of Business Sense, rather than time spent on a beach - welcome to the September edition of our section for small and growing businesses.It is, indeed, the time when holidays are still being looked fondly back upon and so, went our line of thought, this time of year might be a good time to discuss selling up. Yes - giving it all up, passing on the baton, and planning to spend a little more time with your family. It's something that many small business owners go through yet, as Guy Clapperton discovers, many fail to plan the move far enough in advance. Do that and it could mean all your hard work attracts a weaker price than you might hope.For most of us, however, this remains a pipe dream, and making the most of opportunities now is what counts. Hence regular columnist Nick Clayton, branching out from his desk in the sun column, takes a look at the faintly opaque world of pay-per-click web advertising. The concept is simple - put a bit of code on your website and it will call in advertising relevant to the content of our website, without you having to act as designer or salesperson. It is very easy, but is it lucrative? It's hard to tell who's making what because of the tight rules the market leader in this area, Google's AdWords, enforces on member websites. But the fact that so many are quiet on exactly how much they're bringing in suggests they're doing OK.Finally, praise must be handed to our intrepid travel writer Ros Taylor, who was tipped up in showerless Carlisle at 5.30am as she tried out the Caledonian Sleeper service. We wanted to see if this venerable railway institution was a viable alternative to flying around Britain, especially in these days of environmental awareness and increased security at our airports. Ros got a decent five hours' sleep, but I suspect the jury's out on whether the train beats the plane or not.
There are a couple of tricks to buying a printer for a business. The first - and most important - is to ignore the printer completely. It's boring. It just sits there and prints. There are only three things you need to consider: the speed, the quality and type of output and the cost of refilling the thing. Extra functions like whether it can be attached to a network will have different importance to different people.It's the cost of the toner that takes most people by surprise if they thought they'd bought a cheapie and find that it costs its purchase price again by the end of the first year in consumables. This is where looking for a laser, which will be much more expensive initially, will pay dividends in the longer term - unless you want to print photos, in which case inkjets offer better quality.Speed will matter more if a printer is to be shared; the home worker who wants to print the odd bit of correspondence here and there won't mind waiting. Speed costs, as does the ability to print on to, for example, transparencies as well as paper.For the smaller office, where space is at a premium, it will be worth looking at multifunction devices - something that photocopies, scans and prints as well as possibly faxing. All of the caveats for buying a printer apply to the multifunction box; also bear in mind the cheaper models you'll find are likely to have last year's printer rather than an up to date version. Given that 2005's printers were pretty good, this isn't especially important.The market leader - HP C5180Many home workers will want something that simply sits on the desk and prints. They don't have room for massive floor-standing printers bigger than the stationery cupboard, so something like this HP will represent good value. Photo printers will welcome the chance to put memory cards and USB memory sticks straight into it and see the pics on a small preview screen. It works happily enough as a scanner and colour photocopier as well and, on a good day, you can get a 10x15cm photo out of it within 12 seconds.It'll look good in your office and the set up is simple. If one thing holds it back it's the absence of fax capability. Let's stress immediately that at no stage does the manufacturer so much as hint that fax is an option, but it should have been and probably wouldn't have cost a fortune to put in (look at the others in this round-up). This is an excellent machine; trouble is, it leaves you with just one more gadget on your desk than it needed to.Price:&pound;199 including VATMaker's URL:www.hp.com/ukPros:An affordable price for business and good quality outputCons:For an extra few quid it could have had fax as wellRating:4/5On a budget - Lexmark X5470This Lexmark device is a four-in-one product - printer, scanner, fax and photocopier - and offers an impressive 25 pages per minute black and 18ppm colour print speed. It will also print pictures without being connected to a PC. It looks chunkier than the HP but is half the price and it has a fax machine included. And the consumables don't cost a fortune.In fact it's the inclusions that let this one down slightly. There's just so much extra software. This is good initially, but by the time you've also installed your Google toolbar, your Yahoo! toolbar and whatever else you have loading when you start your computer, it's likely to slow older systems down.Price:&pound;99.99Maker's URL:www.lexmark.comPros:Easily affordableCons:Too much extra softwareStar rating:3/5The workhorse - Brother MFC-440CNThis is essentially how you do a printer for a small workgroup. You put networking in so that you don't need a "main" computer switched on the whole time. You put in all the slots that you'll need to get pictures off cards or USB keys, install Pictbridge as standard so that printing straight from compatible cameras and phones will work, and you bring it in for &pound;150.This multifunction printer is part of a series: the next one up has a handset and speakerphone so you can share conference calls; the next one down doesn't have the fax. The only minor niggle is the small size of the paper loading tray. If you care, spend some more; if you don't this is highly recommended.Price:&pound;149.99 including VATMaker's URL:www.brother.co.ukPros:Everything in a very small packageCons:The physical size means you can only get so much paper into the loading tray, but you can see that at a glanceStar rating:5/5The luxury option - Canon C2880iThe new multifunction range from Canon is very much a serious printer and multifunction device. A glance at its size tells you it's aimed at the larger small business and it's likely to serve those businesses well, with security features built in as standard, networking almost obligatory and the ability to scan and send documents by fax or email instantaneously.The interesting stuff at this level is the ability to track and manage your printing, with reports going to the network administrator about who is doing what and whether there could be savings.With most small businesses in the UK having fewer than five people working for them, this is not going to be a device for the majority. But for a busy office with heavy printing demands it should enable people to track their printing activity accurately as well as simply produce paper.Price:TBC - available from mid-OctoberMaker's URL:www.canon-europe.comPros:Security is built in with users having to identify themselvesCons:The sheer amount of space taken upStar rating:4/5The small laser - Samsung SCX-4200The Samsung is about to be upgraded by a model with a colour printer later in the year. For the moment the SCX-4200 represents a good value mono laser with a copier and scanner included. It's a little ungainly, but is inexpensive and from a reliable brand.If your needs are likely to change - if you think you might want to print the odd photo or send the odd fax in future - don't buy this. It'll be a white elephant. For people who can be pretty certain their printing needs will remain static and that they'll be happy with black and white, this is a good no-frills option.Price:&pound;103 excluding VATMaker's URL:www.samsung.com/ukPros:Does the job efficiently enoughCons:A little bulkyStar rating:3/5
My name is Keith Stuart and I have a low Gamerscore. If you're an Xbox 360 owner you'll understand and even commiserate with my confession. Gamerscores are Microsoft's reinvention of the high score table of 1908s arcade games. Any Xbox 360 title you play rewards you with gamer points for achievements like completing a level or finding a hidden area. These points are recorded on your Gamertag, an online identity card visible to everyone who plays against you.Most users only took a cursory glance at their Gamerscores, until what was just casual interest turned into competition and then into gnawing, soul-wrenching obsession.Now the internet is buzzing with Gamerscore gossip. Players discuss games that give away points cheaply and notoriously difficult feats that award a score of 1,000,000 in hardcore shooter Geometry Wars without losing a life.With Gamerscores everybody wins. Game designers love them because they encourage players to explore every inch of the virtual environment they have spent years constructing. Publishers love them because they encourage consumers to buy more games.But there's a twist. One website,top360tag.com, is dedicated to collating global Gamerscore data, providing insights into how people play games. Any gamer can click on your Gamertag to discover exactly how you acquired all your points. If your score is made up of cheap achievements - finishing dozens of first levels and tutorial missions - it's almost as lame as having no points at all.In this sense, the Gamerscore is a very 21st century interpretation of the high score table - it carries not only the raw data, but also the personal stories that lie beneath the telltale figures.So back to my confession. I only bought my own Xbox 360 a few months ago and I've been wasting time with my baby son that I should have spent gaming. But whatever the excuse, admitting you have a low Gamerscore feels like admitting you have a low IQ. Again, brilliant thinking from Microsoft - we're shamed into buying games.Last week, I emailed my Xbox Live Gamertag to an industry acquaintance to see if he fancied joining an online multiplayer session. A response arrived almost immediately: "You have the lowest Gamerscore I've EVER seen!" he pointed out. Ten seconds later another email followed: "Rent an EA game. You get points just for loading those ... I don't do that, though. I'm honourable."Hey, I'm honourable, I thought. And I thought that right up to the point I put EA's Fight Night Round 3 into my Xbox 360 drive ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Even Sony, it seems, is not sure. At a PS3 showcase held in Sony's Tokyo HQ during last week's Tokyo Game Show, Sony Computer Entertainment's president Ken Kutaragi gave a surprisingly insouciant answer when asked whether the PS3 will outsell Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Nintendo's Wii: "We don't care." He is, by implication, aware that the PlayStation 2 consoles, which have sold more than 100 million units, will be a hard act to follow.But the PS3 has another job: popularising the high-definition Blu-ray format. Kutaragi is naturally keen to extol its virtues: "Blu-ray is important for Sony and the industry - the component industry, the chip industry and even the TV industry. Every manufacturer releasing flat-panel displays - not only Sony, but the likes of Panasonic, Samsung and Sharp - everyone is now welcoming PlayStation 3."However, even Kutaragi admits that the market for Blu-ray is currently insignificant: "The total market size is not big, not like the game business. But the volume of PlayStation 3 production will be one million a month, so the rate of expansion is very clear."Sony has been accused of taking its eye off the ball with its rush to popularise Blu-ray, but at the Tokyo Games Show, when it ended a post-May embargo on talking about the PS3, the games were to the fore. The company did not announce a list of titles for the November 11 and 18 Japanese and US launches - although it said it will announce launch line-ups in October - but Kutaragi did say: "There will be 20 PS3 games on sale at launch." Sony Worldwide Studios president Phil Harrison was cagier, saying only that Resistance: Fall of Man and Genji are "definite PS3 launch titles".How close is the company to a final launch line-up? "Obviously, we're at a slightly fluid time when games are in final QA [Quality Assurance] but not out of final QA, so it would be brave of me to name every single one. But we're close."Sony completely dominated the Tokyo Games Show, giving visitors hands-on experience of the games Gran Turismo HD, Heavenly Sword, MotorStorm, Eye of Judgment, Lair, Warhawk, Formula One: Championship Edition and Ridge Racer 7, all of which can be safely assumed to be launch titles. With third parties chipping in - Harrison seemed to confirm that Capcom's Devil May Cry 4 will be a launch title - it should easily exceed Kutaragi's target of 20 launch titles. Plenty more should be ready for the UK launch next March.So an ebullient Kutaragi was prepared to laugh off the bad publicity that has dogged the PS3 since Sony's lacklustre showing at May's E3 Show in LA: "When we released the PlayStation and even the PlayStation 2, I didn't see any favourable articles. The press coverage always said: 'PlayStation will fail', or: 'We have lost our momentum', blah, blah, blah. But we have lots of passion and confidence in the PlayStation 3 titles." The PS3 may have had an unprecedentedly painful conception, and it may not dominate rival consoles to as great an extent as its predecessors, but Sony remains one of the world's most powerful marketing forces.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The business phone market is getting crowded, what with recent launches like the BlackBerry Pearl, Nokia E61 and Palm Treo 750V. Sony Ericsson is also staking its claim on the space with the M600i, a classic, smart-looking black phone with a stylus operated touch screen. The handset could well be the offspring of a BlackBerry 7100 series model and a Sony Ericsson P990i smartphone. From its stablemate it has a strong set of features (Bluetooth, media player, Word Excel compatibility etc) while it has the push email solution (BlackBerry or others depending on the network) and scroll wheel control from 7100. Also, like the BlackBerry 7100, it sports the controversial two character per button QWERTY type keypad that many users will find difficult to get their heads round. The M600i is also missing a few features. There's no camera, though some businesses will see this as a benefit, and also no Wi-Fi, which is disappointing. What gives this phone the edge over most of its rivals is its size and battery life. Not only is it very skinny for a 3G smartphone, its five hours of talk time should ensure you get at least a couple of days' use before it needs a recharge. It has some tough competition, but the M600i will certainly hold its own.
The past few months have seen the arrival of a range of iPod nano clones like Sandisk's flawed, but still rather good, e200. The latest to arrive in the stores is the SA9200 from Philips. It's slim - a few millimetres thicker than the new iPod nano - light and finished in a very stylish black. It also boasts a good quality display and a touch screen interface that is responsive and easy to use. Sound quality is good with music recorded at lower bit rates, 128kbps still sounding detailed and clear. Sadly, the SA9200 has two major weaknesses. Firstly, battery life is a disappointing 14 hours - 10 less than the latest nano. It will also sell for around &pound;130, which makes it &pound;30 pricier than its Apple rival. Nevertheless, with its superb build quality, stylish looks, and excellent sound the SA9200 is still likely to find many takers.
Can Microsoft get its cool back? Does anybody care? Or doesn't it matter any more? It's no secret that Microsoft has an image problem. That's partly the result of being hauled over hot coals by the US Justice Department, and condemned as a monopolist. Not cool. Partly it's the result of being ubiquitous. Being cool requires an air of exclusivity, even if it's an image manufactured and sustained by mass-market advertising. But it's pretty hard to associate cool with a five-year-old operating system installed by thousands of beige box shifters, or with standard-issue office software such as Microsoft Office.It wasn't always so. Microsoft had a different image in the 1980s, for example, when it was a feisty little alternative to the huge, monolithic and seriously uncool IBM. It even had some cool products, such as Microsoft Flight Simulator (bought in from Bruce Artwick's subLogic), and the first graphics-based Word and Excel programs, which were exclusive to the Apple Macintosh.At the time, when I used to have lunch with impeccably dressed IBM executives visiting from the US, I'd berate them about their mainframe-centric world view and stodgy products such as PROFS (Professional Office System). Cheap microcomputers were going to take over the world, I'd say, and there was a grass roots revolt against their restrictive centralisation. Individuals were buying micros plus cheap software from companies such as Microsoft, Lotus and WordPerfect, and doing their own thing.They didn't care. A good IBM salesman could do a $100m or $200m deal with a bank or insurance company, or a $5bn deal with a government. Just sell to the world's biggest 500 companies, and you had a $50bn business. That was IBM's turnover in calendar 1985, when Lotus Development grossed $225m and Microsoft's turnover was less than $163m. IBM sold $4.165bn worth of software that year, so who's the idiot, right?Nowadays, of course, we have lunches with well dressed Microsoft executives visiting from the US, and sometimes try to berate them about their PC-centric view of the world, stodgy products such as Microsoft Office, and huge array of back-end server programs. Have they lost touch with the grass roots? Are they missing the cool kids doing Ruby on Rails, REST, wikis, microformats etc?But Microsoft now has a $44bn turnover (about half of IBM's) and also sells to IT directors in Fortune 500 companies, and governments. It's no longer small and feisty, and has pretty much become what IBM was: the status quo. It's deja vu all over again.Obviously, this is an oversimplification. Tom Watson Jr, IBM's greatest chief executive and son of the founder, used to say: "We are convinced that any business needs its wild ducks. And in IBM we try not to tame them." So it still had some cool people and, until 1987, the IBM PC division was winning by breaking all the corporate rules.Microsoft also has its wild ducks, of which the most conspicuous is J Allard. He was the father of the Xbox games console, and is now the driving force behind the Zune range of media players. Compare the brilliant Jump In commercials for the Xbox with the dreadful dinosauric rubbish selling Office and you get some idea of the contrast. Jump Rope, for example, is a lot cooler than any multinational multibillion dollar computer corporation has any right to be (tinyurl.com/rk2q4).It helps that Xbox is a small, feisty outsider taking on the mighty Sony PlayStation, while Zune is up against the market-dominating Apple iPod. And Allard does have a comfort zone, because Microsoft has more than $30bn in cash. But it's still quite an achievement. Microsoft's Office division also has some products that could make a splash. OneNote, for example, isn't just innovative and clever, it's useful. How many people have a clue what it does? SharePoint - a sort of Office workgroup server that does things like blogs and wikis behind the corporate firewall - could also stand out as a standalone offering. But how much mindshare can they generate from inside an Information Worker product group that makes almost $12bn a year?But it's Microsoft's Online Services Group that most needs an infusion of cool, because it has to compete against Google, Yahoo! and hundreds of web-based start-ups. It's clearly hoping some of the Xbox's success will carry over - it's trying to copy Xbox Live with Windows Live, Office Live, Windows Live Messenger, Live Spaces, Live Search, and so on. It even has a genuinely cool offering: Codename Max.The teams behind these products are blogging, and they are iterating releases according to feedback, at least as well as Yahoo! and Google. But it's almost impossible to overcome the problem of being a fully-PowerPointed corporate roll-out. If only Microsoft was cool, they might be cool too - but it's not.However, Google is a lot less cool now than it was last year, and its honeymoon period won't last forever. After the bursting of Bubble 2.0 clears away the froth, things may look a bit different.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For many freelance employees these days, turning up at the office is a rare occasion. As a freelance journalist, I'm part of a virtual team that communicates through email, or text. Not only do I rarely see my workmates, I can spend weeks not even talking to them. And I am not alone: non-verbal, virtual communication - particularly in white-collar workplaces - is becoming more and more common.However, this trend is increasingly coming under scrutiny amid signs that more traditional methods - like face-to-face meetings and talking on the telephone - are more effective.A study by Cisco Systems shows that virtual teams can take up to four times as long to build trust than face-to-face teams. If you throw different cultures into the mix, it can take those virtual teams up to 17 weeks before they bond and perform as well as a team based in one location."Virtual communication is on the increase," says Caroline Shearsmith, occupational psychologist at Pearn Kandola who carried out the study. "At the same time, there is resistance against virtual teams who struggle to develop trust because the virtual communication is depersonalised."The study, called The Psychology of Effective Business Communications in Geographically Dispersed Teams, comes on the heels of a 2005 Economist Intelligence Unit survey of retailing and consumer goods companies. The survey found that the second most important factor for improving productivity over the next 15 years - after more efficient organisational structures - was better communication among the workforce.Somewhat ironically, the growth of virtual working over the past decade has highlighted the importance of non-verbal communication. Non-verbal cues - like body language, tone of voice and a simple glance - within a face-to-face conversation represent almost two thirds of the way we understand what is being said. "Non-verbal cues build trust," explains Shearsmith. "People don't know how to communicate on email, for example, where things like sarcasm and jokes don't come across."One of the biggest problems is "virtual silence", when an email or a text is sent but no immediate response is received. (In my world, this kind of silence is immediately interpreted as "my editor hates my story".)Shearsmith admits that there are already communication tools available that overcome such problems among virtual working teams. Some instant messaging and voice over internet systems automatically send a person's "not available" message if they are busy, but employers have been slow to deploy them.Cultural differences among people working across national borders raises a whole raft of issues in virtual communication. The Cisco study identified two main types of human cultures, high and low context.For example, high context cultures - Asians, South Americans and Middle Easterners - do not express their feelings and thoughts explicitly, and naturally they think low context cultures are too talkative and obvious. At the same time, people working in low context cultures - Americans and most Europeans - are much more open and direct and think that colleagues in high context cultures are sneaky and mysterious.Shearsmith says that without non-verbal cues, the two cultures can easily misinterpret even the most simple and well-intentioned communication. One of the most obvious solutions to enhance virtual team performance is to create the right mix of electronic communication, including either some visual elements such as video conferencing and some text-based protocols that tell people things about you that they cannot see."Video conferencing should be as simple as making a conference call, but we have made it very complex so that people don't use it," says Ian Kennedy, head of systems engineers at Cisco Systems UK and Ireland. "A lot of the tools we have now - like IM and video conferencing - need to be blended together with an ability to click between mediums."To that end, Cisco is testing a communications platform, called the Personal Communications Assistant."Relationship and trust problems could be alleviated via richer media used more often," says Shearsmith. "This will simulate some of the proximity and casual conversations that would happen in an office around the water cooler."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Mac touchI want to buy an Apple Mac Mini, and wondered if there was a piece of hardware - a portable touch-screen display, or a Mac-compatible tablet PC - that could work as portable screen.Ad&eacute; RotowaJack Schofield replies:Microsoft tried this idea in 2002 with its Mira portable displays, which flopped horribly. However, Mira was based on Windows CE, the operating system used in Pocket PC handhelds and Windows Mobile phones. These can have touch sensitive screens and handwriting recognition as standard, and connect to Windows desktops and servers using Microsoft's RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol). Logically, I thought, it ought to be possible to do something similar with a Mac Mini, and a quick search finds that Austrian Mac consultant and columnist Teddy the Bear has done it using the free VNC (Virtual Network Computing) software, according to Wired News (tinyurl.com/456cu). However, accessing a Mac via PocketVNC or PalmVNC on a handheld may be trickier than it sounds and will probably limit you to a very small screen. I think you'd be better off with a convertible PC. This looks like a standard notebook PC, but turns into a pen-driven tablet PC if you fold the screen over the keyboard. Unfortunately, while there are lots of models running Microsoft's Windows XP Tablet PC Edition, Apple does not offer one. For portability, you should there go for a MacBook rather than a Mini.Of course, it should be possible to use VNC to connect a Tablet PC to a Mac Mini, but that would involve buying two computers - a very expensive option. The suggestion box is open if anyone has a better idea.OnSpeed revisitedI do not indulge in any of the online activities for which broadband is essential, but there are times when faster download would be an advantage, such as downloading photos in mail attachments. I have noticed an advertisement for OnSpeed, which would speed up my dial-up connection apparently by a factor of about 10. Do you have any experience of this system?Derek RoughtonJS:I reviewed OnSpeed in January 2004 (tinyurl.com/lw4pt), and while its technology will have improved, the principle remains the same. OnSpeed works by compressing web pages before it sends them to you. This is not a new idea - it's how AOL worked reasonably quickly on dial-up - and it can be useful. However, it does lower the quality of the pages (the compression loses some information) and it doesn't help with things that are heavily compressed. It can be set up to work with a mail server, but I don't think it would be very useful for your purposes. The Advertising Standards Authority upheld a complaint against Turbodial Ltd (trading as OnSpeed) in March, and you can read its report attinyurl.com/m2q4pHot CDsThe CDs coming out of the DVD-Rom of my Time PC are very hot to the touch, and I am concerned that something is heating up more than it should. I thought I could smell something unpleasant recently, but that smell has disappeared.I JackJS:Some drives operate hotter than others, but it's a danger sign if a drive starts running hotter than usual, and overheating can result in Windows "losing" the drive. You could try taking the case off your machine and making sure the fans and vents are not clogged up with dust. A smell that wasn't there before - especially the strong, acrid smell of burning insulation - is a much bigger danger signal, and would make me want to swap out the part that's overheating. This could be the DVD drive, but make sure it's not the power supply, which could be next to it. Since you won't get any support from Time, which has closed down, consider having the machine checked by a local repair specialist or small dealer. It's better than living with a fire risk.Half and half driveI have just bought an Asus laptop for my daughter. The 80GB hard drive is partitioned in two: one half contains Windows XP and other applications and uses the FAT32 file system; the other half is empty and is NTFS. I asked the seller, Mesh, why and they didn't know, so I contacted Asus. They don't know why their machines are configured this way either!David ReggioriJS:NTFS, Windows' New Technology File System, was introduced in 1993, so it may take some manufacturers a while to catch on! It would make more sense to install XP on the NTFS drive, and XP includes a Convert command that will convert the FAT32 disk to NTFS on a reboot. However, I can't see that your daughter would benefit greatly. Under the circumstances, I'd leave it as it is.Backchat&middot;John McGilley and others have had problems with their Wanadoo/Orange mail being bounced because some of their mail servers are on SpamCop's block list. Angelika Voss says: "The problem with Wanadoo/Orange (and with many other ISPs) is not spam but something known as backscatter - auto-responders, vacation messages and (probably the worst culprit) misdirected bounces." You can read more attinyurl.com/g8k92. Unfortunately this doesn't solve the problem for users, since it requires Wanadoo/Orange to change their servers.
Content ownership"The BBC and Channel 4 chose Creative Commons (creativecommons.org) licence regime, designed to encourage sharing ..." (Whose content is it anyway?, September 21). If you read the fine print, the BBC created a new licence, the Creative Archive Licence, based on the idea of the Creative Commons, but chose not to use a vanilla Creative Common Licence. There is an FAQ attinyurl.com/s62wbthat says: "The Creative Archive Licence is heavily inspired by the Creative Commons Licences. Public service organisations within the UK have additional requirements, however, that need to be reflected in the terms under which they licence content. The two most obvious of these are the UK-only requirement and the No Endorsement requirement. In addition, the Creative Archive Licence seeks to protect the Licensor's moral right of integrity, that is, the right not to have a work treated in a derogatory or objectionable way." Good Old Auntie: still looking after us after all these years.Gordon JolyLondonApart from the vaguely insulting suggestion that videos being uploaded to UGC (user-generated content) sites is pretty shit right now, and lacking the high production values of MTV, is there anything more hollow than this? Dangling the vague chance of some cash at some time in the future, if the clips come up to some undefined standard. But if the content is that poor, why does MTV want to claim all rights to it?xrrf.blogspot.com/2006/09/mtv-trust-us.htmlPassing the Turing testJabberwacky bots don't come anywhere close to being indistinguishable from humans in their responses to conversation. They demonstrate no sign of understanding what's been said to them, and don't grasp the conversational and linguistic conventions that even very young children intuitively understand. You can't have anything that looks like a real conversation with them, regardless of whether you try to talk about abstract ideas or simple physical facts. The Turing Prize? Not in our lifetime.Ben McPhersonLondonApparently Joan "learns the behaviour and words of its users" to create convincing conversation - it only took three sentences to "learn" that I was speaking human English. I must congratulate her creative team on achieving the coveted goal of recreating the experience of trying to shake off the cheeky 12-year-old at your cousin's graduation party.codydan.livejournal.com/170894.htmlWords to the wiseWendy M Grossman (Technobile, September 21) needs FreeMind, from SourceForge. FreeMind would fit all of her - quite reasonable - requirements. Word processing programs took a wrong turn towards desktop publishing some time in the 90s (Word 2.0, I think). Mind-mapping software would be a better medium for distributing ideas around businesses and institutions. There's an analogy here with qwerty keyboards, the eyeball, the Home Office and all the other stuff that isn't fit for purpose but can't be disinvented.David RobinsonLondonWendy might benefit from undertaking an OU course. Provided she chooses one with a three-hour, discursive examination at the end, she'll be trained to write essays using a brain, a pen and some paper. She might want to use Notepad to type it up for publication.Mike Turbine-HamiltonDalry, AyrshireIoning made easyAllan Jones might be a bit sniffy about the Ion turntable software (Letters and blogs, September 21). I have just bought this product. I am in my 60th year, am computer literate but know nothing of MP3 players, downloading music etc. I successfully transferred music from vinyl and tapes to my computer with barely the bat of an eyelid. Burning the file onto a CD with Mediaplayer was another matter altogether. That produced much frustration before succeeding. I am now going to listen to recordings of my children talking 25 years ago.Barbara RobinsonLondon
You're looking at your holiday snaps - taken, of course, on your trusty digital camera - and there are a few things wrong. For a start, you don't look very good in them. Must have been the holiday food. And for another, it's impossible to get the right people together in the same photo: the nice picture of the children on the beach doesn't have the grandparents, and the one of the grandparents doesn't include the children.But, of course, digital help is at hand - and now it goes much further than removing a little red-eye (the vampire-like eyes caused by reflection of a flash from the blood vessels at the back of the retina) or using rudimentary tools to cut someone's head out and stick it on another body. Now, women can remodel their faces to the proportions of a supermodel; you can meld different elements of a picture into a new one; and in future you'll even be able to buy a camera that automatically slims you down.A new service launched earlier this month from Anthropics will do what many professional photographers and graphic designers can already do with Adobe's image manipulation program Photoshop - but a lot faster - by removing blemishes, wrinkles and glare caused by harsh lighting. But that's not all: it can rejig the contours of female faces to make them look more attractive.Simon Beech, head of sales at Anthropics - a spin-out company from the National Film and Television School - says the changes the software makes are very subtle. "It's absolutely recognisable as that person, but they just appear to have been caught on a fantastic day," he said. "This is not an Orwellian, 'one size fits all' attempt at enforced cloning." He thinks most people will probably want to use it to improve a few special photos or to create a knockout first impression with their picture at an online dating site.The part of the digital makeover that has proved most controversial is the alterations to the actual shape of the subject's face.The software has created a digital average female face from amalgamating images of women rated as beautiful by a panel of judges. "What it came up with is a digital aggregate, if you like, of the characteristics represented by those women," said Beech. The software then tweaks your photo a little way in the direction of that beautiful average face, for example by making it more symmetrical or giving it fuller lips."Beauty is not in the eye of the beholder," said Tommer Leyvand, who has developed similar "beautification" software at Tel Aviv University. He said there is a surprising consistency about what people like in a female face.Beech said that in prototype versions of the software, the company did experiment with much more drastic makeovers that involved large changes to the shape of the face."You could morph the picture half way to Angelina Jolie's, which might be very attractive, but it would also be completely unrecognisable as the person you just took a picture of. Although these things are fun, they are quite niche and they certainly didn't seem as though they would drive a lot of revenue."Sending a photo to the site (at myper fectpicture.com and portraitprofes sional.com) for re-touching takes 24 hours and costs &pound;3 a photo (paid by text message, giving you a code that lets you upload your photo to the site), but a home version of the software is available for &pound;14.99 which lets you do the same thing with a few clicks of the mouse. Another version aimed at professional photographers costs &pound;42.However, not all the pros who tested it liked the results. "I find it appaling. It's our job as professionals to flatter our clients while still presenting a realistic appearance," said Holly Howe of North Platte, Nebraska, at an online notice board for professional photographers. "If a photographer offered this to me I would be hurt. It's like saying, 'You are not good enough'."But others thought it would be a useful tool. "You'd be surprised at how many [customers] want extensive retouching done. I've taken out double chins, lines, moles, scars, thinned arms, backs, legs, hips, tummies," said Linda Gregory of Wichita at the same website. "Many, but thankfully not all, people want their pictures to look like they want to look."Dr Leyvand said that the software is only doing what a professional photographer can achieve by taking hundreds of shots. Finding that flattering pose can smooth out a double chin and getting the lighting right can give the impression of a warm, even complexion. "I think there will be interest," he said. "Their application is really easy to use."Lindsay Frankel, deputy editor of Company magazine, said that magazines routinely make cosmetic changes with Photoshop, but she thought that anything more drastic would be less likely to catch on. "It's quite a different thing if you are changing people's features," she said.But if you're not feeling so ambitious, there's always simpler ways to change a photograph.One such is Microsoft's GrabCut, developed originally at its research laboratories in Cambridge. This lets you take objects from one or more pictures for seamless insertion into another, creating a composite that never happened (tinyurl.com/zg39y).And finally, if you dislike the idea of twiddling software to create flattering pictures, Hewlett-Packard has developed something that does the job first: a camera that will do the slimming as it takes the picture.A new series of the HP Photosmart range will make subjects "appear more slender", or as HP's publicity says: "They say cameras add 10 pounds, but HP digital cameras can help reverse that effect. The slimming feature, available on select HP digital camera models, is a subtle effect that can instantly trim off pounds from the subjects in your photos!" (In fact the 'slimming effect' is applied - at three user-chosen levels - to any object in the centre of the picture.) The camera never lies? Well, perhaps nowadays it's being encouraged to embellish the truth.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have had a glimpse of an exciting new future for mobile phones. After writing about my difficulties with operators recently, two UK-based companies got in touch with a solution: don't use the operators at all, or at least reduce your dependence on them. This is now possible because of advances being made in routing calls through the internet rather than cellular networks. If you have wireless broadband at home or if you are using a Wi-Fi hotspot at a coffee shop, then your call travels through the internet for nothing until it incurs a charge for the final bit of its journey.Even so, a call to America could be 1p a minute - unless the recipient also has a Wi-Fi phone, in which case it is free. Think about it. The cellular networks are potentially redundant. You may one day be able to dispense with the Sim card in your phone (as I did over the weekend) or, more likely, just have a pay-as-you-go card as backup.Internet telephony is not new. Enthusiasts have been using services such as Skype, a proprietary (and incompatible with other offerings) system for some time. What is new is that it is being installed on standard mobiles. Nokia seems to be in the lead, offering embedded net telephony on its e60, e61 and N70 models, with others coming shortly. All it needs is for the relevant software to be installed by a text message which sends it to your phone.I have been trying out services by Truphone and the Leeds-based aql, which are among dozens of companies in the UK offering mobile VoIP (voice over internet protocol) - including Jajah, which announced one this week. I have to say that I couldn't recommend either of the two at the moment because of teething problems, but when I did finally get them working I could see the potential shining through the all-too-frequent glitches. It took hours of chats with company techies to get settings right - not an option open to a casual buyer - and to sort out screen freezes, and hang-ups, on both the Nokia e61 and e60. But when they did work, whether mobile-to-mobile or mobile to a fixed line, it was impressive.The screen freezing is apparently due to a handset fault that Nokia will soon correct with a downloadable fix. Battery life was short on both models, something that seems to be common to these Nokia business models. Executives at both companies claimed that my experience was exceptional even for something that was still in beta form (ie, not ready for full release) and that they, and others, had been using them successfully. One had just come back from America after using his phone from a hotel with free Wi-Fi to talk to his family in the UK for nothing.What about the future? I am sure the problems will be solved soon. Success may then depend on how fast free - yes, free - Wi-Fi is rolled out in the UK. At present these phones are mainly used for outgoing calls from places that already have Wi-Fi. They are no good for walking down the street or incoming calls on the move. If you have to pay &pound;6 an hour from a hotel or coffee shop then forget it. But if Wi-Fi is rolled out across cities, as in the US - and some small towns in the UK - and it is a different proposition.Nothing is really free. You will have to pay a monthly fee to a broadband provider, though there is a strong case for local authorities or government to provide Wi-Fi itself free at point of use, financed by taxes or rates, because of the economic benefits generated. Meanwhile, there is a danger of turf wars between incompatible proprietary systems such as Skype and the common standards agreed by other players. Until the nirvana of universal access arrives, Wi-Fi mobiles will be a supplement to Sim phones, not least because of the need to make emergency calls. But as Wi-Fi spreads - and becomes standard on phones - there will be a strong case for using it with a pay-as-you go SIM card as fallback. And the faster Wi-Fi spreads, the less you will need a Sim card at all. If I was an operator I would be very worried.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Just a couple of months before Windows Vista ships to businesses, Microsoft is worried that the project may be delayed again, or delivered with reduced security - though only in Europe. If that happens, you can mostly thank Symantec, a &pound;2.5 bn US software giant, which has been loudest in its opposition, although another security vendor, McAfee, has also been agitating for change.Microsoft reckons two parts of Vista are at risk. First is the Windows Security Center, introduced into Windows XP with SP2 (Security Pack 2). WSC pops up a warning if a PC doesn't have a working firewall or anti-virus (AV) software, or if Windows Update is turned off.The second is PatchGuard, which is not even included in standard 32-bit Windows. This was introduced in 2003 only in 64-bit Windows, to stop rogue applications from changing (or patching) the core operating system kernel. (Typically this happens when a virus replaces a bit of Microsoft's core code with its own, compromising the operating system.)Compatible solutionsAlthough both seem straightforward introductions, and have previously attracted little or no attention, they have put Symantec in high dudgeon mode.Symantec spokesman Cris Paden said last week that the company had not formally complained to the EU's Competition Commission: "That's absolutely not the case. It's always been on a reactive basis. We - and not only us - have been responding to EU enquiries. It's a dialogue, not a complaint."Paden is also adamant that Symantec does not want to reduce the level of security implemented in Vista: "We don't want them to remove PatchGuard at all," says Paden, "We absolutely do not want Microsoft to remove anything from Vista. We would simply like to have the interfaces so that our solutions will be compatible, and customers can choose what they want to use."Curiously, Microsoft says this too, and claims it has been working towards it in consultation with more than a hundred independent software vendors (ISVs) who have joined Microsoft's SecureIT Alliance.Microsoft regards WSC as a key enabler of compatibility and competition. Ben Fathi, corporate vice president of Microsoft's security technology unit, says it is providing application program interfaces (APIs) so that all ISVs, both large and small, have equal access - and Microsoft's own security software developers "have to abide by the same rules. There's nothing special that we do for them."WSC is just a dashboard, not a technology. It enables both customers and rival programs to disable Microsoft's firewall and Defender anti-spyware software, if they wish. If you have another security program already installed, WSC will link directly to that vendor's site. If you want a choice, it will take you to "a free marketing portal" that enables PC users to find suitable products to replace them.The WSC can also tell other applications the security status of a PC, These applications can then decide whether to allow, say, banking or shopping applications.Symantec's Norton 2007 already disables the Windows Security Center in XP, so it stops working, and Paden wants to do the same in Vista. That way, users will only see Symantec's security centre, "the one they've paid for". He claims that having two security centres is confusing for customers, and compares it to having to watch two sets of gauges while driving.Fathi replies: "Some larger AV vendors don't want Windows Security Center to work: they don't want users to see the other choices available to them. Smaller vendors see it as a great marketing channel." The point is that Microsoft's WSC provides users with a vendor-agnostic view of different options across different functions. This lets them choose, say, one company's firewall and another's AV software. Symantec's approach is to provide users with a complete suite of its own products. Its security centre is a shop, and with so much AV software coming pre-installed by PC vendors, it's hard to see how it does anything but reduce customer choice. Even the European Commission, which has been accused of pursuing an anti-Microsoft vendetta, might find it hard to see this as "fairer".Does Sophos, a leading British security software company, have any problems with WSC? Graham Cluley, its senior technology consultant, replies: "Oh no, absolutely not! We've had some niggles in the past, but as it stands, we're very happy with it now."Yet in betas of Vista, Symantec's security centre seems to send incorrect information to the WSC. I raised this with Sophos, which replied: "We believe that Symantec is deliberately 'fibbing' to Windows Security Center in order to prevent it from popping up and warning users of the status of their anti-virus protection - presumably so people use Symantec's security centre (which does correctly report the status of Symantec's protection) instead." Telling the WSC everything is fine even when it isn't is one way to stop it from popping up an extra message, adds Cluley. The problem was quickly fixed, but does suggest that amidst the cut-throat security software business, users are actually better off having two gauges rather than one. And millions of people already do. Dell sells desktops with both Microsoft's WSC and McAfee's security centre pre-installed - giving McAfee an icon on the desktop and in the SysTray, so it's impossible to miss. It's also impossible to confuse the two dashboards.When it comes to PatchGuard, Fathi argues that, for historical reasons, software vendors have got away with changing core operating system code. However, "this has never been supported and has never been endorsed by us. It introduces insecurity, instability, and performance issues, and every time we change something in the kernel, their product breaks," he says.Unblocking innovationFor Symantec, Paden says PatchGuard is "a good idea, but it shuts us out," while the EU seems to want Microsoft to provide a way to turn it off.Fathi says: "No. If we do that, the first thing the virus writers are going to do is turn it off. And once a piece of code makes it into the kernel, we can't tell whether it's malicious or not." But, he adds, "We do have interfaces and a very clean architecture for extending the kernel for doing that kind of AV monitoring. The majority of AV solutions, firewalls, everything, use these supported mechanisms now. We're not blocking their innovation."On PatchGuard, Sophos's Cluley says: "We don't share the same concerns [as Symantec]: we don't feel we're being locked out of anything. It sounds like there's a communications problem ..."Beyond the spat that Cluley describes as "handbags at dawn," Microsoft is finally trying to clean up its act with 64-bit Windows. But why now? Fathi says that Bill Gates's Trustworthy Computing memo in 2002 "was really a turning point for the company. We now feel it's our obligation to do as much as we can to secure the platform -- and we make zero money on this."Bob Tarzey, an analyst with the Quocirca consultancy in the UK, agrees. "Symantec realised years ago that Microsoft was heading in this direction, so in my personal view, it would be a mistake for the European Union or any other body to say Microsoft is not entitled to make its operating system more secure, to the benefit of its customers."The EU's competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, has already written to the Financial Times denying that's what she plans to do (http://tinyurl.com/mbvfx). Fathi says the EU won't tell him what it wants, but "from the questions they are asking us, the implications are that they want us to take the Security Center out. That will mean a less secure version of Windows in Europe."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Anyone who has been trapped between a herd of French bulls and a barbed wire fence will have had reason to curse the Institut G&eacute;ographique National. The French national mapping agency's 1:25,000 scale maps are indispensable for walkers, if sometimes optimistic about the usability of footpaths. But now the institute is in trouble for another failing. It is accused of hindering France's knowledge economy by the high prices it charges for digital data and the obscure way it calculates them. Government auditors also accuse the institute of conflicts of interest in setting national policy for a sector in which it is the dominant player. These criticisms have cross-channel resonance.Although the directly subsidised IGN is run on a different model to its British equivalent, Ordnance Survey, its problems spring from the conflict that arises when a public agency tries to market data commercially. Now an official inquiry in France has suggested a possible solution along the lines of that proposed by Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign. This is to make taxpayer-funded data sets freely available to all comers on the web.The inquiry, by government inspectors, probed the institute's flagship project, a large scale geographical database known by its French acronym RGE (r&eacute;f&eacute;rentiel &agrave; grande &eacute;chelle). Like Ordnance Survey's digital MasterMap, the RGE is much more than a map. It has several layers of data, including administrative boundaries, aerial photography and postal addresses. It is supposed to be the basis for all official mapping in France, as well as being available to commercial developers of value added products.In a forthright 50-page report (tinyurl.com/r6ajp - a 660KB PDF), the inspectors condemn several aspects of the RGE programme, as well as the general governance of the institute.Far from encouraging the use of geographical data, the report says, the institute has discouraged the RGE's take-up by setting high prices, despite a 70% government subsidy. The mechanism for setting charges is complex and secretive, relying on the "good sense" of administrators. Their incentive, is to get as much income as possible in the short term, which encourages squeezing more money from captive customers. Altogether, the inspectors find "a lack of rigour" in the institute's commercial policies."This situation is responsible for the low level of sales and the feeble development of the geographical information sector in France, compared with other European countries," they comment.One problem is that government allows the institute to wear two hats, that of publisher and author. The report says that government has abandoned matters of geographical information strategy to the institute "allowing it to set policy according to its own vision and interests".The inspectors recommend that the institution's commercial activities be separated from its "public good" functions, with separate and transparent accounts. They also say that public data should be priced to encourage wide take-up. "To take this reasoning to its logical conclusion, free online access on the internet could even be envisaged."Guardian Technology wholeheartedly agrees. Citoyens! Lib&eacute;rons nos donn&eacute;es!&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Almost certainly - and if you're wondering what a clickprint is, it is "a unique pattern of web surfing behavior based on actions such as the number of pages viewed per session, the number of minutes spent on each page, the time or day of the week the page is visited, and so on." That's the description used by Professor Balaji Padmanabhan, at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and Professor Catherine Yang, of the Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Davis.In a new paper (available fromhttp://tinyurl.com/hj263), they suggest that by observing how people navigate around a site over a number of sessions, an e-commerce company could distinguish between two anonymous surfers. That could have important implications in preventing fraud: if someone signed in with an existing user's logon, but their clickprint differed, that might be an indication that their ID had been stolen."Our main finding is that even trivial features in an internet session can distinguish users," Padmanabhan told the Wharton Review. "People do seem to have individual browsing behaviors." The duo found that anywhere from three to 16 sessions are needed to identify an individual's clickprint."The paper is really a proof of concept that behavior and minimal information can be used to identify users," says Yang. In one example, they found thatfrom just seven aggregated sessions they could distinguish between two different surfers with a confidence of 86.7%. Given 51 sessions, the confidence level rose to 99.4%.Clickprints thus join a plethora of data that can be used to identify us while we're online. But while the leak earler this year of half a million users' Google searches from AOL caused widespread outrage, Padmanabhan suggests that "if Amazon or a credit card company that can track everything you do uses clickprints, the perception is different because you expect it".If clickprints are used as a way to prevent fraud, it's highly unlikely there will be an uproar over privacy, says Padmanabhan. We'll have to see.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Anti-malware TrendTrend Micro is about to launch the PC-cillin 2007 security suite, which it says is "particularly focused on providing protection against the host of new 'silent' threats such as spyware, spam, phishing, Wi-Fi attacks and the growing problem of identity theft". It costs &pound;49.95 a year for up to three PCs.Cartoon capersGames site Miniclip now offers an online channel with classic cartoons such as Looney Tunes, Hanna-Barbera, etc.www.miniclip.com/toons/en/Shoot the redsShoot Experience want to inspire people to take photographs on the theme of the colour red. The photos will be added to a map that will be shown at the Association of Photographer's Gallery in London, as well as online.www.shootexperience.comFinePix S5 Pro comingFujifilm has announced the FinePix S5 Pro digital SLR camera, successor to the S3 Pro. It can store JPeg and RAW files at the same time. It will be launched in the UK in February 2007.tinyurl.com/fq7uyAnonymous TorparkThe Torpark browser - a customised version of Portable Firefox - lets users browse the web anonymously, if slightly slower.torpark.nfshost.comInto the ValleySteve O'Hear and friends have finally finished their digital documentary, based on interviewing some of Silicon Valley's characters from Steve Wozniak to Craig Newmark.www.stage4.co.uk/film/Watermarking allianceA dozen digital watermarking vendors have formed the Digital Watermarking Alliance to promote the advantages of digital watermarking to protect content.www.digitalwatermarkingalliance.org
The first in Microsoft's Zune range will come in 99 cents more expensive than a 30GB iPod but with a bigger screen, Wi-Fi, FM tuner, and music sharing features the iPod lacks. Tracks cost 99 cents each but users can also buy a Zune Pass subscription for $14.99 per month. (Too much for most, I suspect!)Users will also be able to spend microbucks -- Microsoft Points -- on tracks, using the same currency as the Xbox Live service.Zunes will also come with music and video pre-installed. There will be nine audio tracks, a dozen music videos, three short films and a bunch of pics "including 12 classic rock posters from Art of Modern Rock".Various cables, adaptors, a dock, car charger etc will cost extra -- usually a lot extra. Cheapest item is the Zune AV Output Cable (to plug a Zune into a TV set) at $19.99. Most expensive is a tuner that "lets you wirelessly listen to music through your car's stereo through the FM radio" (cf iTrip) at $69.99.There's more -- including lists of content -- inMicrosoft's press release.Comment: Microsoft clearly isn't trying to storm the market. It looks more like an attempt to establish a credible market presence, and a feedback loop for iterative improvements.
With the KG920, LG has seriously upped the ante in the UK camera phone market by delivering a model that can snap five megapixel images - at least a couple of megapixels up on its main rivals. The quality of the images the phone takes is superb too, especially on close-ups, delivering levels of colour and detail significantly beyond the shots its main rivals are capable of. Video capture is excellent, with the handset grabbing footage at 320x240 pixels at 30 frames a second. However, the phone's user interface is not very sophisticated and the control buttons on the front are tiny. It is also hard to get a decent grip on the phone and I found my fingers constantly drifting over the lens. The camera's auto focus system isn't especially reliable and there's no optical zoom as there is on the Nokia N93. Away from the camera, the phone isn't all that well-endowed with features. On board is a reasonable web browser, average music player and basic messaging facilities. Nevertheless, if you want the best quality camera phone in the UK rather than an all-rounder, the KG920 has to be top of your shortlist. It might have many flaws, but you'll be impressed by the quality of the images.
"Your card has been declined.""What? No way, there's plenty of money in that account!""I'm sorry, madam, but it's refusing the transaction.""It's your card reader, that card worked fine in Boots five minutes ago.""The card has been declined. Do you have another one?"The casual eavesdropper might infer that I - the protesting woman in that dialogue - am financially irresponsible, that my credit card is maxed out or my debit card has reached its overdraft limit. In fact, it's far more likely that the reader on the chip and pin machine is throwing a strop. There is a machine at WH Smith in North End Road, Fulham, that hates my debit card and never accepts it. I've given up trying there. But it's not the only one.Self-service machines have sprung up everywhere, sprouting card readers and keypads. But watch closely and you will find that more often than not, there is an angry person muttering and swearing at the machine while a queue forms. Watch a little longer and you'll see that queue evaporate - and reform at the counter in front of a human being.This happened to me and my partner in France recently when we pulled into a petrol station in Epernay. In our desperation, we pulled up at an empty pump, wondering vaguely why it had no queue while others did.Why? Because before it would dispense petrol, it wanted a credit card and pin. We fed it mine and I keyed in the number, only for it to be spat out with terrifying admonitions in French about the card being refused. I wiped the strip and tried again. Same reaction, causing a moment's panic: we'd spent a bit on that card - did my bank think it was stolen? Was it blocked?So we tried my partner's card. Same thing. And then the penny dropped that the pumps with the queues were the old-fashioned ones where you fill the car up and then pay at the till. Clearly the locals knew all about these pumps.Mind you, it was a miracle we got to France at all. When we arrived at the Eurotunnel terminus we joined a queue of cars for the automatic check-in. I am not the most patient of queuers and within a short time I was railing about how slowly it was moving. A man in a bright yellow jacket was buzzing about from car to car. Finally we got to the head of the queue and fed in the card that was used to book the shuttle online.It didn't want to know. It spat the card out. We tried again and got as far as tapping in our reservation number. It spat it out again. The chap in the high-visibility jacket buzzed over to us and rolled his eyes, saying: "It's been playing up all day." He went into the booth with the card - and then we heard him saying over his radio that the whole system had gone down in protest.As an idea, the technology is great. In practice, we have a long way to go before we can dispense with human beings who can override systems when good card readers go bad.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"In Seattle, as part of a fact-finding tour of the US, BBC Director-General Mark Thompson and Director of New Media and Technology Ashley Highfield met Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates to officially sign the memorandum of understanding and discuss the BBC's digital strategy," says aBBC press release."Microsoft is not just a key supplier to the BBC, it is also a key gateway to audiences that the BBC needs to reach through web services it runs like MSN and Windows Live Messenger, and hardware such as Xbox and the Windows Media Center," Highfield said."The BBC needs to work with all players in this space to make sure our programmes and content are enjoyed by the widest possible audience, without always having to come to bbc.co.uk to find it.Comment: It's impossible to know what this actually means, but it seems to imply flogging BBC content to foreigners using Microsoft's DRM (digital rights management -- ie copy protection). Either way, I'd expect an increase in BBC use of Windows Media Video, now that wmv9 has been adopted as a standard for use on both Blu-ray and HD DVD discs, where it's known as VC-1.Of course, I'd expect the BBC to lean towards the other option, AVC, in its H.264 form, even though some argue that VC-1 is superior -- or at least has better software and other development support. However, both systems are licensed from the same body -- theMPEG LA-- so the BBC doesn't really need to talk to Microsoft to do that....Update: In a comment below, freddybob makes the extremely useful observation: "I expect it is related to what they discuss in this video :http://blog.mix06.com/virtualmix/archive/2006/03/17/BBC_demo.aspxThe video shows Ashley Highfield doing a demo for Bill Gates during his Mix06 keynote in March. There's a transcripthere
When Bill Clinton made his speech to the Labour Party conference, he bamboozled a few by finishing with the word "Ubuntu".Our very own sketchwriter Simon Hoggart wasmore than a little perplexed by this:He finished with an African word he had learned. It was ubuntu. He didn't immediately tell us what it was. It sounded like one of those amalgamated unions you find in the modern TUC: the United Beaders, Upholsterers, Needleworkers, etc.Or possibly it was a reference to the joke about the new district commissioner who is greeted everywhere he goes with cries of, say, "Ubuntu!" This enthusiasm cheers him greatly, until he reaches a cattle compound where his guide says, "mind you don't step in that ubuntu." It turns out to mean "I am, because you are." No, I haven't a clue either.Ubuntu, then, is a sense of love and understanding (or something). But, as any geek no, he was clearly talking about the popular Linux distro which we have mentionedbeforeon this here blog.So, the question: is Bill an open source fan? Well, it certainly wouldn't be the first little secret he'd hidden away from the world.Update:Regular letter-writer Mike Whitaker ups the ante by pointing tothis pictureand asking "is this the first time a Linux distribution has featured in a Steve Bell cartoon?".The answer, with tongue firmly in cheek, is that Steve is well-known for his love of penguins (cfWikipedia:"Penguins also appear regularly in Steve Bell's "If" comic strip in England's Guardian newspaper, wherein they tend to be somewhat anarchic and poorly behaved") so perhaps thereisan underlying open source message behind this madness.
While writing mypiece on Gamerscore addictionfor today's Technology section, I wondered if Microsoft placed any controls on how developers implemented gamer points. After all, Xbox 360 gamers are always discussing titles that give away points quite cheaply - could unscrupulous publishers use this to tempt Gamerscore addicts into buying games they may have otherwise avoided?So I asked two Xbox 360 developers, Sarah Chudley of Bizarre Creations and Jonathan Smith of Traveller's Tales how they allocated gamer points in their projects. Here's what they had to say...Sarah Chudley - Bizarre CreationsPG3 is credited as being one of the games that implements gamer points really well, encouraging players to really get the most out of the title. How much did you think about gamerpoints while designing the game?We were heavily involved in the development of gamerpoints with Microsoft. As a MGS launch title we wanted to set the benchmark for how gamerpoints are given out so we thought a lot about them, probably more than any other launch title.We always make sure there are achievements in there for everyone. The majority of your achievements are either skill based (do this race at platinum, get this lap time etc) or time based (complete the game, play 100 race etc). These appeal to the gamer who wants to show off their skills online or brag about how much they've played the game. But we also have quirky achievements like finding the Geometry Wars cabinet, watching Gotham TV or building custom routes. It's a good way to introduce players to features they might not have used otherwiseWe also held back a few gamerpoints for downloadable content so we could have some achievements for playing the new game modes and qualifying for tournamentsHave you any new ideas of implementing gamer points in forthcoming XBox projects?Yes! But we're keeping these ideas to ourselves...Does Microsoft police how developers make gamer points available? Is there a temptation to give away loads of easy points in order to attract gamer point-addicts?Not really, other than you must give out 1000 points and they have to be possible!! Microsoft use PGR3 as a 'Best Practice' example for giving out achievements, but they really leave it up to the developer.We find it's actually more tempting to make the achievements too hard. We had ideas for achievements like 'Be world number 1 online' or 'Be in the top 10 on the Nurburgring leaderboard'. These are obviously out of reach for 99% of our players so would only annoy people!Jonathan Smith - Traveller's TalesHow much thought has Traveller's Tales given to gamer points in your Xbox 360 projects? What are some of the more interesting/offbeat uses in, say, LEGO Star Wars II?As 360 gamers ourselves, we know how compelling the Achievement Points system is, so we've had a lot of fun planning our allocations for LEGO Star Wars II, and also for our new game BIONICLE Heroes. LEGO Star Wars II, for example, is a game which we've very deliberately made easy for young gamers to play without getting frustrated; it brings your characters back to life after only a very short pause when you die. With the Achievement Points system, though, we've been able to offer a substantially harder level of challenge in the game for older players, with 20 points on offer for the completion of any level without dying.Do you think the growing obsession with gamer points is going to have an effect on the way games are designed, with developers adding specific secrets and challenges to entice point-hungry players?Very definitely - this is already happening, and I wholeheartedly welcome it, both as a games producer (it enables us to add new layers of depth to the gameplay), and as a games player (being offered a wider variety of challenges to engage with).Does Microsoft have any say over how you use game points? Is there a temptation to give away loads of easy points in order to attract gamer point addicts?Microsoft has a very light touch in this area - they produce and support a platform which it's up to individual games development teams to exploit however they see fit. And to the second part of your question: that's not a temptation we've felt at all. The Achievement Points culture is already sufficiently evolved that clever, interesting and challenging allocations will receive more attention and appreciation than an unsophisticated attempt at bribery.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
David Pogue, author of Switching to the Mac: The Missing Manual and a columnist at The New York Times, pours water on the recent iPhone rumours which I blogged (below) from ThinkSecret.He writes:Everyone's always asking me when Apple will come out with a cellphone. My answer is, "Probably never."I have friends who worked on the Palm Treo. And to this day, my gut churns to recall the hell they went through.The clincher? He says:Don't believe me? Then have a look at this wonderfulMuseum of Bogus Apple Phone Rumors, extending all the way back to 2004 and filled with "photos" and "reports."I have three quibbles with this. First, a lot of those mentions are not, in fact, Bogus Apple Phone Rumors: they concern the Motorola ROKR which, while it wasn't the iPhone, was actually a real product. Second, yes, we know the Handspring (ex-Palm) people struggled with the Treo, and Apple has had similar struggles with the iPod phone. That's one reason why it's taking so long. You can have years of rumours not because Apple isn't doing stuff but because it's finding stuff hard to do.Third, it's obvious that there is a bigger market for music-playing phones than there is for standalone MP3 players, just as there is a bigger market for cameraphones than for digital cameras. (In fact, pretty much everyone who wants a digital cameraalsowants a cameraphone, because there are times when you don't have your camera but you do have your mobile phone. They are not mutually-exclusive markets.)Since the market for music-playing phones will run to hundreds of millions of units a year (more than Apple has sold in five years of iPods), and since Apple clearly has an interest in the market (as shown by the ROKR), the idea that it won't do a converged device defies belief. It's the way the market is going. Apple can't stop it. Apple can either be part of the steamroller or part of the road.The last time I saw a company in denial it was Palm, which repeatedly told me it was really happy to offer a two device solution (Palm plus mobile) and had no intention of getting into the smartphone business. The people who had originally set up Palm and defected to form Handspring had a different view, and it was Handspring that developed the Treo which, following a sort of reverse takeover, ended up as a Palm.Saying Apple isn't working on a merged device is tantamount to saying that Steve Jobs is similarly in denial. You can make up your own mind, but I don't believe it.
Five years ago, when the World Trade Centre fell, the shockwave rolled around the world. It ruined many lives, and sank a few companies. But who could have known that it would hit Sir Trevor Baylis's business so hard? Baylis, the British inventor best known for the wind-up radio, was developing a shoe that would charge your mobile phone battery as you walked. The shoe, complete with a slot for the battery, captured some of the power generated by the average human step, roughly eight watts, and used it to charge a phone over thousands of strides. Baylis had even walked 100 miles across the Namibian desert to raise money for the idea. But his idea collapsed along with the twin towers."After 9/11, anyone wearing electric shoes would look like a bomber. That's what you have to watch with any electric kit that you carry nowadays," muses Bailey. Richard Reid, who tried to blow up a plane by carrying explosives in his heels - which subsequently made customs officials particularly nervous about footwear- has a lot to answer for.The idea of harvesting otherwise wasted energy isn't new, but it's beginning to gain traction. Not only are researchers hoping to reap the energy from people, but they're also planning to use the vibrations from motors and even passing trains to generate power. In some cases, converting vibrations into a tiny charge may be enough to power a wireless sensor. In others, thousands of footsteps could power lights and audio systems.Historically, piezoelectricity has been the biggest hope for energy harvesters. Discovered in 1880, piezoelectric crystals, emit a charge when subjected to sudden mechanical stress. When you press the button on an electric lighter or the ignition switch on your gas oven, a piezocrystal is probably causing the spark.Spring in your stepIn 1996, MIT Media Lab doctoral student Thad Starner wrote a paper on the potential for "energy harvesting". Using a piezoelectric shoe insert that flexed with each step, or a flywheel system connected to a small spring in the back of the shoe, five to eight watts could be recovered from each footfall, Starner's paper said. Other options for harvesting human energy included finger motion (a 90 words per minute typist could generate 19 milliwatts). Starner believed that by using footfall energy alone, he could power a small wearable computer.Building a five-watt wearable computer in the lab is one thing, but commercialising wearable computing and wearable power would involve a huge design and user testing effort. Besides, such a computing technology hasn't captured the public imagination yet. People don't want to walk around looking like one of the Borg from Star Trek.Moreover, a key problem in wearable computing is getting power from one place to another. Cables tangle, rub and break. Dr Stan Swallow, director of Intelligent Textiles, hopes to transfer energy around the human body more easily. His company develops material that transfers power using electrical circuitry woven into "smart fabric".And while wearable computers might be a niche market, iPods aren't. "The iPod single-handedly created a common format for everyone to work with," he says. "Suddenly your market is composed of everyone who's an iPod owner." We've already seen some jackets with built-in circuitry designed to control MP3 players. How long before clothes emerge that carry energy around the body to power that iPod while you walk or run?Or how about clothes that harvest power directly? Dr Markys Cain, who runs the Sensor Knowledge Transfer Network at the National Physics Laboratory, hopes to see fabric that generates its own power using piezoelectric fibres woven into frequently moving joints such as elbows and knees."You can incorporate ceramic fibres, around which technology has increased dramatically in the last few years. You put them into polymer mats. They are flexible, and you can get millimetres of actuation," he says. Swallow puts it simply: "Your iPod will run on so little power, and your trousers will contain so much."Finger powerWhile improvements in energy harvesting technology generate more energy, power consumption in computing devices is falling. That could make consumer-friendly computers running on harvested energy workable.New generations of displays from firms like e-Ink are appearing, which only draw power when the image changes. Solid state memory removes the need to spin hard drives at high speeds, points out Simon Powell, managing director of piezoelectric lock company Servocell. "If you have Flash RAM and you only use energy to write and read from it, it all just about becomes viable," he says.But wearable computing may not be the killer application for harvested energy. Piezoelectricity can power wireless sensors, for example, that can use the energy to communicate with other devices in a certain range. With finger motion, Starner believed he could give a wireless keyboard enough power to transmit keystroke information to another device. Today, Ennocean sells wireless light switches that use the energy generated by flipping the switch to communicate with a bulb and turn it on - no cabling necessary.That makes Claire Price's eyes light up. She is a director of the Facility Architects, a London-based group working on energy harvesting in buildings. The company is involved in the Pacesetters project, an initiative to design energy-harvesting floors and stairs for large public spaces. Price's team will put devices under such surfaces to collect the energy from footfalls, and use it to power local systems."You can convert about 3-6 W per step," she says. "Think of Victoria train station. In one rush hour period there are 34,000 people walking through that space. There are many kilowatts of energy that we could be harvesting and ploughing back into low-power circuits." These include audio equipment, display screens, or, by her calculation, around 6.5million LED lights.But Price is unlikely to use piezoelectricity for the Pacesetters project, because she doesn't think it has an high enough efficiency. Working with Jim Gilbert, a researcher at Hull University - who also worked with Baylis on the abandoned electric shoe - the Facility has investigated hydraulic systems and electromagnetic rotary generators.She believes that the opportunities for harvesting energy on a mass scale in public spaces are huge. If floors in railway stations, then why not pavements in Trafalgar Square? If pavements in Trafalgar Square, then why not bridges? "Think about Norman Foster's wobbly bridge, where they spent millions on damping equipment," she says. "You could have applied energy harvesting devices within those dampers." Servocell's Powell, a former Cambridge lecturer and patent holder in several piezoelectric applications, agrees: "If you had piezos on that, you could probably have lit it with LEDs," he says.Price is also working with Perpetuum, a small research company that has developed electromagnetic rotary generators that harvest vibrational energy. She wants to attach the devices to sleepers on train tracks to pick up the energy from passing trains. That could be used to power wireless transmissions, says Roy Freeland, chief executive of Perpetuum. "One of the main problems on railway systems is goods wagons breaking down. No one monitors them and there's no power source to do that. We could monitor them not only for bearing failure, but could use the generators to power transmission systems that tell people where the railway wagons are."And what of Baylis? Currently involved in Trevor Baylis Brands, a company that helps inventors get their ideas to market, he would like to take a stab at the electric shoe idea one more time and is looking for a large company to collaborate with."The shoe would have to be a trendy shoe with a mark on it," he says, when asked about his original security concerns. "So that if someone was wearing this, you know they had an electronic device."He'd employ better computer aided design techniques to refine his shoe design, he adds, and would also switch from a piezoelectric device to something else like a rotary electric generator, which would provide a bigger power kick. That would be a step in the right direction.&#183; Compressed crystals that generate powerPiezoelectricity was discovered in 1880 by Pierre and Paul-Jacques Curie, who found that compressing certain types of crystals - including quartz, tourmaline, and Rochelle salt - along certain axes produced a voltage that could be measured on the crystal's surface.The next year, they observed that applying an electric current could make the crystals elongate very slightly.The charge arises when crystals which have no axis of symmetry are squeezed: the centre of the positive charge in the crystals' ions is slightly separated from the centre of the negative charge.That creates a net electric field, which can be measured on opposite faces of the crystal. Similarly, applying an electric field across the faces induces the ions to move, and so deforms the crystal.For decades this remained a laboratory curiosity, but was used in the first world war to generate ultrasound signals (by applying a high-frequency alternating current to make a crystal vibrate) for early sonar, and in the second world war to make impact-triggered detonators for bombs dropped from aircraft: striking the ground triggered a spark to ignite the explosives inside.Piezoelectricity generates high voltages - a pressure sufficient to distort lead zirconate titanate by 0.05mm generates 100,000V - but tiny currents. However it is enough, for example, to create an electric spark to ignite gas in an oven or grill.The piezoelectric effect has subsequently been used in electronic equipment, clocks and watches, cigarette lighters, and many other items - including the "needles" of vinyl record players, which generate electricity as the groove moves them.Charles Arthur&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wikipedia describes itself as "the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit". With some minor exceptions, anyone can change any article - for good or ill. While the benefits of such a low barrier for participation have been widely touted, the concomitant problems are less well known. Such as, what if you find yourself in it, but don't want to be?Wikipedia has a short biography of me, originally added in February 2004, mostly concerned with my internet civil liberties achievements. After discovering in May 2006 that it had been vandalised in March, possibly by a long-time opponent, and that the attack had been subsequently propagated to many other sites which (legally) repackage Wikipedia's content, the article's existence seemed to me overall to be harmful rather than helpful.For people who are not very prominent, Wikipedia biographies can be an "attractive nuisance". It says, to every troll, vandal, and score-settler: "Here's an article about a person where you can, with no accountability whatsoever, write any libel, defamation, or smear. It won't be a marginal comment with the social status of an inconsequential rant, but rather will be made prominent about the person, and reputation-laundered with the institutional status of an encyclopedia."Where living people are concerned, there is a cost-shifting aspect: instead of falling on Wikipedia's poor quality control, any negative effects are usually borne by the aggrieved party, except in the very rare case where he or she has enough power to publicise Wikipedia's failings.John Seigenthaler's experience concerning a false statement inserted into his Wikipedia biography became widely known (tinyurl.com/cyogx). But he had the ability to make it a public issue; that of the activist Daniel Brandt provides many contrasts - see wikipedia-watch. org. I made no legal threats. But in July, when another person publicly proposed that I might in fact not be notable enough to be the subject of a Wikipedia article (tinyurl.com/qnqjp), I agreed - and strongly argued the case against myself.At Wikipedia, contentious decisions are made by a process of elaborate discussion culminating in administrative fiat. Deletions go through a comment period. The process is not a vote, but the result forms a recommendation to the administrators. In my case, there was no consensus, leading to the article being kept.From my point of view, these debates illustrate some of the beliefs that drive Wikipedia. I'm intrigued by Wikipedia, not from any utopian view, but rather by how it manages to induce people to work for free, and how the project has evolved elaborate rhetorical responses to criticism. Since it's alleged to be an encyclopedia, active participants often want the prestige and imputed influence which comes from such intellectual endeavors. This desire leads to minimising and trivialising of failures in quality control.Institutionally, Wikipedia has a difficult problem: to allow anyone to decline to be a subject of an article would be an admission that the supposed collective editing process is deeply flawed.As Angela Beesley, previously a prominent member of the foundation which runs Wikipedia, wrote in an unsuccessful attempt to have her own page removed (attinyurl.com/n5ly5): "I'm sick of this article being trolled. It's full of lies and nonsense. My justification for making a third nomination [for deletion] is that my circumstances have changed significantly since the last [request for deletion]".That was a pretty stunning vote of no-confidence. Me? My article is still there, at the moment. But I wish it weren't.&#183;Seth Finkelstein is a consulting programmer, and a winner of the Electronic Frontier Foundation's Pioneer Award for his efforts in fighting censorware.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The BBC and Microsoft have signed a "memorandum of understanding" for developing the next generation of the corporation's internet-based services.The BBC director general, Mark Thompson, and the director of new media, Ashley Highfield, agreed the non-exclusive deal with the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, in Seattle.A BBC statement said: "The memorandum of understanding will define the framework within which the companies can explore opportunities for the delivery and consumption of BBC content and the evolution of next-generation broadcasting."This includes plans for its online archive, for a radically reinvented website in the web 2.0 world - a second generation of internet-based services - and for ways to share its online content in the future."Areas of potential collaboration include search and navigation, distribution and content enablement.The BBC statement added: "Any actual procurements of new technology, or launch of new services by the BBC, would be subject to appropriate regulatory approval."Mr Thompson said: "To ensure that the BBC is able to embrace the creative challenges of the digital future, we need to forge strategic partnerships with technology companies and distributors for the benefit of licence payers."Mr Highfield added: "Microsoft is a key gateway to audiences that the BBC needs to reach through web services it runs like MSN and Windows Live Messenger, and hardware such as Xbox and the Windows Media Center."The BBC needs to work with all players in this space to make sure our programmes and content are enjoyed by the widest possible audience, without always having to come to bbc.co.uk to find it."The memorandum of understanding aims to identify areas of common interest between the BBC and Microsoft on which a strategic alliance could be developed.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I want to buy an Apple Mac Mini, and wondered if there was a piece of hardware -- a portable touch-screen display, or a Mac-compatible tablet PC -- that could work as portable screen. Ad RotowaMicrosoft tried this idea in 2002 with its Mira portable displays, which flopped horribly. However, Mira was based on Windows CE, the operating system used in Pocket PC handhelds and Windows Mobile phones. These can have touch sensitive screens and handwriting recognition as standard, and connect to Windows desktops and servers using Microsoft's RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol). Logically, I thought, it ought to be possible to do something similar with a Mac Mini, and a quick search finds that Austrian Mac consultant and columnist Teddy the Bear has done it using the free VNC (Virtual Network Computing) software, according to Wired News (seeThe Portable Mac OS X Geek).However, accessing a Mac via PocketVNC or PalmVNC on a handheld may be trickier than it sounds and will probably limit you to a very small screen. I think you'd be better off with a convertible PC. This looks like a standard notebook PC, but turns into a pen-driven tablet PC if you fold the screen over the keyboard. Unfortunately, while there are lots of models running Microsoft's Windows XP Tablet PC Edition, Apple does not offer one. For portability, you should there go for a MacBook rather than a Mini.Of course, it should be possible to use VNC to connect a Tablet PC to a Mac Mini, but that would involve buying two computers -- a very expensive option. The suggestion box is open if anyone has a better idea.
I do not indulge in any of the online activities for which broadband is essential, but there are times when faster download would be an advantage, such as downloading photos in mail attachments. I have noticed an advertisement for OnSpeed, which would speed up my dial-up connection apparently by a factor of about 10. Do you have any experience of this system? Derek RoughtonIreviewed OnSpeed in January 2004, and while its technology will have improved, the principle remains the same. OnSpeed works by compressing web pages before it sends them to you. This is not a new idea -- it's how AOL worked reasonably quickly on dial-up -- and it can be useful. However, it does lower the quality of the pages (the compression loses some information) and it doesn't help with things that are heavily compressed. It can be set up to work with a mail server, but I don't think it would be very useful for your purposes.The Advertising Standards Authority upheld a complaint against Turbodial Ltd (trading as OnSpeed) in March, and you can read its reporthere.
We get far more letters than we can print. So we print them online. Here's what we chose from the past week..WHOSE CONTENT IS IT ANYWAY?"The BBC and Channel 4 chose Creative Commons (creativecommons.org) licence regime, designed to encourage sharing..." (Whose content is it anyway?, Technology, September 21) If you read the fine print, the BBC created a new licence, the "Creative Archive Licence" based on the idea of the Creative Commons, but chose not to use a vanilla Creative Common Licence. There is an FAQ athttp://www.bbc.co.uk/calc/about_faq.shtmlwhich says: "The Creative Archive Licence is heavily inspired by the Creative Commons Licences. Public service organisations within the UK have additional requirements, however, that need to be reflected in the terms under which they licence content. The two most obvious of these are the UK-only requirement and the No Endorsement requirement. In addition, the Creative Archive Licence seeks to protect the Licensor's moral right of integrity, that is, the right not to have a work treated in a derogatory or objectionable way." Good Old Auntie: still looking after us after all these years. Gordon Joly, LondonYou state that the BBC chooses a Creative Commons licence for content submitted by viewers. I would question whether that is true. Here are the BBC's terms: "In contributing to BBC News you agree to grant us a royalty-free, non-exclusive licence to publish and otherwise use the material in any way that we want, and in any media worldwide. This may include the transmission of the material by our overseas partners"http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/talking_point/2780295.stm#yourpicsIn fact the BBC has some of the worst terms and conditions around. If a member of the public catches something newsworthy and offers it to the BBC, it will seriously affect the money they could make from other news outlets, as the BBC will be able to distribute the content all over the wrold for free. I wish more articles would draw attention to the BBC's terms. On a personal note, I am a freelance photographer. Something that is made clear on my websites. However I have been approached by ther BBC on several occasions and they have asked to use my photography free of charge. It is extraordinary that a public service broadcaster should be doing this to the public and to professionals. The terms atScooptare also worth taking a close look at. Geoff Stafford, Manchester&gt;&gt; Apart from the vaguely insulting suggestion that videos being uploaded to UGC (user-generated content) sites is pretty shit right now, and lacking the high production values of MTV, is there anything more hollow than this? Dangling the vague chance of some cash at some time in the future, if the clips come up to some undefined standard. But if the content is that poor, why does MTV want to claim all rights to it?http://xrrf.blogspot.com/2006/09/mtv-trust-us.html&gt;&gt; My first instinct is to say that if you create something you own the rights to it, but what if some of your material is taken from some other media source? Is it still yours? Somebody before you created the whole thing from scratch, you just changed or added content. So this is really a very tricky question.http://the-good-things-in-life.blogspot.com/2006/09/who-owns-your-online-content.htmlAVATARS: GAMESBLOGApropos the "Gamesblog" column in the TechnologyGuardian of Thursday 21st September 2006, Aleks Krotoski said that: "In the UK... The only TV show that could conceivably include "avatar" in the script would be the satirical geek programme The IT Crowd..." As it happens I noticed that the word "avatar" had been included in the episode of "Charmed" broadcast on Channel 4 in the afternoon of Sunday 17th September... ...although some people would possibly consider *that* to be a satirical geek show as well. David Pick, LondonPASSING THE TURING TESTJabberwacky bots don't come anywhere close to being indistinguishable from humans in their responses to conversation. They demonstrate no sign of understanding what's been said to them, and don't grasp the conversational and linguistic conventions that even very young children intuitively understand. You can't have anything that looks like a real conversation with them, regardless of whether you try to talk about abstract ideas or simple physical facts. The Turing Prize? Not in our lifetime. Ben McPherson, London&gt;&gt; Apparently Joan "learns the behaviour and words of its users" to create convincing conversation--it only took three sentences to "learn" that I was speaking human English. I must congratulate her creative team on achieving the coveted goal of recreating the experience of trying to shake off the cheeky 12-year-old at your cousin's graduation party.http://codydan.livejournal.com/170894.htmlTECHNOBILE (WORD PROCESSING)Wendy Grossman needsFreeMind(from SourceForge). FreeMind would fit all of her - quite reasonable - requirements. Word processing programs took a wrong turn towards desktop publishing some time in the 90s (Word 2.0 I think...). Mind-mapping software would be a better medium for distributing ideas around businesses and institutions. It hasn't caught on, partly because it's less like paperwork than word-processed documents are but mainly I think because very few people know of it. There's an analogy here with qwerty keyboards, the eyeball, the Home Office and all the other stuff that isn't fit for purpose but can't be disinvented. David Robinson, LondonWendy might benefit from undertaking an OU course. Provided she chooses one with a three-hour, discursive examination at the end, she'll be trained to write essays using a brain, a pen and some paper. She might want to use Notepad to type it up for publication. Mike Turbine-Hamilton, Dalry, AyrshireI would suggest that she should have just printed off the document she was working on and then cut it up the way that she would have done before word processors. James Clements, PortsmouthION USB TURNTABLEAllan Jones might be a bit sniffy about the Ion turntable software. I have just bought this product. I am in my 60th year, am computer literate but know nothing of mp3 players, downloading music etc. I successfully transferred music from vinyl and tapes to my computer with barely the bat of an eyelid. The software information was blissfully brief and comprehensible. The one query I had was dealt with by a human being who answered the phone promptly (and wasn't on an 0870 number) and quickly sent me a pdf file. Burning the file onto a CD with Mediaplayer was another matter altogether. That produced much frustration and greying hair before succeeding. I am now going to listen to recordings of my children talking 25 years ago. Thank you Ion. Barbara Robinson, LondonFor a simple solution to transferring records and tapes to PC, assuming you still have the means to play the analogue media, buy a recording MP3 machine (mine's an ARCHOS Gmini 402) and just plug it into the headphone socket of your hi-fi. Ian West, LeicesterWIKIPEDIA'S FORK IN THE ROADJust a comment on the author's example about the province of Ontario. When you're talking about government one has to taken into account the natural desire to prove you're right. Take for example the inflation rate. It's to any government's benefit to present as low as number as possible and the civil servants are paid to impress their bosses. This is done by massaging the figures until you get the most acceptable number. We need a way to account for peoples' natural biases (which they may not even be aware of). Mike Potter, Hamilton, OntarioBATTERIESA note for Michael Fitzpatrick (Flatter batteries are good news, Technology Guardian Thursday, p6). The writers in the main paper frequently have difficulty with electrical terms and units as I often have to point out, but one might expect those writing for the Technology section to be more familiar. He writes 'When used in series, his batteries can produce 30volts of power...'. The volt is a unit of potential or 'pressure' and not of power, which is given by the product of voltage and current. Sticking appropriate metal electrodes into a lemon and connecting a set of these in series can equally produce a potential of 30volt but the available power output will be rather small. A problem arising from connecting thin film batteries in series is that the internal resistance will proportionally increase, which will of necessity limit the power output further. And just to avoid misunderstanding, units should be singular since the abbreviation 's' stands for seconds. [TheGuardian style guiderecommends 'volts - V' - Technology Ed.] With regard to connecting cells in series the following (translated) quotation may be of interest: 'Volta's invention of multiplying the Galvanic action repeating its prerequisites arbitrarily and indefinitely is the greatest gift to Galvanism since Galvani. Even the simple action enabled us to penetrate into the system of its effects down to a considerable profoundness; if we are allowed to extend the effects , which seemed to be much too small for a lot of people to be of their interest until that day, up to 60, 80 or 100 and manifold, we will immediately focus all the attention on it, as indeed has owed. But not only for manifolded representation of the already known, Volta's invention is as well qualified excellently for the discovery of new effects of Galvanism, only possible to be registered by the restricted senses because of the enlargement of the corresponding causes.' J W Ritter, Volta's Galvanische Versuche, Weimar 1800. Scott Hamilton, Manchester UniversityTECHNOBILE (PRINTERS)Your anonymous correspondent and Michael Edwards (Not Fit To Print, 21/9/06), are both a little behind/ahead of the times. My first computer (Windows 95/98) and the associated printer, Lexmark Z11, are still both going strong. The printer uses cheap cartridges made even cheaper by being easily refillable . The black cartridge (12A1975) which I use most of the time, takes something like ten seconds to refill from a large bottle of black ink, the colour cartridge takes a little longer and both last for many many refills, provided they are not allowed to run dry. Scour E-Bay, buy an old printer! Bill Hathaway, Bognor RegisFREE OUR ROADWORKSI suppose that a high-tech solution to the buried services problem was inevitable in the Technology section ("Roadworks database is caught in a jam", p3, 21st September). May I propose something a bit more low-tech? Whenever a road is to be dug up for service provision or maintenance, why not bury ducts, probably under the gutter? These should be provided by the local authority, and rented out to utilities, all of which would be required to move their pipes or wires into the ducts at the next modification. The ducts would not be cheap, though probably they would not come much more expensive than the digging up and making good that is needed anyway. They would initially go in piecemeal, but would gradually join up into a network, provided some initial standards were laid down. Sewers would have to be separate, because of their gravity requirements. In practice, both low- and high-tech solutions should run in parallel, to their mutual benefit, and the great joy of other road users. Tim Gossling, Cambridge
The CDs coming out of the DVD-Rom of my Time PC are very hot to the touch, and I am concerned that something is heating up more than it should. I thought I could smell something unpleasant recently, but that smell has disappeared. I JackSome drives operate hotter than others, but it's a danger sign if a drive starts running hotter than usual, and overheating can result in Windows "losing" the drive. You could try taking the case off your machine and making sure the fans and vents are not clogged up with dust.A smell that wasn't there before -- especially the strong, acrid smell of burning insulation -- is a much bigger danger signal, and would make me want to swap out the part that's overheating. This could be the DVD drive, but make sure it's not the power supply, which could be next to it.Since you won't get any support from Time, which has closed down, consider having the machine checked by a local repair specialist or small dealer. It's better than living with a fire risk.
I have just bought an Asus laptop for my daughter to take to university. The 80GB hard drive is partitioned in two: one half contains Windows XP and other applications and uses the FAT32 file system; the other half is empty and is NTFS. I asked the seller, Mesh, why and they didn't know, so I contacted Asus. They don't know why their machines are configured this way either! David ReggioriNTFS, Windows' New Technology File System, was only introduced in July 1993, so it may take some manufacturers a while to catch on!It would make more sense to install XP on the NTFS drive, and XP includes a Convert command that will convert the FAT32 disk to NTFS on a reboot. However, I can't see that your daughter would benefit greatly (the conversion would offer a bit more disk space). Also, many suppliers' help lines -- where people work from scripts -- tend to have trouble coping with systems that are not configured exactly as shipped. Under the circumstances, I'd leave it as it is.
Just to add to Greg's post below, Microsoft has issued two enormous press releases over the last 48 hours, both coming straight from the company's X06 event in Barcelona. One coversthoseannouncements, the other alist of forthcoming games showing at the event.As Greg mentioned, Peter Jackson is producing two titles for Microsoft including, as expected, the next Halo, plus one original new franchise, 'targeted at bringing new audiences into the captivating world of interactive entertainment'. Hmmm, King Kong SingStar? Jackson will be working with Academy Award-winning screenwriter Fran Walsh.And the rest...Greg got there first, but there will be a new RTS offshoot of Halo, adequately named Halo Wars, developed by Ensemble Studios, creators of the Age of Empires.Some stuff that Greg didn't mention: Rockstar announced that two downloadable episodes of GTA IV will be available on Xbox Live a couple of months after the full retail release, each boasting 'hours' of new gameplay. Splinter Cell 5 (currently subtitled Conviction) will be an Xbox 360 exclusive. Project Gotham 4 is in development.Finally, the HD DVD player will arrive in the UK in 'mid-November' with a suggested retail price of GBP129.99. The player bundles with the King Kong Movie and a remote.
You've probably heard all the X06 announcements by now - Peter Jackson doing "interactive entertainments", 129 quid HD-DVD add-on, Sensible Soccer on Live, Halo Wars (RTS). Last night's press conference and today's hands-on sessions have confirmed Microsoft's confident and exciting offering - the next-gen is here and looking good.A post show conference saw Peter Jackson quizzed on his announcement. His woolly, yet potentially groundbreaking, idea certainly generated a buzz but you have to worry about the spectre of CD-Rom style interactive movies. The game industry's traditionally sycophantic tendency towards Hollywood did rear its head - Microsoft's Peter Moore was sickeningly gushing in his praise for Jackson - but if anyone can nail this film/game vision down you'd bet on these guys,The biggest cheer of last night was for Sensible World of Soccer - and rightly so - while the return of Banjo Kazooie made me smile too. But Doom on Xbox Live? Why bother? Sensi still stands up today, mainly because it offers something different to the footy games around at the moment. But why play Doom when you can play Call of Duty 3? Nostalgia isn't enough.Gears of War is the biggie for Microsoft but I'm still not totally convinced. A session on the single-player game showed a huge amount of potential with a weighty, tactile feel to the graphics and controls. But I didn't fall in love - possibly because gritty futuristic cityscapes have lost their appeal, or maybe because someone spilt a cocktail on my jeans when playing. More playtime is needed before confirming whether Gears lives up to the incessant hype.Elsewhere there was much talk of reaching out for casual gamers but the emphasis still seemed to be on driving and shooting. However I've just been in to see Mass Effect, with its wonderful conversation system that lets you interrupt NPCs, so faith has been partly restored. I've also got high hopes for Alan Wake and Assassin's Creed, both of which I'm seeing later today. I'll blog thoughts on these, and anything else I can see today, when I get back to the UK."5 days not 5 months", said a confident Peter Moore when talking about the delay between Gears of War's US and Europe release. And with the high quality of games on show here you can understand his confidence - the 360 is on a roll.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..A step in the right directionScientists are trying to harness the power generated by walking and to tap the vibrational energy produced by trains. Danny Bradbury reports on their progress.Antivirus vendors raise threats over Vista in EuropeSecurity companies argue that Microsoft is edging them out in Vista. Will that delay its European launch?Free Our Data:France maps out the path to liberate its dataAnyone who has been trapped between a herd of French bulls and a barbed wire fence will have had reason to curse the Institut Gographique National.Gamesblog:Point scoring for fun that leads to an obsessionKeith Stuart: I have a low Gamerscore. If you're an Xbox 360 owner you'll understand and even commiserate with my confession. Most users only took a cursory glance at their Gamerscores, until what was just casual interest turned into competition and then into gnawing, soul-wrenching obsession.Newly Asked Questions:Is it possible to be identified by your 'clickprint'?Almost certainly - and if you're wondering what a clickprint is, it is "a unique pattern of web surfing behavior based on actions such as the number of pages viewed per session, the number of minutes spent on each page, the time or day of the week the page is visited, and so on."Will PlayStation 3 sell as well as its predecessors?Even Sony, it seems, is not sure.Vic Keegan:Sim cards will soon be as dead as dodosI have had a glimpse of an exciting new future for mobile phones. After writing about my difficulties with operators recently, two UK-based companies got in touch with a solution: don't use the operators at all, or at least reduce your dependence on them.TechnobileKate Bevan: Chip and pin may be a wonderful concept, but don't write off humans yet - they're more reliable.Software to bring out the beauty in all of usNew image manipulation programs not only remove blemishes but can change the contours of the face.Microsoft struggles to regain its cool amid the upstartsJack Schofield: Can Microsoft get its cool back? Does anybody care? Or doesn't it matter any more? It's no secret that Microsoft has an image problem. That's partly the result of being hauled over hot coals by the US Justice Department, and condemned as a monopolist.Taking the water cooler onlineAs the virtual workplace becomes more prevalent, many staff find teamwork difficult to build.I'm on Wikipedia, get me out of hereSeth Finkelstein: Wikipedia has a short biography of me, originally added in February 2004, mostly concerned with my internet civil liberties achievements. After discovering it had been vandalised, the article's existence seemed to me overall to be harmful rather than helpful.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Gadgets:Sony Ericsson M600iThe business phone market is getting crowded, what with recent launches like the BlackBerry Pearl, Nokia E61 and Palm Treo 750V. Sony Ericsson is also staking its claim on the space with the M600i, a classic, smart-looking black phone with a stylus operated touch screen.LG KG920With the KG920, LG has seriously upped the ante in the UK camera phone market by delivering a model that can snap five megapixel images - at least a couple of megapixels up on its main rivals.Philips SA9200The past few months have seen the arrival of a range of iPod nano clones like Sandisk's flawed, but still rather good, e200. The latest to arrive in the stores is the SA9200 from Philips.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesAnti-malware Trend | Cartoon capers | Shoot the reds | FinePix S5 Pro coming | Anonymous Torpark | Into the Valley | Watermarking alliance
"King Kong director Peter Jackson has agreed a deal with Microsoft to create what he describes as a 'new form of interactive entertainment'. The Oscar-winning film-maker said he would be creating a series based on the Halo video game franchise," reportsBBC News.Mr Jackson, who is also producing a movie based on Halo, said the series would not be for hard core gamers.The surprise announcement was made at the X06 event in Barcelona, at which Microsoft unveiled its line-up of games for the coming 12 months.Other news from X06:* Ensemble Studios (of Age of Empires fame) will doHalo Wars, an new real-time strategy game based on the Halo universe, exclusively for Xbox 360* Rockstar and Take-Two will offer two exclusivedownloadable episodes of Grand Theft Auto IV via Xbox Live* Rare will do a newBanjo-Kazooiegame as an Xbox 360 exclusive* Ubisoft'sSplinter Cell Double Agentwill be console-exclusive on Xbox 360* 2K Games'BioShockwill be released exclusively on Xbox 360 and Windows next spring*Project Gotham Racing 4will be an Xbox exclusive* Microsoft Game Studios announcedMarvel Universe Online for Xbox 360 and Windows Vista* RedOctane is developingGuitar Hero II, the sequel, for the Xbox 360*EA's line-up for the Xbox 360will include FIFA 07, Need for Speed Carbon, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07, NBA Live 07, NHL 07, Half Life 2 and Superman Returns: The Videogame.*id Software's DOOMis now available on Xbox Live Arcade* Codemasters is developing a version ofSensible World of Soccer for Xbox Live ArcadeFinally, Microsoft said the Xbox 360 HD DVD Player will be available in mid-November 2006 in North America for $199.99. In 2007, it will be available in the UK, France and Germany for 199.99 or 129.99 (estimated prices). It "comes with the Universal Pictures blockbuster film Peter Jackson's King Kong on HD DVD (for a limited time)."Update: Our Gamesblog has now covered the X06 news. SeeX06 - first impressionsandMicrosoft X06 - the other stuff. GTA IV downloads, HD DVD pricing and moreThere's also ahuge Microsoft press releasecovering other stuff such as Gears of War (Epic Games Inc), Viva Piata (Rare Ltd), Call of Duty 3 (Activision), Pixar's Cars (THQ), Dead or Alive: Xtreme 2 (Tecmo Inc) and so on, plus various Windows and/or Vista titles.
Sony has announced that its much-anticipated but often delayed Reader device - an electronic book - will go on sale in the US next month, price at $350.Engadget has picturesand here's what Forbeshas to say:Sony's device is lightweight and thin. You can read several novels before you have to recharge. It also boasts a screen, courtesy of a company spun off from M.I.T.'s labs, that doesn't replicate paper but comes closer than anything else so far. And while the device is pricey for a mass-market gadget, Sony has worked out deals with book publishers.Early indications are that it will support a large number of formats and file types, but will only have limited ability for RSS reading (expect that to change if magazines and newspapers get excited).I spent some time with one of these babies at CES earlier this year, and immediately fell in love with it. And when Sony announced a promotional deal with Borders to sell , I askedwhether we'd all be eBook readers.But right now it's a niche product, and there are still plenty of chances for this to fall flat on its face - and knowing Sony they'll do their best to make sure that happens... but I'm a great fan of the concept.
While not commenting directly on the Belgian case, Google haspublished a defence of its approach to contenton its official blog. The crux of the argument is that Google does respect copyright. It says:Content creators deserve to be rewarded for their creative work -- and copyright law is fundamental to ensuring that as well as fostering future creativity. While protecting the rights of owners, those laws also encourage others to make use of content in limited ways. That's why newspapers are allowed to include short quotations from in-copyright books in their reviews. That's also why search engines can show snippets (small excerpts) of text in their results. Copyright owners benefit from these types of usage because they help to publicize their works.That seems to me a reasonable defence of Google News where you have to go to the original site to read the story. It ignores the fact that, in the main index, you can often get all you need from Google's cache. However, I suspect most people really like the cache, and I find it extremely helpful.The other core question is whether sites should have to opt in or opt out. Google argues the positive side:Of course, some people argue that we should be asking content owners to opt in, not requiring them to opt out. Google aims to provide comprehensive search results. This would be impossible in a world where permission simply to index (which is entirely legal) was necessary. But we also believe that opt-out rather than opt-in benefits not just Google users, but also content owners. If content isn't indexed it can't be searched. And if it can't be searched, how can it be found? Imagine a library with no index of titles or subjects of the books on its shelves, or no catalogue of the authors who wrote them.Given that the net is being indexed automatically by software, verifying the results by asking people to opt in is clearly out of the question. You can't phone a billion sites, even if you could find out who you had to phone in the first place. But there isn't really a problem here. Anybody who wants to opt out can easily use a robots.txt file that tells web spiders not to index their pages.The problem is that things that are useful, sensible and good for the community may not necessarily be legal under any particular law court's interpretation of copyright laws. Some people think the law is an ass (seeAlistair Dunning's pieceat The Institute of Historical Research site at the University of London) and that "fair use" itself is under threat (seeMarjorie Heins and Tricia Beckles, Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law).This week, according toZD Net, the British Library called for a "serious updating" of current copyright law to "unambiguously" include digital content and take technological advances into account. The story says:"Unless there is a serious updating of copyright law to recognize the changing technological environment, the law becomes an ass," Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library, told ZDNet UK.Comment: How highly do you rate the chances of either the US or UK governments acting for the good of the people on copyright and fair use? Don't hold your breath.
What and why?Nintendo Wii, &pound;179.99. The Nintendo Wii (pronounced "we") is not like other games consoles. It doesn't do shoot 'em up games. It does do interactivity. With a gadget that looks like a TV remote control, it uses wi-fi technology to read any action you perform and translate it on to the screen. So you can play tennis, golf, or baseball, you can bowl or box or play something called Zelda Hands-on, which is a sword fighting game.How many sold?In nine days, 7,000 units have been pre-sold, even though they won't actually be delivered until December. That makes it the biggest and quickest launch ever on the site.
Let's assume you're interested in a movie, and look it up on Google -- nothing new there. Picking a title at random, you might search for"The Illusionist", and the results are pretty good. The official site comes top, followed by IMDB, with Rotten Tomatoes and Wikipedia in the top 10 hits. (It's not such a good result if you actually wanted something about the worlds of David Blaine or Derren Brown.)But let's assume you were interested in a porn movie. Someone suggested trying"Pigtail Cuties 5", so I did. This time, the top hits are torrentreactor, torrentz.com, and torrentspy, and there are a couple of Russian sites (which I didn't visit) that could be offering ripped versions.So if you're searching for porn, Google provides great links for pirates. You don't really want to pay for it, do you? Or visit the company site, or read a review, if there are any.Now go back to"The Illusionist"and click around the 46 pages of Google links. See any torrents? I don't. See any warez or other free download sites? Nope.Perhaps I've been unlucky and missed them. Or perhaps Google has censored them, without mentioning it.Or perhaps they don't exist? Don't be silly. Just search for"The Illusionist" torrentand Google clearly knows about the pirate versions. The top hits are isohunt, torrentz, btmon and meganova. I'm not a torrent user myself, but according to TorrentFreak,two of these are among the 600 most visited sites on the net.This has been a five-minute ramble based on two titles, not on any in-depth research. However, it certainly raises the question: is Google really suppressing results from some of the net's most popular sites when you search for a "proper" movie, but not when you search for an improper one?Does "Don't be evil" really mean it's bad to steal movies from rich and powerful Hollywood studios but it's perfectly OK to pirate porn?Update: As usual, there is a logical explanation for all this, but it has made me revise and update my view of the way Google works. PageRank (based on links) clearly isn't what it used to be; TrustRank (which sites are trusted) is now more important than it used to be.A big movie, such as The Illusionist, gets lots of links from trusted sites, so links to things like torrents get buried. Since Google doesn't actually show many sites (apart from telling you there are a gazillion hits) you can't necessarily see them, but poke around Yahoo pages 50 to 100 and some torrents are indeed there.With a porn movie, however, there don't seem to be many (if any) links from highly-rated sites -- no reviews in The New York Times etc -- so random bozos linking to popular torrent sites lifts these towards the top.Whether Google and its clones are actively suppressing torrent sites -- which is what I wondered -- is unproven and possibly unknowable. Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Watch commented in an email:Chances are, the various torrent sites don't carry a lot of authority weight with any of the major search engines. That could be on purpose, and if so, that's understandable. If they make those sites more visible, then they'll come under attacks to start pulling stuff out of the index. Don't give them authority, and the sites don't rank well, and you don't come under a lot of attack from copyright owners that want to use the DMCA guidelines to get stuff removed.I certainly wouldn't criticise Google or anyone else for that. As with SafeSearch, you can find what you want if you look for it, but it (generally) isn't thrust in your face if you don't.There's plenty more to read on TrustRank which,according to Wikipedia, "is a technique proposed by Zoltn Gyngyi and Hector Garcia-Molina of Stanford University and Jan Pedersen of Yahoo! to semi-automatically separate useful webpages from spam."Not everybody is entirely happy about the results. For example, Internet marketing consultant Todd Mailcoat protests thatThe Trust Knob is WAY too High: "Please Google... turn the knob back before you make the problems even worse."So to the guy who sent me a link to a search for Pigtail Cuties 5, it did turn out to be an educational experience, if not in the way I first thought ;-)
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
