The beds are getting bigger. And so are the carbon offsets. The 2007 Business Travel Show is as good a place as any to find out how seriously the industry is taking climate change, and it was certainly making a special effort this year. The whole event was declared carbon neutral - even those of us who travelled to Earl's Court by tube were urged to offset our emissions - and the usual array of travel booking databases was joined by this year's must-have add-on: a carbon emissions calculator. With it, companies can track their emissions, offset them and declare them as such in the annual corporate social responsibility (CSR) report.On an artificial-turfed, planted-up podium, rail booking site TheTrainLine.com was basking in the satisfaction of being the greenest option at the show. Its sales director, Adrian Watts, said the publication of the Stern review in October "had quite a marked impact" on businesses' attitude towards climate change and their willingness to go by rail. "A lot of our corporate customers adopted a policy of only travelling by train domestically." They also wanted to be able to calculate their emissions more easily, which is why TheTrainLine has added a calculator to its business travel arm.Like most of the carbon calculators on show at Earl's Court, TheTrainLine's version draws on the Department of Environment's emissions data. It can distinguish between a trip to Glasgow on the east and west coast mainlines, but not between, say, diesel and electric trains. "As demand grows it will become more sophisticated," Watts says.Corporate travel managers Hogg Robinson said they intended to expand their airline emissions calculator to include rail and car travel and hotel stays. Clients will also be able to look for a tree icon denoting a "greener" hotel that meets the International Organisation for Standardisation's criteria. Commendable - except that if you want to find out exactly what the ISO's standards are, you'll need to pay &pound;42 to download the 22-page document.For air travellers, the rough and ready Defra statistics are better than nothing. But they do disguise considerable variation in carbon emissions between different planes, the altitude at which they fly and the load factor on any given flight - not to mention the amount of space allocated to each passenger within the cabin. The airlines deplore the recent hike in air passenger duty, but it does take account of the greater contribution that those flying business make to a plane's overall emissions. Most of the carbon calculator tools do not. Whether you regard this as proof of the industry's willingness to subsidise economy passengers or evidence of a deluded, quick-fix approach to global warming probably depends on which side of the cabin curtain you sit.Indeed, business class was where the cracks in the industry's green face paint really began to show. Environmental credentials are newsworthy, but long-haul business travellers are lucrative, and they increasingly regard cabin space as the trade-off for the indignities and inconveniences of airport security.British Airways was showing off its new flat bed with extra shoulder room. Launched last year and currently available on a few planes - most of them into and out of New York JFK - it should be rolled out to the whole of the long-haul fleet by the end of the year. Regular fliers will also appreciate the screen divider between facing seats, which is a considerable improvement on the old blue fan. Cabin crew can see through it, but seated passengers can't. The TV screen is also bigger, the choice of films much wider, and the quilted eiderdown doesn't seem to accumulate static as the blanket did.Palpable buzzThere was a palpable buzz around 16-month-old Eos Airlines, one of the new breed of all-business class transatlantic airlines that tries to evoke the atmosphere of a private jet. (It also, through a quirk of the legislation on air passenger duty, pays the economy rate.) Winner of the Best Longhaul Business Airline award in the 2007 Business Travel World awards, it only flies to JFK at the moment, although Washington DC and Boston are possible future destinations.Director of marketing, Ian Scott, admits it is impossible for Eos to offer the same frequent flyer perks as BA or Virgin Atlantic, but insists that NY-LON commuters who try the service are converted. Many of them prefer flying out of Stansted, he says, because they work in the City or Canary Wharf and appreciate the 45-minute check-in at the Essex airport - particularly the fact that Eos will meet you at the kerb to hurry you through security if you call to say you're running late.Silverjet, which is trying to capture the north London transatlantic market with all-business flights from Luton to Newark, was trying to go one better by declaring itself carbon neutral. The offset is included in the price of the ticket. The other attraction is a 30-minute check-in that bypasses the main security queues. Like Eos, it is also trying to make a virtue out of its lack of slots at Heathrow. "Airports like Heathrow and JFK in New York have become too big and too congested to cope with passenger volumes," says Silverjet's CEO. Unfortunately for the airline, the ongoing M1 roadworks have forced Silverjet to advise passengers to allow extra time to get to Luton airport. This unfortunate state of affairs will continue until autumn 2008.Of course, the show isn't just about planes and trains, and the hotel chains were out in force. Premier Travel Inn was working particularly hard to differentiate itself from Travelodge - promising "Marriott-quality" beds and more Wi-Fi internet. The chain is also trying to attract women travelling alone on business by vaunting its 24-hour reception desk and a policy of not assigning women ground floor rooms. "Further to new research into women's concerns", cleaners have also been instructed to leave the shower curtain half-open. One can only assume that the memory of Hitchcock's Psycho still haunts Premier Travel Inn guests. It will be interesting to see whether the chain will make a particular effort to cater for women business travellers when it expands into Dubai later this year. Jumeirah, which was also at the show this year, reserves the 40th floor of the city's Emirates Towers Hotel for women - but its spa, H20, is exclusively for men.New technology at the Business Travel Show&middot;Omneport is an online storage space that lets you scan in travel documents and share Word, Adobe, PowerPoint and Excel files with colleagues. Co-founder Adrian Oliver says it is secure enough to pass muster with the people behind No2IDnet, who make it their business to expose insecure servers and easily hackable databases. Omneport's is located in a miliary-grade bunker somewhere in the Home Counties. With a copy of the photo page of your passport and any visas, it should be much easier to provide British embassies with the information they need if your documents are stolen abroad. Unfortunately, you can't just log on and sign up: the service is only available through authorised distributors, who are free to set their own charges. omneport.com&middot;ChinaOneCall is aimed at the growing number of travellers to China who speak little or no Mandarin. &pound;75 buys a Chinese sim card for your mobile and 45 minutes of help from a bilingual operator. You explain your plight, then hand over the mobile so he or she can talk directly to the Mandarin speaker. chinaonecall.com&middot;Ongoing pressure from the European Commission has yet to make a significant dent in roaming charges, so Sim4Travel.com is confident that its customers will continue to pay &pound;29.95 for a local sim and &pound;10 of call credit. Suk Grewal, one of the company's founders, says the service gives clients the confidence to keep their own phone switched on abroad without worrying about the cost of answering an incoming call.
I can only plead PhD-induced ignorance for not covering this before, but a British group of creative types calledGamePaused, inspired by and involved with gaming, have called for submissions to their forthcoming book/exhibition. From their press release:GamePaused™ is looking for Artists, Designers, Musicians, Motion Graphic &amp; Video Experts, Editors, Illustrators, Character Designers and Programmers to take part in the Celebration of the Game. Works to be featured in exhibitions and projects from GamePaused™ taking part throughout 2007 and beyond.'Creative gaming' --it involves everybody, every creative style, every joypad every high-score. It's completing Super Mario 64® in under 20 minutes using whatever creative ways you can to navigate the level. It's about the fans who create work inspired by games as much as it is the artists who create the games. It's about trying something new, explaining an experience in a different way or taking a reference from gaming and making it memorable. It's about Tetris® dreams, Street Fighter® thumb, Hyrule scents and pure gaming fun!Why the heck not, eh? Head here to see some of theprevious submissionsand get tinkering.ViaWonderland.
NPD Group research has calculated that 436,000 Wii units were sold in January in the US against 294,000 for Xbox 360 and 244,000 for PS3.Accordingto the FT, market analyst Merrill Lynch is now predicting that by the year 2011, a third of all Japanese households and almost 30 per cent of all US households will own a Wii.This may sound bad for Sony, but Gamesindustry.biz has adifferent spin on the story. The sales have helped the PlayStation business to record revenues of USD550 million, which is reasonable. "With supply levels stabilising, you can expect to see increased marketing for PS3 and PS2 in weekly retail circulars, which should garner strong numbers, boosted by big software launches, such as MotorStorm and Virtua Fighter 5," mentioned David Karraker, director of corporate communications for SCEA.PS2 figures for the month were 299,352 units - with God of War 2 and Okami hanging around it should hold in there for a few months yet.
Aheartwarming storyfrom the Chicago Tribune. The club lounge of the Sedgebrook retirement community in Lincolnshire has recently installed a Nintendo Wii and the residents have become enthusiastic fans. "They come in after dinner and play," explains 72-year-old Flora Dierbach. "Sometimes, on Saturday afternoons, their grandkids come play with them. A lot of grandparents are being taught by their grandkids. But, now, some grandparents are instead teaching their grandkids."The group are now arranging a Wii bowling tournament, complete with a fan so they can dry their hands before they bowl. One veteran of real-life bowling competitions was on hand to praise the realism of the game. It later transpires he's also an ex-gamer: "I used to play Pac-Man a little bit, but with this you're actually moving around and doing something. You're not just sitting there pushing buttons and getting carpal tunnel." Can the Wii story get any more touching?Next week: Dolphins play Wii with sick children.
An Egyptian blogger was today sentenced to four years in prison for insulting Islam and the country's president, Hosni Mubarak, in the country's first prosecution of a blogger.Abdel Kareem Nabil, a 22-year-old former student at Egypt's al-Azhar university, an Islamic institution, had pleaded innocent to all charges, and human rights groups had called for his release.But today, a judge issued the verdict and sentence against him in a brief, five-minute session in a court in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria, the Associated Press reported.Amnesty International said the conviction was a "slap in the face of freedom expression" and called Nabil a "prisoner of conscience" who had peacefully expressed his views. It called for his immediate, unconditional release.The campaign group said crackdowns on bloggers in Egypt and elsewhere had become the "new front in the battle between those who want to speak out and those who would stop them".Nabil, who used the blogger name Kareem Amer, had sharply criticised his college on hisblog, which is in Arabic, calling it "the university of terrorism" and accusing it of suppressing free thought.The university threw him out last year and pressed prosecutors to put him on trial. He often criticised Mr Mubarak's regime on the blog; in one post he described the president's regime as a "symbol of dictatorship".Today the judge sentenced Nabil to three years in prison for insulting Islam and inciting sedition and another year for insulting Mr Mubarak.Nabil had faced a possible maximum sentence of up to nine years in prison. Wearing a grey T-shirt and sitting in the defendants' pen, he gave no reaction as the verdict was read out.He was immediately taken from the pen and put in a prison truck and did not comment to reporters.Egypt arrested a number of bloggers last year, most of them for connections to the country's pro-democracy reform movement.Nabil was arrested in November and, while other bloggers were freed, he was put on trial.Hafiz Abou Saada, the head of the Egyptian Human Rights Organisation, described the verdict as "very tough."This is a strong message to all bloggers who are put under strong surveillance that the punishment will be very strong," he told the Associated Press.In his blog, Nabil was a vocal critic of conservative Muslims. In one post, he said al-Azhar University "stuffs its students' brains and turns them into human beasts ... teaching them that there is no place for differences in this life".Two US congressmen have previously expressed deep concern about the arrest of Nabil and called for the charges to be dropped."The Egyptian government's arrest of Mr Amer simply for displeasure over writings on the personal weblog raises serious concern about the level of respect for freedoms in Egypt," representatives Trent Franks and Barney Frank, said in a joint letter to Egypt's ambassador to the US, Nabil Fahmy.The Bush administration has not commented on Nabil's trial, despite its past criticism of the arrests of Egyptian rights activists.Amnesty International UK's director, Kate Allen, said: "The Egyptian authorities must repeal laws which allow people to be thrown in prison just for exercising their right to free speech, be it online or offline."We are deeply worried that the Egyptian authorities are now targeting bloggers in their attempts to stifle free speech."Sadly, this is not confined to Egypt. In countries around the world, governments are targeting bloggers, closing websites and censoring internet searches."The internet is the new front in the battle between those who want to speak out and those who would stop them."More than 60,000 people have joined an Amnestycampaignhighlighting the repression of internet users around the world.
"Namaste, FOFSJ. Maybe you've noticed some new buttons on the sidebar of my blog. Or you might have seen this story about the huge multi-billion-dollar deal that I've struck with the Wired publishing empire. Well, it's true. As you know, I recently made a desperate and somewhat shameless plea for a sponsor. (What choice do I have when I'm collecting a $1 per year salary and facing some serious legal fees over this options bullshit?) Well after a fierce bidding war I have found a happy home in the warm soft furry bosom of Wired magazine," saysThe Secret Diary of Steve Jobs.His blog now carries a Wired cover for would-be subscribers and some tasteful links to Wired News stories.TheWired blog confirms the deal, adding: "We're also bringing Steve on as a 'special adviser' -- kinda like when Apple bought NeXT and Steve became an adviser to the CEO, Gil Amelio."We're looking forward to lots of insanely great feedback about the home page. Steve's already talking about an all white homepage, text and all. Very minimalist.The blog's regular targetsinclude Uncle Fester (Steve Ballmer) and Squirrel Boy (Google CEO, Eric Schmidt), though Saint Nick (Negroponte) is currently taking a beating for his $100 "craptop".FOFSJ = Friends of Fake Steve Jobs.
A games drought is coming. Xbox 360 owners will get Crackdown this week then nothing much until the likes of Mass Effect, Bioshock and, of course, Halo 3. Wii fans have Mario and Metroid titles to look forward to in the distant future. For those who've pre-ordered PS3s there's Heavenly Sword in spring, but not much after that until Gran Turismo 5, Metal Gear Solid 4 and Assassin's Creed. On handheld, a ridiculous number of games are hitting the shelves for Easter, then it all goes spookily quiet.This always happens when a new generation of consoles arrives. The big publishers put all their efforts into getting something, anything, on the shelves for launch, then seemingly wait to see what happens in the ensuing format war. Two elements are built into the current consoles to make them drought-proof.First, episodic gaming, which allows publishers to drip-feed big titles over several months via supplemental downloads. Rockstar has talked about making fresh areas of Grand Theft Auto 4 available to Xbox 360 owners after the game launches, while PS3 biggies MotorStorm and Warhawk should both offer new levels further down the line. The problem is, the traditional 18-month production schedule is burned deeply into the culture of development. A more level, less stressful approach is needed to sustain an episodic release routine.The other big saviour was meant to be downloadable games - cheap, quick to produce mini-titles, which could occupy small dev teams between major projects. Sure, this is happening - Bizarre Creations, the developer behind the Project Gotham Racing series on Xbox 360, also makes Xbox Live Arcade titles like Geometry Wars and Boom Boom Rocket, while Sumo Digital, responsible for decent OutRun and Virtua Tennis 3 conversions, has also produced Go! Sudoku for the PlayStation Network.But new games are a tiny minority compared to ports of arcade classics - especially on Xbox Live Arcade and Wii's Virtual Console. PS3 is a promising player here. It has lots of new games like Cash Guns Chaos, Blast Factor, Flow and Calling All Cars, and Sony keeps talking about encouraging home coders to submit games, or to develop and distribute titles independently. But again, none of this will surface for a while.It's incredible really, that an industry so dependent on reacting to new technology can be so entrenched when it comes to distribution models and key launch periods. Change will come from left field - some bright spark with a crazy new way of getting games to people. Until then, it's back to launch titles, film tie-ins and retro remakes for us all.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
Steve is right about DRMIt's unbelievable how many technology writers call [Steve] Jobs a hypocrite but let the record labels off the hook for insisting on DRM for digital downloads while selling their CDs mostly free of DRM (Why Steve isn't going to upset the DRM Applecart, February 15). I'm betting that over 95% of all pirated music available for download originally came from CDs with no DRM. Regardless of his motivation, Jobs is correct when he says it's time for DRM to die.Phillip CrippsCathedral City, California&middot;Your note on Steve Jobs and DRM has many flaws in it. The most flagrant one is that Microsoft's DRM has been cracked less than Apple's DRM.Microsoft's PlaysForSure DRM has been broken and it has not been fixed. A typical subscription is taken out for a couple of months. All the music you can possibly download in that time is stripped of its DRM and the account is cancelled. That is why subscription music has been a failure. No one uses it longer than two or three months. When they unsubscribe they have all the music they need.Alan WilliamsCalgary, CanadaNo fun, no moneyThe Second Life community and Linden Labs have brought a lot of these problems upon themselves with the constant focus on business, making money and property (Gamesblog, February 15). 90% of the Second Life articles I read last year were about some woman making this much money, some guy owning this much land, the value of the Linden, tax issues blah blah blah when the focus should have been on the creative aspects, the community, the educational potential and generally making the game more fun to play.Now we seem to be seeing that a lot of players who try SL just don't find it fun and stay for too long. And if there is no community, there is no money to be made.blogs.guardian.co.uk/games/Stay safe at homeThe moral isn't to get all worried about homeworking, but just to make sure that homeworkers are as protected as those in the office (Hackers target the home front, February 15).shedworking.blogspot.comDon't patronise usSiteseeing on February 15 used the term "silver surfers". I, and no doubt many other readers, find the term patronising, offensive and above all indicative of lazy journalistic stereotyping. Many of your readers have been involved with computers since the 1960s and certainly the 1970s - when most of your writers were still in a cot gazing at a mobile.Ian CastleOrfordTeam spiritI'm writing in response to Dave Eyre's question (Letters and blogs, February 8) as to whether there are any other football teams sponsored by crap broadband companies. Fulham carry the name of Pipex on their shirts.Russ ReidWallaseyJam today1,000 pages per minute? (Revolutionary rethink of the humble inkjet printer, February 15). That would be about three paper jams per second by my calculation.Chris RigbyUffculmeTwo quick answersThe short answer, on one definition, is "never", since a supercomputer is an unusually fast computer (When will I be able to have my own supercomputer, February 15). They can never, therefore, be common enough for you to own one. The opposite answer is "you've already got one". The most famous supercomputer of all time, the Cray-1, was rated at a peak of 250 MFLOPS (the normal unit of measurement). 2Ghz and better Pentium-class chips can comfortably exceed this.Paul WomackDiss, Norfolk&#183;Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number
Vista or Mac?You said that people still using Windows 98/2000 should now consider themselves abandoned. I am one of those, with a very old computer running 98SE. Should I consider replacing it with an Apple Mac?G DivechaJack Schofield replies:It has to be a personal decision: what's best for you? As well as specification and price, you should also think about continuity with your current system, what you want to do with your PC, and the supporting infrastructure. For continuity, do you need to carry over any existing software and data? If so, can you find suitable replacements on a non-Windows system, or run them via an emulator or whatever? Will you still be able to use existing peripherals? (Many of these are "Windows only" and may need new drivers even for Vista.)Next, is the software available for the things you want to do? Word processing, email and general web browsing (except for some banks) are not a problem on any system, and online applications may fill in some holes. However, most games and business programs are only available for Windows. Also Windows has an unmatched range of cheap or free software and utilities, including open-source programs. Finally, there's the ecosystem. For many people, the main value of Windows is not in the operating system but in the supporting infrastructure: the huge choice of suppliers and form factors, the software and peripherals, magazines, courses, repair facilities and support, including help from friends and neighbours. I love the ability to be able to swap drives and graphics cards around, and I think the freedom to assemble a Windows or Linux machine from scratch is a huge benefit.Other people might well prefer more of a sealed-box approach. But bear in mind that the Windows ecosystem, which represents more than 90% of the market, also includes more than 99% of the malware and viruses. These are, in practice, not a problem for Mac or Linux users, though spam is a problem for everyone. In other respects, Vista, Mac and some versions of Linux (eg Ubuntu) are closer than they have ever been in appearance and ease of use. Linux still has a steep learning curve, but once set up, all three are reasonably easy to use - if anything, I think Vista now has the edge. Also, you'll find you can re-use most of the expertise you've built up with Windows 98SE. Whatever you decide, you should find all three are much better than 98SE.BT to the MaxI have just upgraded my ADSL service from BT Broadband 512K to BT Total Broadband. My broadband service appears not to have changed at all: I get the same connection speed, just through the new Home Hub product rather than my Belkin router.When I contacted BT they suggested I need to wait between 10 and 15 days before I would get an optimised connection speed. Do you know what this means?Mark AshtonJS:Broadband used to be supplied at fixed speeds. With ADSL Max services, there is a 10-day training period while the system tries to establish a maximum stable speed for your line. About 75% of users end up with speeds of 4Mbps or more, while a few could find they actually have a lower speed than before. If the speed you are getting seems unusually low, you can try rebooting the router: it will often reconnect at a higher rate. In general, for best results, your router should be connected to the master phone socket, with microfilters fitted to any other sockets.Is Skype safe?Is it safe to allow Skype to act as a server? Morally, I think I should as it helps the network, but it opens ports 80 and 443.Terry DevlinJS: Ports 80 and 443 would be open if you were running a web server, so I don't think this is really a problem unless the software you are using is buggy or hacked. (Port 80 is the standard for non-secure http web browsing; Netscape chose port 443 for secure web browsing using SSL, the Secure Sockets Layer protocol.) It's difficult to know with Skype because it is closed, proprietary software and all its communications are encrypted. However, if the Skype server software were to be compromised, I expect we'd all hear about it.Disappearing fileI recently sharpened a wonderful picture of my two boys using Photoshop Elements but it wouldn't save as "the file is locked". I OK'd and quit, but the file has completely disappeared. How can I get it back?Mark SerlinJS: Retrieve it from your backup? Even if you don't have one, you should at least have a local copy. It's a really bad idea to do any manipulation on an original file: you should always work on a copy. Otherwise you can try an "undelete" utility to see if anything can be recovered from your hard drive. Two free examples areRestorationandUndelete Plus, and there are lots of commercial programs with free trial versions. Alas, the more you have used the drive, the greater the chance that the file sectors have been re-used, and the less chance you have of recovering the image.Backchat&middot;My apologies for a horrible mistake. Last week I warned about rogue versions of Spybot, which ask for money; the real thing is free. Unfortunately, I then pasted in the address of one of the lookalike sites. The correct site to download Spybot issafer-networking.org(with a hyphen). The correct address is also on Guardian Unlimited and the Ask Jack blog.
Mobile phone operators repeatedly surprise me, and not necessarily in a good way. After splashing out &pound;22bn on 3G licences in 2000, they have needed until this year for one of them (3) to make a big play of allowing people unfettered high-speed internet access. (Sure, T-Mobile began offering the same last year, but managed to obscure the reality behind adverts that made much of the internet part, and nothing of the "all you can eat" part.) The surprise is that the operators think we are so desperately grateful for these gizmos in our hands for making phone calls that we'll fall with delight upon any old rubbish they offer.For example, all the operators are keen to sell us the idea, if not the practice, of mobile TV. That's TV you'd watch on your mobile, of course. About three years ago Vodafone parked a giant bus outside my office and invited me inside to see "the future of TV". This turned out to be "mobisodes", tiny chunks of cut-down programming tailored for your mobile. Rather like cut-down black tie tailored for the swimming pool, mobisodes have failed to grasp the public imagination; everyone's still watching 24 or Coronation Street in hour and half-hour chunks. Three years ago 3 showed off a mobile phone which could get broadcast TV. Perhaps I mix in the wrong circles, but I don't see many people watching the TV on their phones.However, a report from the consultants Analysys points out that the mobile operators are looking in the wrong place for people willing to watch TV on their phones. The operators are looking for people who want what's being broadcast now; instead, says Jim Morrish, its senior consultant, they should be looking for people who just want to watch TV.Huh? What's the difference? As any alien closing in from 50 light years out will tell you, a lot more TV has been broadcast and is now languishing unwatched, yet not forgotten, than is going out on the airwaves right now.As Morrish notes, that means more ways to watch: "The download-and-cache of niche and long-tail content as well as the time-shifting of content for viewing when and where convenient are both factors that are likely to be central to mobile TV consumption models, but do not require the construction of a broadcast mobile TV network." In other words, those old episodes of Friends are still watchable, and modern phones have the capacity to store and play them.Morrish points out to the executives at mobile operators that "coverage of broadcast TV networks may not extend into underground rail systems where one of the key target groups (commuters) can often be found. Also, there is the implicit assumption that commuters will time their commute to coincide with the broadcast of the mobile TV content that they want to watch. Perhaps it is time to think outside the mobile TV box?"Well, it would be, but you know how the operators love to hang on to any imagined edge. Except that edge is over their customers. Thus the US operator Verizonrefused to do a dealwith Apple over the iPhone, insisting on its own data system for music and videos. Another operator, Cingular, agreed to Apple's requests - including "sideloading", transferring music and video from a computer rather than over the air. (Hello, downloaded TV shows!) Cingular got the deal. Who benefits? The customers. And Cingular.The irony is that the flaw the mobile operators show again and again is the one you'd think they'd be best equipped for. They don't listen to their customers.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
Samsung K3Last week Samsung unveiled the F300, an innovative little chocolate bar-style music phone that has mobile features and buttons on one side and a screen and MP3 player facility on the other. Until that launches later in spring, the company is focusing on its latest standalone music player - the iPod nano-esque K3. This is essentially a slimmed-down version of the K5, the key difference being that the K3 doesn't have its sibling's integrated speakers. The other facilities are similar, including a touchscreen OLED display, built-in FM radio and battery life of around 20 hours. It comes with 2GB, 4GB or 8GB of storage too. So, at &pound;130, can it compete with the iPod nano? Well, it won't play tracks downloaded from the iTunes store, but is slightly easier to use and you can drag and drop files on to the player from any PC. It has excellent sound quality, too. The only slight bugbear is its picture viewer, which, given the image display limitations of the OLED screen, is a real waste of time.Kodak V803It is a sign of how far digital cameras have progressed that Kodak is now offering an 8 megapixel compact for just &pound;150. And it's not just any old snapper: the V803 is crammed with facilities that would have seemed state of the art on a compact a few years back. The camera is finished in tough plastic and comes in a variety of different colours. It is simple to use, though I must admit I'd rather use buttons to find my way round the menu system than the nipple this camera has. On a basic level the camera enables anyone to take good-quality images, with anti-blur technology ensuring that the results are almost always steady. The V803 also has good ISO rating and a quality 3x optical zoom. I was also very impressed by the video facility that captures VGA-quality footage at 30 frames per second and is smoother and more detailed than movies taken by similarly specified cameras. Its only real weakness is its screen, which at 2.5inches might be relatively large for a compact camera, but isn't as bright or as detailed as some rival snappers. Overall though, this is an excellent inexpensive camera which should keep Kodak in prime position at the upper end of the budget sector.Palm Treo 680I have always had a soft spot for Palm and its efficient operating system, clutter-free interfaces and sensible hardware. So like many others I was quite perturbed to see Vodafone pushing the 750V, a Palm model that runs using a Windows OS. The Palm OS-based smartphone is far from dead - the company is now shipping the 680 for &pound;300, without a Sim card. For Palm aficionados the big disappointment is that this is a minor tweak of the Treo rather than a major overhaul. The 680 runs the same version of the OS as its predecessor (the 650) and has almost the same specifications. That means there's no Wi-Fi (a huge omission for a smartphone), no 3G, an average-looking screen and a rather rubbish VGA-quality camera. The good news is that the model is slimmer and lighter, has more user memory and more recent versions of key Palm applications like the Blazer browser. Ultimately, the 680 still stands as a great showcase of the excellence of the OS and its many applications, but until Palm updates the rest of the hardware it won't win new fans.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Hollywood faces up to DRM flopThe system designed to protect next-generation DVDs from pirates has been cracked - and even the hackers are surprised at how easy it was, says Bobbie Johnson.Copyright sets boundaries on historyFree Our Data: A project to put historical constituency data online runs into familiar problems with Ordnance Survey.Retailers suspiciously coy on PlayStation 3 pre-order figuresSony's latest gaming console arrives in the UK on March 23. But how big a hit - or miss - will it be? Charles Arthur reports.New tech industry with old tech habitsKeith Stuart: A games drought is coming.GadgetsSamsung K3 | Kodak V803 | Palm Treo 680Newly Asked QuestionsIs Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever?We certainly haven't seen anything to match the outpourings of bile that have followed the wannabe search engine's little page previews, says Charles Arthur.Is Steve Ballmer trying to sink Windows Vista?It might look like it from reactions such as the Mini-Microsoft blog, observes Jack Schofield.Read me firstBobbie Johnson: Web 2.0 is giving all of us a voice. But is anyone really listening?I dig the sites - pity about their usabilityNewspapers are worried stiff that their future may be extinguished by the migration of news and advertising to the web and the rise of user-generated content usurping the hallowed tradition of in-house journalism, says Victor Keegan.TechnobileMySpace doesn't offer real friendship and is full of stuff I don't need to know. So why am I addicted to it, asks Dave Lee?Could we have hitched a ride on UFOs?Newly released files may put one mystery to bed, but in doing so others are left unanswered. James Randerson investigates.How can you watch TV underground? Try a mobileMobile phone operators repeatedly surprise me, and not necessarily in a good way, writes Charles Arthur.It's time to switch on those energy-saving TVs and PVRsDoes going green add up? Some manufacturers don't put an off button on their devices, but others are finding ways to be greener, as Guy Clapperton reports.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesSeagate touts Dave | Masts plotted | Gmail for all | Soapbox in beta | £9bn tech market | Background information | Satellite conjunction | Connected HomeLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Newspapers are worried stiff that their future may be extinguished by the migration of news and advertising to the web and the rise of user-generated content usurping the hallowed tradition of in-house journalism. The proprietor of the New York Times has just admitted that he didn't know whether there would still be a printed version of the paper in five years' time.Being in a business doesn't make it easy to see what is happening - witness the music industry's forlorn attempts to impose digital rights on the new era of downloads. No one making slide rules ever got into calculators; they just watched their industry erode. Most newspapers now have online versions and are adding interactive functions such as blogs and videos. Innovation is mainly coming from local papers (better able to harness user generated content) and by a new wave of web-only news sites that have replaced news editors and subeditors with the readers themselves, who vote to move stories up to the top of the page or consign them to oblivion.You can try some of the leading ones such as Digg, NewsVine, Tailrank, NowPublic, Reddit and Technorati. NowPublic has no reporters but claims over 50,000 "mojos" or mobile journalists equipped with smart phones (whose location is therefore known to them) who send photos, video and text from news events all over the world before conventional reporters can get there. NewsVine, NowPublic and others let you write your own stories including headlines and be voted up or down the league table. NewsTrust takes participation further by ranking news on standards of quality such as "fairness, balance and factual evidence".I have been very impressed with the pace and quality of innovation of these sites except for one vital ingredient: usability. If you have to go through several stages of evaluation after each story there will be even less time to read the newspaper itself. Few of these sites - yet - are easy on the eye and until they look less like nerdy lists, they may find it difficult to make the jump to mass-market acceptability. I read them avidly for work, less often for pleasure. And there is no guarantee that reader-evaluated stories reflect your own interests. You can go elsewhere, but that's another problem. Blogging sites - and the sites that keep track of numerous blogs - are proliferating at such a pace it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep track of, let alone read, them all. Mostly they add their own spin - oops, value - to others' content, much of it originating in old-fashioned newspapers and television. At the weekend I printed out top stories from a variety of sites and was glad I didn't have to rely on them to know what was going on.The question is whether these new approaches will sweep all before them or, as the noises get more confusing on the web, people will migrate back to "trusted sources" such as the BBC and the Guardian (which is engaged in an each-way bet, expanding on the web while strengthening the paper as a trusted source). What will happen? I suspect that if a reader-friendly device - such as the Sony eBook, reviewed here recently - is customised for newspapers it would be very attractive to read on the move. Equally possible, newspapers will re-invent themselves either by linking directly with the web through barcode-reading mobile phones or by reconstituting what's good on the web in a way that is easy to read. That is what they are good at. One day we may have a new Daily Blogosphere that reports (in print) all that people need to know from yesterday's web activity. As for user-generated content, I am reminded that my grandfather, a miner in the north-east, wrote for the Northern Weekly Gazette, composed by its readers under the inspired slogan "written by the people for the people" - a clever way of saying that they didn't pay contributors. What goes around, comes around.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You said that people still using Windows 98/2000 should now consider themselves abandoned. I am one of those, with a very old computer running 98SE. Should I consider replacing it with an Apple Mac? G DivechaYes, it's always worth considering all the options, including both Macs and Linux. However, it has to be a personal decision: what's best for you? But remember, an operating system is not an end in itself. As well as specification and price, you should also think about continuity with your current system, what you want to do with your PC, and the supporting infrastructure. All these are more important than comparing systems in isolation -- which is what, unfortunately, magazines and geeks tend to do.For continuity, do you need to carry over any existing software and data? If so, can you find suitable replacements on a non-Windows system, or run them via an emulator or whatever? Will you still be able to use existing peripherals? (Many of these are "Windows only" and may need new drivers even for Vista.)Next, is the software available for the things you want to do? Word processing, email and general web browsing (except for some banks) are not a problem on any system, and online applications may fill in some holes. However, the vast majority of games and business programs are only available for Windows, and it gets most new stuff first. Also, Windows has an unmatched range of cheap or free software and utilities, including open source programs.Finally, there's the ecosystem. For many people, the main value of Windows is not in the operating system but in the supporting infrastructure: the huge choice of suppliers and form factors, the software and peripherals, magazines, courses, repair facilities and support, including help from friends and neighbours. I love the ability to be able to swap drives and graphics cards around, and I think the freedom to assemble a Windows or Linux machine from scratch is a huge benefit. Other people might well prefer more of a sealed box approach.But bear in mind that the Windows ecosystem, which represents more than 90% of the market, also includes more than 99% of the malware and viruses. These are, in practice, not a problem for Mac or Linux users, though spam is a problem for everyone.In other respects, Vista, Mac and some versions of Linux (eg Ubuntu) are closer than they have ever been in appearance and ease of use. When correctly set up on reasonable hardware, they are all roughly the same in stability (freedom from crashes). Linux still has a steep learning curve, but once set up, all three are reasonably easy to use -- if anything, I think Vista now has the edge. Also, you'll find you can re-use most of the expertise you've built up with Windows 98SE.Continuity often makes it simpler to upgrade than switch, but whatever you decide, you should find all three are very much better than 98SE.
If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Digg must be blushing to its boots. The news recommendation site, just over two years old, is fast turning into a serious trendsetter. The site's approach (users vote on stories they think are good enough to make the site's front page) has brought it plenty of critics.Some dislike elements of its readership, or get irritated by the trollish submissions ("What's the point of pubic hair?" was one of the deeper issues up for debate recently).And likewise, it's unloved by almost anyone who has suffered from the "Digg effect" - which seems to boil down to a shower of traffic followed by a waterfall of abuse.But the site also has a large number of supporters, and its success can't be doubted. Its ideas are already making their way into mainstream net culture - in fact, most of the time they're being shamelessly ripped off.Yahoo! has launched its take on the Digg look with itsSuggestionssite, a place where surfers can offer pointers on things they'd like to see the Yahoo network do.Not only does the voting procedure seem familiar, but even the "thumbs up" icon looks startlingly reminiscent of its little cousin.It probably made bitter viewing over at Digg Towers, given that Yahoo! has long been considered one of the suitors for the startup - part of its attempt to gain credibility by hoovering up every Web 2.0 company under the sun.But it's not all blatant recycling, because there are a few differences. For example, the "thumbs down" option was dropped by Yahoo!, presumably part of its mission to spread happiness and joy around the web (the exclamation mark gives it away).Elsewhere, there was a bigger surprise when Dell launched theIdeaStormsite.Customers are offered the chance to make recommendations for the troubled company and its products.Popular ideas right now include the incompatible options of stripping out all the extra software on Dell computers and of pre-installing Linux.But the site's doing well as a concept, because user democracy is a popular thing in the wired world.After all, if good ideas get moved to the top of the pile, then they get acted on. Right?Ah, there's the rub. Can you imagine Dell, which makes a significant amount of money out of subsidies from software packages (the same money that it uses to keep its products low-cost) ditching Microsoft, Google and the rest? I can't.In fact, I envisage Michael Dell - who recently took back day-to-day control of the company - rolling into the boardroom and summarily executing anyone who came up with such advice with an appropriately Texan flourish.The "crowd sourcing" hype machine takes another blow every time a good idea gets ignored. Sure, in old-school cyberspace nobody could hear you scream, but in this Web 2.0 wonderland you can say what you like ... and still nobody cares.We recently heard that Tony Blair would be sending an email to the millions of people who took to the Downing Street website to sign a petition against road charging schemes. Of course, he wasn't going to tell them that their protests had succeeded, but that he'd be ignoring them and to explain exactly why road charging is a good idea.So why ask for people's opinions if you aren't interested in what they say? Because people are lazy enough to assume that protest and participation are the same thing. It's an easy sop to armchair revolutionaries and usually scores a few brownie points too.So when the Downing Street site's good-hearted creators are branded "prats" by ministers and the media, all they've done is make the same mistake as the rest of us.The real scandal is the failure of all the diggers, suggesters, stormers, petitioners and voters to hold the authorities to account.That's democracy 2.0 in action: oh yes, we can hear you. But we're just not listening.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
I have just upgraded my ADSL service from BT Broadband 512K to BT Total Broadband. My broadband service appears not to have changed at all: I get the same connection speed, just through the new Home Hub product rather than my Belkin router.When I contacted BT they suggested I need to wait between 10 and 15 days before I would get an optimised connection speed. Do you know what this means? Mark AshtonBroadband used to be supplied at fixed speeds. With ADSL Max services, there is a 10-day training period while the system tries to establish a maximum stable speed for your line. About 75% of users end up with speeds of 4Mbps or more, while a few could find they actually have a lower speed than before. If the speed you are getting seems unusually low, you can try rebooting the router: it will often reconnect at a higher rate. In general, for best results, your router should be connected to the master phone socket, with microfilters fitted to any other sockets.
Is it safe to allow Skype to act as a server? Morally, I think I should as it helps the network, but it opens ports 80 and 443. Terry DevlinPorts 80 and 443 would be open if you were running a web server, so I don't think this is really a problem unless the software you are using is buggy or hacked. (Port 80 is the standard for non-secure http web browsing; Netscape chose port 443 for secure web browsing using SSL, the Secure Sockets Layer protocol.) It's difficult to know with Skype because it is closed, proprietary software and all its communications are encrypted. However, if the Skype server software were to be compromised, I expect we'd all hear about it.
I recently sharpened a wonderful picture of my two boys using Photoshop Elements but it wouldn't save as "the file is locked". I OK'd and quit, but the file has completely disappeared. How can I get it back? Mark SerlinRetrieve it from your backup? Even if you don't have one, you should at least have a local copy. It's a really bad idea to do any manipulation on an original file: you should always work on a copy. Otherwise you can try an "undelete" utility to see if anything can be recovered from your hard drive. Two free examples areRestorationandUndelete Plus, and there are lots of commercial programs with free trial versions. Alas, the more you have used the drive, the greater the chance that the file sectors have been re-used, and the less chance you have of recovering the image.
Google is one of the world's biggest copyright infringers, through its project to digitise books and through its YouTube video site (let's not even think about Google's cache or its news services, which certainly ought to count as "fair use"), so it's interesting that the don't-be-evil company now says offering copyright protection is "one of the company's highest priorities". According toReuters:"We just reviewed that (issue) about an hour ago," [CEO Eric] Schmidt told Reuters when asked what Google was doing to make anti-piracy technologies widely available to video owners. "It is going to roll out very soon ... It is not far away."Later:Schmidt declined to give a specific timeframe of weeks or months to cover all potential users, saying that any move would take time to cover all Google's services, including YouTube, and to be made available to all copyright holders wishing to use the anti-piracy technology.There's not much to go on, but it sonds as though Goolge plans to add yet another DRM (digital rights management) system to the ones from Apple, Microsoft, Sony, Real Networks, IBM, Macrovision and others.
Amazingly boringannouncement from Apple and Ciscosays they will both use the iPhone name and not sue one another. In full, it reads:SAN JOSE and CUPERTINO, California--February 21, 2007--Cisco and Apple today announced that they have resolved their dispute involving the "iPhone" trademark. Under the agreement, both companies are free to use the "iPhone" trademark on their products throughout the world. Both companies acknowledge the trademark ownership rights that have been granted, and each side will dismiss any pending actions regarding the trademark. In addition, Cisco and Apple will explore opportunities for interoperability in the areas of security, and consumer and enterprise communications. Other terms of the agreement are confidential.According to the San JoseMercury News: "Cisco Systems ... had given Apple until midnight today to respond to a lawsuit filed last month, according to federal court documents."
It might look like it from reactions such as the Mini-Microsoft blog, which complained in its headline: "Stop Him Before He Speaks Again!" What Ballmer was actually trying to do was lower the financial expectations of some Wall Street analysts, who were being "overly aggressive" about Vista's impact on Microsoft's profits. "We're driving it hard, but I think some people have gotten a little overexcited," he said.Ballmer was speaking to a group of financial analysts in a hotel in New York, but an undeniable side-effect was that Microsoft's shares took a beating, falling by 2.4% in a day. That was never going to please the folks back home in Redmond, especially employees with stock options.Expectations have been buoyed by market research group Current Analysis, which reported that PC sales by US retailers for the week ending February 3 were 67% up on last year, and 173% higher than the previous week. Also, Current Analysis reckoned that Windows Vista Home Premium had 70% of sales, compared with 22% for Vista Home Basic. (On notebook PCs, it was 76% to 59%.)Since it is a very long time since Windows XP appeared (2001), and since the wait for Vista probably depressed PC sales before and after Christmas, this isn't exactly earth-shattering news.Ballmer pointed out that if analysts were bullish about Microsoft then they should also be bullish about PC manufacturers, because almost all copies of Vista are sold pre-installed. "So, either you have to increase your forecast for the total PC market, and then Vista will do just fine, or those two things are out of whack," said Ballmer.True, but Microsoft can make more money out of Vista in two ways, without PC sales increasing. That happens if users buy more expensive versions of Vista, and if they buy Vista instead of pirating a copy. The former looks a good bet: Microsoft seems to have made Home Basic unattractive enough for people to pay the much higher price for Home Premium. The latter remains an unknown. But Vista's version of Windows Genuine Advantage piracy-checking and the lack of security updates may prove unpleasant enough to prompt more people to pay up.Reducing expectations is also good for Ballmer, in the sense that it gives him easier numbers to beat. Analysts and share buyers hate you if you promise an 80% rise in profits and only deliver 75%. They love you if you promise 5% and deliver 10%.Barron's Online did a round up of analyst views following Ballmer's talk. Four out of 11 rated the shares Outperform, three said Buy and Merrill Lynch said: "We think management is being conservative at the start of the product cycle."No one said Sell. Well, Steve, was that a success or not?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
Sony, the company burned by Web 2.0 in theiralliwantforxmasismypspcampaign is willing to give sociable media another go as a part of their marketing campaign to convince us to shell out for a PS3. SaysMCV,According to a report inMedia Guardianthis morning, Sony has chosen "12 individuals and organisations - ranging from club promoters to artists, fashion industry insiders, Dazed &amp; Confused magazine and even the BBC's 1Xtra - and given them a free hand to create original content inspired by key characteristics of the PS3.""Each will then distribute content digitally across a wide range of outlets including their own contacts and fanbases, social networks such as MySpace and Bebo, websites, blogs, and by email."They may have a hard time. The PlayStation 3 price hike for British gamers is universally considered aBad Thing. When media sources in the US are talking about price cuts for their Sony consoles and we're getting stuffed for almost $250 more than their original RRP, it's no surprise that British bloggers are waving their fists and calling a rat. So going via blogs and other social networking sites to generate "word of mouf" marketing may backfire, even if theyhavebought the attentions of so-called opinion leaders. Any interference with negative response could bring a massive backlash against the company. Are they playing with fire?The new campaign seems initially to come counter to a new legislation by the Federal Trade Commission in the US which demands that bloggers and sponsors must come clean about officially-sanctioned endorsements in order to counteract public manipulation. However, Sony's marketing company Shine Communications has leapt over that loophole, designing a promotion which spreads the contributor's "original content inspired by" the PS3. The console holder is also remaining transparent about their involvement throughout. Alliwantforxmas, however, would be illegal under the US law and, according toThe Times, will be illegal in the EU after 31st December of this year. As might their PR company's PS3 blogThreeSpeech.The "opinion leaders" think of this as a great opportunity to promote their own products whilst standing on a Sony-branded platform, thus consumers get two ads for the price of one.Audiences for these events include journalists, art, design and fashion industry insiders and ordinary consumers, all carefully selected for their interest in capturing, recording and distributing their experiences digitally. Each event is also filmed, photographed or recorded by its organiser with edited highlights distributed via their own networks.If this kind of activity feels wrong to you, what about plain old bribery?Gamesindustry.bizreports that the first 500,000 UK consumers will receive a copy of Bond flick Casino Royale with the purchase of their new console. This isn't a new Sony approach; according to the article 400,000 US consumers received a copy of the Will Farrell farce Talladega Nights when they bought their machines.So what will convinceyouto shell out your dosh for the PS3? Rice-paper thinsponsored marketingWeb 2.0 antics based upon the "key characteristics" of the console or a free movie? And for goodness sake, with all this talk about the "themes" of the PS3, does the thing actually play games?
This weekend, studio executives from Hollywood will be all smiles as they congratulate each other on their successes at the annual Oscars ceremony. But behind the grins, champagne and glamorous gowns, they are contemplating the biggest blockbuster flop in history. This time it's not a movie, but studio technology that hasn't lived up to its billing. The systems intended to lock pirates out of the new generation of high-definition DVDs have been cracked.Both of the next-generation DVD formats - Sony's Blu-ray and Toshiba's HD DVD - use a protection mechanism called the Advanced Access Content System (AACS), a hugely complex and expensive beast aimed at rendering unauthorised copies useless.But what took countless dollars and years of work to create was undone in just a few weeks by a hacker who in effect unlocked every single Blu-ray and HD DVD disc now in circulation.Process circumvented"The developers spent billions, the hackers spent pennies," said Cory Doctorow, an opponent of digital rights management (DRM) who blogs at BoingBoing.net. "For DRM to work it has to be airtight - there can't be a single mistake. It's like a balloon that pops with the first prick."The hacker, "Arnezami", posted a blow-by-blow account of the process on the Doom9 website, a famous haunt for crackers and pirates. It wasn't even a particularly complex attack; the only weapons used were an Xbox 360, a computer and a copy of King Kong. And instead of deciphering the complex cryptography that protects every high-definition movie, the hackers circumvented the entire process by discovering one of the crucial keys that unlocks the encrypted information.Watching the protection unravel was like watching a cat playing with a ball of string - and even those doing the work could hardly believe such luck."Wow, I think I did it," Arnezami wrote. "It's pretty incredible that a carefully thought-of encryption system is now reduced to, at worst, a guessing game. Somebody should feel very ashamed."Over the years, the Hollywood machine has become as famous for its flops as its successes. Where films like Jaws once ruled the cinemas all summer, modern blockbusters are built for impact - lavish multimillion-dollar productions that spend a week on top of the box office charts before fading into history.The same seems to be true of DRM systems, which are costing more and more to develop despite being broken with increasing speed. In the late 1990s it took a Norwegian teenager, Jon Lech Johansen, months to crack DVD's DeCSS protection. These days that must seem like a luxury."Blu-ray is incredibly well-designed," says Bruce Schneier, the chief technology officer of BT Counterpane and a respected security expert. "If they're smart, they'll have been expecting this, and if they're lucky they'll be able to fix it - not with the DVDs that are already out there, but with ones coming in the future."At first some doubted Arnezami's claims, but it quickly became apparent that the processing key was able to unlock almost anything that came its way. Within days the system's creators, the AACS licensing authority, responded."AACS has confirmed that an additional key has been published on public websites without authorisation. This is a variation of the previously reported attack on one or more players sold by AACS licensees," said a statement. "Although a different key was extracted, this represents no adverse impact on the ability of the AACS ecosystem to address the attack. All technical and legal measures applicable to the previously reported attack will be applicable against this attack as well."The language is measured, but reading between the lines reveals otherwise. Arnezami's revelation is treated dismissively, but is not refuted; in fact, it is only the "AACS ecosystem" that has survived.In other words, producers will be able to change the keys on forthcoming products to try to prevent this crack from being successful in the future. The effects have already rippled through the industry. Fox, one of the major backers of Blu-ray, has delayed a raft of high definition movies it was preparing to release, presumably to recode them and tighten up procedures.In the meantime, customers are left waiting empty-handed while Hollywood carries on spending money on a system that failed to do its job properly.Impossible problemEven the assumption that AACS has a backup plan to beat this particular crack is debatable, because nobody can be sure what measures are being taken. The AACS licensing authority was invited to take part in this article, but refused.Campaigners continue to argue about the rights and wrongs of digital rights mechanisms - but what good is any protection system if it fails?Meanwhile, as the studios look to restrict their official products even further, the Swedish anti-copyright group The Pirate Bay - identified by the US-based International Intellectual Property Alliance as one of the most dangerous groups in the world - is distributing BitTorrent versions of Oscar-nominated movies with impunity at oscartorrents.org."The movie industry learned from the music industry's lesson - that you should never offer too perfect a product, so that you can sell your customers an improved version later," says John Buckman, whose online record label, Magnatune, does not use protection systems. "The appeal of BitTorrent files is not only that they're free - they are a better product than you can buy at any price." And free, too, of DRM.In the end, say experts, vested interests are at play, and a whole industry of companies and experts is profiting from the false promise of a silver bullet for piracy."It is an impossible problem, like making water not wet," says Schneier. "These systems are supposed to be able to recover from breaks, but the cracks are going to get better. It's a never-ending arms race."How the hackers did itBoth Arnezami and another hacker, Muslix64, who managed a similar attack, realised that it is easier to bypass the protection system than try to decode it. A high definition DVD includes a number of software 'keys' to decrypt the content; there's also one built into the player. One of the keys identifies the movie. By watching the information streaming from the DVD itself, Arnezami was able to pick up one of those codes - and realised that the "unique" identifiers were actually based on simple information such as the title of the movie. A couple of steps later, Arnezami was able to spot another more useful key, which helped circumvent the decryption process. Hackers are now building software that can exploit the hack and play any high-def disc in any computer - which in turn will open the door to free copying. Fixing the crack will be expensive and awkward for the movie studios: future pressings of DVDs will need to use different, unbroken keys, and it is likely they will have to randomise the codes on every future HD and Blu-ray DVD rather than use the same one for every copy of a movie.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
I recently chatted to Pete Hines of Bethesda, the developers of RPG juggernaut Oblivion. With the expansion packShivering Islesdue for release within a few weeks we talked levelling, achievement points and whether Oblivion is really an online game in disguise...So you've done downloadable content for Oblivion before - why is Shivering Isle different?It's completely different in scale. It really isn't downloadable content, it's a full expansion for Oblivion that happens to be availableas a download. I guess you could call that splitting hairs, but we view them very differently. Shivering Isles has tons of new content, new world, new main quest, items, creatures, etc.Can new characters jump straight in or is this high-level characters only?Well, it's designed for folks that have been playing Oblivion, but it's not a requirement. So a new character could jump straight in, though perhaps have a slightly tougher go of it.Talking of leveling, there has been some criticism about the leveling structure in Oblivion, with some players annoyed that their enemies level when they do. What are your thoughts on this and why was this designed into the game?You do see different creatures based on what level you are, but they don't level to your level. We only level up boss creatures in certain cases, so it's not something that happens all the time. It's a fair comment, but the challenge is to try to make a game that allows you to go wherever you want and do whatever you want while also making sure that you can actually do something there.The environment seems a lot more outlandish than Oblivion. Was this a conscious effort to go back to the more way-out look of Morrowind?More than anything it was an effort to make something that felt very new and fresh. Given that it's the realm of the daedric prince of madness, it's pretty easy to go a bit 'crazy' with the visuals and still have it feel like it should. There should be no question to anyone whether you're playing the original game or the expansion, there's never any confusion which is which.One of the joys of Oblivion (and Morrowind) is wandering off the beaten track, seeing what is over that hill or round the corner. From a design point of view how do you marry this sense of freedom with a strong narrative and a core story?I actually think the strong narrative and core story play a vital role in that. You have a main quest and faction quests and all these other quests you know you can come back to and they're easy to pick up where you left off, so you're more comfortable with going to wander for a bit and see what's out there. I actually think more people got into the freeform aspect in Oblivion rather than Morrowind, because the quests are so much easier to get back to and keep track of. In Morrowind, it was sometimes hard to stay with the quest you were on as you were trying to do it, much less if you took a right turn in the middle of nowhere to check out a dungeon.So how do you keep the more random quests, found by exploring, interesting despite the fact that only a few players may stumble across them?Honestly, that's really not that hard. We have different designers working on different types of quests, and then they all playtest each others quests, so for the guy doing a random quest somewhere in Chorrol, that's all he's working on that day. He's not also worrying about the main quest or making the fighter's guild quests good, he's coming up with ideas for fun random quests that are fun to play all by themselves.Oblivion is still a hardcore game, with little handholding, though it is more friendly than Morrowind (quick travel etc). How do you get the balance right between keeping your hardcore fans onboard and making the game more accessible?Well, the goal was to simply try to make a game that was more fun to play than Morrowind. That's always a goal in every game we do: make it better than the last one. So there were a lot of little things we did much better in Oblivion than in Morrowind, and I think those things make the game more accessible, to anyone...not just one segment. The combat is more fun, information is handled better for quests, etc. As far as the hardcore, it still has all that stuff for he hardcore folks. You want high character customisation, we have that. You want to obsess over numbers and stats, we got that. You want freeform role-playing where you can decide what your experience will be and how you want to play, we got that. So the game is accessible for anybody, but how deep you want toget into it is up to the individual player.Critics have often said that your games are like MMO's without the people. How valid is this and does it affect your design/development decisions?I think it's pretty valid. We call our games "massively single player." The big difference between our games and pretty much any MMO, is that the whole purpose of the game is to revolve around you. That's the only person that has to have fun in your game. Anything you do is pretty muchpermanent, and everything is designed so that it changes based on your actions. A quest doesn't stay open for the next person to come along so they can also finish the quest, because there is no next person. That kind of focus affects a lot of other things as well, and ultimately helps put you in the mindset they you really can change the world around you and perhaps gives you a better sense of immersion than you'd otherwise have.Will you be offering extra achievement points for Shivering Isles and what do you think of achievement points generally? Do you think they encouraged players to deviate from the main story and explore more of the world you created?Yes, 10 more achievements for 250 points. In general, I think the idea is brilliant. I love it when it's really well implemented. I think Oblivion does a good job, because it continues to reward you for playing a little bit longer. Personally, I'm not a big fan of games with achievements where you can look at them and say, "that's going to take 50 hours to achieve, so why even bother." It's great for people who are investing that kind of time, but it doesn't make we want to play the game any more right now. I prefer to see them handed out as you go so there's always something else obtainable you can strive for.Shivering Isles will be available on 360 (download only) and PC sometime in the Spring.
There's aninterview at the BBC with Kevin Finisterre, one of the contributors to theMonth of Apple Bugs project. (Finisterre ran it with another, unnamed contributor by the handle of 'lmh'.)Though it has to be said the interview's pretty thin, since there's a lot of what we could call setup (or maybe bootup?) explaining what the MoAB was about. The key paragraphs, about halfway down, are these:Finisterre said: "Try calling any Apple store and ask any sales rep what you would do with regard to security, ask if there is anything you should have to worry about?"They will happily reinforce the feeling of 'Security on a Mac? What? Me worry?'."He said the Month of Apple Bugs (MOAB) project had succeeded in its original aim of raising the level of awareness around Mac security."I would really hope that people got the point that there are most definitely some things under the OSX hood that need a closer look," he said.Hmm, well. I'm taken by the comment of Glen Fleishman at Tidbits'sMoab is my washpot(you'll have to read his piece to understand the title), who says of MoAB that"None of the bugs released had any real potential of a vector - spreading from computer to computer as a worm through an Internet- or LAN-exploitable flaw - and as far as I have seen, no in-the-wild exploit was released for any of the bugs, despite the fact that MoAB refused to notify Apple or third-party developers before releasing the bug details to the public.Sure, this does point to a lack of people looking to exploit Apple security holes. But you can be safe in two ways: your house is impregnable, or you live in an area that has no burglars. If your house is pretty secure and there are very few burglars, you're very close to being in the same place as either of those extremes. Not exactly, but close. Certainly the lack of anyvectorwas a key thing thatmade me, well, dismissive of what MoAB turned upin its early days. Some of the exploits looked better towards the end; too bad that Apple has now, a month later,fixed pretty much all of them. There's also aGoogle discussion group about MoABwhere people are pretty much putting up the shutters. On the other hand, Brian Krebs (who first blogged about a demonstration of a much-disputed Wi-Fi hack on Apple systems) isless reassured, pointing out that a flaw in Software Update remains. Though it would have to be exploited by someone on your common network (and I did think that SWU used cryptographic keys for validation; maybe I've missed that bug's point.)Conclusions? OS X isn't impregnable, but its weaknesses remain largely unexploited. We await developments, as ever. And we await the first successful attack against Vista - which, if I'm not wrong, has not been hacked in a malware sense so far.
Is it a world-beater waiting to fly off the shelves, or a yawn-inducer that has left gamers with their hands firmly in their pockets? For the UK launch of Sony's PlayStation 3, due on March 23, the answer seems to depend on whether you believe the retailers - who may have a vested interest in talking up its promise - or the gamers.First, the excitement. Last week the high street chain Woolworths issued a press release saying that it was taking a pre-order for a PS3 every 20 seconds. "The hottest gaming system since the PS2!" declared its head of games. Meanwhile Play.com, the online retailer, said the PS3 was "the most pre-ordered in history", with six times more pre-orders than for Microsoft's Xbox 360 and 15 times more than Nintendo's Wii.And the high street chain Game said "customers are extremely excited" about the PS3 and, unsurprisingly, "we are receiving more pre-orders every day". Yet numbers were suspiciously hard to come by. "We want to keep all our [console] suppliers happy," says Game. (The Guardian has established that Game had 60,000 Wii pre-orders. It did not provide numbers for Xbox 360 or PS3 pre-orders by press time.)Play.com promised to fulfil all pre-orders for PS3s. But here's the odd thing: it was not able to meet all the pre-orders for Xbox 360s and Wiis. You would think that if it messed up on the Xbox 360, it might have the system in place for the Wii. Apparently not; so how is Play so confident that it will meet its PS3 demand - unless the pre-orders are not overwhelming?Reaction on the Guardian's Gamesblog and on other British gamer sites do not imply huge pent-up demand for the PS3. There might be financial reasons why not: initially, UK residents will only be able to buy the more expensive version of the PS3, costing &pound;425, which comes with a 60GB (rather than 20GB) hard drive. No UK launch date or price has yet been set for the smaller version."As a Brit, and as a gamer, the PS3 is not appealing at all," wrote ElNini, a commenter on kotaku.com, which pointed to the disparity between Woolworths' excited words and the reaction on the street. "As a gamer, because the launch titles are nothing to be excited about, and as a Brit, because I'm not shelling out &pound;425 for it when the rest of the world got it for half the price four months earlier."He added: "Anyone that buys one in the hope of eBaying it off and making a profit, dream on. They're not going to sell out anyway."So how many PS3s are being ordered? Are they selling faster than the Wii or Xbox 360? Woolworths admitted that the Wii took less than three weeks to sell out its presale allocation. The PS3 has been available for pre-order since February 7 - so if it hits Woolworths' pre-order limit in the next few days, it will clearly be as popular, in relative terms, as its smaller rival.One commenter at Otaku estimated the Woolworths figure - assuming a 12-hour day, seven-day week - to mean it is taking just over 15,000 orders per week. For a chain with 800 stores, that's not bad - but it wouldn't put the PS3 ahead of the Wii.Sony did not return our calls for comment.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
A project to put historical election data online has run into a problem familiar to supporters of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign: Ordnance Survey's copyright.Earlier this month, the Great Britain Historical Geographical Information System Project (visionofbritain.org.uk), based at University of Portsmouth, was awarded &pound;398,700 to place online the general election data following the First Reform Act of 1832, allowing the public to find in which constituencies a property has been located.But although information until 1970 will be drawn from paper maps, data from the past 37 years, such as the two close-run elections of 1974, runs into problems - not because the data is not available, but due to OS's 50-year Crown copyright period.Current information on parliamentary constituency boundaries is vital to politicians - particularly when they are changing, as they are at present.Limited useSuch data is collected by the boundary commission, a taxpayer-funded government department, and then turned over to and made available by Ordnance Survey: along with Ordnance Survey Northern Ireland, a separate organisation, OS makes all electoral boundaries available through theElection Mapswebsite, where they can be viewed at high resolution street-map scales.Use of the site is limited to political activity such as campaigning and canvassing, full-time educational, and personal use. The data cannot be extracted - a restriction that has puzzled some electoral parties which have contacted the Free Our Data campaign over the past year, including the Scottish Green Party, which wanted to put boundaries of forthcoming council elections on a website. It was turned down on the grounds that the maps are Crown copyright.In England, alterations to constituencies are based on the recommendations of the Boundary Commission for England, which submitted a general review to the Lord Chancellor on October 31, with a parliamentary order expected shortly. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have equivalent organisations.The commission uses Ordnance Survey data to plan changes, but it does not produce maps itself, according to Bob Farrance, its secretary. "The commission does not give the secretary of state a set of digitised boundaries," he says. "It's purely a textual description of each constituency."These textual descriptions take the form of lists of wards, the "key building block of UK administrative geography", according to the Office for National Statistics. As of June 10 2004, there were 10,661 wards (or electoral divisions or parishes), with an average population of 5,500. English ward boundaries are the responsibility of the Boundary Committee for England, part of the Electoral Commission. It is quite clear: "For use of the maps, you have to get permission from Ordnance Survey. The information belongs to Ordnance Survey," it says.Ordnance Survey says that ward boundaries are defined by statutory instruments or acts of parliament, either through textual description or maps, but that it "delineates" those boundaries. Although it does not set parliamentary constituency boundaries, OS is in effect their owner. Boundaries also appear on OS'sGet-a-Mapservice, for personal use only.But these are just the current data. While these are what politicians need for elections, so they know which streets to canvass, there is historical interest in the previous shapes of constituencies.Dr Humphrey Southall, the director of the University of Portsmouth's project, points out a further irony: if the project's website, which is funded by the universities' Joint Information Systems Committee (Jisc), were visible only within further and higher education institutions, it would be covered byEdina, a wide-ranging access agreement between data suppliers including OS and Jisc. "It only arises because it's open access," says Southall. "Taxpayers would be amazed what is available within higher education, which is paid for by the general public but isn't available to the general public."Last year, OS gave Professor Richard Topf, director for the Centre for Comparative European Survey Data based at London Metropolitan University, permission to show Westminster parliamentary boundaries for each election since 1983 (besis.org). Furthermore, it provided the data at no charge, encouraged its development and links to the resulting site from the Election Maps site. Topf says the reason the maps go back only to 1983 is simply because they are not available in digital form before then.But the site uses outlines of whole constituencies, rather than high-resolution mapping. Topf says OS required that high-resolution data could not be extracted from the site as a condition of its use: "It took several months, but that was because they wanted to know a lot about the technical construction of the files," he says.OS says that agreements outside Edina have to be considered to ensure that material is used only for the purposes granted, and if it is for display use only, OS may require technical safeguards so data cannot be extracted for commercial use.Dr Southall says such agreements can be hard to come by: "The academic liaison side [of OS] is very, very helpful, but as soon as you say 'copyright', the whole organisation freezes," he says.He adds that the situation is "ludicrous" for paper maps from the late 1950s and the 1960s, which the OS does not hold digitally, yet still has under copyright. Furthermore: "If you create work based on OS data, we generally can't publish it. Intellectually, to me, that is dangerous."Public domainSouthall says the ideal would be for OS's data to be in the public domain, as in the United States, and as Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues. If there are fears, for example, that parties might distort data which they put on their own site, technical solutions can identify whether sources, and outputs, of data are identical.OS has said this model would make it a burden on the taxpayer rather than its users. The campaign argues that the extra taxation incurred (which would be about &pound;50m from the Treasury) would be more than offset by gains in the wider economy, spurred by access to valuable data."Failing that, there needs to be much greater clarity from Ordnance Survey," says Southall. "One of the problems has been that it's very, very hard to find out what it will allow. Its default position is unbelievably restrictive."&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We certainly haven't seen anything to match the outpourings of bile that have followed the wannabe search engine's little page previews, which appear on a number of wordpress.com sites and elsewhere.The Snap Preview Anywhere technology (also available as a Firefox plugin!) means that if you hover your mouse over a link, you'll see a little popup window showing the site being linked to, attached to the place where your mouse is. The first time, you think, "Cool!" The second time, you think, "Oh, that." The third time, most people think, "How the hell do I turn this thing off?" (Clue: click on the little "Options" text in the popup box and choose "Disable for ALL sites." Add "Damn you!" if you like.)Part of the revulsion over Snap Preview is in that dangerous word "popup": it's too like an unwanted ad. Plus, who needs to know what the site you might go to looks like? The preview's too small to tell you anything useful, but often obscures text on the page you're still on.Snap has been doing its best to fight off a veritable blog blizzard of disapproval: "Since launch some 700,000 websites and blogs have signed up for the service and some 180m previews have been served," wrote Erik Wingren, its senior researcher, on its blog (blog.snap.com). "The Snap Preview Anywhere service was designed to help users make more informed decisions about what links to click on and thereby help them navigate the internet with greater speed and accuracy." We still can't see it, to be honest. Isn't that what the URL tells you? Meanwhile, Snap's principal ambition - as a new search engine - may be fatally wounded. We'll wait and see ... without pop-ups.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
A colleague was having trouble with his Sky+ box: it was humming. This didn't seem right, so he called an engineer in - who said it would be fine as long as he left it switched on the whole time (with the hard drive spinning), rather than on standby (with the drive stopped). Hold on, said the colleague: that's a disaster environmentally. The engineer shrugged and went on his way.Though the engineer was not quoting Sky policy (when we asked, Sky confirmed it has no official policy on humming set-top boxes), the incident serves to raise the issue of just how many products are released without even the possibility of turning them off unless you unplug them at the mains.Several items have an off switch that's hard to find. Mark Webb of Currys Digital confirms that many TVs have off buttons located on the side or at the top, although not all of them do. "We are noticing an increase in customer demand for clearly marked and easily accessible off buttons, as well as more efficient standby modes," he says."It has recently become standard for us to check for accessible off switches on all our own-brand and large-screen TVs, and we are working with the EST [Energy Saving Trust] to measure energy efficiency and establish targets for future products."Can't touch thisToshiba is one manufacturer that doesn't allow users to switch off its televisions - for good reasons, it says. "The idea of having a plush new LCD TV mounted on a wall is important to the consumer. However, if the TV is mounted on the wall it leaves the question of where to situate the on/off switch," says Ian Rea, the company's product manager for LCD TVs.He adds: "We are now in the digital age and it is a necessity to carry out software upgrades and uploads of TV programs and services so that our LCD TVs are fully operational for the consumer. These upgrades are carried out via 'over air' engineering channels during out of normal viewing hours and the TV is required to wake up to perform the operation."LG agreed, until very recently: "LG products previously featured the on/off button. Due to consumer behaviour and demand this was later removed. Consumers were using their remote controls so the on/off button was a feature that wasn't being utilised," says Daniel Aziz of LG."Due to the increase in environmental issues and awareness from both consumers and organisations alike, LG has decided to reintroduce the on/off button across its TV range over the next 12 months." Sharp also has a full off switch on every model.The positive news is that everybody is trying to reduce their products' power consumption. Pioneer, for example, is a Sustainable Energy Partner of the European Commission and since 2000 has aimed to get every product on standby under 1 Watt. Toshiba has reduced the standby power of one of its televisions to a similar level and remains convinced that the standby debate is a distraction from wasted lighting, for example, which consumes a lot more power.Powerless campaignersSome companies are taking a different tack on reducing the electricity that their products consume. Sky points out, reasonably enough, that the personal video recorder timers on its boxes simply won't work if the system has no power running through it. But it is campaigning to get customers to put the system into standby when it's not being watched rather than leaving it on, which will save between 30% and 50% of its usual idle power need.As well as working on a means by which the box could be woken up from a full switch-off when it needs to record a programme, it is also trying other initiatives, explains Sky."In December, Sky launched a pilot scheme which saw nearly 4,000 energy-saving light bulbs distributed to a group of customers. Feedback surveys have shown that 95% of recipients had installed their bulbs and that 70% said they would like to receive further energy-saving advice from Sky," adds the company. There will be an announcement about a nationwide campaign in spring or summer this year.If Toshiba's research is right, of course, people would rather leave their devices on and save the environment too, please. Bearing this in mind, Currys has investigated an alternative angle and made its latest two own-brand digital receivers, the Logik Vesa and the Ferguson FD1 Prism Digital TV Receiver, compliant with the Energy Saving Trust Energy Saving Recommended Endorsement scheme.This gains them a 'blue badge', which tells consumers that they'll save both power and money with the products. The accreditation means they consume 2W or less in passive standby mode and an on-mode consumption of 6.3W for a single tuner or 8.3W for a double tuner.These are the first energy-saving receivers in Europe, claims Currys. Given the increasing importance of energy saving, it's doubtful they'll be the last.
Seagate touts DaveSeagate plans to introduce a Digital Audio Video Experience based on having a small 10GB or 20GB hard drive in your pocket, wirelessly talking to another device - such as a mobile or camera - via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi.seagate.comMasts plottedThe OnOneMap site started by displaying houses for sale. It has now added almost 60,000 mobile phone masts.ononemap.comGmail for allGoogle has finally opened up its Gmail service so you no longer need an invitation to join. In the UK, it's Googlemail.googlemail.comSoapbox in betaMicrosoft's Soapbox - its version of YouTube - was first shown in September and is finally available in public beta.soapbox.msn.com&pound;9bn tech marketMarket research company GfK reckons the UK IT market was worth &pound;9bn last year. Mobile PC sales rose to &pound;1.6bn but monitors and printers declined.Background informationAmbient Devices, an MIT spin-off, is testing its datacasting system in the UK. Products include an Ambient Orb stockmarket display and a Weather Watcher screen.ambientdevices.comSatellite conjunctionAmerica's two giant satellite radio services, XM and Sirius, have agreed to merge - if the US government allows.Connected HomeThe fourth annual Connected Home conference will be held at Olympia, London, on March 5-6.the-connected-home.co.uk
I'm apologising in advance in case this article ends up being a tad disjointed. Sorry, I can't help it. The lure of the web keeps whipping my attention away. It's been at least 50 seconds since I last checked my MySpace - and who knows what I've missed out on.I mustn't forget to have a quick look at my Facebook page too. And Bebo. Then I can spend some quality "me" time watching a clip of a cat peeing on YouTube. The social networking phenomenon is getting way out of hand. A friend has listed one of her hobbies as simply "MySpacing". Which, when I'd first seen it, made me laugh a lot, but I swiftly realised it was a Friday night and I was sat reading profiles in the early hours. Thousands of people are doing the very same thing right this second. Homework sits untouched, dishes remain mucky and office managers up and down the country are wondering why everyone looks busy yet seems to have stopped working.Ironically, the invention of social networking has discouraged everyone from being, erm, sociable. I send messages to my housemates rather than just, you know, talking to them.And what a false social setting it is anyway. It's clogged full of information we don't need to know about each other. Endless lists of favourite bands, books, TV shows. It's not important. When was the last time you met someone in a bar and then reeled off, in order, your top 10 Johnny Depp films?Plus, people are proud to have hundreds of friends - which is lovely - but closer inspection reveals that most of these friends are just bands they happen to like. Fair enough, I suppose.The saddest thing about all this is that I have been sucked in as much as everyone else. My friends list has swelled to an impressive 181, but deep down I know Henry the Hoover isn't a real mate. Shamefully, my lack of self-discipline means I can't face logging off. Just as I try to tear myself away, someone will post something that'll keep me there for another 10 minutes and before I know it, it's 3am.Back in the days of the glorious Sega Mega Drive, my mother allowed me to play computer games only on certain days of the week. As you could expect, this was a unanimously unpopular decision. The Sega Days meant that I wasn't wasting my entire youth trying to thwart that pesky Dr Robitnik. Instead, I'd be out with my football boots on - and having a much better time than I've ever had playing Sonic the Hedgehog, of course.MySpace has no such motherly protection. Boy, how I wish it did. Every day is now a MySpace day. What bliss it would be if after an hour of pointless surfing an error message appeared, telling you bluntly: "Dear User, session expired, get a life."Your only choice would be to click OK, pop outside, have a kickaround and maybe even try talking to your friends in the old-fashioned manner that involves use of your vocal chords.Failing that, my (real) friend Sophie's recent cry for help (posted on MySpace, naturally) offers another valid option. "Ahhhh I'm meant to be revising!" she began. "Will someone please delete MySpace?" Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to set up a Second Life account.
There's a very reliable way of generating quick and easy gaming gossip. Just scan the website of theERSB, America's games rating board, and find intriguing new titles submitted for certification. That's how Siliconera has generated this post about a possible new Wing Commander title. EA does indeed have a game named Wing Commander Arena listed on the site, rated E (it contains 'fantasy violence' apparently. Don't we all) and down for the Xbox 360. Siliconera suggests it could be a multiplayer Xbox Live Arcade title.Wing Commander was, of course, a successful series of 3D space combat games released on PC and PSone during the mid- to late-nineties. They interspersed the action bits with movie sequences in that charmingly naive 'interactive movies are the future' way they had in the nineties.I wonder if movie sequences in games will ever work again? You can bet if Wing Commanderdoescome back, Mark 'Colonel Christopher Blair' Hammill won't be receiving an excited call from his agent.If this has whetted your appetite for Wing Commander action, the game appears as part of EA's retro collection, EA Replay, which is due out on PSP this month.
Yes, BFI has added to its 'Screen Guides' series of pocket-sized analytical gems with a videogame title.100 Videogamesby Iain Simons (who organises the Nottingham GameCity festival) and James Newman, does pretty much what the title suggests it will - looks at 100 videogames and explains what makes each one important. In the foreward the authors point out that this is not a book about the 100bestvideogames - instead they've gone for interesting and innovative titles from the last 30-odd years.It's a very decent selection, taking in the obvious (Asteroids, Doom, Final Fantasy VII) and the not-so-obvious - stuff like browser-based titles Hapland and SissyFight. Each game gets a short essay examining its strengths and contributions to the medium. I've spotted a few factual errors (Cannon Fodder is twice listed as a 1983 title - just a decade out there, lads), but that's part of the fun with these books. It's good on drawing parallels between different styles and periods of games, and trying to assess their cultural impact. It also includestwoTreasure games - Ikaruga and Radiant Silvergun - the mark of a discerning pallet if ever there was one.Unlike the recent Game On: The 50 Greatest Videogames of All Time, which was unashamedly popularist in design, 100 Videogames (being a BFI book) looks as though it has loftier pretentions, with only the odd black and white screenshot and lots of text. The writing is caught between wanting to be both entertainingly casual and intellectually stimulating. It achieves both from time to time - although I didn't read much that made me think of any of the games in a new way as some more unwieldy academic studies have done. "Katamari Damacy defies an explanation," the authors declare at one point. But hang on, haven't readers just forked out twelve quid on a BFI textbook for just that?However, as a reference manual to dip into once in a while when you're trying to recall why you play videogames, this should prove useful to have around. It'll fire you up about the important games you loved, or indeed completely missed, and introduce you too a few unfamiliar titles. Just seeing great games written about quite well, in one easily browseable book, gets you thinking about them and why the good ones work.Also, it looks acceptable on your bookcase.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
A couple of years ago, I wrote a Guardian Online cover story about "life caching" calledHow to save your life. And one of the people mentioned in passing was Gordon Bell, famed developer of the DEC VAX minicomputer, who has been pursuing a life-caching project called MyLifeBits at Microsoft Research....There's a lot more about this project in the latest issue of Scientific American, where Gordon Bell and Jim Gemmell have contributedA Digital Life.There's nothing new here, but Bell's case is important because he's gone further than anyone else in actually trying to record and search his recent life:MyLifeBits has also provided Bell with a new suite of tools for capturing his interactions with other people and machines. The system records his telephone calls and the programs playing on radio and television. When he is working at his PC, MyLifeBits automatically stores a copy of every Web page he visits and a transcript of every instant message he sends or receives. It also records the files he opens, the songs he plays and the searches he performs. The system even monitors which windows are in the foreground of his screen at any time and how much mouse and keyboard activity is going on. When Bell is on the go, MyLifeBits continually uploads his location from a portable Global Positioning System device, wirelessly transmitting the information to his archive. This geographic tracking allows the software to automatically assign locations to Bell's photographs, based on the time each is taken.And while this might seem a lot of data, the storage requirements are quite affordable:After six years, Bell has amassed a digital archive of more than 300,000 records, taking up about 150 gigabytes of memory. The information is stored on Bell's dual-disk notebook computer and his assistant's desktop PC, which are backed up locally and off-site. Video files grab the lion's share of the storage space--more than 60 gigabytes--whereas images take up 25 gigabytes and audio files (mostly music) occupy 18 gigabytes. The remainder is shared by 100,000 Web pages, 100,000 e-mails, 15,000 text files, 2,000 PowerPoint files, and so on.One day, I expect Google will be only too happy to swallow this sort of database whole.Of course, this is not the sort of thing you'll want to do if you are, for example, a criminal or have any "secret" vices.....
Professional and serious amateur photographers have been waiting for (or beta testing)Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, first shown almost two years ago. Now it has beenreleased, Ars Technica has produced a decent8-page review.Naturally there's a page about Lightroom v Apple's Aperture, but this bit is extremely disappointing. Maybe someone has done a better job, and if not, there are at least a few blog links inNotes from a Tool User. (Well,Inside Apertureis doing the job, but it's an Aperture-specific site.*)Of course, for most photographers it's not an issue: Aperture is Mac-only whereas Lightroom runs on Windows as well.* CorrectedFootnote: Jack Schofield is a former editor of Photo Technique, Film Making, You &amp; Your Camera (a partwork), ZOOM and The Photographic Journal of the Royal Photographic Society, and produced a string of books including The Darkroom Book. There's not much demand for that one nowadays....
With only 30 - count 'em - days till the PS3 launchreportsare coming through of predictably brisk pre-ordering, with Woolies - "the hottest launch since PS2!" - and Amazon getting very excited. And while it is easy to be critical of the PS3 launch schedule - is Motorstorm enough to warrant splashing out nearly 500 quid? - it's easy to forget that the majority of potential owners won't own 360's, read blogs or care about the ins and outs of HD standards. For them the PS3 is the only games machine in town - gaming still equals PlayStation to most people.But what about you? For the next year or two I can see myself using the PS3 as much as an entertainment box as a games console. The PS3 runs silently compared to a 360 and it's much easier to stick in a Blu-ray disc than hook up the 360s clunky HD-DVD add-on. But with multiformat games I can't see myself choosing the PS3 version over the 360 unless the graphical benefits become clear - which may happen in a couple of years - as online and gamerpoints are just too important. So have you ordered your PS3 yet?Charles Arthur adds:have a read ofRetailers suspiciously coy on PlayStation 3 pre-order figures, in this weeks' print issue, in which we investigate quite how well all the excited words coming out of Woolworths et al stacks up. My favourite quote of the week was "We're getting more [PS3] pre-orders every day." Now it would have been a story if they'd been getting fewer...
Games industry trade newspaperMCVreports that this year's Q1 games sales are "the biggest start to a year in living memory". Traditionally, post-Christmas empty pockets dictate that games released at the beginning of a new year languish with sub-optimal turn-over; often publishers try to bury releases around this time, building up their momentum instead for higher-profile titles to arrive around Easter. Instead, chart toppers Burning Crusade and Lost Planet have proven that content has reclaimed its throne as king, and is driving sales.The cyclical nature of game release schedules has often meant that haggard industry workers do much of their overtime work at key points in the year: pre-holiday and pre-E3. This year's good figures and the loss of the large US-based consumer trade event may signal a change in how and when games make it onto the shelves.According to the article:"This goes to prove the industry doesn't need to be so seasonal. Forward-thinking publishers have released big titles and reaped the rewards."
Today I was in Kensington for theFuture of Web Appsconference - a two-day lovefest of some really bright minds from the online world.Unfortunately it's been impossible to get on the Wi-Fi network (what exists of it) and so you're going to have to put up with post-show breakdown. I didn't see all the speeches - but you canfind a bunch of write-ups via Technorati.I don't like doing the whole "after the jump" thing, but this is pretty long. First up; Mike Arrington, AOL dude Edwin Aoki, Last.fm and Yahoo's Bradley Horowitz.First up wasTechcrunchfounder Mike Arrington - who started with an apology, for closing down Techcrunch UK (more here), but then carried on to talk about "The Magic Formula" - what the combination of stuff is to make a successful startup.Mike's presentation was very lawyerly (read: Powerpoint hell) but his points are clear: either invent a market, destroy a market or smooth over the cracks; have a business plan and a revenue model; build cheap and avoid high expense.He admits it isn't rocket science and also points out that some of the most successful. If you take capital, only spend as much as you need to spend - keep the culture.Next was AOL'sEdwin Aoki, who explains how almost every successful website these days is based around some kind of community. Disaggregation and syndication are big things - but for content businesses or service providers, the lack of control is a little scary. YouTube and Flickr allowed content to be embedded on other sites, but there are some risks to this (not least legal). And aggregation isn't limited to the desktop - things are going mobile.Here's an interesting part. Aoki says we have a responsibility to make sure that the tools and technologies we build for users are safe, neutral and effective. Most people still don't care about privacy, even when you sit in front of them. So it's up to us to make sure that the default behaviour is the right behaviour; not everyone on the web is a 20-something iPod owner.What it comes down to is balance - between building tools that are powerful and those are easy to use; between social or cultural benefit and commercial drive; making online a rich supplement to offline.One of the presentations that got the best reception was by twoLast.fmdevelopers,Matthew OgleandAnil Bawa Cavia, who gave an interesting insight into what the challenges of a mid-sized startup (40+ employees) faces. How do they develop? Keep users in mind. How do they deal with gaming?The issues of how to gather and leverage "attention data" - tracking your behaviour with what Ogle called "Myware rather than Spyware" - are clearly explained, with examples on how Last.fm has managed to use existing information to improve its product (such as moderating the site by automatically weighting things).That subject came up again in the talk byBradley Horowitz, who's in charge of Yahoo's development; he said that there were a lot of important things about the datawe already haveand how we can use it in the background. He explains Flickr's interestingness algorithm and the fact that camphone pictures can be tagged with rough geographies using mast locations.His talk, which had a running theme of "users" as drug addicts (don't ask), went into a lot of detail about how the company is trying to use new technologies to help people further down the web's food chain (the consumers, rather than the creators) become more active. And it involves a karate-kicking monkey and the Mona Lisa.Tomorrow I'm expecting to as I work around the conference - but I'll keep you in touch with developments.
Regular readers will know I'm a huge fan of Fog Creek's Joel Spolsky and his blog, Joel on Software. His latest essay is even better than usual, being aboutSeven steps to remarkable customer service.His first and most important point is to treat software crashes the way NTSB treats airliner crashes: figure out what happened and try to make sure it never happens again. This means technical support has to be smart and it has to have access to the developers. Of course that's expensive, but for Fog Creek, it pays off in the long run:When we handle a tech support incident with a well-qualified person here in New York, chances are that's the last time we're ever going to see that particular incident. So with one $50 incident we've eliminated an entire class of problems.Somehow, the phone companies and the cable companies and the ISPs just don't understand this equation. They outsource their tech support to the cheapest possible provider and end up paying $10 again and again and again fixing the same problem again and again and again instead of fixing it once and for all in the source code. The cheap call centers have no mechanism for getting problems fixed; indeed, they have no incentive to get problems fixed because their income depends on repeat business, and there's nothing they like better than being able to give the same answer to the same question again and again.There are actually eight steps in the piece, but Joel likes to give you more than you expected.....
Microsoft has now releasedVirtual PC 2007, free. It's been in beta since October.Use virtual machines to run operating systems such as MS-DOS, Windows, and OS/2. You can run multiple operating systems at once on a single physical computer and switch between them as easily as switching applications--instantly, with a mouse click.What's new is the ability to have 32-bit Vista as either a guest or host, though the emulated hardware is not guaranteed to run Aero Glass. (64-bit Vista can only be a host.) Microsoft also claims "Improved performance compared to Virtual PC 2004".There isn't a new version for Mac OS X users, andVirtual PC for Mac Version 7is still for PowerPC-based Macs, and there will never be a version for Intel.Parallelsis doing that, for $79.99.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Up to half of home wi-fi systems are susceptible to a new line of attack from hackers intent on stealing personal information such as passwords and bank information."Drive-by pharming", as it has been named, involves remotely altering the settings on a wireless router so that it directs the victim unknowingly to bogus mirror websites where criminals can collect secret information entered into the site.The scam involves setting up a bogus web address book called a Domain Name System (DNS) so that, for example, when a person thinks they are at their bank's website, they are actually at a mock-up of the site set up by criminals.The good news though, according to the internet security firm Symantec and researchers at the Indiana University school of informatics who have highlighted the potential fraud, is that it is easy to protect against.The attack wouldn't work if wireless routers were protected properly with a password, the internet security expert Markus Jakobsson, of the school of informatics, told the American Association for the Advancement of Science annual meeting in San Francisco yesterday.The scam works like this. Firstly, the criminals entice the victim to an unrelated site, for example, by using a spam email or by hacking into a legitimate site. The unrelated website has a chunk of JavaScript computer code hidden in it by the criminal. Importantly, the victim doesn't need to download or click on something for the code to run, they simply need to view the site.The malicious code messes with the settings of the victim's wireless router so that instead of directing them to a legitimate DNS while surfing the web it points them to one set up by the criminals.The DNS is what links the words you type into the web browser address bar with the IP address of the website - a unique number code.Once the computer is using the criminal's DNS, the victim can be directed to bogus sites without them realising. The name in the address bar looks legitimate, but the site is actually a fake. So any secret information the victim enters into the site goes straight to the criminals.Mr Jakobsson said proper password protection could prevent the attacks, but about half of people using wireless routers did not change the factory settings on their equipment."In a real attack, the user would be taken to a site that is a true clone of the place they intended to go, but the cloned site would be operated by the attacker and would steal the user's password," research team member Alex Tsow said.Criminals could use that information to access the real bank site, for example, and empty a victim's accounts."There is no way a user can determine that this attack takes place," said Mark Meiss, at Indiana University's advanced network management laboratory. "You can't be sure you are actually visiting your banking site, for example, even though it looks like you are. There is simply no way of telling."The team said it did not know of any cases of drive-by pharming having happened yet, but said it wanted to bring the public's attention to the problem, particularly as it was easy to protect against the crime.A 2005 survey of internet crime carried out by the British police national hi-tech crime unit found that internet fraud had affected 16% of UK businesses, costing &#163;622m annually. The overall cost of internet crime was &#163;2.4bn.
When I set up a MySpace page a couple of months ago (I know - how behind the times can I possibly be?), I initially thought, what a complete waste of time. Not being a teenager requiring constant virtual contact with a vast harem of potential shags, I figured it was just something to do on a Wednesday night until the Champions League match started.But within a week I received a Friend Request from a group namedLost Levels, who then sent me a copy of their self-titled debut EP, a rather sublime crossover of bleepy electronica and guitar pop - the sort of thing my old Edge editor Jason Brookes would have insisted I put into the magazine's tragically defunct 'Nu Media' section.It got me thinking about how videogame culture is creeping back into the alternative/indie, urgh, zeitgeist. Last year there was the brilliant single Red Wizard Needs Food Badly byThe Duloksand some fine synthy punk stuff from Canadian band,Crystal Castles, surely named afterAtari's 1983 arcade game. I think the bedroom coding/bedroom gaming scene of the eighties is striking a real resonance with new indie musicians, not because they were around at the time (they're much too young), but because they appreciate and even share the obsessive principles of eighties computer gaming.When I wrote in a previous post about how indie shooters are the new indie music, someone commented 'yes, for nerds'. But indie music IS for nerds. It always has been. Just different types of nerds. And now a lot of musicians are connecting the dots, consciously revelling in the stark, precise audio of home computer and arcade game sound chips, as well as the culture of early games. In a way, they're discovering what we didn't realise at the time - geekdom was a form of counter-culture, a reposte to the glitzy shiny eighties. If you're old enough, think back to what the kids looked like in your local arcade and about what they wore - now open NME.Snap.So, I got some questions to Xavier and Iain, the two musicians behind Lost Levels about music and gaming, and why they're the SNES generation's answer to Pink Floyd...What is the idea behind the Lost Levels?Basically we found ourselves saying "wouldn't it be brilliant if someone made a concept record about video games". Eventually we realised that no one was going to, and we would have to do it ourselves.Are you happy with the 'Pink Floyd for the Nintendo generation' tag that you've been given?The tagline is actually 'Dark side of the moon for the Nintendo generation' in reference to our EP, we've always been quite flattered by it though as we are big fans of their music. Like Pink Floyd's 'Dark Side Of The Moon', we made a conscious effort to use reoccurring harmonic themes throughout the record. Writing songs about video games is just one aspect of The Lost Levels though. The video game concept can only be taken so far and we don't want to repeat ourselves. The production ideas of the EP have had a huge impact on our live sound and will no doubt continue to, but we don't want to be seen as a 'video game' band.How and when did you get started?The Lost Levels formed in late 2002. We actually started out as a duo. We played a few acoustic gigs and started recording demos that eventually turned into the debut E.P. When we stated doing bigger gigs we felt we needed a bigger band so we got Steve and Owen on board.Do you use video game sounds at all?Yes, Sort of. During the recording of the lost levels E.P. We tried our best to recreate the sounds of the old console soundcards. Most of our synth sounds came from playing around with Nintendo emulation soft synths that we found on the Internet. When we play live we use a Novation KS5 Synth and an early Yamaha organ to replicate these sounds.We spent loads of time digging out our old consoles and playing some of our favourite games to get inspiration. One of the best things about making the record was that we were able to play video games for hours on end and justify it as research.What specific games have influenced your music?Um... the main ones are: The early Legend of Zelda games, Mario, Megaman 2, pinball dreams, Supercars 2, Gravity Force, mainly stuff from the NES and early Amiga PD games.There seems to be a lot of good videogame-influenced stuff around at the moment. Why now?For the same reason that over the last few years there has been a surge in the demand for 80's memorabilia, i.e. Thundercats t-shirts, kids TV show DVD reissues etc... Our generation is reaching the age when we start to look back and reminisce about our childhood and more innocent times.Do you think video games or video game culture have had any influence on more mainstream music?Yeah, It's starting to. You can definitely hear it in some of Beck's music. It has even spread to pop production and can be heard in recent Girls Aloud, Rachel Stevens and Gorrilaz records to name but a few. Though it is also evident that Mainstream music is definitely starting to influence video games as well.What's next for the lost levels?Over the last few months we've been writing and rehearsing new material. Were about to go into the studio with Andy Ramsay from Stereolab and producer Paul Tippler to record a bunch of new songs. As well as this we are always playing live shows so check theMyspace pagefor details.
Public art commissions can be expensive and indulgent affairs, but sometimes they're fascinating and 'challenging' - in a good way. Social Hacking, a series of temporary exhibits, artist workshops and performances taking place in Plymouth between 21-24 of March, would certainly seem to fall into the latter category. Mostly because it has videogames in it. For example, Poland'sMikro Orchestra Projectwill be running lessons in how to create music using Game Boy sounds, which ties in nicely with my next post...Okay, okay, you want to know about the car. Well, it's a Plymouth Superbird and it's being used by theLudic Societyto create a 'total conversion' of Gran Turismo in the streets of the city. I'm not sure what this entails and have left a message with the organiser,Kurator. I'll update when they get back to me. Sounds fascinating, though - and reminds me of recent attempts to create real-world versions of Pac-Man inNew YorkandSingapore.
Final Fantasy XIIlaunches this Friday (and the hours have been racked up since the game arrived in my house on Saturday morning). If you're an FFfan and will be in or near London on Friday, I heartily recommend that you don a FF costume and head down to HMV on Oxford Street to meet the makers. FromMCV:The two-hour showcase will kick off at midday and is free to anyone that attends. Wristbands will be handed out in store from 9am next Friday morning.The first 300 people to buy the PS2 game at the event will receive a CD soundtrack featuring five songs from FFXII, while the first 100 will also be given an exclusive Moogle soft toy.A competition to win a trip for two to Japan will also be on offer.And, just for fun, FFVII [sic] publisher and HMV will be handing out extra goodies to the fans wearing the best Final Fantasy costumes.Pictures, please! The best shots of cosplay will be posted here in a gamesblog gallery next week. In that we have officially the strongest community across all of the Guardian's blogs (all because of you you you), I expect many thousands of images/videos to arrive into gamesblog + at + gmail.com by the end of the weekend...
This has been an obvious question right from the beginning, but C&amp;VG has finally tackled it:Is the novelty of Wii wearing off?It was an exciting launch for sure, but one that Wii critics have claimed is a temporary phase. Opposition to the controller's motion-control concept cite it as a gimmick whose appeal would soon diminish. Are we already seeing this happen in Japan?Part of the problem is that not all games use the controller well. According to C&amp;VG: "Red Steel is twitchy and occassionaly (sic) clumsy, Need For Speed: Most Wanted is near unplayable, Far Cry got it all wrong, and the motion control in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance just feels tacked on."Another part is shortage of new games, partly because "third party developers, CVG has been told on different occasions, didn't receive proper Wii development kits too long before the console's release. With the average game taking well over a year to make these days, we should see an influx of third-party releases -- developed specifically on Wii dev kits (not GameCube placeholders) -- rushing to Wii later this year and in 2008."There are at least two problems here. The first is that a lot of third party developers depend on Sony and Microsoft consoles for the vast majority of their income. It's very hard to compete with Nintendo on a Nintendo machine: would you really want to go up against Mario, Zelda etc? The second is that the GameCube did badly, so most developers would tend to assume that the Revolution/Wii was most likely to come third in the next-gen race.Times have changed. The Wii did much better than expected, on its launch, and the PlayStation 3 did worse than expected. Software houses are now busy moving resources away from the PS3 (where they can base games on what they did for the Xbox 360) and to the Wii. EA not only did this, it also went out and bought another developer (Headgate Studios Bought by EA, Focuses on Wii).It probably upset his bosses, but a week ago, Electronic Arts game developer Andrew Garrett posted something that confirmed this line of thinking. According toKotaku, it went like this:Last year, the prediction was that Sony would win the next-gen war, that the PS3 would be the dominant console, just like the PS2 was.That is no longer the case. The extremely strong performance of the Wii, combined with the miserable performance of Sony has revised pretty much everyone's expectations. Right now, most of us here think the 360 will be on top for this generation, with the battle for second place between Sony and Nintendo (and that's a major shock, as we'd nearly written Nintendo off for the non-handheld market.) Most of us still think Sony will beat off Nintendo, simply due to the older graphics on the Wii, but it's not a sure thing.My opinion -- get the 360 and/or the Wii. Skip the PS3 unless there's a big change in the near future.Meanwhile, my advice is to buy whichever machine you really want most, when you can get hold of it at a price you can afford. Life's too short to play fanboy games, and in any case, gaming is now a massive global market where "voting" is very widely distributed.Also remember thatnoneof the three main systems is going to disappear any time soon, and all three suppliers are going to play again in the next round of the console wars, which will be along pretty soon.A games console is just for Christmas, it's not for life -- or I'd still be playing Pong.
Damn Bethesda. It's been six months since I finally shook thatOblivionaddiction but a recent play with the forthcoming Shivering Isle expansion pack has bought me right back into Bethesda's seductive world. Yes it was hardcore, unfriendly and occasionally frustrating (regular saving was a necessary chore) but get used to the logic - basically do what you want but prepare to face the consequences - and Oblivion made glorious sense. It was as much about riding along a deserted track on a starry night, picking herbs and admiring the view - peace, man - as it was about tooled-up dungeon clearing. Geeky? Yes, but utterly absorbing. Shivering Isles looks set to continue where Oblivion left off.What I've seen of Shivering Isle fixes some of the issues that blighted the original, namely characters who had nothing to say and a pretty, but conventional, environment. Much like WoW's Burning Crusade, Shivering Isles takes the original game as an inspiration before adding colour, sci-fi elements and, in Shivering Isle's case, big mushrooms. Perhaps more importantly the smaller landmass - Shivering Isles is about 25% of the size of the original Cyrodiil - means the NPC's offer quests that are a step above the "go there, kill stuff" norm. Well that's the theory, I didn't get far enough to really experience this but the initial NPC's I met were certainly chattier than before. Sadly they were as ugly as ever, although thankfully some new voice actors seem to have been used.I did an interview with Bethesda's Pete Hines - which I'll get on the blog this week - but he confirmed, amongst other things, that the 360 version of Shivering Isle will have an additional 250 achievement points (great news for addicts like me) and a shader update that will put the 360 version on a graphical par with the forthcoming PS3 incarnation. Anyone else get sucked into Oblivion?
Google has published a paper on disk drive reliability (Failure Trends in a Large Disk Drive Population, PDF), based on its experience with 100,000 hard drives. The key finding is not much help: "Surprisingly, we found that temperature and activity levels were much less correlated with drive failures than previously reported."In other words, high temperatures and heavy use do not actually make drives fail sooner (unless the temperature is excessive).Otherwise, if theSMART monitoring toolsfind problems with a drive, it is likely to fail. However, SMART is not a good predictor. More than half the drives that did fail were OK with SMART.Google does not mention brand names, so there's no help in that department. However,Storage Reviewtracks perfornmance and surveys reliability.The paper is being discussed atSlashdot.
