Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Over the past two months, Apple's market capitalisation (ie its value as measured by the stock market) averaged out at $229.8bn.The corresponding figure for Microsoft was $215.9bn. And yes, you read those numbers correctly: Apple is now worth significantly more than Microsoft, and the difference isn't just a flash in the Wall Street pan.This has implications for all of us who follow these things. The mainstream media, for example, need to discard the rose-tinted spectacles through which they have viewed Apple ever since Steve Jobs returned to the helm in 1997. Apple is no longer the Lucky Little Company That Could but a looming, secretive, manipulative corporate giant.Recent developments suggest that Apple itself also needs to adjust to its new status as just another company. Last month it released the iPhone 4, the latest version of its smartphone, to near-universal media acclaim. But shortly after the release of this magical device, complaints began to surface about problems with its wireless reception – specifically that if one held the phone in a certain way while making a call, then it dropped the connection.Apple at first ignored these irritating complaints, but eventually issued a soothing"Letter from Apple regarding iPhone 4". "The iPhone 4 has been the most successful product launch in Apple's history", it began, in bestListen With Motherstyle. "It has been judged by reviewers around the world to be the best smartphone ever, and users have told us that they love it. So we were surprised when we read reports of reception problems, and we immediately began investigating them." The "letter" went on to explain that the problem was caused by a mistake in the algorithm (ie mathematical formula) used to calculate the number of bars in the signal strength indicator. A software update would, it said, soon be available to fix that.This patronising "letter" proved to be a spectacular (and misleading) misjudgment. "I couldn't believe this was meant to be taken seriously," wrote Dave Winer, one of theblogosphere's elder statesmen. "It's the kind of storyThe Onionmight have written on a bad day. Or Jon Stewart. That a corporate PR team wrote this says how unseasoned their people are. That they thought this answer was going to satisfy anyone says how out of touch they are with the world they are in."In fact the algorithm excuse was a smokescreen. The real problem was that if you hold the phone naturally, your fingers bridge the gap between the two segments of the antenna contained in the device's bezel. (Which might just explain why Steve Jobs carefully held the phone by its top and bottom edges when showing it to the Russian president recently.) So it wasn't a software problem at all, and the resulting "shitstorm" (Winer's term) grew and grew. Things got so bad that Apple eventually decided on the nuclear option: a Steve Jobs press conference.The event was an instructive shambles.In summary, the message was: Apple is good and makes great products; all smartphones have reception problems; Apple loves its customers, which is why it built all those cool retail stores for them; the iPhone problem can be fixed by fitting a rubberised "bumper" over the bezel; and Apple will give everyone a free bumper, so what's the problem?The press conference was instructive because it provided such a vivid demonstration of how inexperienced Apple is in its new role as just another company – and how inept Jobs is when faced with the hostile scepticism that is the routine experience of other CEOs."When it comes to responding to hostile or sceptical media coverage,"wrote one experienced commentator, "Jobs &amp; co seem to be like a presidential contender who's been able to skip the primaries and go straight to the general election – missing all the vetting and the hundreds of debates that help to surface any weakness or issues of concern, providing time to develop the skills necessary to respond to any situation. Jobs demonstrated what I've never seen him do in front of an audience: he not only lost his cool,  he lost his charm. He was a like an arena rock star who can't perform acoustic."And no free T-shirt from the gig, either.
Last week UK studios continued to hog the prizes at the annual Develop Awards, as Hello Games were named best newcomer and Jagex were hailed as development legends, but while the games industry was distracted by the shindig there were a couple of new releases that shouldn't be allowed to slip by unnoticed.First up is the ferociously addictivePuzzle Quest 2, recently released on the Xbox 360 download store, for the very generous price of 1,200 Microsoft points, or about £10 in real money. Sharing a direct lineage with casual gaming classic Tetris,Puzzle Quest 2has a depth that brilliantly defies an apparent simplicity. Despite the significant fantasy adventure element that cements together the overall experience, this remarkably balanced title is at its heart an instinctive and intricately detailed puzzle game.Charged with matching together coloured gems on a simple grid, players who givePuzzle Quest 2five minutes risk losing hours to its charms, as each new try brings fresh appreciation of just how much lurks within.Meanwhile, over on the Wii, budget releaseGP Classic Racinghas made its debut, bringing the golden era of 1960s motor sport to a console more typically associated with fantastical go-kart titles populated by video game and movie mascot characters.While this nostalgic reimagining of the most romanticised era of vintage racing is far from revolutionary, it does deliver a refreshing alternative to the increasingly outlandish attempts to ape the success ofMario Kart Wii.
To date theDragon Questfranchise has sold 53m copies worldwide (and because numbers are nothing without context, that's eight million more than Pink Floyd'sThe Dark Side of the Moon). Yet only three million of those sales were outside Japan. Now, with the latest instalment,Dragon Quest IX: Sentinels of the Starry Skies, its creators are determined to finally recreate their domestic success abroad.Dragon Questwas created in 1986 by Yuji Horii, who has remained its designer and writer ever since. It's an RPG responsible for the premise that so many followed: take on your role, travel and battle to amass experience points and gold, exchange these for levelling-up and equipment – allowing further travel and battle – the cycle giving impetus to the plot. Had this formula been all there was,DQmay have remained a footnote, but it offered much more."Twenty-four years ago theDragonQuestseries didn't exist," explains Horii in Tokyo, before the game's European launch. "Role play in those days in Japan was for geeks. At that point, with the Nintendo Entertainment System, people were saying: 'Regular people aren't going to playDragon Quest.' We set out to change that." He did, spectacularly.The series stands out through its grandiose plots, told with attention to detail and a focus on the minutiae of the players' role within them. With its inventive, emotional, interaction between clever, humorous characters and a strong sense of continuity – from storylines to the ubiquitous slime monsters and the soundtracks, all scored by classically trained conductor and composer Koichi Sugiyama.They're also time-consuming and tough, but accessible too, a feature producer Ryutaro Ichimura hopes they have emphasised inDQIX– which stands alone, demanding no prior knowledge of the franchise: "We made it with the idea that anyone can pick it up and enjoy it. There are a lot of people in Japan who had never playedDragon Questbefore andIXwas their first experience. We had a lot of good feedback from that and we're hoping it will happen overseas too." Key to whether it does, of course, is why it hasn't already.The very challenge itself may be partly responsible. Horii theorises: "The Japanese character is more predisposed to doing lots of small tasks to prepare to take the next step in gaming, to perform a lot of little steps before you can take the next big step to the next level. That's something they get a lot of satisfaction from doing." Sugiyama sees this manifested beyond video games: "The Japanese enjoy and play a lot more thinking games. There is Japanese chess: 'Shogi' and 'Go' which is a military strategy game…Dragon Questis a thinking game." Yet he believes the central theme should appeal universally: "It's in the first person. You are the hero. You experience the story," says Horii.They've given this latest version every chance of crossing borders. The game is magnificent: its move on to DS sharpening gameplay and interface. Playing as a guardian angel fallen from on high after a heavenly earthquake (a kind of gentle, Nintendo-friendly Götterdämmerung), you are tasked with regaining your wings and thus order above. This sets the scene for multiple quests, often short, almost vignettes byDQstandards. They're imaginative, fun and, as always, character-driven, the clever dialogue pacing the gameplay.But the real impact is in multiplayer.  Four can play within a single game entirely independently of one another – but a clever tag system means when battle begins you are summoned to the fight. This is a huge development forDQ. It means players can roam a shared world playing solo and yet still interact if they choose, as with the online open-world genre – play the entire game alone or dip in and out with friends. Or, indeed, anyone nearby – at Tokyo's electronics and gaming centre, the Akihabara district, authorities have erected barriers to control the gathering ofDQIXplayers who have taken to the communal aspect with abandon.It should be enough. The refinements are perfect for the franchise and it deserves a wider audience. Indeed for RPG fans it positively demands to be played – preconceptions be damned. Horii insists the rationale has always been simple: "If the game is good,  people will play – and we're just trying to make a good game." Twenty-four years on,DQIXreally should add up to magic numbers in the west.
Price£19,593MPG40.90-60mph8.3 secondsRemember the last time you bought a car? The poring over comparison websites, the cold anguish of price, the heady realisation that you were at last dumping the old biscuit tin for something with a radio that actually worked. You weighed up economy, comfort, safety, and all the indicators pointed to a super-reliable three-year-old Toyota Auris. If only your heart would boot your head into touch and let you buy something like this: a hedonistic coupé with stunted back seats and a sale tag twice what you'd allocated…There's much to admire about the RCZ (and no it's not "Arsey Zed"), but it has one particular feature which is a game changer. Stand behind the car, let your eyes trail over its muscular rear and up towards the low-slung roof and they'll come to rest on the cute coupé's deliciously voluptuous back window – two perfect curves of glass merging seemlessly with the twin humps of the roof. This is the "double bubble", the RCZ's "wow" feature, and for the wavering purchaser it's a deal-sealer.It was originally called the 308 RCZ as so much of the car is based on the 308, Peugeot's bestselling family hatchback. But the makers quickly realised the RCZ was the pretty butterfly that has hatched from the workmanlike pupa of the 308 and it was deemed best not to remind go-faster punters of the car's sedentary roots.The RCZ has been greeted on the streets and in showrooms with barely concealed astonishment that Peugeot could make such a gem of a car. A Peugeot? What? But that is a disservice to the great French marque. It's true that the model line-up has been peppered with some forgettable cars in the past, but Peugeot has a long  and glorious heritage. The ingenious folding metal roof, for instance, sported by all of today's coupé cabriolets, first appeared as long ago as the 1930s on the sublimely elegant Peugeot 401 Eclipse.Stand back from the RCZ and Audi's iconic TT immediately springs to mind. The silhouette is so similar to the German wundercar that patent layers must have been rubbing their hands with glee. But there is one crucial difference: the Peugeot is £8,000 cheaper – low enough to woo buyers away from their Audi default setting. Despite thepaysanprice, this French car has set its sights on thebourgeoisie. It's solid, well-built and luxuriously appointed. It also has a (probably pointless) self-raising rear spoiler which lifts your spirits every time it rises out of the bodywork.On the downside, the RCZ is blessed with two vestigial back seats which have as much in common with actual seats as your coccyx does with a usable tail. They seem partially developed, as if the designers have asked themselves what they can put in this space between the (already roomy) boot  and the (very comfortable) front seats. A pet cage? A gaming console? Two shrunken chairs for size-00 models?It is now 200 years since the Peugeot brothers, Jean-Pierre and Jean-Frédéric, established a company in their father's corn mill selling saws and tools, steel crinoline stays, salt and pepper mills and coffee grinders. Bicycles, motorcycles and cars soon followed and the firm has sold more than 55m vehicles worldwide. To celebrate its bicentennial, the manufacturer has unveiled a new slogan ("Motion &amp; Emotion") and  a refreshed two-tone Lion emblem. The Lion was originally adopted to illustrate the strength of the teeth of the brothers' handsaws. With the RCZ, it looks like Peugeot may once again have found its bite…Testing times: a century of L platesMirror, signal, manoeuvre… This year BSM (bsm.co.uk) celebrates its 100th birthday, and much has changed on our roads since Stanley Roberts offered the country's first driving lesson in a Spyker which he kept at his mother's garage in Peckham Rye, south London. It was another 24 years before the first compulsory driving test was introduced, in 1934, and within a year deaths on the road had fallen by nearly 1,000 to 7,343. Since then road deaths have been cut by two-thirds despite the fact that the number of cars on our roads has risen 1,400% from 2.4m to 34m. Cars today are clearly safer and easier to drive – and tests harder to pass.Foreign road, familiar carAs the schools wind up and many of us escape the vagaries of the British weather for the guaranteed sunshine of Spain, Portugal and southern France, the old problem of which holiday car to rent raises its head. For years, I've opted for the default setting of the cheapest, most economical vehicle possible. But after driving almost 1,000km in a Fiat Panda last year, I've decided to treat myself to something more rewarding. Glancing at the comprehensive fleet list of Sixt (sixt.co.uk) I begin to dream: maybe I should try something new, like the electric Citroen C1 evie, or maybe I should make the most of the open roads with an open top VW Eos or a top of the range Mercedes-Benz SLK? I see hardscarves, white-rimmed sunglasses, the clink of cocktail glasses… Then, after a few idle moments of fantasy on the Sixt website, I do what everyone else does – go for the Golf!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
The iPod, iPhone and iPad are devices that are small, have brightly coloured screens and respond delightfully when prodded, making them instant hits with toddlers. With the right apps installed, they can be spectacularly useful digital babysitting aids. Here are some games to help keep pre-schoolers temporarily less raucous.Monkey Preschool Lunchbox, 59p (THUP Games)Very polished fruit-orientated learning, introduced by a monkey. There's shape-matching, counting, colours and odd-one-out rounds all neatly designed with plenty for little fingers to stab at.Preschool Animals, 59p (Daniele Perilli)Preschool Animals.See pictures of cheerful cartoon animals, then tap them to hear what they sound like and see photographs of the real thing. Gentle interactivity with all the added fun of calling out animal names and noises.Animals Mix And Match, 59p (Jackson Fish Market)Animals Mix And Match.Mix and match animals' eyes, noses and mouths by sliding the images left or right until your little one assembles a complete animal head. Simply shake the iPod to mix up and start again.Toddler Counting, 59p (iTot Apps)Toddler Counting.A screen full of neatly photographed objects (carrots, shapes, eggs, kittens and many more) appears, which you count by tapping until they've all been replaced by big, friendly numbers. An enthralling instant hit.Fish School HD, £1.19 (Duck Duck Moose)Fish School HD.Probably the iPad's star app for small people, this comes with alphabet, counting, shape recognition, spot the difference, musical scales and playtime, all presented by a shoal of charmingly drawn and animated fish.Animal Number Cards, 59p (NORDPORTMEDIA)Animal Number Cards.The numbers one to 10 represented with lightly animated animal artwork. A lack of interactivity makes it hard for this one to hold attention, and a couple of its animals will be unrecognisable even to grownups.iFarmHD, 59p (Benjamin Spiegel)iFarm HD.Beautiful high-resolution photographs of farm animals on a rustic background, which produce their respective noises when prodded. Features a duck, a cow and other farmyard favourites.Animal Lore And Disorder, £1.79 (Antony Nasce)Based on a long out of print French book, the screen is divided in half so you can mix the top and bottom halves of different animals for up to 200 gently amusing images, names and flowery descriptions.Kid Art for iPad, 59p (GP Apps)Kid Art For iPad.A nice, simple drawing application that lets you paint lines on the screen in a rainbow of colours and add instant stamps around the themes of "school" and "sea".Animal Preschool HD, £1.19 (Beansprites LLC)Animal Preschool HD.With fewer games than Monkey Preschool Lunchbox and slightly inferior artwork and execution, Animal Preschool still has animal-spotting Peekaboo Jungle levels, which go down very well.Baby Tap HD, 59p (42 LLC)BabyTap HD.Touch the screen to see a new coloured shape. Rapid tapping produces a disorientating procession of shapes and staccato sound effects that starts to look like a kids' version of A Clockwork Orange's deprogramming scene.• This article was amended on Saturday 31 July 2010. Our review of Animal Lore and Disorder said that this game was based on a French book. The book was written in English by James Riddell in 1947 and widely translated at the time. An illustration accompanying the review was not taken from Animal Lore but its sequel.
WTF Japan, Seriously!?Japan really is the nation that keeps on giving when it comes to video oddness. Among the many delights that await the visitor here are the opening titles to a children's TV programme called Hirake! Ponkikki which stars a green buck-toothed dinosaur called Gachapin that's apparently based on Paul McCartney. That's sweet … well, sort of. But plenty of the clips here are quite disturbing, such as the terrible magic show starring a fake President Obama; a robotic tumour; an action-movie monster who appears to be a hybrid of Hitler and a starfish; and some bizarre adverts for milk (possibly). Meanwhile, if you think your local swimming pool gets overcrowded, skip tobit.ly/wavepoolfor the ultimate example of cramped conditions.Dear Blank, Please BlankDear Blank, Please Blank.We live in stressful and frustrating times, so it's no wonder we occasionally get the hump with shop assistants and bad drivers, not to mention criminals, celebrities and inconsiderate partners. Instead of raging against the world this site offers a far healthier opportunity to vent your disillusionment. The "blank" in the title is whomever or whatever you choose, "please" the polite way to begin your plea. As well as adding your own letter you can laugh along with and comment on others. "Dear iPhone," writes one correspondent. "Please stop incorrectly correcting my spelling. Sincerely, Annoyed." Others are more personal such as the beautiful note to a thief who stole a bunch of worthless CDs (U2 CDs are worthless aren't they?) from a car, and the mum who won't stop baby-talking to her daughter, who's 35.Blog roll: The 70s70s poster found on So Much Pile Up.So Much Pile UpStamps, print ads and posters from the late-60s through to the early-80s.Space 1970Celebrating the original Battlestar Galactica and other sci-fi films and TV from the 70s.Plaid StallionsHis-and-hers matching waistcoats and other embarrassing discoveries from vintage shopping catalogues.Made In The 70sThe Wheeltappers And Shunters Social Club, Super 8 cameras and the conundrum of The Liver Birds.Dance 70 CountdownSpanish blog filled with downloads from lesser-known names of the disco era.What we learned on the web this weekWhat men will be wearing next summer. Photograph: J Fernandez del Corral/WireImageWhat all menwill be wearing next summerWhat writeryou write likeWhere the iPhonecame fromA hippy kitchenis a happy kitchenLady Gagahas been spotted doing something normalThe exact birthplaceof the internetAbout the boywho met ET on holidayThere's a London mapin 80s-style pixelsWhat caffeine doesto your brainThe correct wayto hear BobEvery Dr Whovillain since 1963Why there are5,280 feet in a mileThe most terrifyinginsects
Multipurpose vehicles are like buses in more ways than their&nbsp;spatial dimensions. You&nbsp;wait all year for one to come along, then two arrive back to back in the space of a week. Last week it was the Peugeot 5008, which I liked and which proved highly convenient with a party of five 10-year olds.This week it's the Ford S-Max Titanium or, to give it its official title, the New S-Max Titanium. The original S-Max was a big critical and commercial success, and was voted European Car of the Year in 2007. But that was so three years ago.For if necessity is the mother of invention, familiarity is the father of&nbsp;innovation. As good as the S-Max may have been, we'd all grown bored by it, faintly sick of the sight of that MPV-looking MPV. What was&nbsp;required was a fresh approach.And lo, here is the New S-Max, with an imperceptibly altered bonnet shape and subtly changed grille, some chrome around the side windows, and other developments not necessarily visible to the human eye. So it's a whole new ball game, a&nbsp;completely different way of seeing, thinking, driving and, indeed, living. Or possibly a slightly updated version of exactly the same car.As it's the S-Max, however, that's no bad thing, because it was a fine car to begin with. It's up there with Ford's other big-hitters. Just as the Focus is a great hatchback and the Mondeo an excellent saloon, so the S-Max was, and is, a very fine MPV.Owing to the car's FoldFlatSystem, you can easily slip the second and third rows of seats into the floor, creating enough storage space to transport a beached whale or your other smaller, more economical car. Alternatively, you can keep the seats up and pack in a sports team, a book group or a collection of civil enforcement officers (sic), who seem to like congregating in minibus-style environments when they're not, for example, persecuting those who've forgotten to display their resident parking permits (so I'm told).The other possibility, and the one I elected to take, along with most MPV owners, was to drive around on my own, trailing a vast theatre of emptiness. With its new Power Shift automatic gear system, it's a smooth, comfortable, safe, responsive drive, everything you would want out of a large family car/removal van. There's also a full-length panoramic roof and a decent trim level of fixtures and furnishings. And I've got a soft spot for the U-shaped handbrake.But I must confess, after a fortnight of driving successive MPVs, I was eager to return to the lilliputian world of a four-seater or, even better, a two-seater. Something with less purpose and more justification.Ford S-Max Titanium 2.0 Duratorq TDCiPrice£24,995Top speed126mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.8 secondsAverage consumption47.1mpgCO2 emissions159g/kmEco rating6/10Bound forUnderuseIn a wordAiry
Make the HTML5 ads go away! Photo bySeeds_of_Peaceon Flickr.Some rights reservedCover your eyes, AdBlock users: the future of the web is here, and it includes adverts.Unless of course you reckon that Adobe's Flash is always going to reign supreme when it comes to creating animated content online, so that the combination of HTML5 and CSS3 will just never become important, or that browsers capable of displaying HTML5/CSS3 content won't become pervasive enough for it to matter.But if you don't... over at sencha.com, you can now - assuming you're using a sufficiently modern browser -take a quiz: see if you can spot which one of the pairs of ads is done in Flash, and which is done in HTML5/CSS3. (We're not hosting them here because (a) that would be rude (b) it would be a huge hassle getting the path to the CSS files right. Off you go and take the quiz.)Obviously, this is quite easy to figure out if you have a Flash blocker installed (or are on a platform that doesn't provide Flash - hello pretty much everyone on mobile), or if you have a browser that's not capable of displaying HTML5. But if you view it on Firefox, Chrome, Safari or Opera, you may find it tough to call.This is encouraging, or scary, depending on your viewpoint: if designers can do things with HTML5/CSS3 that they used to need Flash for, then blocking out the messages (which has been atopic of heated debate from time to time) that help to pay for some ads become much more difficult - because it's all just HTML. (Though perhaps you then start to have "CSS-blocking" parsers which will watch for things such as ":hover" and "-animation-duration" in the CSS file - see for example the content ofhttp://www.sencha.com/deploy/css3-ads/hertz/style.css, used for the Hertz ad recreation.The details, if you're interested, of how to do the recreations are onanother Sencha blogpost. Would-be HTML5 designers, take note.
Samsung is out with the stretchers, running full tilt towards the customer carnage left by antennagate. Yes, if you're a disgruntled iPhoner, Samsung is coming for you.Via Twitter andFacebook, Samsung is giving away (yes, literally giving away) its Galaxy S device, mostly to a "cross section" of customers reporting iPhone reception problems. And so comes the belated response to Apple chief executive Steve Jobs and hispublic dressing down of other devices – including the Samsung Omnia 2 – last week.In a press statement, Samsung says: "Recently there has been a real increase in online activity from consumers dissatisfied with some of our competitors' products."We decided to contact a cross section of individuals to offer them a free Samsung Galaxy S as a replacement, as we're confident that once people have the phone in their hands, they'll see how impressive it is for themselves."Samsung apparently started handing out the Android-powered devices ia Twitter onWednesday.Tiffany Nieuwland, Conde Nast digital marketing staffer, wasamong the first to be offered oneafterbemoaningthe number of dropped calls she gets. Jose Espinosa, director of digital services at Connect Group, was next up for a Galaxy S in the post. And thenDigitalNetwork, a London-based search and digital recruitment company.You get the picture, right? Less a "cross section of customers reporting iPhone reception problems," more of a cherry-picked bunch of digital influencers.Will Critchlow, co-director of web marketing and development companyDistilled, appears to have been the first recipient of the kindly offer. He received his no-strings Samsung phone this morning – with a handwritten courtesy note attached, no less."I asked my followers what phone I should get, a few people got back with various links, one of which I retweeted. It appears that's the one Samsung picked up on," Critchlow told us."We're an office full of geeks here. It's an effective strategy in terms of making me evangelise the phone. But will it make my followers buy one? Who knows. It ultimately comes down to how good the product is."Critchlow, an iPhone 3G owner, said he was relatively impressed with the Galaxy S (and you'd be forgiven for thinking they were the same phone, from the appearance), which is his first hands-on experience of Google's Android software. (It runs the Android 2.1 software.)Samsung kicked off itsiPhone-bashingGalaxy S campaign with the below poster. But how long will it last? Bring on the side-by-side customer reviews, we say.
Want a free case - aka "bumper" - for that iPhone 4? There's an app for that. No, really: Apple has launched the program via an iPhone app (iTunes Store link) about which it says "If you are experiencing  reception issues with your iPhone 4, you are eligible to receive an iPhone 4 Bumper or other selected third-party case from Apple at no charge."Download it and you can apply. Of course, though anyone cantryto (and perhaps succeed) download it, "Only iPhone 4 owners are eligible for this program" because the app will check the phone's IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) number and serial number. If you bought before today (23 July), your request must be in by 22 August; other requests must be in within 30 days of purchase.And, notes Apple, "all iPhone purchases must be made by September 30, 2010, to qualify for this program".It's that final date - plus the news announced by Apple today, at exactly the same time as the free bumper app, that the white iPhone 4 has been delayed yet again which has some people sniffing the air and calling "hardware revision".The white iPhone 4, after all, is (to the untrained eye) no different from the black one, except that it's, er, white. Yet Apple hasn't released any yet, which is perplexing, given that it has been making white-hued products for absolutely ages (remember the iPod?).Apple's statement in full reads: "White models of Apple's new iPhone® 4 have continued to be more challenging to manufacture than we originally expected, and as a result they will not be available until later this year. The availability of the more popular iPhone 4 black models is not affected."Which has led some people to think that this means that inside itsSECRET UNDERGROUND LABORATORY, Apple is preparing a revision of the iPhone 4 with the antenna that has caused so much woe inside the case, or at least covered up.Personally? I think that the reason why we haven't seen white iPhone 4s is because it actually is difficult to make them. Don't forget that the main casing isn't metal or plastic; it's actually ceramic (or "aluminosilicate"). Quite possibly it actuallyisharder to make iPhones using that material in white.But that doesn't answer - and Apple hasn't answered - why the free cases program only goes until September (which happens to be the end of its next financial quarter).The chances that Apple is working on a new revision to the iPhone 4 design that puts something around the antenna? Hard to evaluate. Two things to consider:1) Apple absolutely can do this if it wants to. It's had a few months to redesign this, and perhaps even to test it.2) Steve Jobs reportedly loved having the antenna exposed on the outside, which might mean that the best you would get would be some sort of transparent casing or layer.So our guidance: chances of a redesign in early October are a bit less than half, because of the Steve Jobs factor. He'd hate the idea of a design which means an acknowledgement of bad design. Plus, as John Gruberpointed out, Apple probably rather likes the idea of getting a chunk of the iPhone case business - and hates giving them away. So it might just be that by the time October rolls around, Apple's response to anyone demanding a free iPhone 4 case would be "you know, if you haven't heard about all this 'antennagate' stuff, you should have."
Following our stories earlier this week about phone calls in which people are cold-called with claims that their PC "has a virus", we've been in touch with Pecon Software, the company behind supportonclick.com (presently shut down) and onlinepccare.com, which offer "remote PC" support. Pecon Software is based in Kolkata, an Indian city that has a lot of call centres. Quite separately, a lot of the scam sites that I've been trying to investigate seem to be linked to addresses in Kolkata, though none matching Pecon Software's address or other details.On Monday I spoke at length to Vikas Gupta, who describes himself as the customer relationship manager for Pecon Software. Now he has sent a followup email which I'm reprinting (with the approval of himself and the company's managing director, Mahesh Kumar Shah).On Monday I asked him about Pecon's connection with Supportonclick, which has beenmentioned in a number of online forums as part of complaints about cold calls, which isregistered to Pecon Software, and which was one of19 shut down by the Metropolitan Police e-Crime Unit in April. Here's his response (I've tidied the grammar and spelling very slightly). His response is in blockquotes, my explanation/expansion in standard quote.:"I would like to clarify a few points to you which may help you in your future articles on the same topic.""When you called us, I did not have much information on SupportOnClick. But you took me wrong by mentioning that I denied knowing SupportOnClick. I did mention that I know Support on Click but did not know much of the history behind it."(For clarification, Gupta told me he joined Pecon Software in November 2009. Supportonclick.com was registered in February 2006,)"Today I had a discussion with the senior management where I requested them to tell me something about SupportOnClick. What I came to know was that SupportOnClick was our URL which we used to register customers from the UK &amp; USA."(Gupta's assertion is that Pecon Software would call people and offer them a remote support service, explaining what was involved, but without scare tactics.)"You were correct that SupportOnClick's URL was suspended and the reason was that there were some complains that were reported to the UK-Police against this website.""This was a shocking news for the management as well and we have contested this with the Registrar of the website &amp; UK Police as well. After communicating to the UK –Police for some time, they suddenly stopped answering our mails. We are still in the process of appealing to get the url unblocked. But as we already had a URL named www.onlinepccare.com which was then being used to register Australian Customers only, we started using OnlinePcCare as a single url for registering all new customers. As we had the registered customer database, we had then sent a mail to each and every customer and at the same time tried calling each and every customer to inform that they can still avail [themselves of] the service and are still giving a monthly checkup call to each and every customer that we have registered.""We have plenty of evidence where we can prove that our services have been Helpful and Cost Effective for majority of our customers. But like any other business house, we may have not lived up to the expectations of some customers. As it was a new domain of business for us as well so with every mistake we have learnt and improved our services."Now we come to the question of whether any of the 200-strong team (Gupta's figure, provided on Monday) of telemarketers who were cold-calling people in the UK, US and Australia offering Pecon's services ever introduced themselves as being "from Microsoft" or "Windows support services" or similarly misrepresented their reason for calling, and whether they would ever tell people from the outset that there were problems with their PC, rather than ascertaining if there were.That's the continual complaint on multiple blogs and forums against the galaxy of sites (and, it seems, companies) that are calling people in this way. So, I asked Gupta on Monday, had Pecon Software ever found any of its staff doing this, and if it had, did it take any action? Or was the "something wrong with your machine" line part of the script for every person?"Following the customer concerns, we took the strictest of actions against any tele-marketer who tried to mislead any customer. In many instances we have terminated such employees as well."According to an email seen by the Guardian to Gupta from Mahesh Shah, head of Pecon Software, the company has terminated its contract with "around 30 employees in last two years.""Some of the terminated employees did start a process of their own and we are in no position to check their operation's quality of marketing or services. But this does not mean that we are running a "Scam" or this "Business Model" is all about scamming."It's worth noting that it would be entirely possible for someone toclaimto be from any website (or company) and then direct you to a generic login site for the remote support software, notably LogMeIn, which is a legitimate product with legitimate uses, but which is used by scammers in this case to get access to your machine."We noticed that some of the customers went on to Blog against us. If you notice, you will seldom find any existing customer of Support on Click on these Blogs. The Blogging Community is generally Tech-Savvy and our services does not sound appealing to them. That is why they think that the cost of registration for our services are worthless. This again does not mean that we are Scamming people.""You can also easily make out that their main concern is tele-marketing. You will find that people on blogs complain about the telephone calls that they are receiving in regards to their computer and with a preconceived notion about the subject from the various sources like print media or digital media, they suspect all tele-marketting calls to be fake or scams."I had also pointed out that many of those blogs and forums with complaints about attempted or successful scams using this method were often then invaded by people claiming to have had marvellous experiences - but all written in similarly poor English, unlike the complainants, and with IP addresses indicating the writer was based in India."In reference to your question on India IP address in Blog: As I said, being a technology based Company, Pecon Software Limited would not do such a silly mistake. If you check some of the complaining Blogs are also from Indian IPs."That's not my experience, though if anyone can find an example please put it in the comments."This was surely a strategic move against us from some of the "Mushroom" Companies that came into existence after being terminated from Pecon."Gupta did suggest the names of a couple of sites that he thoughtwereperpetrating this scam, though I can't repeat them for legal reasons just here.I had also asked him where Pecon Software/supportonclick.com/onlinepccare.com got the names of people who were cold-called."In reference to List of People we call: If you remember, I did tell you that we have an SEO team which makes continuous effort to search for prospective clients and divert it to our site and apart from that we have a general tele-marketing approach to people whose names are available on Online Directories but we Remove "Do Not Call" Registered numbers from there. I have noticed that this has been the biggest concern in[comments on] your article and I can understand why.""The wild guesses of people in blogs and the example given in your article where someone gets a call just after they have had some interaction with call centres based in India are baseless and most of the instances that I read in the blogs are mere coincidences. ISPs, Broadband services, Bigger Brands which people think are leaking data are generally associated with BPO's [Business Process Outsourcing] to international standards with all data protection security measures in place. Even a small company like ours takes data protection as a high priority issue. So there is no chance of getting any form of bulk data for tele-marketing from them.""Tele-marketing can be annoying for many but the fact remains that it has been a successful tool of getting prospective clients. But we agree to the fact that it should not be misleading or "Earning by Deceiving" people.""We are also equally worried if innocent people are being targeted by some group of people, and are interested to bring out the truth. This is not only the question of people in the UK or the "English-speaking world", it is also the question of the future of this industry [call centres] which millions of people are depending upon, directly or indirectly. It is also the question of reputation of call centres based in India and the BPO industry as a whole. Reputable companies such asIyogi[remote computer support, registered in 2005, based in Delhi] andQresolve[based in Gurgaon, registered in 2006], doing the same business, with thousands of employees may also get affected by the negativity being created by such articles or online blogs.""We are open for any feedback which may improve operating style and suites our international audience. Your inputs will be very valuable for us."So, what are your inputs, people?
With the international games industry gathered on the south coast for the Develop conference, Tech Weekly cornered legendary game designer Peter Molyneux and locked the developers behind Mass Effect, Monkey Island and the Buzz quiz series – Greg Zeschuk, Tim Schafer and Caspar Field – into a hotel suite together to discuss the future of gaming. Plus, one UK developer reacts to Ed Vaizey's keynote speech on government support for the games business.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
I work in online marketing and it's no secret that I blog, tweet and check in on Foursquare. Social media is largely responsible for some of my closest friendships. I've never felt unsafe participating and generally trust that the community will police itself and follow the unwritten rules. But sometimes  I don't think about the consequences.Then I had a bit of a wake-up call.We had just been seated at a table at a local restaurant when the manager came by and asked if anyone was named Shea Sylvia. I nodded and  she said I had a phone call. At first,  I thought it was some sort of joke.  A friend must have also been there or maybe Aaron was surprising me with something.But when I answered the phone, I didn't recognise the voice on the  other end."Hello?""Hey Shea. This is Brian.""Who?"I racked my brain, trying to figure out who I knew called Brian."I saw that you checked in there on Foursquare, Shea," he said.My heart started to race. I've read articles about burglaries and stalking thanks to geo-location apps, but because I only occasionally link my check-ins with tweets, I thought I was being responsible. Standing at the front desk of a restaurant on the phone with a complete stranger was the absolute last thing I expected from a harmless tweet about meeting friends from the internet and a link to my location."I like to hang out with people from the internet too. Maybe we should hang out sometime. What do you think about that?" Brian asked."OK . . ." I said unconvincingly."Maybe we could ride bikes together.""OK . . ."And then he said, "Is this getting creepy?""Yeah, this is a little creepy," I  replied, looking around the restaurant, hoping I'd spot someone on their phone. No luck."You probably shouldn't be telling people where you are on Foursquare, should you, Shea?" he said.I was trying not to cry at this point. And then I hung up.After I drove home, I called the restaurant and spoke to the manager. I wanted to know how she knew to come to our table to ask for me. She said the guy on the phone described me as having short hair and glasses and I was the only person who fit the bill. I'm wearing my glasses in my Twitter and Foursquare profile pictures, but I don't usually wear them outside of work. I don't think this was someone who knew me well.I haven't been able to stop thinking about what happened. I'm angry. I feel like someone violated an understanding that all of us generally nice people online have – you don't cross the line. I'm also terrified. Who is this person? Who would do something like that?I don't want "Brian" to scare me away from participating in the online communities that I love being a part of. But I will be more careful.This is an extract fromShea Sylvia's blog
I've been spending most of recent gaming time on Xbox Live Arcade. The hugely addictive Deathspank and the charming Limbo are particular favourites. Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light has the potential to be as good as both of these. Out in August, here is the latest gameplay trailer. What do you think? And anyone else playing a lot of XBLA or PSN download games at the moment?
You may well remember the first time you were ever stuck on a game puzzle. For me, it was Scott Adams' vintage graphical adventure, The Hulk, and it involved killer bees; I don't recall much else. This was the age of text-based classics like Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy and The Hobbit, in which the solution often relied on you enteringexactlythe right verb-noun phrase: 'Go North', 'Dig hole', 'Kiss monkey' – ah, the memories. For many veteran gamers, the words "I'm sorry, I can't do that here" still bring about paroxyms of frustration.But as games evolved, puzzles evolved too. Soon they were environmental, requiring the discovery, combination and manipulation of seemingly random objects. From Ultimate's Sabreman series in the ZX Spectrum era to the likes of Uncharted and Assassin's Creed today, we're continually shifting blocks, turning dials, and figuring out how to utilise seemingly random inventory items.Nowadays, however, there are some who think that puzzles are being quietly removed from the game designer's palette. During his keynote at the Develop conference in Brighton earlier this month Tim Schafer, the writer of much-loved LucasArts titles like The Secret of Monkey Island and Full Throttle, related an interesting experience with Microsoft's QA department:"When I started out on Psychonauts I was making a lot of it like an adventure game. There's a level where you have to hang paintings on the wall and they come to life – and that was a big puzzle element. But when Microsoft's useability team were testing it, they said, 'It's great but a lot of people had trouble with the paintings,'. I said, 'what do you mean?' and they replied, 'Well, they didn't know to put them on the hooks... they were confused for a while, but they figured it out in the end.' And I was like, 'That's what we used to call a puzzle!' You wouldn't know what to do, then you'd think about it, then youwouldknow what to do. That's completely illegal nowadays..."I'm not sure if I'd agree that puzzles have been outlawed, but today's block shifting and physics-based item-balancing conundrums are never quite as head-scratching as the fiendish lateral-thinking tests of yore. It's also been a while since I've encountered anything like the surreal moment in Monkey Island when Guybrush Threepwood escapes a watery grave by picking up the heavy weight that's been tied to his leg and simply walking out of the deep pool he's been thrown into. And I'll never forget the puzzle in Resident Evil that requires Jill Valentine to play Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata on a grand piano – such an exquisite and innovative collision of hokey horror, gothic romance and beautiful music.But, anyway, which have beenyourfavourite, or at least most memorable, puzzle moments? They can be from any genre and any age, but if you're referencing a current title, it might be best to avoid giving away the solution. Puzzles drive us mad at times, but never quite as mad as when some know-it-all leans over our screen and offers an uninvited, "I've done this, you just need to give the noodles to the meerkat"...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Louise has straight, auburn hair and, judging by the only photograph I have of her, she's in her 30s. She works in recruitment. I also know which train station she uses regularly, what supermarket she shopped at last night and where she met her friends for a meal in her home town last week. At this moment, she is somewhere inside the pub in front of me meeting with colleagues after work.Louise is a complete stranger. Until 10 minutes ago when I discovered she was located within a mile of me, I didn't even know of her existence. But equipped only with a smartphone and an increasingly popular social networking application called Foursquare, I have located her to within just a few square metres, accessed her Twitter account and conducted multiple cross-referenced Google searches using the personal details I have already managed to  accrue about her from her online presence. In the short time it has taken me to walk to this pub in central London, I probably know more about her than if I'd spent an hour talking to her face-to-face. She doesn't know it yet, but Louise is about to meet her new digital stalker.Foursquare is the latest social  networking tool to generate online buzz. The story has become very  familiar in recent years: a bright young thing develops an internet app that connects people and allows them instantly to communicate with each other; within months, a million or more people around the planet are using it; investors queue up expressing an interest and speculation begins about how much Google, Yahoo!, Apple or Microsoft is willing to throw down to snap it up. (To date, the speculative figure in the media has reached $100m.)Twitter, Facebook, MySpace and Bebo have all come before it, but Foursquare promises something new. After a decade of false dawns for the industry, it leads the way in a wave of new "geolocative" social networking tools. Unofficially, at least, 2010 has been labelled by many within the technology world as the "year of location". In addition to offering the communal connectivity of Twitter and Facebook, Foursquare also uses your smartphone's global positioning system (GPS) to broadcast your precise location to your "friends" and, should you so wish, to the wider world. Users are encouraged to "check in" on their phone whenever they arrive at a point of interest – a shop, a cafe, a museum, a nightclub, an office – so that fellow users know where they are. A great way supposedly to see if any of your friends are around and about. Glance down at your phone and – as I did with Louise – see the names of all the other users around you within a mile or so and, crucially, exactly where they are and which fellow users they are with. (I was drawn to Louise because she was in a cluster of Foursquare users – albeit still rare, even somewhere such as London – and she was the user allowing a stranger such as myself access to the most personal information – photograph, full name, Twitter feed etc.) Visit somewhere a lot and you can even vie with other users to become its virtual "mayor". If you feel so inclined, you can also leave a tip or review in the digital ether – "hey, order the bacon burger, it's great!" – so others following can benefit from your experience.Foursquare is now being widely touted as the app which will, after years of anticipation and prediction, mark the beginning of "life as a game" computing. Whatever you do,  wherever you go, you will be scoring points, earning "medals", and be in, at the very least, social competition with other users around you. What the  ultimate prize is, no one is yet quite sure, but some companies have been quick to realise the potential of this technology with Starbucks, Debenhams and others offering loyal customers who frequently check in to their stores rewards such as a free cup of coffee. Imagine a supermarket loyalty reward card synced with Twitter,  Amazon reviews and GPS technology and you have some idea of Foursquare's potency.But with such power comes responsibility and there are growing concerns that Foursquare is proving to be a "stalker's dream". Sure, you might earn yourself a "free" decaf latte when you check in five times at a coffee shop, but at what price to your privacy? Last month, a coding expert called Jesper Andersenmanaged to capture the details of 875,000 check-ins in San Francisco– currently, the global hotspot of Foursquare use – over a three-week period after noticing a privacy glitch in the "who was here" function which allowed him to monitor who had been checking-in to any location, regardless of the users' privacy settings."I'm trying to be white-hat [computing slang for a 'good guy']," Andersen toldWired.com. "It definitely felt icky at times." He had asked users he knew to confirm his findings. "Some were grossed out by it, and a couple of  people stopped using Foursquare. One had a stalker and got creeped out by it."Privacy advocates fear that Foursquare, along with other geolocation apps such as Gowalla and Google  Latitude, are vulnerable to "data scraping", namely, the sophisticated trawling and monitoring of user activity in an effort to build a rich database of personal information. The big worry, say critics, is who might get to make use of this information. Pick your paranoia. Someone with criminal intent, such as a burglar, identity thief or stalker? Governments, the security services or police? Terrorists? Or a corporation looking to target its products at you with incredible precision? Compounding the threat is that "friends" are much more readily accumulated in the  online world of social networking  compared to who we might choose to  accept as friends in our "real life".  Accept a friend request in Foursquare without due care and you are potentially opening up your personal diary to a complete stranger.Jason Stamper, editor of Computer Business Review, has criticised Foursquare for what he says is its lax attitude to privacy protection, describing the potential risks as "terrifying". Stamper's principal criticism is that Foursquare's default position on privacy is that users must "opt-out" if they don't want any of their location-based details broadcast to friends and the wider world. Of course, Foursquare would be rendered virtually useless as a tool if a user did this so there is typically always some form of data exposure occurring when someone uses Foursquare. As has been repeatedly shown before with Facebook, the risks will often boil down to whether you  really know who your "friends" are."Many of these companies, such as Foursquare, are only paying lip service to privacy concerns," says Stamper. "Their motivation is growth. They need a critical mass of users to make their service more useful so they have to leave their doors open as much as possible."Privacy seems to be very low down their priorities. In theory, if every user knows the risks, this is fine. But they just don't. It's being targeted at  18 to 25-year-olds. Facebook was forced in the end to change its default privacy settings due to public concerns. Foursquare should do the same. Some people are even checking in when they're at home. Think of the implications.  It's crazy."The potential for someone to "layer" data about you is also a key concern, says Stamper. "Someone using Foursquare can accumulate a very detailed map of your habits when added to what they already know about you via Facebook, Twitter etc.Simon Davies, the director of  Privacy International, a London-based "watchdog on surveillance and privacy invasions by governments and corporations", shares similar fears about the direction this technology is taking society. "It's very difficult to extract yourself from it all once you're in.  And crossing the line into live feeds of locative information is a deeply  worrying step forward. Technologically, it's not a huge step, but, socially, it is huge. The big moral questions are being left to the app developers to  answer at the moment. This is irresponsible. Users are being socially  engineered into allowing this level of privacy invasion through the over-hyping of the benefits."Holding the smartphone in my palm with a full-screen picture of Louise on display, I enter. Inside, a football match is showing on various screens, pints of ale and chilled lager are being pulled, and huddles of friends are bent over tables laughing and in conversation. But after several sweeps of the pub I can see no sign of Louise, or anyone even vaguely matching her picture. So I check her Twitter feed again and see she's just tweeted that she's at a recruitment networking event. I ask at the bar if there's a function room."Yes, downstairs."Besides the gents, a glass-panelled door reveals a private room heaving with people in tight groups clutching glasses of wine. On a wall behind them, a large projector screen is displaying a "Twitterwall", a way of showing to an audience a feed of any particular Twitter hashtag, in this case, the name of the networking event. So I go back up to the bar, set up a Twitter account under a pseudonym on my phone, and – not wishing to freak Louise out – send a public message using the event's hashtag to the Twitterwall that I wish to talk to any of the Foursquare users I can see on my phone who are currently in the pub. A five-minute wait and a further tweet later, Louise – sensibly accompanied by a male colleague – walks up to the bar area where I'm waiting and asks if I'm the person trying to make contact. It's probably with a sense of relief that she discovers that I'm "only" a journalist investigating Foursquare.So why does she use it? "My job in recruitment means that I try to stay at the forefront of technologies such as Twitter and Facebook," she says.  "I'm just messing about with it really. To be honest, I couldn't see at first the obvious uses of Foursquare."I then tell her the sort of information I have already managed to deduce about her life simply by using my phone. I show her that I have her own photo on my phone. She admits it's a "little unnerving, to say the least"."I thought I was being very careful with what I was posting," she says. "I never thought I was revealing personal information. I only use my maiden name when using social networking apps. And I never check in when at my kids' school or at home. But, as you've shown, I can't see who's following me on Twitter. If I was going out for an evening with my girlfriends again, I don't think I would now share it with the world via Foursquare." (Louise's setting on Foursquare automatically tweets her location whenever she checks into a location, which was how I could tell via her Twitter feed, without being her Foursquare "friend", where she had been in recent days in such detail.)Will she continue to use Foursquare, or at least tighten up her privacy  settings? "It's just early adopters at the moment, but I can see it having excellent uses for business, particularly in my line of work. Recruitment is a form of stalking, I suppose. But I can now see the negative implications of Foursquare in the real world."Checking in at home is really  stupid. But people can still give away clues via Twitter, as I've obviously been doing. I suppose the benefit of checking in is to create a relationship, or say to people that you've gone somewhere interesting. It's all part of social competitiveness, I suppose. It has become a habit for so many of us."Since Andersen exposed Foursquare's privacy lapses so  effectively last month, the company has made some  minor alterations to how user check-in information is revealed to the public. (In March, Foursquare set up its "celebrity mode" with MTV and VH1 so that users could  follow celebrity users, albeit with  limited, controlled information about their location.) But a user's location can still be automatically broadcast via their Twitter feed. Critics point out that a warning of the risks should be prominently displayed to users when they set up their accounts, and they are asked if they wish to link with their Twitter and Facebook accounts."We're continually looking for ways to improve the sharing options that we provide," responds a Foursquare spokeswoman. "For example, we recently updated our user-settings page to create more opt-out options related to sharing user data. We are working on a number of additional changes to give users more sharing options and further clarify the implications of sharing information via Foursquare. We encourage all of our users to check their privacy settings regularly to ensure that they're comfortable with the amount of information that they're sharing."The spokeswoman adds: "The  majority of our sharing settings are opt-in – users need to actively accept friend requests to be directly connected with others, and users also need to opt into broadcasting their check-ins to their Facebook and Twitter accounts at each check-in,  assuming they've decided to link their Facebook and Twitter accounts to their Foursquare account."Ten days ago Foursquare reached the two-million-users landmark, just three months after it had reached the one-million mark. A week earlier, the company received $20m in venture capital from a who's who of Silicon Valley luminaries. It appears the trajectory for Foursquare is only upwards. But as the critical mass of Foursquare users swells and intensifies over the coming months and years, the concerns over privacy are likely to magnify. In June, Webroot, a Denver-based internet security firm, surveyed 1,645 users of "geo-location-ready mobile devices", including 624 in the UK: 29% said they shared their location with people other than their friends; 31% said they accepted a friend request from a stranger; and, yet, 55% still said they were  worried about their loss of privacy."The issue with location-based information is that it exposes another layer of personal information that, frankly, we haven't had to think much about: our exact physical location at anytime, anywhere," explained the creators of PleaseRobMe.com, a website set up to expose how vulnerable Twitter users can be when displaying location-based messages, earlier this year. "If you're comfortable being a human homing beacon, that's fine, we just want you to be fully aware of what that means and the potential risks it might involve."
Mini-Microsoft is probably not in this car. Photo byOkko Pyykköon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft FY10Q4 Results &gt;&gt; Mini-MicrosoftAlways worth seeing these results through the eyes of a Microsoft manager who takes a quizzical look at where his company's going. And the comments are usually worth mining too.AOL Mobile Goes HTML5, Picks Android Over iPhone for New App &gt;&gt; Gigaom"I asked David Temkin, the new VP of Mobile for AOL, why the company chose Android over the iPhone. His reply: 'Momentum is the key reason.'"Apple the new world leader in software insecurity.. depending how you define security &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Though this does not necessarily mean that Apple's software is the most insecure in practice—the report takes no consideration of the severity of the flaws—it points at a growing trend in the world of security flaws: the role of third-party software."In other news, having cancer and having an ingrown toenail to be judged equivalent in "illness register".Facebook Creator Mark Zuckerberg to Get Yellow on The Simpsons &gt;&gt; VultureYou know what? We were going to show you how it would look by taking a picture of Zuckerberg and uploading it to Simpsonize Me. But it's broken. Damn.Facebook losing key demographic of 18-35 year-olds &gt;&gt; IndustryPaceWhich could either mean that it's tapped them out, or that they really are leaving.Sorry, Microsofties, Blaming Steve Ballmer For Your Crappy Stock Price Is Ludicrous &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget - he used to tip stocks, you know: "If Microsoft employees want to blame Steve Ballmer for Microsoft's fundamental business performance over the past decade, that's one thing. Thinking that he has done a fine job with the business but holding him responsible for the crappy stock performance, however, is absurd."Clapham is a hole, and other curiosities of the London Underground &gt;&gt; PeteSearchInvestigating how close people are to London Underground stations via OpenHeatMap. Though really what you want is to have railway stations *and* tube stations to find the really distant places.Motorola sues Huawei over base-station trade secret theft &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"Motorola is suing Huawei for allegedly misappropriating trade secrets, according to an amended complaint filed in a US district court on 16 July.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;According to Motorola's original complaint, five of its former employees had been passing on trade secrets to a wireless technology competitor called Lemko, itself set up by people who had been working for Motorola at the time. The trade secrets in question covered technologies such as GSM, UMTS, WiMax and push-to-talk. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;However, inthe amended complaint, Motorola said it had learned that the defendants had been secretly working for the Chinese manufacturer Huawei, a major competitor to Motorola."Celebrated authors bypass publishing houses to sell ebooks via Amazon &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"The authors [Philip Roth, Salman Rushdie, Martin Amis and more] all share Wylie as their agent, and the move makes good on his threat last month that, dissatisfied with the terms publishers have been offering for ebooks, he would remove them from the equation."Great if you're a "celebrated author". Tougher if you aren't.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
We read about Martha Lane Fox's ambition that everyone should use the internet (Media,19 July). Then we get an email fromMicrosoftoffering us a software product online. Great – until you look at the price. In UK it's £240.01p; the price in the US for the same download £182.97p; the European price, same download, £278.23p (ouch) and in Mozambique £169.88p. Now surely in global markets, where the material is electronically downloaded, the price should be the same? No wonder that the world remains in the economic crisis when some people continue to exploit the ignorance of those of us working hard to stay financially afloat. If governments are going to do anything to help people get back on their feet, so they can pay taxes and do not have to claim welfare benefits, they have to deal with the financial power of large corporations.David Harding-PriceCo-founder and charity secretary,MattDotCom
(Capcom, DS, winter 2010)Sissel is an amnesiac ghost who has the power to turn up at murder scenes and rewind time by four minutes in order to save the victims. Out of this curious high concept, Shu Takumi, the original creator of the Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney series, has crafted an intriguing puzzler, with super stylised anime visuals and an interesting interface that involves possessing inanimate objects. As the trailer intro points out, the game was highly regarded at E3 this year.Let us know what you think!
You may not have heard of the .LNK vulnerability, but there is already code in the wild which is able to exploit it. And while it waas previously limited to USB sticks - because it targeted a previously unknown weakness in how Windows handles shortcut files - it is now spreading more widely, because it can be carried out via network shares and WebDAV (the file-synchronisation system).It uses a rootkit-style method to hide itself, with drivers that appear to be digitally signed by a real software company, Realtek Semoconductor. Apparently there have been "numerous incidents" of Trojan programs installed by the malware.The really worrying thing: even if you have a fully patched version of Windows 7, your machine is still vulnerable if you view a folder with an infected file on a USB stick using Windows Explorer; the malware can auto-execute. And the weakness exists on every version of Windows back to Windows 2000.So especially if you regularly get USB sticks connecting to your network or machien, it's as well to be cautious, until Microsoft has a patch. Microsoft haswritten about the vulnerability itself.In the meantime, the Internet Storm Center points to Microsoft's workarounds for the issue, which include:&bull; Disable the displaying of icons for shortcuts. This involves deleting a value from the registry, and is not the easiest thing to do in some enterprise settings. Group Policy-friendly options include the use ofRegistry Client-Side Extensions, theregini.exe utilityand the creation of a custom .adm file: seeDistributing Registry Changesfor details.&bull; Disable the WebClient service. This will break WebDAV and any services that depend on it.Another approach to mitigate the possible LNK attack involves theuse of Didier Stevens' tool Ariad. Note that the tool is beta-software operating in the OS kernel, so it's probably not a good match for enterprise-wide roll-out.Additional recommendations for making the environment resilient to an attack that exploits the LNK vulnerability include:&bull; Disable auto-run of USB key contents. This would address one of the exploit vectors. For instructions, see MicrosoftKB967715.&bull; Lock down SMB shares in the enterprise, limiting who has the ability to write to the shares.And of course turn Windows Update on, so that your system can be updated when Microsoft has a patch ready.
Critical infrastructure including power grids and manufacturing plants is at risk from a newly discovered flaw in Microsoft Windows that researchers warn has already been exploited by hackers.Experts who monitor the stability of the internet and the risks of its breakdown considered raising the "threat level" from green to yellow – the second of four levels.The flaw affects all versions of Microsoft Windows from Windows 7 back to Windows 2000, and can affect someone who simply opens a folder which contains an "infected" file with a .LNK extension.The vulnerability could pose a serious threat to a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer systems which rely on Windows, including those used by the military.Microsoft has not yet developed a software fix for the weakness, and has not given a timetable for its delivery."Early versions of the malware have been programmed to seek out SCADA software (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) by Siemens Corporation, which is used in managing industrial infrastructures, such as power grids and manufacturing plants," notes the online security company Sophos."The threat from the exploit is high as all a user has to do is open a device or folder – without clicking any icons – and the exploit will automatically run," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos. "With an additional variant of the malware already on the loose, the potential for this exploit to become more widespread is growing rapidly."Writing at the Internet Storm Center (ISC), which monitors the levels of malicious traffic and the likelihood of disrupted connectivity online,Lenny Zeltser noted: "Although we have not observed the vulnerability exploitedbeyond the original targeted attacks, we believe wide-scale exploitation is only a matter of time. The proof-of-concept exploit is publicly available, and the issue is not easy to fix until Microsoft issues a patch. Furthermore, anti-virus tools' ability to detect generic versions of the exploit have not been very effective so far."However, Zeltser thinks that many organisations using Windows are vulnerable. "[One] challenge is that Windows 2000 and Windows XP Service Pack 2 are vulnerable, yet Microsoft no longer provides security patches for these OSes. As the result, we believe most environments will be exposed until Microsoft releases a patch."Microsoft is due to announce its quarterly financial results on Thursday night. The majority of its profits and revenues are expected to come from sales of its Windows operating system, which dominates in the business and consumer PC markets.
Ofcom's draft code to cut down on illicit filesharing is flawed and should be torn up and redrafted, according to the Open Rights Group (ORG), an advocacy organisation pushing for more freedom on the internet.The ORG said that the draft code "misses vital requirements to outline the standards of evidence" in determining whether to take action against alleged filesharers – and that this means it fails to comply with the Digital Economy Act, passed at the tail end of the Labour administration, which puts an onus on Ofcom to reduce the amount of illicit filesharing in the UK.That would mean that people might receive court summons based on evidence subpoenaed from internet service providers in which the standards of evidence of identity and action would not meet those for other offences. A persistent criticism of plans to allow copyright holders to bring people to court over allegations of illicit filesharing is the problem of creating a "chain of evidence" linking them to the offence. In the US, the music industry has been embarrassed in a number of cases where it has sued grandmothers and children, accusing them of filesharing. In the UK,lawyers acting for the Ministry of Sound have recently been sending out lettersdemanding payment for alleged online piracy – to the puzzlement and anger of a substantial number of recipientsOfcom's consultationcloses on Friday 30 July.The draft "initial obligations code" governs the way that copyright owners send accusations of copyright infringement to internet users under the Digital Economy Act. In some cases, this will lead to individuals being taken to court – although the act itself is hazy about the details, for which the responsibility has been pushed onto Ofcom and to some extent the secretary of state for trade and industry – presently, Vince Cable.Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: "Ofcom's proposal denies us the ability to check whether any of the evidence is trustworthy. Instead, copyright holders and internet service providers will just self-certify that everything's OK. If they get it wrong, there's no penalty."Killock notes that the draft initial obligations code does not specify how evidence of infringement of copyright should be obtained, and does not make provisions specifying the standard of evidence that must be included.Section 3.5 to 3.7 of the draft initial obligations code outlines, in relation to evidence gathering, what it calls a "quality assurance process", but this process does not specify the means of obtaining evidence or the standard of evidence included, only that the copyright owner will have to follow the process outline in their quality assurance report which is to be submitted to Ofcom. The DEA does not require such a quality assurance system."The act requires the evidential standards to be defined," Killock said. "But Ofcom has passed the buck. How is anyone meant to trust this code if we can't see how the evidence is gathered or checked? Only this week, people have been apparently wrongly sent accusations of downloading tracks by the Ministry of Sound. We know things go wrong, and that's why the act requires the evidential standards to be set out."He concluded: "What we need now is a new consultation on a new code, that is compliant with the act."
There are sections of the Gamesblog readership that I know will swoon with happiness at this news. Tactics Ogre: Let Us Cling Together, the classic tactical RPG originally released on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995, is coming to the Sony PSP. An updated version of the game, complete with reworked visuals, soundtrack and game systems, has been developed by members of the original dev team, including director Hiroshi Minagawa.Tactics Ogre, which like all tactical RPGs features intense and complex turn-based battles fought across an isometric landscape, was a key title in this hardcore sub-genre, earning plaudits beside the likes of Final Fantasy Tactics and Konami's Vandal Hearts (the latest instalment of which turned up on XBLA and PSN earlier this year).The game has never secured official PAL release (UPDATE:though as Lazybones rightly points out in the comments section below, the game's predecessor and its N64 sequel are available on Wii's Virtual Console). Until now, European gamers have had to rely on imports, mostly of the re-packaged US Ogre compilations – this despite the fact that Tactics Ogre is an absolute legend in Japan. As Square's press release modestly points out, the title appeared in the Japanese gaming magazine Weekly Famitsu's 'Top 20 games voted by readers' for 14 years running.There's no word on a release date yet, but hopefully this will kick off a tactical RPG landrush, with Sega's Shining Force III and Sony's Arc the Lad II following close behind. Any other favourites you'd like to see re-born?
Profits at Nokia have plunged over the last three months as the company continues to struggle against rivals such as Apple and RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, in the smartphone market.The Finnish handset maker reported today that profits fell 40% in the second quarter of 2010 compared with a year ago. Underlying profits were down 27%.Although net sales were 1% higher at just over €10bn (£8.4bn), the profitability of its handset and service division slipped as the company cut the prices of its higher-end phones to make them more attractive to consumers.Nokia's failure to compete better against Apple's iPhone and the growing number of handsets running Google's Android platform has put chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo in the firing line.The company is reportedly looking for a replacement, with analysts warning that Nokia needs to get its hands on a "European Steve Jobs" if it is to regain its dominant position in the mobile market.Kallasvuo called for an end to speculation over his future, telling the US television station CNBC that it is damaging the company. "There has been a lot of speculation on my position, on myself, during the last couple of weeks and that is not good for Nokia and must be brought to an end one way or another," Kallasvuo said. "At the same time, I'm not in a position here and now to really shed any more light on the topic so I guess this is a no comment. I really concentrate now on the task at hand."Kallasvuo also insisted today that Nokia, which makes roughly four out of every 10 phones sold worldwide, had reasons to be optimistic, although the company is only aiming to maintain its share of the mobile device market this year. "The global handset market has continued to grow at a healthy pace, led by some of the less mature markets where Nokia is strong," he said.Kallasvuo added that solid sales of cheaper phones to developing markets had boosted the overall performance of Nokia's handset business.The average selling price of a Nokia handset dropped to €61 (£52), from €62 in the previous quarter. For smartphones, average prices fell 8% quarter-on-quarter to €143, and are down 21% over the last year.Today's figures suggest that Nokia is having to cut smartphone prices to maintain market share at the expense of profitability. Its smartphone shipments were up by 12% quarter-on-quarter at 24m units, in line with Nokia's estimate for the overall growth of the market.The company is now pinning its fortunes on the new Nokia N8 smartphone,although its release has already been delayed until later in the year.Nokia also maintained its prediction that the global handset market volume would grow by 10% this year.Earlier this week,Apple reported its best ever quarter, partly due to strong demand for the iPhone.
Mark Zuckerberg survived last night's ABC News interview relatively unscathed. He talked about the lawsuit with Paul Ceglia, an IPO, the Facebook film and that 500 million active user milestone. But he gave very little away.Facebook will IPO "when it makes sense", Zuckerberg told ABC News veteran reporter Diane Sawyer, skirting any real indication of when that 'sense' might hit. Next year is generally agreed to be the target date; the Wall Street Journal reported back in March that investors anticipate a 2011 IPO valued at $35bn to $40bn.Reutershas reported that the site made $800m in revenue last year, and "tens of millions" in profit.By some estimates, that's a fairly modest valuation. Sawyer's report mentioned $84bn - such is the value of access to 34.8% of the world's online population."When it makes sense, right. I mean, what we're most focused on is just building these tools that help people stay connected with the people that they care about."At some point along that path I think it will make sense to have an IPObut we're not running the company to do that - we're running the company to serve more people."• "We are quite sure we did not sign a contract that says he has any right of ownership over Facebook," he says of theongoing lawsuitwith Paul Ceglia.• How does he feel about the size of the site now? "It's pretty surreal..." Will Facebook make a billion? "Who knows if we'll get there."• The most interesting part was when Sawyer pushed him, albeit gently, on how he felt about the Facebook movie,The Social Network. Zuckerberg was about as personally open as I've seen him, and there was something quite touching about him  saying he was "19 - only a kid" when he started the site. So does the film bother him?"It's interesting, but it's fiction... A lot of these things are distractions but people get remembered for what they build, right? People don't care about what people say about you in a movie... I don't read a lot of the books about us, I don't read a lot of the press about us. I'm probably not going to see the movie either."Mark, are you there?No?Oh.
Dozens of video game news sites have picked up onthis blog postwritten by Rahul Sood, the co-founder of Voodoo PC and CTO of HP's gaming business. He claims that Microsoft ditched a project to allow competitive online gaming between the PC and Xbox 360, because console owners couldn't compete:"There was a project that got killed at Microsoft. This project was designed to allow console gamers and PC gamers to interact and battle over a connected environment. Personally I wish it would have stayed the course. I've heard from reliable sources that during the development they brought together the best console gamers to play mediocre PC gamers at the same game... and guess what happened? They pitted console gamers with their "console" controller, against PC gamers with their keyboard and mouse."The console players got destroyed every time. So much so that it would be embarrassing to the XBOX team in general had Microsoft launched this initiative."Of course, what he seems to be saying is simply that the imbalance is in the control interface – the mouse/keyboard combo allows for much more precise aiming and faster orientation than a joypad. You can possibly also add in the fact that unscrupulous PC gamers are able to install aimbots: cheat programs that effectively do all the targetteting (and often even the firing) for them.But predictably, tech sites have sold the story as a judgement about theabilityof console gamers. "Rumour: Microsoft killed X-platform play because console gamers suck," suggested the headline on Tech Radar, before someone on the site got cold feet and changed it to the less contentious "HP man slams Microsoft for PC gaming fail". Gizmodo took the more cautious route of askinga provocative question: "Were PC Gamers Too Good For Microsoft's Cross-Platform Gaming Project?" This allows the site to lurk behind the mantle of objectivity while still stoking the fires of cross-platform gaming war.Anyway, the comments thread beneath Sood's text mentionsShadowrun, the cross-platform FPS developed by the now defunct FASA Studio. This could have provided an interesting testcase for the technology, but was a poor implementation of a classic cyberpunk license, and sold barely 15,000 copies on PC.So, even in this age of rampant cross-platform fertilisation, are PC and console shooter fans doomed never to meet? Let's not indulge in the flame war – let's look for a peaceful and constructive resolution...[Ducks under desk]
On Tuesday, we asked 'what's up with the Twitter glitches', fearing the site could be about to sink back to the dark, fail whaley days of June. But last night, the site announced it will be opening its own data centre this autumn, following on from hints about 'long-term solutions' and a mention at a conference by an engineer in April."The short story is that we've been working hard to deal with Twitter's performance issues, investing in long-term solutions to the challenges we face from our ongoing growth in users + activity," Twitter's spokesman Matt Graves told us. "One of the things announced today was that we're opening our own data center later this year. This is something we've been quietly working on for months, well before the World Cup-related burst in traffic, and it's an example of the kind of long-term solutions we're working to implement."Photo byRosaura Ochoaon Flickr.Some rights reservedTwitter'sengineering blogposted a detailed explanation of the technical problems and what they've been doing to fix them, along with another charming analogy of what it's like maintaining Twitter: "We frequently compare the tasks of scaling, maintaining, and tweaking Twitter to building a rocket in mid-flight.""On Monday, our users database, where we store millions of user records, got hung up running a long-running query; as a result, most of the table became locked. The locked users table manifested itself in many ways: users were unable to sign-up, sign in, update their profile or background images, and responses from the API were malformed, rendering the response unusable to many of the API clients. In the end, this affected most of the Twitter ecosystem: our mobile, desktop, and web-based clients, the Twitter support and help system, and Twitter.com."Sorting that out basically took a while. But longer term, a new data centre near Salt Lake City will give Twitter more control over the systems that allow 300,000 new signups every day, give room for growth and activity. "Importantly, having our own data center will give us the flexibility to more quickly make adjustments as our infrastructure needs change," says Twitter'sengineering blog.Like Facebook's 500 million user milestone, opening your own data centre is an important landmark for web companies who need to move beyond the cheap, convenient and flexible cloud-based services to something more bespoke and , in the case of Twitter, more speed. Facebookannounced its ownin January this year.
You want to know which countries Facebook has made the greatest inroads into? Happy to help.Withdata from Nick Burcher, plus some data about the world population (thanks, Wikipedia), plus a little bit of SQL, plus OpenHeatMap, we've got an interactive map you can play with to see where Facebook is all-conquering - specifically, which countries it has the largest (and sometimes smallest) number of the population signed up for, inhitting its 500 million user mark.So here's the map. (Note: can be slow to load.)And below is the data, as a handy table - country, Facebook users, population, and percentage penetration.If you have more data about countries that aren't on this list then please add them in the comments.Download the data•DATA: download the full spreadsheet, including ISO country codesWorld government data•Search the world's government with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr groupor mail us atdatastore@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on TwitterData summaryFacebook penetration by countrycountryFacebook users (July 2010)populationPercentage penetrationHong Kong3408240702640048.51Canada154979003407700045.48United Kingdom265436006204170842.78United States12588122030911400040.72Chile69445401706300040.7Sweden3798020934905940.62Australia90096602223400040.52Israel3006460753190039.92Ireland1597000445930035.81Belgium35059201082751932.38Turkey225525407256131231.08Taiwan67451602313109329.16France189422206544737428.94Bahrain22648079100028.63Slovenia582000205671028.3Qatar396860140900028.17Italy166472606032580527.6Slovakia1481000542492527.3Croatia1192160443505626.88Argentina105420404013442526.27Malaysia73175202830670025.85Greece28387001130618325.11Austria2084840837293024.9Venezuela66863002874900023.26Spain106100804603010923.05Lebanon962440422400022.78Colombia102268204540700022.52Serbia2064220985000020.96Kuwait518540298500017.37Estonia227420134002116.97Philippines146003009222660015.83Tunisia15947001043250015.29Jordan923400631600014.62Hungary14558401001362814.54Germany99497608175760012.17Mexico1297844010755069712.07Indonesia2591296023136950011.2Poland2772540381638957.26Romania1555360214661747.25Thailand4216760635250626.64South Africa2884080493205005.85Morocco1849740317870005.82Oman15744028450005.53Egypt3581460781580004.58Algeria928100348950002.66Brazil47572001928160002.47Libya15624064200002.43Palestine8424037616462.24Vietnam1019120857895731.19Nigeria16161201547290001.04Japan11922201273800000.94Ukraine425680459629000.93Mauritania2960032910000.9India1054724011798710000.89Iraq225600307470000.73Bangladesh8545201622210000.53Uganda168720327100000.52Rwanda4434099980000.44Somalia091330000Sudan0391544900Syria0219060000source: Nick Burcher, Facebook, WikipediaDownload the data
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
AOL has struck a deal with ITN to receive hundreds of hours of news, entertainment and lifestyle clips in the latest stage of its reinvention as a content-rich portal.The deal, which comes a month after AOLpledged it would be the "largest net hirer of journalists in the world", will see hundreds of video news clips provided to AOL each week.AOL UK,which recently hired Marie Claire's online editor Carla Bevan as editor-in-chief, will sift the packages of clips to decide which ones to launch each day.ITN, which won the content deal after a competitive pitch run by AOL, will provide news covering UK, world, showbiz, money and sports as well as entertainment and lifestyle content spanning video gaming, music, TV, movies and fashion.ITN's clips, which play back within the page, run from 60 seconds to six minutes."By bolstering video across the AOL UK platform we are offering advertisers even more opportunities to reach our engaged audiences as we programme the most compelling multimedia experiences across our rich, topical and trusted content," said the head of AOL Europe, Kate Burns.AOL broke away from its parent group, Time Warner, in December last year.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Post for you. Photo byjenny downingon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFile-sharers: Expect a mountain of mail &gt;&gt; Rory Cellan-Jones's BBC blog"Apparently last year alone the industry trade body the British Phonographic Institute (BPI) sent evidence it had gathered of more than a million cases of music copyright infringement to ISPs - with no result, it adds."Live Mesh starts to say goodbye &gt;&gt; LiveSide.net"Live Mesh is being replaced in Windows Live 2011 (Wave 4), by Live Sync.  We've been following Live Mesh, which was developed by a team headed by Ray Ozzie since well before it went public, and been using it since day one, so it's a little touching to see it go."&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;Why the hell is the name being changed?Dell warns of malware on motherboards &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"Dell has published a warning on its support forum that some of its server motherboards are infected with Windows malware. The admission,posted in responseto a customer who wished to confirm that a telephone call he had received from a Dell representative was genuine, confirmed that "a small number of PowerEdge server motherboards" may contain spyware in its embedded server management firmware."&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;Only a problem if you go to the server's web pages with a Windows machine, though. Ho hum.How a 15-yo Kid Tricked Apple With a Disguised iPhone Tethering App &gt;&gt; GizmodoEqually interesting point: shouldn't Apple be contacting any 15yo who can write a tethering app and seeing whether they want, you know, a job?Delayed BT Brownfield 100Mb FTTP ISP Pilots Begin and Promptly Get Extended &gt;&gt; ISPreview UK"BT Openreach, which is responsible for ensuring that all rival UK communication providers have equality of access to BT's local network, has finally started its official Brownfield pilots of 100Mbps Fibre-to-the-Premises ( FTTP ) based fibre optic broadband services."Fake tech support call scam – supportonclick, systemrecure and logmein123.com &gt;&gt; digitaltoastAn interesting list of sites that have been linked to the "tech support" phone call scam. The comments keep on flowing.Wall Street is a Cruel Mistress: Nokia searching for CEO &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenEx-Nokia executive pens 10,500-word blogpost saying that Nokia's CEO hasn't done that badly. And Finns are too honest to cope with salesmen like Steve Jobs. Something like that, anyhow.GameSetWatch - You Must Wear The Sega Saturn ShirtMalicious shortcuts: now documents and webpages are risky too &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"...the latest version ofMicrosoft's security advisory on the subjectalso warns that a malicious shortcut file can be embedded on a website (meaning that users who visit the page via their web browser could be infected) or hidden inside documents."&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;From those terrific people who brought you the ILOVEYOU script!Sony Patents 3D Screen-Sharing Technology For Two Players &gt;&gt; Slashdot""Sony has recently published patent applications whichwill allow two-player 3D gaming on a single screen. The new technology could spell an end to split-screen gaming, but is unlikely to see the light of day for a few years at least." Phew.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
In video games, as in politics, nothing much happens in the summer. The publishers have finally managed to usher out all those late releases that should have been launched last Christmas, and by July, they're already looking ahead wistfully to the autumn. So unless you've saved up a little batch of neglected RPGs and epic open-world adventures, you might be forced to go outside and lob a frisbee around for the next six weeks. Shudder.Luckily, however, downloadable digital content has come to the rescue. This summer will see a veritable picnic of digi-gaming treats on Xbox Live Arcade (which celebrates its own annualsummer festival), Wiiware and PlayStation Network. Here are five to look out for...DeathSpank(Hothead Games, XBLA, PSN)From the brilliant mind of LucasArts legend Ron Gilbert and widely described as 'Monkey Island meets Diablo' this beautiful, funny, challenging hack-n-slash romp was released last week, and is an absolute bloody must – especially if you love the likes of Castle Crashers and The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai. Combat, puzzles, loot and gorgeous comic book art combine as you search the land for a mythical artifact, called 'The Artifact'. Great entertainment.Limbo(PlayDead, XBLA)A cult hit at this year's E3 (where it was named "Best Downloadable Game" by several news sources), Limbo is a dark monochrome adventure, combining stark expressionistic imagery with some of the most imaginative environmental puzzles you've ever experienced. The hero is just a small boy on some nameless, possibly hopeless, quest and his sanguine and genuinely scary journey (especially the malicious gang of feral children), will haunt you for weeks.Hydro Thunder: Hurricane(Vector Unit, XBLA)Another title from the Xbox Live Summer of Arcade, this is a sequel to the classic Midway jet boat racing game, which made an overlooked appearance on Dreamcast. I spent many a lunch hour while working on DC-UK Magazine, turbo-boosting through the intricately designed levels, searching out shortcuts. Hurricane features loads of the original boats, but all the circuits are new and there's an eight-player online mode. Woooooosh!TerRover(Creat Studios, PSN)From the creator of last year's addictive Breakout clone, Magic Orbz, this is a stylised 2D puzzler, in which you pilot a wheeled droid over a series of hostile alien landscapes, picking up items and avoiding traps and obstacles. Lots of physics challenges and a nice cartoon aesthetic.Heavy Fire: Special Operations(Teyon, Wiiware)Okay, I admit it, I don't know a huge amount about this one, but it's certainly intriguing. From Polish developerTeyon, Heavy Fire is an onrails shooter set in the Middle East, with players taking down insurgents while blasting the environments for extra points. There's lots of blood and destruction and, really, who could possiblynotwant to witness the combination of Time Crisis and Modern Warfare – on the Wii?! It's out on July 26.
I've never got into the massively popular online role-playing gameWorld of Warcraft. I did try once: I'd loaded up the software and started exploring when a friend came over, saw what I was doing and  grabbed the mouse from my hand to make me stop. "I know someone who started playing that and we didn't see him for six months! He lost his job!"I couldn't say "that'll never happen to me." I'd played WoW's predecessor, Diablo II, in five-hour, mind-engulfing, thought-obliterating stints that, since  I was living in post-9/11 Manhattan at the time, suited me just fine. But you have to know your own limits. There's something about the process of creating a character, building its strengths and skills, that appeals to me: maybe it's a similar impulse to the one that makes me write novels. There's also the compulsive pleasure of continuous development – even putting five minutes into a role-playing game improves your character just a bit. I'm not the only one: the web is littered withguides on how to give up WoWor "addict"support groups.Yet for those who love role-playing games but don't want to be consumed by them, there are some good alternatives. The stick-figure-illustratedKingdom of Loathingis seven years old but the writing is still fresh and funny. OrEcho Bazaar, less than a year old, is a beautifully moody and lusciously written faux-Victorian game set in a London that has been – for nefarious reasons – sold to Hell.The great thing about these games is that they have a limit on the number of turns you can play each day: around 20 minutes of gaming a day for free, any more and you'll have to dig your credit card out. Which, of course, we all have enough self-control not to do. Don't we?
As you would expect assorted analysts have been givingtheir opinionson yesterday's Kinect pricing announcement.   Jesse Divnich from EEDAR thinks the price is right but others disagree.Divinch said:EEDAR feels that $150 is an appropriate price for the Kinect. Previous peripherals with mass-market appeal, such as band kits, have sold millions of units worldwide even while priced north of $150.Other analysts were less positive though. Not one to keep his opinions to himself games induystry analyst Micheal Pachtersaid:The standalone price for Kinect is too high, and core gamers will be put off by the price. At current pricing, it's only a $30 advantage [over Sony], given that the all-in cost for a complete Move package is $180 and the all-in cost of a standalone Kinect is $150. I don't see a meaningful threat to the Wii at these prices. The all-in cost of the arcade bundle is $299, still $100 above the Wii, although some people will find that attractive. At this price, it's not particularly competitive with the Wii.However he did think sales would do "modestly well".I think that both Kinect and Move are priced too high to spark the whole industry, but think that both will sell modestly well.Most analysts seem to agree the price was about what they expected but clearly there are different predictions of success. Having played both Kinect and Move (more on that next week) recently Microsoft's system felt more "expensive". Which is probably why it is (unless you really need a complete Move package). Both were a step up from the Wii though but this is just the start.  PS4 and XBox 720 will almost certainly have built in motion control systems based on Kinect/Move. You may not want to splash the cash on motion control now but in the future you may not have a choice.Anyway, agree with either of the analysts?
It started in February 2004, with a college-room project only available to people who had gone to Harvard University in the US. But that quickly grew to other universities, and then secondary schools, until finally in September 2006 the site threw open its doors to anyone over 13.And today, according to the statistics, Facebook passed its 500 millionth user. That makes it not only the biggest social network in the world, but also the fastest growing, able to create its own virtual currency ("Facebook credits") as it heads towards its first billion users, a target that its co-founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg thinks it is "almost guaranteed" to reach – given that it is the biggest social network in every country except Russia, Japan and China.Facebook's own user figures are based on members that have used the site within the past month: of those 500 million, it says, half use the site every day, and for an average of 34 minutes. 150 million users access the site by mobile. "This is the quiet revolution for Facebook," says the company's head of policy for Europe, Richard Allan. "We are well positioned for the world beyond the broadband-connected PC."But even as it zoomed past that astonishing metric – having in the past six years been seen as key in the election of the US president as well as feted by the new UK prime minister as a means of connecting with people – it also faces challenges. Those who have studied the growth of social media warn that its moment in the sun could soon pass – just as it has for one-time social network giants such as Friends Reunited, Bebo and MySpace.Mark Zuckerberg, its 26-year-old co-founder, has had to weather lawsuits from people who claim to have built the site with him; in 2008 Facebook paid $65m (£43m) to endclaims that he stole the idea; another case, from a web designer who claims 84% ownership of the site,awaits a hearing in a US court. Zuckerberg has also been forced to defend the site's ever-changing approach to the privacy of users, remodelling the extent to which personal data was exposed to the rest of the internet.Through it all, the site has kept growing relentlessly. It even boasts its own virtual currency, used by games and apps for payment between users. And it is profitable, though still privately held, via sales of ads and cuts on transactions with that currency, having reportedly rebuffed billion-dollar offers from giants such as Google and Yahoo.But in the course of just six years Zuckerberg has gone from an unknown to internet royalty – albeit one who limits his public appearances and stays firmly out of the limelight. It's ironic, given that he told an audience earlier this year that if he were building the site today, he would make all user information public, not private.Behind the site's phenomenal success is a "willingness to innovate", says Allan. "Facebook made available to everybody what was once only available to the internet's inside circle – the ability to build a site, promote information and share ideas with your one community." It now reaches across ages and social groups, though it has been the cause of religious tension, with Zuckerberg the target of an arrest warrant in Pakistan after someone created a Facebook page suggesting people draw cartoons of the prophet Muhammad, which Muslims find deeply offensive.But seasoned web watchers warn that just as those predecessors faded from sight after having been among the most visible online (at one point tabloid newspapers used to have a story involving Friends Reunited every day), so Facebook might carry the seeds of its own destruction in its relentless desire to include everyone, and to make as much information about us publicly visible as it can."The thing that made Facebook attractive at first was that the people who went there at the beginning found a lot of their friends on it, because it was limited to their colleges or schools," says Aleks Krotoski, who last year earned a PhD in social psychology, looking at how information spreads around social networks. "It was a strong network, because it was closed, and so people thought it was a safe environment."But now, she notes, Facebook faces the risk that people will be unable to partition the different aspects of their lives from all the different "friends" they have there – and that could lead to defections unless the site can find ways to preserve that separation that we keep in real life."It's the overlap of social groups: in the real world we can be very careful about who sees what aspect of our personality. There's our work, our friends, our family, at home, on holiday. But on Facebook, the people you work with who are your 'friends' see everything. The site has tried to create a buffer for that, but if people allow their whole range of friends, from every part of their life, to see things about them, then the value of the network to them decreases." And that spells danger for Facebook's future, she thinks.The teenagers who make up such an important part of the site's users now may be the next group that defects, she thinks. In our teens we tend to have the maximum number of people who we call "friends"; after that, as our adult persona becomes moulded, the number diminishes through life (blipping upwards again if you have children, and meet their friends' parents). "For the ones who are teenagers now, when the next big thing comes along and your friends go off to it, you're going to go with them. And the whole cycle will start again."But Gartner analyst Monica Basso says the scale of the site now confirms it as "the mother of all social networks", and predicts that it will pursue further growth by expanding connected features and channels on third-party sites, including business services."By 2012, Facebook will become the hub for integration of social networks, as well as for social extensions of traditional websites and applications," she said. "Other social networks, including Twitter, will continue to develop, seeking further adoption and specialisations with communication or content areas, but Facebook will represent a common denominator for all of them."
I have a Dell Studio 1555 laptop which has developed an infuriating habit. When typing, the cursor randomly repositions itself in previously entered text and I only become aware of its changed position when I look up to review what I have typed -- usually gobbledegook.I have tried to get help from Dell without success, and I have also sought advice from my IT manager at work but again without success. I have read that the only cure is to "re-image" the PC. Although I am reasonably PC literate, that process is beyond me.Eric CraigieThis problem comes up quite often on the net, usually on PCs but sometimes on Macs, but almost never with any useful information. Typically people mention the brand of PC and the operating system, which makes the problem appear to be completely random and therefore beyond rational solution. To identify it as a fault, we really want to know the make and model of the mousepad, the version number of the software driver, and similar details.I'd not run into the problem because, for decades, I've used Toshiba Portégé and IBM ThinkPad laptops withpointing sticks(TrackPoint, PointStick etc) instead of mousepads. However, I did run into it recently with a couple of netbooks running Windows XP, and a thin-and-light Windows 7 portable that I bought myself. The mouse seemed to be clicking itself to select actions on a mouse-hover, which could be disastrous. Neither Microsoft nor the manufacturer could help me turn this feature off, probably because it didn't exist.I did solve the problem in the end, by going to the touchpad controller and turning off (unchecking) the feature often known as "tap to click". On my Asus UL30A, this meant right-clicking on the Elan Smart-Pad icon in the Systray (bottom right), selecting the Elan tab in Mouse Properties, clicking Options and then Tapping. You can also adjust its sensitivity to PalmTracking.I had been certain that I wasn't touching the mousepad, and not brushing it with my palm. However, I was making enough contact to affect the mouse pointer and move the cursor. Either my skin is less sensitive than it used to be, or mousepads are far more sensitive than they used to be, or both. In fact, some seem to be so sensitive they could be affected by people hitting nearby keys such as the space-bar, though I have no concrete evidence for this.If disabling "tap to click" doesn't remove the problem, there are slightly more extreme solutions. One is to turn the mousepad off while typing. If there isn't an on/off button by the pad, read the manual for the command: it might be something like Fn+F3, or Fn+F9. Another is to disable the mousepad in the control software and use an external mouse. That will tell you whether or not the mousepad is the culprit.There's also a free, open source utility calledTouchfreezefor Windows NT, 2000 and XP, which "automatically disables touchpad while you are typing text. Like syndaemon on X-Windows."Some people report that their pointer-jumping problem was solved by installing the latest mousepad driver. Others say they have been helped by unchecking the option that says "Hide mousepointer while typing". (Go to Mouse Properties and click the tab for Pointer Options.) In some cases, there may actually be something wrong with the mousepad, such as a loose connection. Partly disassembling a laptop, blowing out the dust and pushing home all the connectors can solve intermittent problems for those brave enough to tackle it, or at least take their machine to a local repairer.Apple Mac OS X v10.5 (Leopard) users who have the problem can read the support documentMacBook, MacBook Pro: Cursor reacts unexpectedly. This suggests checking the "Ignore accidental trackpad input" option.Incidentally, the decision to "re-image" a problem PC is one frequently taken by businesses. Large corporations often have a "disk image" that includes their preferred Windows set-up, including updates, and also their standard applications. The image is copied straight to the PC's hard drive, which is much faster than installing Windows and applications separately. Some companies, such as Dell, will deliver PCs in volume with a company's disk image installed. There are also programs (for example, Acronis True Image) that you can use to make a disk image of your own PC for backup purposes.
How fragmented is the Android platform? Google knows. And it's quite interesting. The problem is that it's not quite ready to tell us in detail. Only with winks and nudges.The chart above comes from data on itsdeveloper siteabout versions accessing the Android Market for apps. A point to note: there's only one Android device out there which is running 2.2 (aka "Froyo"), and that's the Google Nexus One. Which has been discontinued.However, some of the other phones can be upgraded to 2.2; it will be interesting to see what sort of timescale there is on that.But what must be encouraging for the folks at Google, and Android developers, is that 2.1 is so dominant in that pie chart. (There's a tiny fraction, 0.3%, consisting of "incompatible versions" - not sure what those would be.)Because certainly the biggest threat - and the biggest problem - for Android developers is platform fragmentation. Old version of Android can't run apps that target more recent versions, though old apps can run on the new platform. (Think of it as being like Windows. Sort of.) But the later Android versions have all sorts of features that you don't get on the others. (You can see theversion feature comparison on Wikipedia.)The timings of the version releases:1.5: 30 April 20091.6: 15 September 20092.1: 12 January 20102.2: 20 May 2010That means that this chart covers just one year (roughly).The notable things that 2.2 has that 2.1 hasn't?Adobe Flash 10.1 support[corrected]; "remote wipe"; Wi-Fi hotspot function; voice dialling over Bluetooth. So now the question is how soon operators (particularly UK operators) will be pushing 2.2 out to Android customers. The suspicion is that the answer is "not soon", given that 2.1 only just made its way (via an over-the-air - OTA - update).And be wary - very wary - of trusting these graphics as really indicating the preponderance of Android versions out there. What wedon't know, because these graphs don't show us, is:-whetherpeople with newer versions of Android are more likely to access the Android Market (that would push the share for newer versions upwards: and it seems likely, since I'd be very surprised if Nexus Ones really were 3% of all Android phones sold)-what proportionof Android apps are written for what version of Android. Although Android apps are forwards-compatible (ie if it's written for 1.5, it will run on 1.5 and every successive release), you'd certainly be put off visiting the Market if you went there once on a 1.5 or 1.6 phone and found that pretty much everything required a later version: you wouldn't go very much more. That would also push the numbers towards the later versions, and make it look like the more recent versions are doing better. (If you know any data about what proportion of apps in the Market target which version, do tell us in the comments.)Android market access by version. Note that it's normalised to 100%, rather than showing real growthHere's how the access has changed, according to Google. But again, the same uncertainties prevail: how many? Are people put off? What's the real growth?True, Android sales have accelerated this year and 2.1 is getting more prevalent. But that comparatively big chunk of 2.2 accesses indicates, to me anyway, thatthis is a distorted pictureof what handsets out there are truly running.Of course Google could help us to dispel this all by publishing how many accesses there actually were, and how many downloads. Whereas Apple likes throwing out numbers from the App Store, which gets lots of people going "ooo!", the problem is that there's nothing much to compare it with. Come on, Google, get into the game. You said there were 160,000 activations per day. Now tell us about Android Market transactions. It's the least you could do.Well, that, and pushing the network operators and/or handset makers to push out version 2.2.
A "very dangerous shift" towards a "privatised version of Big Brother" is on the horizon if UK authorities don't wake up to the invasion of privacy by internet companies, an influential Tory MP has warned.In a debate about Google and privacy hosted by the pressure groupBig Brother Watch, Rob Halfon, who is the Conservative MP for Harlow, said he believed there are many cases of privacy invasion by internet companies yet to be uncovered, and that parliamentarians need to be much more alive to the issue.Google is facing criminal investigations around the world – including in the UK – for its interception of personal data about home wireless networks, taken from the company's StreetView mapping cars. The search giantadmitted to accidentally intercepting extracts of personal datain May."The problem with Google and other big internet companies is that, despite having produced great technological advances, they have forgotten that people are individuals too," Halfon told Tuesday's debate. "We're getting into a situation where – just as we're starting to get rid of the previous government's surveillance society – we're now replacing it with another one: dare I say it, a privatised kind of surveillance society."Halfon pointed to allegations of companies "trawling Facebook looking for customers saying negative things … that's something worthy of the secret police. If this happened in Soviet Russia you could quite understand it."While pointing out that he's not against private companies, the MP said more needs to be done to protect the individual: "I suspect there's a lot of privacy encroachment going on which is yet to be uncovered and that these are just a couple of stories we've just seen in the media. The reason I believe there should be an inquiry into the role of the internet and its relationship to individual liberty is because there is so much going on under the surface, tracking what we do on the internet, tracking what we say on the internet, all for commercial purposes."There's danger that no one will have any privacy whatsoever. And this time the threat is not from the state, it's actually private companies who have acquired the right to photograph what goes on in people's gardens. That is a very dangerous shift because we will be living, dare I say it, in a privatised version of Big Brother. That's the scenario slowly creeping up upon us."The Metropolitan Policelaunched a criminal investigation into Googlelast month on the request ofPrivacy International, which alleges that the search company carried out "criminal interception of wireless communications content," constituting an offence under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and the Wireless Telegraphy Act. Last month, Halfon put forward anearly day motionformally requesting a House of Commons debate on "the new threat of a surveillance society".So far, 24 MPs have signed Halfon's Commons motion, with the most prominent of them being the former shadow home secretaryDavid Davis.In May this year, the UK's information commissioner said hedid not want to "declare war"on Google over its breach of the Data Protection Act by collecting data about home wireless networks - despite Germany, Spain, France and Italy all launching investigations under the same European legislation.The commissioner's reaction was criticised by both Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, and Alex Deane, director of Big Brother Watch, Deane saying: "If an investigation is warranted to the criminal standard – I'm not saying anyone's guilty of anything so far – how can you possibly say our information commissioner should not have been looking into what was going on in this company?"That's why I think our information commissioner has been asleep on the job, on that point. His international fellows have really put him to shame. We've got to make sure not only the people responsible for the technology are awake but also the watchdogs are awake."Davies went further, saying the commissioner's office is "both spineless and gutless", adding: "That, unfortunately, has been the legacy of the office for a long time."Sarah Hunter, Google's head of UK public policy, attended the event but was restricted in what she could say by ongoing legal proceedings. Hunter did say Google had taken on board privacy concerns that have arisen in the past six months and that concerns expressed at the debate would be relayed back to colleagues, adding: "The answer to a lot of these concerns is finding ways to give people control over their own personal data – that's got to be at the heart of solving this conundrum."I think Google, or any of the responsible internet companies, understand the concerns that are expressed - how could we not be? I don't think it's true to say Google top brass don't get this. I think the last six months have been a real … I think everyone's noted it, shall we say. I think we are very mindful of the challenges that the internet poses as a whole."At the heart of solving those challenges, we think, is giving people control over their data - giving people the capacity to both take their information away from the services, and to give people the real sense of what their information is being used for, because I don't think the internet as a platform works on an everyone-opting-in-on-every-service basis."
Some web metrics companies will tell you there's nobody here. Photo byUW Digital Collectionson Flickr.Some rights reservedThere's annoyance over at reddit, where its blogtakes issue with the companies that measure web visitors: it shows that, first of all, Google Analytics (its own backstage measurement) shows more than 8m unique visitors in the last 30 days, and 400m pageviews. "This is a typical month for us. In fact, our number would have been even higher if not for some site issues at the end of June."Unique visitors are the key metric for any purely ad-supported site: if you can get lots and lots of different people looking at the ads you're showing, then you have a greater chance of getting money in.So with that in mind, they look at the suggestions made by the external measurement sites such as Compete.com, Quantcast and Alexa - which give wildly varying estimates for how many people are visiting reddit's sites.Compete suggests 927,000 uniques per month - about one-eighth of the true figure as measured by Google's Javascript, which sits on every Reddit page.Quantcast suggests that the visitor count has dropped to 10m from 13m, to which Reddit responds: "It isn't. It's two to four times as much, and we haven't had two consecutive months of declining traffic since spring 2007."AndAlexa? "Just plain weird. They don't seem to like tallying actual totals, and instead seem to prefer to rate sites by their "percentage of total Internet traffic." If I could find their guess for last month's total global Internet traffic, I could multiply those two numbers together and calculate what they think our pageviews were, but since I can't find that key statistic, I can only look at their graphs comparing us to competing sites. Those graphs seem to indicate that Alexa, too, is drastically underrepresenting the size of reddit."And indeed theAlexa "stats" on redditare confusing in the extreme, but probably because Alexa wants you to sign up for its information.And finally there's Nielsen: "someone with a subscription to their ranking service tells us that they estimate our "Online Market Size Estimate" (whatever that is) to be 652,000."To some extent the mystery is why this misunderestimation (as reddit characterises it) is a mystery to the folks at reddit. Companies such as Alexa rely on people installing browser toolbars which feed back data about which sites they're visiting to build up their picture of the web. The problem is, how can you be sure that your measurement is statistically valid? How do you cater for all the people who haven't and don't want to install a toolbar, and the many more who can't (because they're using a machine in a locked-down environment, such as students using university systems, people in libraries, people in companies with managed systems and so on)?Short answer: you can't. That's why online newspapers (yes, oxymoron) in the UK subscribe to the ABCe system, which means they share their data about users according to an agreed method to measure unique users and so on.Ironically, this harks back to the"Mac malware" scare of last month, when "PremierOpinion" - which is in fact a browser-tracking toolbar owned by a subsidiary of a subsidiary of, wait for it, comScore, another metrics company - was identified (arguably, wrongly, or at least over-excitedly) by the anti-virus company Intego as "adware/spyware". Well, it's sort of spyware, except it asks your permission and shows you an explanation of what it's going to do. Permissionware?When I asked comScore about this - and particularly Intego's claim that the PremierOpinion application injects code into browsers such as Safari and Chrome, and also into the instant messaging application iChat, and "copies personal data from these applications", comScore responded: "In order to collect market research data, our application reviews communications being made between the computer with software installed and the internet. This includes communications being made through various browsers. Numerous filtering steps are taken on the users machine to make sure that PII is scrubbed before being sent to our servers."Basically, the metrics companies are in an impossible position. They're trying to sell something that people aren't willing to give them, so they have to take roundabout routes to get to them.In its way, it's very like polling: every so often Ipsos MORI will ask 1,000 people randomly chosen to be representative of the UK population whether they think the government is doing a good job, who they'd like to have as Prime Minister, and so on. If -if- they've got the right sample, then the polls will fairly accurately reflect peoples' views.But if they do the poll by phone and key people aren't anwering phones, or the sample gets otherwise upset, it won't work. And that's what is at work here: the sampling companies, with their browser toolbars and other "permissionware" (let's be generous) simply can't be representative of the wider internet - which means that companies like reddit get frustrated by being perceived as falling off, when all their server stats tell them that things are rosy.Some companies use other methods: Experian Hitwise uses traffic data from ISPs (about how many hits there have been to domain name servers): even as of December 2006 it has 10m US and 25m worldwide users - nothing like "all", but statistics means, if you get it right, that samples do the work for you. (We used Hitwise data tocalculate that the Times has lost 90% of its online readerssince making registration compulsory for access its website.)It's also a reason why stories built around a single statistics company's measurements should not be relied on. If all the stats companies agree on a trend, that's one thing - so we're pretty sure that MySpace and Bebo are on a downer. But one measure alone? Nope.And all this discussion leaves out another key input: mobile. Most measurement companies haven't worked out how to track mobile users visiting sites; those which rely on browser toolbars are stuffed straight away (unless they were to get an agreement with a mobile carrier or handset maker to include their code in the browser, which is always possible). Those which rely, like Hitwise, on ISP data would need to negotiate. For now, most sites are simply tracking their own mobile data, and waiting for the metrics companies to catch up.That's no help to reddit, of course. But at least they can take comfort from not being alone.
During the call to discuss record fiscalQ3 earnings, Apple (NSDQ: AAPL) chief operating officer Tim Cook and chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer fielded keen questioning, from investment analysts, about the impact of Antennagate, about supply shortages of iPad and iPhone 4 and about whether iPad is cannibalising Mac sales.Photo byYutaka Tsutanoon Flickr.Some rights reserved•iPhone 4 slowdown, post-Antennagate?Apple chief operting officer Tim Cook: "Let me be very clear on this - we are selling every unit we can make currently."Any increase in returns? "My phone is ringing off the hook with people that want more supply. It's hard to test the real question you're asking because we're selling every one we can make. The returns that we've seen on iPhone 4 are less than iPhone 3GS,the ones for this specific issue are extremely small."•Supply and demand: "High demand is never a problem. We are quoting longer lead times that we would like. In the scheme of things,it's a good problem to have."Oppenheimer: "We do not create a shortage for buzz. I don't know where that's come from. That's not our objective - we would like to fill every customer's order as quickly as we can. The demand for iPhone 4 is absolutely stunning. We are working very hard to catch up with demand. I can't predict when that will occur."When will the iPad supply issues ease? Cook: "We honestly don't know… [iPad] is not following a typical early adopter curve and then taking a long time to cross in the mainstream. Our guts tell us that this market is very big. For us, it's a jawdropper."Apple has no idea how many people want to buy its products. Asked by an analyst if iPad shortfall was "a couple of million" and iPhone 4 "half a million", Cook said: "I don't know - that question is very difficult to answer." Historically, he said demand was an indicator of how much supply was necessary, but: "I truly don't know ... we have taken bets internally."•Cannibalisation? Cook: "Internally, we focus on exactly the opposite - the synergy between ... the Mac share is still low - so there's still an enormous opportunity for the Mac to grow. The more customers we can introduce to Mac through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch - you would think there'd be some synergy with the Mac there."•And more… On AT&amp;T (NYSE: T) - Cook: "They have been a first-class partner and have pioneered the smartphone [market] from a network point of view in the US - that's all I have to say about that."A data center Apple has been building in North Carolina is on schedule to be completed by end of this calendar year. Sounds like an iTunes Store initiative.Cook flat-out refused to answer a question about how Apple intends to make good on its promise to open up FaceTime.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
HTML5 fist, after A List Apart. Photo byjustinsomniaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 23 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAn HTML5 Interactive Infographic featuring Dribbble &gt;&gt; 4muladesignOnly really works in Safari (and Opera?). By Jamie Brightmore, based in the Cotswolds. How goes the browser compatibility, Jamie?Online deal hounds on the hunt as Bing Cashback nears the end &gt;&gt; Techflash.com"With less than two weeks left before the end of Microsoft's Bing Cashback rebate program, savvy online shoppers are watching closely for larger-than-normal refunds from the companies involved in the program.&#10;&#10;"That's because unspent funds in the merchants' Bing Cashback "piggybanks" -- money that Microsoft allotted for Cashback refunds -- will no longer be available for use after the program ends on July 30, creating an incentive for them to deplete the reserves by sweetening their Cashback deals for consumers."Needlebase &gt;&gt; NeedlebaseInteresting: " reconcile multiple data sources into a consistent database... harvest structured data from websites or feeds to build a vertical search engine, or enrich your existing data".BBC Zeitgeist &gt;&gt; BBCOH HAI BBC ZEITGEIST U LOOK ... actually a bit dull. Still, room to grow, eh?Microsoft may face tough patch job with Windows shortcut bug &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Microsoft has acknowledgedthat attackers can use a malicious shortcut file, identified by the&#10;".lnk" extension, to automatically execute their malware by getting users to view the contents of a folder containing a malformed shortcut. The risk is even greater if hackers use infected USB flash drives to spread their attack code, since the latter automatically executes on most Windows PCs as soon as drive is plugged into the machine." All varieties of Windows are vulnerable, including Windows 7.Firefox lets hackers grab your passwords &gt;&gt; NetworkWorld.com Community"Black Hat researcher will demonstrate how to scrape Firefox passwords with Cross Site Scripting malware." Can't wait for next week's Black Hat security conference at Las Vegas.Google To Steve Jobs: Yes, People Use Mobile Search &gt;&gt; paidContent"People are using about 10 apps in a given week, which makes me think of the early days of cable, when people only watched a handful of channels. The space will get a lot larger and consumers' appetites for that content will catch up," said Eric Johnson of ESPN.The most prescient footnote ever &gt;&gt; Oddhead BlogPaul Graham wrote it. He thought in a way that a lot of people did, but expressed in an interesting way.Apple Reports Third Quarter Results &gt;&gt; Apple3.27m iPads sold. Apple is, among other things, effectively the monopoly tablet supplier in the world. But iPod sales are sliding fast: lowest since 2006.OpenHeatMap &gt;&gt; OpenHeatMap"Upload your spreadsheet. Get an interactive online map in seconds. What are you waiting for?"Technical Support Phone Scams &gt;&gt; Symantec ConnectOrla Cox at Symantec has a video of how one of the call centre scammers "cleans" your PC. Basically, turning off the warnings in Event Viewer. Er...Google Wins Patent For Cursor-Driven Search Relevancy &gt;&gt; SEWatch'Did that just feel weird to read? It is indeed the latest patent obtained by Google, a giant innovative step for search: now the Mountain View-based company will be able to serve more relevant search results based on your mouse pointer movements on the page.'Apple discussed Verizon switch &amp;#39;at least half a dozen times,&amp;#39; and other stories about its AT&amp;amp;T relationship'Wired has published an exhaustive and fascinating expose on the "loveless celebrity marriage" that is Apple and AT&amp;T -- all from sources familiar with the matters but who cannot (or will not) be named, of course. In other words, don't take this as gospel, but frankly, none of this sounds too crazy or outside the realm of what we've already surmised ourselves.[Rumor] Apple To Charge For iPad iOS4 Update? &gt;&gt; The Next Web'If the team over at Stuff.tv are to be believed, Apple is set to charge iPad owners for the iOS4 firmware upgrade, reintroducing a paid upgrade structure that was once present for the iPod Touch.'Apple policy on location data collecting [PDF] &gt;&gt; US House of RepresentativesProvided to the US legislators to show that it doesn't track people. Honest.MOG Finally Goes Mobile With New iPhone, Android Apps &gt;&gt; GIga OM'Better late than never, streaming music service MOG has finally introduced its mobile application for iPhone and Android devices, providing streaming access to a library of eight million songs for a monthly fee of $9.99.'Google Gets Semantic: Buys Metaweb &gt;&gt; Giga OM'Google today announced it had acquired Metaweb Technologies, the ambitious startup building a database of all the web's information called Freebase. Metaweb was yet another semantic web startup before its time, but with the help of Google it now has the potential to make a much bigger impact.'Tumblr Is On Fire. Now Over 6 Million Users, 1.5 Billion Pageviews A Month'One year ago, in July 2009, Tumblr was going strong. They had 255 million pageviews that month. By November of last year, that was up to 420 million pageviews. But some new stats which Tumblr is releasing today show an explosion in growth since then. Tumblr is now at 1.5 billion pageviews a month — their Quantcast data confirms this.'Facebook-Like Site Brings Safe Social Networking to Young Kids'Togetherville is an online community for kids who are too young for Facebook that allows them to experience social networking in a fun, age-appropriate environment with involvement from parents and other trusted adults.'How Mobile Technology is a Game Changer for Developing Africa'Because of widespread poverty in Africa, the technology culture there has followed a different path than the West. Because computers are so expensive, affordable mobile phones have become the ubiquitous form of communication. Between 2003 and 2008, Africa had the fastest growing mobile phone market in the world. On average, more than one-third of the African population has a mobile plan, with some areas reaching almost two-thirds market penetration.'New Google Buzz API features, including a hose of fire &gt;&gt; Google Code Blog'Since we introduced the Google Buzz API at Google I/O, we've been working hard to make it better, broader, and more useful. Today we're introducing several new features that are the direct result of your feedback.'Report: Mobile app store downloads to hit 25 billion by 2015'The app store train seems unstoppable. According to a Juniper Research report out today, the number of "consumer-oriented handset downloads" is expected to rise from less than 2.6 billion per-year in 2009 to more than 25 billion in 2015.'You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Record sales of Mac computers and strong demand for the iPad has helped Apple post its highest ever quarterly earnings.Steve Jobs declared last night that Apple had enjoyed a "phenomenal quarter", after it smashed analyst forecasts. Revenues rose 88% to $15.7bn (£10.2bn) in the three months to 26 June, with net quarterly profit up 78% at $3.25bn.Jobs also insisted that the iPhone 4 was the most successful launch in the company's history despite the well-documented problems with the handset's antenna.Shaw Wu, analyst at Kaufman Bros, said the results were "spectacular".The company sold 3.47 million Macs worldwide, and 3.27 million iPads. "iPad is off to a terrific start, more people are buying Macs than ever before, and we have amazing new products still to come this year," said Jobs.Apple's results were released after the close of trading on Wall Street, and its shares jumped by more than 2.5% in after-hours trading. Apple's Mac computers have taken something of a back seat in recent months, with attention being mainly devoted to the iPad tablet computer and the new iPhone.Last night's results suggest a growing trend. "There is a virtuous circle going on with Apple, as customers who are exposed to the iPhone and iPad also want a Mac," said Colin Gillis of BGC Partners in a research note.Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, said that around half the Macs sold during the quarter went to new users. He also revealed that 50% of Fortune 100 companies in America are either testing or deploying the iPad.Apple has deferred revenue of $175m to cover the cost of providing cases to address antenna problems with the iPhone 4, but denied that the issue had hit sales."Let me be clear about this — we are selling every unit we can make currently," said Cook. "My phone is ringing off the hook with people who want more supply."Sales of the iPhone fell slightly quarter-on-quarter, to 8.4 million from 8.75 million, as customers waited for the launch of the iPhone 4 in late June. The figures also suggested that the iPod's best days are well behind it. Apple sold just over 9.4 million units, the lowest figure since the summer of 2006.Apple predicted that revenues in the current quarter would hit $18bn, which is higher than analyst forecasts.Some critics have claimed Apple has been deliberately restricting the availability of the iPad and iPhone 4 to push up demand, a charge Cook robustly denied: "We are selling both products as fast as we can make them, so we are quoting longer lead times than we'd like, and we're working round the clock to alleviate this."
For the franchise's devoted followers, it's been a long two years since Grand Theft Auto 4 came out. DLC add-ons aside, Rockstar focusing attentions on Red Dead has meant it's been quite a while since gamers have had any high-end urban sandbox fun to sink their teeth into. Crackdown and Saints Row, for all their good qualities, just weren't in the same league.This, publisher Take 2 will hope, is where Mafia 2 steps in. Take GTA's polished gameplay, weave in classic American gangster-movie mythos, and add-in state-of-the-art graphics and meticulous attention to detail, and you have a recipe for something that's worth getting pretty excited about.Set in a fictional American city, the game's "mature, believable" story spans two decades, as twentysomething Vito Scarletta returns home from the second world war and begins his ascent within an Italian crime syndicate.Comparisons with its illustrious rival are inevitable, with near identical controls and gameplay mechanics, but the many ways in which Mafia 2 borrows from GTA are as much of a boon as a drawback. The absence of tricky new controls to master allows you to get stuck straight in to the action.I was shown both the 40s and 50s Empire City in my viewing of the game - the story is split into two parts - and it's easy to see how this clever dynamic will add a great deal of depth to the experience. Cosmetically, the city changes drastically in those ten years, with the familiar streetplan reinforcing the differences - and highlighting the incredible attention to detail seen in the game as it attempts to immerse you in its iconic period setting.Cruise around in your vehicle of choice and you're struck by just how authentic and of its time everything feels. The cars, though not actual vehicles, have been carefully designed to mirror their real-life counterparts. Meanwhile, over 100 licensed classic tunes are on offer on your suitably fuzzy sounding car radio, offering everything from Bill Haley to Frank Sinatra.Even Vito's house, which works as a save point and garage throughout the game, has been lovingly crafted with 40s and 50s interior design, kitchen appliances, clothes to choose from and so on.The graphics are incredibly impressive at times, and although this may have been aided somewhat by the cinema screen our preview was shown on, it looks like they're going to be amongst the best ever seen on home consoles. Much like those early, awe-inspiring panoramics over Liberty City that so impressed back in 2008, the wintry cityscape on offer at the beginning of Mafia 2 just begs to be explored.'Empire City' the setting for all your nefarious deeds. Photograph: Take 2It's this beguiling mix of attention to detail, beautiful graphics and ingenious, thoughtful touches (I noted a pair of WW2 biplanes flying overhead as you're driven from the airport in the game's opening sequence) which begins to show how Mafia 2, despite the aforementioned similarities, is a game that offers far more than a mere retro-fitted "Niko in the 50s" GTA-clone.First off, the tone is much darker and much more serious than GTA 4. The action and set-pieces offer gritty realism rather than the more cartoony aspects of Niko's adventures in Liberty City. You certainly won't be flying off motorcycles onto helicopters at any point (well, I very much doubt it).Towards the end of the mission I played, a gun is thrust into the mouth of one character, and you can't help but grimace as you hear his whimpers and moans before the trigger is pulled.Meanwhile, hand combat is an altogether more challenging experience - and much more sophisticated than the punch-button jabbing of your standard GTA skirmish.The shooting mechanics too have a more realistic feel about them. Chunks of pillar fly off as you shoot at enemies in cover, and the weaponry feels weightier, more real, somehow. Mafia 2 wants, above all else, to make you feel like you're a part of its world.To aid this, the voice acting is, in the small section I've seen, amongst the finest ever seen in a video game. Close your eyes and you could be listening to a deleted scene from Goodfellas.There is, however, a reason I've said you'd need to close your eyes. By opting for realism in the characters facial animations, developers 2K Czech have taken an unfortunate wrong-turn into theuncanny valley.Although this was an unfinished version of the game, I found the static, inscrutable facial expressions featured in the cutscenes very offputting. Mouths and eyes barely move when characters are talking, lending the scenes the air of a very strange ventriloquist's act. If this prevents players from getting attached to their character, the overall game experience is really going to suffer.This one problem aside, Mafia 2 has the makings of a blockbuster release, and is a potential must-have for your late summer shopping lists. Who knows, by the time Grand Theft Auto 5 comes out, the comparisons may be the other way around.Look out for our full review on the Games blog in a few weeks' time.•Mafia 2 will be released on August 28th for Xbox 360, PC and PS3
A councillor is facing a disciplinary hearing after calling the Church of Scientology "stupid" on Twitter, it emerged today.The Welsh public standards watchdog investigated Cardiff councillor John Dixon's short message and decided it was "likely" to have breached the code of conduct for local authority members.News of the ombudsman's decision prompted a flood of messages of support on Twitter for Dixon, the council's executive member for health, social care and wellbeing.Tweets included an offer to find a lawyer to fight his case pro bono and many others defending his right to free speech.The case centres on a message posted by the Liberal Democrat councillor during a visit to London.It said: "I didn't know the Scientologists had a church on Tottenham Court Road. Just hurried past in case the stupid rubs off."The message was posted on an account calledCllrJohnDixon. He has since set up a second account,JohnLDixon, for his "more personal musings", in which he describes himself as a "microbiologist and web developer, into science, rugby and web geekery".By 3pm today, Dixon's number of followers on Twitter had trebled.One supporter said: "Instead of a disciplinary hearing, they should canvas all the electorate to see if they agree with you. I think they just might."Another wrote: "We're all behind you mate, if any disciplinary action goes ahead it will be because the stupid rubbed off on someone."Dixon later tweeted: "Just seen all the retweets about my ombudsman's judgement. Um... Wow... Thanks."A spokeswoman for the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales confirmed there had been an investigation into Dixon.The investigation had found there was likely to have been a breach of the code of conduct local authority members must follow.The ombudsman has referred the case to Cardiff council's standards and ethics committee, which will consider it in the autumn. It will have to decide if there has been a breach and, if it finds there has been, consider any sanctions.A spokesman for the Church of Scientology said: "The complaint was made by an individual Scientologist who was personally offended by the comments."The spokesman suggested people go totheir websiteto find out about the church and its founder, L Ron Hubbard.Dixon argued that the remarks were made in a personal capacity rather than as a councillor, and said his Twitter name was CllrJohnDixon only because JohnDixon had been taken.He told the Guardian he was in London in June last year to buy a wedding ring for his wife-to-be – which he also tweeted about. Other postings made at the time included remarks about visiting a relative in Richmond and going to a musical.Dixon said he thought the remark about the Church of Scientology was "whimsical" and had thought nothing more about it until he began to suspect that members of the church were following him on Twitter.He posted another message: "Just realised the Scientologists are following me. Quick everyone, pretend you're out."But he said that, in December, the ombudsman received a complaint about the remarks. Councillors are obliged to carry out their duties with due regard to the principle that there should be equal opportunity to all, regardless of their religion.Dixon said that even if he had been speaking in an official capacity – which he maintains he was not – he was surprised at the complaint going so far."As a Liberal Democrat, I'm used to having things said about me. You take it on the chin," he said.He said he did not have very strong opinions on Scientologists before the saga. "Having done some research on them, I take a harder line now," he added.
The response to our stories about people being scammed by cold calls from Indian call centres has been remarkable. (A quick reminder: people get cold-called and told there's a "problem with your computer" and talked into handing over remote access, and then £185 or so for "remote support". It's not worth taking up the offer, and thepolice took action against a number of sitesused for this scam in April.)It's worth noting that there have been complaints foragesabout this business; one of the biggest locations where comments have gathered is at Digital Toast, where ablogpost warning of these scams, first written in January 2009, has drawn (at the time of writing) 785 comments - the most recent from three days ago. (And they aren't spam, unless you count the attempts by people linked to the scammers to insist that they got a great service).Among the links there are some to recordings of the scammers at work, which range from the dire to the sweary.What's also notable is the huge number of site names that are being used in association with this scam. Every time I think I've come close to some sort of roundup, I find that another one is being named in the comments.That is certainly a key problem here: if you can view a site, you can grab its source and make a copy and set one up yourself. What's really interesting, though, is the fact that the people who are doing this- have never, in any of the many, many examples that I've seen, installed malware on anyone's machine; so they're not malicious- seem to be quite well-trained in dealing with Windows systems (though they get flummoxed at any mention of Linux or Apple Macintosh machines).Both these details are interesting: possibly the first one means that they have the chance of arguing that because they haven't done anything criminal (though I don't know whether India has an equivalent of the UK's Computer Misuse Act) there hasn't been any crime. Unfortunately, the fact that the calls always begin with people being told there are "problems with your machine" when there aren't means that this still falls under "obtaining money through deception", which is section 2.1 of the Fraud Act.The second detail is just as interesting: it implies that there's a big pool of people with Microsoft training who haven't got anything better to do than work in call centres where they have to cold-call (almost certainly on commission - if you were running a business like that, that's how you would do it, isn't it?).There's avery interesting comment by @LosBravoson the earlier story, which is worth repeating here:"These aren't always "cold" calls. My mother called her telephone/internet provider about an intermittent problem with her phone line - it was an Indian call centre. 15 minutes later she received one of these calls - obviously her information had been passed on by an insider - claiming to be a follow-up as they had spotted a problem with her broadband. She was thoroughly bamboozled by the caller (she's in her mid -70s), but had enough presence of mind to put the phone down when he started demanding money. Fortunately, this was before the dodgy software had been downloaded."Of course, her phone provider denied that this was possible..."That is indeed one of the key threads that we haven't been able to unravel yet: how do they get the names? Are they (as some of the people on the Digital Toast comments suggest) getting them from sales of new computers or broadband signups? From the phone book? Or something else? Are these people somehow going 'freelance', or is there a business going on which passes on the likely contacts?As always, we welcome all your insights and information on this - especially if you've experienced this, or know someone who has and who has paid money: what company did the payment go to?And meanwhile a big hand to Digital Toast for keeping the fire lit under this topic for so long.
Microsoft has announced thepricing for the Kinect bundle- you know, the you-move-it-moves system that Peter Molyneux has brought to fruition (possibly with a little bit of help).Sitting down? OK:"Kinect for Xbox 360, which will include the Kinect Sensor and the video game "Kinect Adventures," will retail for US$149.99 when it launches Nov. 4 in North America, the company revealed. The Kinect Sensor will work with each of the 40 million Xbox 360s currently in households worldwide."(Useful stat, Microsoft: we'll note that 40m figure for the future.).Oh, the UK price? £129.99. Yes! Welcome to Treasure Island - again! At the prevailing currency exchange rate, that would be £98; add on VAT at 17.5% and you get £115.40 (though once you get 20% VAT, it would be £117.60. (We're not sure what magic has been woven on the product to make the price go up as it passes over water, but make sure not to wave it over the bath.)OK, executive quote time: Josh Hutto, director of product marketing for Xbox, said that Kinect represents a great value for new and existing Xbox 360 customers. "Kinect truly is a revolutionary product," he said. "We're bringing controller-free entertainment into the living room. With one purchase, families get Kinect and the most complete and affordable way to have fun."So - now you know how much it is going to cost, are you going to buy one? Or are you preferring the Sony Move?
There are more problems at Twitter, where a series of minor but annoying problems have meant that users can'tupdate their profilestoday and couldn'tfollow or unfollowpeople on Sunday. So is this the begining of some major collapse, an extension of those well-documented problems inJuneor just a hiccup?Photo byJon Bishop (spazcer)on Flickr.Some rights reservedIn truth, Twitter's downtime and the faults with various features are pretty minor, given the scale of the site now. The technical dynamics of Twitter are uniquely demanding. No two users have the same set up - we all follow and are followed by different groups of people, meaning the demands ofserving an audienceof 190 million posting 65 million tweets per day.Twitter chief operating officerDick Costolosaid at an advertising conferencelast month: "We're laying down track as fast as we can in front of the train" - a rather charming analogy but it does hit the nail on the head.Because of the very vocal nature of Twitter's userbase, any problem is instantly and disproportionately amplified across the network. Take the Fail Whale as an example of that; a cute error page transformed into a web celebrity.Twitter also responds to problems promptly and openly, which should be credited. There's astatus blogas well as themain Twitter blogand multiple corporate accounts. Could you imagineApplemanaging itsantennagatecrisis this way?All that said, we have asked Twitter for an official, updated explanation of exactly what is going on.In the meantime, we can mull the impact of the newly rolled out Earlybird idea, which offers money off and discounts to followers of@earlybird.It's one of a series of trials in generating revenue for the site saysGigaOm, who also points to the strategy of selling Google and Microsoft access to its data through the API.Econsultancyalso points to the company's trial and error strategy when it comes to finding money-making models, but that's exactly how it should be working this out, of course.
