Who knew there was so much you could do with a humble slice of grilled bread? Self-styled breakfast guru Dr Toast (Drtoast.com) can help you with any query regarding this modest foodstuff, from condiments to toasters with burning tendencies - an issue illustrated atHalfgiraffe.com/toast.html.For more surreal loaf-based entertainment go toTeamfishcake.co.uk/toastfor, erm, "photos of things pushed through toast", whileMauricebennett.co.nzfeatures portraits of Elvis Presley, Mona Lisa and Dame Edna Everage made using thousands of slices of bread.Completing the cult,Toaster.orgfeatures toast(er) art including tattoos of toasters (why?) andTheimaginaryworld.commajors on the crazy animated adventures of Mr Toast and his tearful friend Mr Onion.
Monday, August 1The birth of GoogleCisco struggles to plug the leakTuesday, August 2Flickr rates interesting picturesTalk time: Carl ChristopherWednesday, August 3Apple to add Trusted Compyting to the new kernel?Firefox goes for-profitGadget porn: Sky's new offeringsFeedback: Good government?Windows XP is growing fastThursday, August 4Guardian laptop film awardLaser spots paper "fingerprints"Human centered design considered harmfulFriday, August 5Are video games breeding evil? Erm, noCopy-protected CDs iPod incompatible, but sell wellThe dotcom decadeWikimedia spreads its wings
SaturdayChamp Man transfers to mobileMondayDo gamers game when it's sunny?TuesdayMike TeeVeeChocolate makes you sickWednesdayMore gender bendingGame for a laughABC not MP3ThursdayUnder the covers: implications for mature content in gamesFridayBrowsing the PSPEconomical with the truthGaming with God
It seems some rather nasty types are using Guardian Unlimited in their new email scam. A report from Websense - passed on by my eagle-eyed colleague, Richard Wray - tells of an email which displays a short excerpt from an Associated Press story, under a Guardian Unlimited headline and with an accompanying link which leads to malware.If the link is followed, the malicious website displays a slightly modified version of the full story. Immediately after the website has loaded, encoded JavaScript embedded in the page attempts to compromise the workstation with two HTML Help exploits.In the event that either of the exploits are successful, a Trojan downloader is placed on the workstation. The Trojan begins downloading a second malicious file, which is also a Trojan. The second Trojan has backdoor functionality that gives the attacker complete control of the workstation.These emails, of course, have nothing to do with Guardian Unlimited - they are simply using our name to try and lure people into downloading malicious code onto their machines. Be wary: and, if you want more information, there's an advisoryhere.
Petrol prices in some areas have now gone over &#163;1 a litre, the AA Motoring Trust warned today.The average price in the UK is around 90p a litre, the AA said, but some garages in remote areas have been charging over &#163;1 a litre since mid-July."Prices have risen 10p a litre since January, because of the rising cost of crude oil, which has gone up from about $58 to $60 a barrel," said the trust's petrol price analyst Ruth Bridger. "We don't expect average UK prices to exceed &#163;1 a litre for a long time.""But we received information yesterday showing that at least 46 garages are already charging over &#163;1 a litre."Some garages in the Western Isles admitted today that they had increased their prices to over &#163;1 a litre.The Uig Community Shop in Timsgearraidh, on the Isle of Lewis, has increased its prices to &#163;1.05 a litre for diesel and &#163;1.02 for unleaded. Elaine Newton, the shop's manager said prices broke the &#163;1 barrier two weeks ago, after a month at 99p. "We're 37 miles away from Stornoway and that went up two weeks ago and we followed soon after," she said.BP supplies the remote two-pump store in the Outer Hebrides every two or three weeks and according to Newton the price fluctuates at each delivery.Ms Newton said: "BP gives us our cost price and we put a 10% mark-up on it."However, she added: "We pay more, but I can't work it out, I don't know why - the two shops on the island, the Co-op and the Somerfield, they get deliveries every week but the goods are the same price as in Manchester."While the AA's Ms Bridger acknowledged that garages in remote areas often have extra costs in securing fuel supplies, she said that it was worrying for consumers in these areas."People really have no choice, especially in remote areas where they have to rely on their car, and perhaps there's only one garage in the area," she said.She urged people to shop around if they could and "shop smart" by increasing awareness of what different garages charge."We have often found a 4p difference in the price of a litre of petrol in garages within a very small area, so we'd advise people to keep an eye on different suppliers and look out for special deals."Ms Bridger also described a number of measures which would help motorists keep fuel consumption down, including checking tyre pressure, sticking to speed limits, and decreasing use of air conditioning, which the AA says can add 10% to the amount of petrol consumed.
Free your mind: Wikimedia guru Jimmy WalesWikimedia, the charitable foundation behindWikipedia, announced today that it was spreading its open, editable wings even further,writes Sean Dodson. Not content with an ever-expanding encyclopedia (which includes over 22 million entries in over 200 languages, and counting) a dictionary and a nascent news service, the wiki ethic will be extended into a number of new areas, including book publishing, according to the movement's founder, Jimmy Wales.Speaking atWikimania, the movement's first annual conference being held here in Frankfurt, he urged his hardcore of followers to develop a further suite of wiki products, including a wiki atlas, an audio archive of classical music and a open-source file format to rival the MP3.If that wasn't enough, Wales said that the foundation's next move would be into book publishing. Wikimedia is currently negotiating with an "on-demand" book publisher to create books from existing Wikipedia content.But the most controversial proposal is likely to be the establishment of an archive of high quality images of old masters. Most major museums and galleries routinely claim copyright over images of the paintings held in their collections, making it extremely difficult for third parties to acquire reproductions, even for charitable or educational work.Wikipedia's mercurial founder urged his army of cohorts to take their digital cameras into museums and get snapping. "I'm not urging anyone to go out there and break the law," he said, tongue firmly rested in cheek. "But we will put them on the website and face the consequences," he said.
Well, the2005 Christian Game Developers Conferencepassed us right by, submerged, ironically, under the Hot Coffee debacle. For those who findthis topicfascinating, it may seem disappointing that there was none of the blogger clamour that traditionally accompanies game dev conferences. All I can find on the recent event is this article byReuterswhich was released before kickoff, andthiscoveragefrom the 2003 CGDC. If anyone knows of reportage on the topic, please do let us know by the usualmeans.To pass the time until then, I'm going to play the Tetris-likeWalls of JerichoonChristian iGames.
TheFinancial Timescelebrates 10 years since the Netscape IPO, which for many marked the beginning of the dotcom era, with a lengthy analysis piece on a decade of vast change. The article points out what's so exciting about the recent revival in dotcom business and technology firms: this stuff is mainstream now, and good ideas can capitalise on the sheer vastness of internet penetration, mobile phones, and other technologies.None of this even touches on the less visible, and potentially even more profound, impact that the web has had on how businesses are organised, how social and political life has been affected or how a country such as India has been able to join the world economy in a way that would once have seemed impossible.If that is the story of the internet so far, then what do the next 10 years hold in store? In two words: more upheaval, as the forces that caused consternation in many corporate boardrooms in the late1990s are once again unleashed, this time backed by more robust business models and better technology.It's a good question: in 10 years, what are we likely to see? Will things change even faster than they have over the past decade? What will our lives be like then?
Fairly interestingarticlein the Economist. Nothing we didn't already know, and it does get sucked into the "unprecedented power" hype of the new consoles a bit too much, but seeing as the Economist's target audience is likely to consider the term "gaming" to mean either gambling or golf, it serves as a useful education piece. Particularly liked, "critics of gaming do not just have the facts against them; they have history against them, too." All good stuff, and true. Although it's hard to retain that revolutionary zeal when you're playingCharlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Anyway else upgraded their PSP? I've upgraded my Euro model to 2.0 and it all works fine. The key update is the addition of a browser, allowing you to surf the net wirelessly. I've playing around with the new browser and while it's a little gimmicky at the moment, with obvious display issues, I can see the attraction, especially when sites are specially developed for it. AsKeith says, the DS is still the home for gaming originality, but with the browser the PSP is finally shaping up to be the convergence device it always threatened to be. Of course, anyone who was using their PSP to playemulated/homebrewgames has been shafted by this update.
"Recent CDs by Foo Fighters and Dave Matthews Band containing new anti-piracy technology are selling well despite a backlash among some fans angry that the discs are incompatible with iPods, experts said on Thursday," reportsReuters.Aiming to curb piracy, labels like Sony BMG, which released both records, are rolling out copy-protected albums in the United States, which let users make three exact duplicates of a CD, and store files on a PC in Microsoft Corp.'s Windows Media format.But the copy-protection bars users from importing music onto iPods since Apple's Fairplay software is incompatible with Windows.Later, the story says:American Technology Research analyst Shaw Wu said it would benefit both Apple and record labels to resolve the issue."Apple's the leader in digital music. It doesn't make sense to release too many copy-protected CDs if they're incompatible with iPods. But Apple could also be at risk if these CDs keep selling well," he said."It's up to Apple to flip the switch," said one record label executive.
This week'sEconomisttakes a look at the phenomenon of video gaming, and whether it's a bad influence on the world at large (it's for subscribers only, unfortunately).The reason for the examination is, of course,Hot Coffee- the "scandalous" sex mod for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas which has been extensively covered in Online, and on ourGamesblog.As is their wont, the Economist's pointyheads point to the stats - in the past decade, video games sales have almost doubled in the US, while the number of violent criminal offences has almost halved. And it's a rather strong rebuttal of the opponents of gaming.Like rock and roll in the 1950s, games have been accepted by the young and largely rejected by the old. Once the young are old, and the old are dead, games will be regarded as just another medium and the debate will have moved on. Critics of gaming do not just have the facts against them; they have history against them, too.
Four years of frustration ended for Japan's iPod owners yesterday when Apple announced the launch of a Japanese version of its iTunes music store.The online store, which will begin with a playlist of a million songs by Japanese and international artists, is the latest move in Apple's quest to outperform its main rival, Sony, in its own backyard."We're super-excited about this," Apple' chief executive, Steve Jobs, told a packed news conference in Tokyo. "The future looks very, very bright for the iPod in Japan."Globally, the iPod is outselling Sony's portable game and media console, the PSP, Mr Jobs said. Sony sold about 2 million PSPs during the last quarter, while Apple says 6 million iPods were sold over the same period.Mr Jobs said he hoped to repeat the success iTunes has enjoyed in the US, where it accounts for more than 80% of legally downloaded music. Apple has sold 22 million iPods worldwide since its launch in October 2001, and more than 500 million songs in 19 countries through iTunes.Although the iPod controls 70% of the global market in digital music players, its market share falls to 36% in Japan, where Sony has 22% of the market.Mora, the music download service used by owners of Sony players, charges an average of 200 yen a song but the company denied it had been outwitted by Apple, saying many of its own downloads were just as cheap. Japanese iTunes subscribers will be charged &yen;150 a song for 90% of those on offer."Apple's announcement is creating a big stir here, and so we see it as a good opportunity for the music download business to expand," said Kazuo Washimi, a Mora spokesman.
Many bizarre items have been put up for sale on the auction website eBay: someone's virginity; a grilled cheese sandwich bearing an image of the Virgin Mary; even, apparently, a used penis enlarger.Yet the sale of a 90-strong symphony orchestra is still a little on the dotty side. At midnight bids will close for just that. Unless there is a last-minute flurry, it could be going cheap, because last night bids were hovering around the &pound;2,000 mark.In fact the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra is flogging a little of its time, offering a "once in a lifetime opportunity to conduct the CBSO" with a "personal conducting lesson with CBSO maestro".The Finnish music director of the orchestra, Sakari Oramo, has gamely put himself up to give the tuition. Stephen Maddock, the orchestra's chief executive, said: "It will be interesting to see whether it will be bought by some terribly serious budding conductor who sees this as their break, or someone completely inexperienced who wants to be charitable towards us."Mr Maddock said the winner would be able to select a favourite piece of music to rehearse with the orchestra, or be given guidance in selecting a suitable work.The successful bidder is likely to be steered away from some of the longer, more ambitious works in the symphonic repertory: no Mahler symphonies, for example. "There will be something in the small print that will discourage them from that kind of thing," Mr Maddock said.The money raised from the auction will go towards the orchestra's community and education programme.
"Human-Centered Design has become such a dominant theme in design that it is now accepted by interface and application designers automatically, without thought, let alone criticism. That's a dangerous state — when things are treated as accepted wisdom. The purpose of this essay is to provoke thought, discussion, and reconsideration of some of the fundamental principles of Human-Centered Design. These principles, I suggest, can be helpful, misleading, or wrong. At times, they might even be harmful. Activity-Centered Design is superior," writes Don Norman, kicking offan essay for the ACM.Comment:Last year I interviewed Don Norman for Online,here.
"At this evening's OSCON Tuesday Night Extravaganza Google and O'Reilly came together to begin the first of an annual Open Source Awards to honor five open source people whose contributions over the past year have been exceptional in five categories: Communicator, Evangelist, Diplomat, Integrator, and Hacker." Thewinners.
"A low-cost laser scanning system could help in the fight against document and ID fraud, according to its developers at Imperial College London," reportsBBC News." The Laser Surface Authentication (LSA) system scans tiny surface variations of paper, plastic, metal and ceramics to detect the material's 'fingerprint'. The system then records the naturally occurring pattern of imperfections. The imperfections are so minute, say the scientists, that they are virtually impossible to replicate."Thanks to Ken Young for the link....
I'm really falling for DS now. I love the way that developers have just looked at the touch-screen component, shrugged their shoulders, rolled up their sleeves and said, "right, we're going to use this – it's daft, it doesn't belong in the sleek modern world of videogame hardware, but we're going to use it". And they have.In the Blue Lagoon-style adventure, Lost In Blue, for example, you use the stylus to dig up shells and shake trees (you can also blow into the mic to start a fire), while point-and-click puzzler, Another Code, comes up with all sorts of innovative touch-screen tricks that you shouldn't hear about until you play the game. Then there's Pac-Pix and Yoshi's Touch and Go...But this is the masterpiece – Trauma Centre: Under The Knife. Here you play a doctor performing a series of ever more complex operations, with the stylus taking on the role of your trusty scalpel. One day you're removing a tumour, the next you're bandaging something up - all presented as a series of puzzle-filled challenges. As these screenshots reveal, the other characters spend a lot of their time barking instructions at you. There's a great one with the nurse just screaming "Wha-what? How could something like this happen?!" Wonderful.Trauma Centre: Under The Knife is out in October
Ethiopian government offices are austere affairs. They even lack the typical African decoration of the president's portrait on the wall. None of the furniture would fetch 10p in a British junk shop.One detail disturbs this pattern - a large flat-screen plasma monitor, plugged into a rack of digital routers, appears to have been teleported from another universe.The kit is here to support the world's most unexpected e-government programme: Ethiopia, one of Africa's poorest countries, is spending one tenth of its GDP every year on IT. Over the next five years, the government plans to invest more than $100m (&pound;56m) in public sector computers. It aims to equip hundreds of government offices and schools with broadband internet connections. And by 2007, according to the plan, none of Ethiopia's 74 million people will live more than a few kilometres from a broadband access point. The nucleus of this network, 4,000km of optical fibre, has already been laid and will be fully commissioned later this year.Ethiopia's IT programme is an extreme example of the aspiration of several African countries to leap out of their quagmire of decaying public services with the help of IT. The dream is to skip an entire generation of infrastructure by going directly to internet technology.Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian prime minister, talks of IT providing a short cut to development. "I want to see ICT pervade all our activities as a government, not just in the urban areas. We want to connect all our villages in two to three years. All education services, likewise. We would also like to provide a bit of telemedicine."Telecommunication of any kind is a novelty in Ethiopia. In the 1980s, when I first visited the country to report the famine, making a phone call outside the capital meant picking up the receiver and waiting for an operator to set up a crackly radio link. Two decades on, only 1.2% of the population have a telephone. Internet usage is low even by African standards.Meles deals briskly with talk that a country where female life expectancy is 50 and famine still threatens millions should have different priorities. IT is no luxury, he says, but rather a "crucial weapon to fight poverty".He says the national digital network underpins two specific "pro-poor" projects, to connect schools and local government offices.Schoolnet is an attempt to overcome Ethiopia's desperate shortage of teachers, especially in remote areas. Schools already receive video lessons broadcast for eight hours a day by satellite TV. The syllabus, based on South African material, is being digitised for transmission over the internet so that teachers at the receiving end can prepare beforehand and control the pace of lessons (so long as their electricity supply is working). Demissew Bekele, head of the government's educational media agency, says this control is essential for children moving from primary to secondary school, where the medium of instruction is English.The education minister, Genet Zewdie, says there is no alternative to e-learning. "IT is expensive, but ignorance is more expensive."Woredanet is the country's first step in e-government. For the first time the network connects all 600 of Ethiopia's local councils (woredas) to 11 regional capitals through internet telephone and video-conferencing. Half the links are by cable, and half by satellite. The broadband infrastructure also offers the chance for small towns to install their first payphone.Previously, official reports would take months to reach the capital. Often early warning signs of famine, such as falling livestock prices, would not get through until a crisis had developed. Woredanet has not yet been tested in such circumstances, however it was mobilised in earnest earlier this year to train officials running the May general election - by far the most open in Ethiopia's long history.Efficient communications between tiers of government are part of a programme of administrative reform that speaks a language strikingly similar to Tony Blair's vision of citizen-centric e-government."The whole purpose is to change the mindset of the civil service," says the man in charge, Tefera Waluwa, minister for capacity building. He talks of "transparency and accountability, fairness, efficiency and effectiveness" enabled by the technology.Tefera says his reforms have already reduced the time taken to issue a foreign investment licence from 225 days to two hours. His target is one hour. It was done by looking at all the procedures and asking why they were necessary. Unlike his British counterparts, however, Tefera is not seeking to re-engineer public employees out of their jobs. "The government has a shortage of educated people. When someone is redundant in one office, they will be required in another place."Another innovation in the programme is an information desk in every government agency. Tefera shows off an official name badge on his lapel, which he says is compulsory issue to all his civil servants.Ministers say that, eventually, the government's networks will become community internet facilities. Today, widespread internet use is a distant dream. Even by the standards of the world's least wired continent, Ethiopian internet usage is low: less than 0.1% of the population goes online. According to Internet World Stats, this places it in the same league as Niger and the Democratic Republic of Congo and way behind Kenya (1.2%), let alone South Africa (7.3%). Britain's score is 59%.Ethiopia's digital infrastructure is being built by the national telecom operator, the publicly-owned Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation. Its main contractors are Cisco Systems (whose guest I was) and Business Connexion, a South African-based IT services firm. The government subsidises the project with a tax break and by underwriting bonds. "We do not spend a cent of the budget per se," says Meles.In fact, Meles says that money is by no means his main problem. "There are two things we need. One is training and manpower. So whatever technical assistance the west can give with high quality internet technology is the most important thing."The second is hardware. "I know that people throw away computers that are two or three years old," says Meles. "We could do with five, six, seven-year-old computers that work."Ethiopia is already receiving used hardware from a Brussels-based organisation Close the Gap. It supplies renovated corporate PCs, sorted in standard packages and with new Windows licences for between &euro;45 and &euro;90 per machine.One consequence of Ethiopia's knowledge gap is reliance on Windows and other proprietary software. Meles, a former guerilla leader who overthrew the dictator Mengistu in 1991, is at ease discussing the question of open source software."Our position is determined by the fact that proprietary suppliers have the money to provide initial support," he says. "To implement open source needs a minimum of training and at the moment we don't have that. In five or 10 years time, we will be in a position to choose."Whether the dream of IT helping African countries fast-track to development will become reality is impossible to predict. The worry must be that national broadband infrastructures will repeat the story of the 1960s and 1970s, in which ambitious industrial and agricultural projects proved unsustainable after lining the pockets of the African elite.There are some signs that the new wave will be different. One is the existence of grass-roots demand for IT throughout Africa. In many big cities, cellphone networks and cybercafes have bypassed incompetent and corrupt official analogue channels of communication. In Ethiopia, mobile phones outnumber fixed lines. The phenomenon turns on its head the whole concept of "appropriate technology".African leaders enjoy demonstrating that the latest digital router can be as appropriate to a developing country as a bullock cart or an efficient wood-burning stove. Ethiopians in particular detest the West's automatic association of their ancient country with famine and charity."We're not waiting for handouts," assures Genet, "but we do need partnerships."In Ethiopia's case, it is especially hard to be objective. The country's distinctive culture and the scale of its problems make any visit an intense experience, especially for anyone who saw something of the bad years. Merely sitting in a government office brings back vivid memories of hearing officials reciting district-by-district statistics of families "affected" and "seriously affected" by famine.The capital, Addis Ababa, looks so changed that it is easy to fall into the trap of over-optimism about an IT-enabled future. But Ethiopia is not Addis Ababa. So long as the vast majority of its people are subsistence farmers scraping a living from a hostile environment, IT can only be part of a bigger package of slow and painful reform.That doesn't mean it is not a good investment. In any case, Ethiopians don't regard themselves as second-class human beings: no outsider is going to persuade them to have second-class ambitions.LinksEthiopian news agencywww.ena.gov.etEthiopian Telecommunications Corporationwww.telecom.net.etClose the Gapwww.close-the-gap.org&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In another of its little celebrity marketing frivolities, EA has announced that pop star Natasha Bedingfield will be 'appearing' in the forthcoming videogame adaptation of From Russia With Love, which also 'stars' Sean Connery and Maria Menounos from Fantastic Four. The singer will "lend her voice and likeness" to the character of Elizabeth Stark, daughter of the Prime Minister. As the press release puts it:"The game is set in the original 60's Bond era featuring movie based missions as well as original action-intensive sequences, a broad and deep variety of gameplay and fully integrated vehicles," said Jon Rissik, Senior Marketing Director EA Europe. "Natasha Bedingfield is an exceptional British talent and was a natural choice for this part."You may remember they've done this before - squeezing adigital Kelly Brookinto Need For Speed Underground 2. It is, of course, all about securing pre-release coverage in the mainstream press. And I've fallen right into their despicable trap.Oh well. I like the way that the digital Bedingfield looks very little like the real one. It reminds me of a Madame Tussaud wax work - you can see the resemblance if you concentrate hard enough. But only just.
This week's edition of Guardian Online leads on anew plan by the Ethiopian governmentto turn the country into one of Africa's technology leaders. With a spend of $100m and mention of widespread internet access, critics are wondering whether it's money that could be better spent elsewhere. We've been to Addis Ababa and heard the rationale direct from the Ethiopian prime minister himself.What else? Well, we've got afirst look at Windows Vista, the new Microsoft operating system that has just gone into beta testing.We glance over the entire Grand Theft AutoHot Coffeesex-mod debacle, and wonder why there's so much fuss aboutsex in gamesin the first place. We're also following the launch of a new citizen journalist photo agency,Scoopt, and watching the debate over thefuture of digital music.Of course, there's much, much more.Click herefor the full listing.
While the whole world has been distracted byhotcoffee...The concerned rumblings are starting to register on the seismograph inSecond Life, my interactive entertainment du jour. The virtual world has its ownvery dark side, and mumblings byassorted playersandobserversare starting to bring this to the fore. It's not something that's advertised by the company who makes SL for reasons understandable, as Tony Walsh ofClickable Culturepoints out:Second Life is divided into self-contained Teen (no sexual content allowed) and Adult (18+) zones, with the latter further split into "PG" and "Mature" areas. Despite the isolation of sexual content to appropriate areas, it could be argued that Second Life, like Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, contains "hidden" sexual content. Although extremely popular within the SL community, Mature content isn't advertised by developers Linden Lab as the sort of content one might discover in their virtual world.Fair enough, Linden Lab want to keep the Moral Majority away from their door, and to date they've been pretty liberal about what is included – across all the behaviour spectra, not just hanky panky. But there are a few people on the warpath at the minute, and their contentions about games as innocuous asSims 2might spur the rabid to look elsewhere to hold on to the media spotlight.AussieNeal Stewartasks what might happen to SL now that GTA: San Andreas has been banned outright for its explicit content, if the powers that be find out what goes on under (and over) the sheets in that version of the metaverse.Under currentinternet censorship legislationin Australia, if Second Life were to be classified R - which I imagine it would - it would not be banned. However, should the Australian government ever consider Second Life to be a 'computer game' - even an adult one - it would get the chop.Interesting distinction there, and one echoed by SL's developers. They're keen to distance themselves from "games", arguing that their product is a virtual world. But that's another discussion.I feel there's also an important distinction to be made between the unlockable content in San Andreas and that which goes on in SL (and many other online games) which contributes to the sexiness of the play. The content that occurs in virtuality is between consensual adults -over 18s. What happens in GTA is between a male avatar and a consensualnon-playable character(also over-18). I can only be CJ in GTA: SA, doing things (or having things done) that the animators think is sexy, whereas I can be anyone in SL doing whatever I think is. Somehow that sits better with me on a digital sexiness barometer. The content emerges from the players, and is therefore inherently more sexy. Of course, this then unveils all sorts of problems which have led to closing doors of various Messenger services etc etc etc.Linden Lab areverycareful about ensuring that there are no under-18s in the over-18 world and vice versa. People are booted for pretending to be something they're not, and whatever your views on the varying maturity of under-18s, that's the law and they have to stick with it to stay in business. As Walsh comments,Given the recent rabidity of the Morality Police, Linden Lab might consider repositioning Second Life's sexual content before censors discover what goes on inside the gates.Still, if this is the way interactive entertainment wants to go, the boys at Rockstar should go to Second Life next time they want to learn how tomake sex in games sexy.
Windows Vista, formerly code-named Longhorn, is still a distant prospect for most people. The official launch date is "in the second half of 2006" but last week senior Microsoft vice president Will Poole appeared to narrow it down to autumn. Looking at beta 1, it's obvious that there's still a lot to do. But even though this version is far from polished, you can see where it's headed.What you can't see is the sidebar, which has been banished and may never return. The user interface isn't the final version of Aero - we'll see more of that in beta 2. But it does boast dots-per-inch (DPI) scaling, animation and transparency - if you have a powerful graphics card and the right drivers. (ATI and nVidia are the only companies producing drivers so far.) It also has Virtual Folders and the first search and organisation tools intended to deliver the "clear" part of Vista.At first glance, the search tool doesn't look that different from the MSN Windows Desktop Search you can download for Windows XP. It's still based on the iFilter search already in Windows rather than on WinFS, which will let developers extend Windows metadata with their own fields. What's different is the way search appears in almost every window, and how it's used for organising the files you deal with all the time.Click Documents or Pictures on the Start menu and you don't get the equivalent of My Documents ("My" has now been banished). Instead, you get a virtual folder of all your documents or pictures, whichever folder they're actually stored in. The breadcrumb trail at the top of Explorer windows makes it obvious where you are, and works as a drop-down menu, too.You can slice and dice virtual folders using standard metadata, such as author and date of creation, and add your own keywords and labels to organise files. Save a search and you've got a virtual folder that you can use for as long as you like, without locking yourself into a complex hierarchy of folders.Search even works in the Start menu, and you can pick programs to open by typing the first few letters into the search box. The All Programs menu opens as an expanding tree inside the Start menu rather than spreading across the screen.One of the main areas Microsoft wants to test with beta 1 is deployment using both the new-style set-up and the imaging and deployment tools for corporates. Installing Vista doesn't mean copying thousands of individual compressed files. The DVD contains a snapshot of a working version of Windows, and which can be copied across - and you don't need to fill in anything except the serial number.Enterprises can create a single image covering all the languages, versions and hardware they need, then add patches and applications to it by editing the configuration file rather than by rebuilding the image from scratch. A single image will cover desktop PCs, notebooks and Tablet PCs, because ink and voice recognition will be in all versions.Beta 1 has a handful of new Tablet PC features, including an input panel that docks at the side of the screen and can float anywhere, rather than being fixed at the bottom of the screen. You can erase text by drawing a line through it rather than scribbling furiously, scroll through web pages with the pen, and turn on checkboxes to make it easier to select files and folders in Explorer.Security is something Vista has to get right. Beta 1 introduces User Account Protection - Microsoft's attempt to make non-administrator accounts useful. If you have an administrator account, viruses and spyware that infect you get the same high-level privileges. It is much safer to run as a limited user in Windows XP, with fewer privileges, but then many applications won't work. For example, you can't install drivers, use a VPN (virtual private network) or even change the time.Not only does Vista let users do more without being an administrator, it adds the option to type in a password to use features that don't work for standard users. It can also create virtual folders and registry keys for applications that write to areas of the system that limited users can't access.Internet Explorer 7, which is part of Vista, will run with even lower privileges to prevent attacks; that's not in beta 1, but there is an option to turn off all browser add-ons. The phishing filter (to check for known hacker sites) isn't there yet either, but the beta 1 version does have tabbed browsing, readable views of RSS feeds and the option to change the default search engine to Google or Yahoo.Secure Startup is the only Palladium (secure computing) feature to make it into Vista so far. This uses TPM (Trusted Platform Module) microchips to store encryption keys to encrypt the entire system as soon as the PC boots. The Windows firewall has also been updated so that it blocks unauthorised outbound connections as well as incoming attacks.An operating system that runs faster, crashes less, doesn't force you to log in as an administrator to install a printer, and is harder to infect with malware shouldn't be news. It should just be the way computers work. But given the state of Windows security, the beta 1 of Vista is good news for IT staff and users alike.LinksWindows Vistawww.microsoft.com/windowsvistaWindows Vista Resources for IT Proswww.microsoft.com/technet/windowsvista/
Grand Theft Auto has survived sensational tabloid headlines, endured a demonisation by the religious right and careered through the picket lines that once regularly surrounded the offices of its New York publishers. But last week, the best-selling Scottish computer game finally met its match - in the shape of an 85-year-old grandmother.Manhattan resident Florence Cohen fought against the motley crew of virtual muggers and car thieves trying to grab the attention of her 14-year-old grandson. The octogenarian is suing the game's makers, Rockstar Games, after realising there is sexual content hidden in the game that can be unlocked on the internet.Although the sexually explicit content can only be accessed by downloading a special software modification called "Hot Coffee" from the internet, the fifth incarnation of the game franchise was last week removed from store shelves in the US and Australia.The game's publisher, the New York branch of Rockstar Games, a subsidiary of Take-Two Interactive, is rushing to comply with the US Entertainment Software Ratings Board, which has ordered the game to be re-rated as an "adults only" title. Rockstar is protesting against the reclassification, saying "Hot Coffee" has nothing to do with the company and is entirely the work of third party hackers.Cohen says she bought Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which is produced in Leigh, near Edinburgh, for her grandson "without knowing it contained hidden, sexually explicit scenes". But she quickly realised that the game was unsuitable and immediately took it away from the teenager. Cohen's action is believed to be the first of several legal actions of this type taken against the firm.It remains unclear as to how Cohen first learned of the "Hot Coffee" modification, which appeared on the internet in early June. The modification, listed on the fan site GTAGarage.com as being capable of creating "uncensored interactive sex scenes with your girlfriends in San Andreas", allows players to take the game's protagonist to the house of a female character and engage in various sexually explicit acts. "Hot Coffee" quickly caught on, registering hundreds of thousands of downloads in the first month.What began as a storm in a coffee cup has quickly brewed into something more serious. Hillary Clinton has steamed in to the debate, firing off a letter to the US Federal Trade Commission stating: "We should all be deeply disturbed that a game, which now permits the simulation of lewd sexual acts in an interactive format with highly realistic graphics, has fallen into the hands of young people across the country."Adding that the problem of "explicit" video games was "spiralling out of control", Clinton said she would introduce legislation to crack down on the sale of violent and sex-laden games to minors.The inconsistent morality of many of Grand Theft Auto's critics has not been lost on the gaming community. As American games journalist Rob Fahey said, Cohen "bought a 17+ recommended game for her teenage grandson, featuring car theft, shootings, muggings, cop-killing, prostitution and plenty more, but now wants compensation because it also turned out to feature badly animated dry humping, which could be unlocked only by deliberately downloading a patch off the internet."And it's not just Grand Theft Auto that is under threat of legislation. Even "family" titles, such as The Sims 2, are in the prosecutors' sights. Late last week, a Florida-based attorney, Jack Thompson, said The Sims 2 is the games industry's "latest dirty little secret". He alleges it contains "full-frontal nudity, including nipples, penises, labia and pubic hair" - body parts that are pixelated in the off-the-shelf version of the game, but can be revealed with a downloaded "mod" from the internet.In a letter to the chairman of Electronic Arts, publisher of the Sims, Thompson wrote: "To the extent that your company does absolutely nothing to crack down on this apparent infringement upon EA's copyrighted material ... then EA collaborates, in every sense of the word, with the modders to put this material into the hands of consumers, many of whom are children."Despite its detractors, Grand Theft Auto has also won recognition for its bold depictions of gang warfare in urban areas. San Andreas is likely to stay on shelves in the UK. The British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) has reviewed the content of the "post-modification code" and does not feel it warrants any further evaluation of the game's existing 18 rating.So how much can games companies do to prevent third parties making illicit versions of their games? UK company Eidos once doused a similar patch that allowed Lara Croft to appear naked. In the late 90s, the company threatened to sue gamers downloading "Nude Raider" and sent cease and desist letters to the operators of servers facilitating the program. Nevertheless, there are still copies of Nude Raider on the internet if you look hard enough.The San Andreas fault, however, is likely to send a much more seismic shock through the games industry. The entrance of Senator Clinton and the cost of removing the game from stores - estimated to be as much as $45m (&pound;25m) - could mean future releases are made less vulnerable to such manipulation. As well as taming the more illicit nature of some games, however, it could well challenge creative content as a whole.
When every other phone has a camera and nearly everybody carries a phone, is there cash to be had for camera-toting citizen journalists? A new service calledScooptthinks there is.Kyle Macrae, an IT journalist and technical author based in Glasgow, recently launched Scoopt, the first photo agency set up "specifically and exclusively for citizen journalists". His aim is to recruit a large pool of amateur photographers armed with cameraphones and digital cameras. Members then hand their newsworthy images to Scoopt, which tries to sell them direct to newspapers and magazines, splitting the fee 50/50 with the photographer. The agency already has a couple of hundred members in nearly 30 countries."I looked around to see how amateurs who happen to get a lucky newsworthy snap were being handled by the media," says Macrae. "They weren't being handled at all. I realised that there had to be room for an agency that distributes amateur photographs and video on a professional, protective basis, just as there are dozens of agencies available to professional snappers."In the aftermath of the July 7 London bombings, ordinary people rapidly uploaded images to photo-sharing sites. More than 1,000 related photos were sent to oneFlickr groupalone. Established news organisations were quick to get in on the act. "The Guardian, the BBC and other outlets asked for people to send them images - free - and they did," says Jeff Jarvis ofbuzzmachine.com, a citizen journalism evangelist who works for the New York Times content companyAbout.com. "Many of these became iconic images of the event."The speed with which the images became available on July 7, and that they were taken by people experiencing the bombings firsthand, is arguably what made the early footage so compelling. "If people hold back those images in the hope of selling them, they lose their immediacy and thus some of their value," says Jarvis.Speed isn't a problem for Scoopt, says Macrae: "When a member submits a photo, we can have that in the hands of an editor within seconds." Maybe so, but there is no such middleman for most bloggers or photo-sharers. No editor, no budget considerations and no negotiations, which all take time, and people are not going to stop sharing photos online just because there's a chance Scoopt might help them get a payment."Scoopt has no ambition to provide an alternative news service in the way that blogs andOhMyNews&#91;a Korean news website written by its readers&#93; set out to do," explains Macrae. "Our job is to support the mainstream media, not to compete with it. I imagine that some &#91;Flickr users&#93; would be horrified to see their images used by, say, Fox News or the Sun, but that's the price of sharing. I imagine that others would get a kudos kick from a byline. Next time around, they might fancy making some money out of it."Scoopt insist on an exclusivity period of three months - members cannot publish their photos anywhere else during that time. Such restrictions may dissuade some from joining up, but not all. "It looks rather tempting," says Gareth Potter, who uploaded 76 bombing photos to Flickr on and after July 7. "It would be great to have one's photo published in the mainstream media."Macrae thinks a compulsory disclosure form and registration process will thwart the huge potential for hoax images. As for an ethical policy, "we will walk away from any picture that we don't feel comfortable with, even when it has a potentially high value," he says.Adam Stacey'scameraphone imageof a man in the London underground covering his mouth during the July 7 bombings certainly had high value. It was blogged from his mobile phone 15 minutes after a bomb exploded on the Piccadilly line near Kings Cross. Alfie Dennen had the image on his site,moblog.co.uk, immediately.Global media outlets picked it up and Dennen decided to contact Stacey. "At first, the image was licensed using a 2.0 Creative Commons licence with no commercial use," says Dennen. "I spoke with Adam later that morning and said you have two options: you can syndicate with someone like AP, or you can release the image under a Creative Commons commercial license, allowing &#91;it&#93; to be picked up easily, as long as you are attributed authorship. He wisely chose the latter."Dennen cannot envisage the UK photo blogging community joining up with Scoopt. "I do not see the value in a service like Scoopt, as it lacks any real context but exists using an old world model of AP/Reuters style syndication," he says.Stacey hasn't made any money from his image, but if he had gone the more traditional route, he could have been quids in. "If this image had been placed exclusively with an independent photo agency, the price could have been in the thousands of pounds," says Will Carleton of PhotoArchiveNews.com. "After this, the general single usage cost of the image would be between &pound;70 and &pound;150 in any media. The image also has a very long life."Scoopt finds itself somewhere between the two worlds of old and new media: a place where few know which values will survive."Online is all about sharing; old media is all about holding back," says Jarvis. "Will citizen journalists decide not to share what they see so they can sell an exclusive to a paper or TV show? One needs to wonder whether the age of the exclusive is over, now that we live in a world where every witness can be a reporter."LinksCitizen scoopsScooptwww.scoopt.comOhMyNewswww.ohmynews.comAdam Stacey's photohttp://tinyurl.com/9bcbyJuly 7 Flickr grouphttp://tinyurl.com/as4j5&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It's a hard question for many Apple fans to ask, but the music industry is asking it nonetheless: what is going to supersede the iPod? Confident and cool as the white icon is in its domination of the digital download market, other gadgets are starting to muscle in on its territory.From one of the many music mobile phones being launched, to Sony's Playstation Portable (PSP) and other digital audio players - the iPod's reign is looking rocky. Or is it? MusicTank, a UK music industry thinktank, recently held a debate to tackle this theory. I Came, I Saw, iPod - What's Next? put the negatives of portable audio players - poor interoperability, limited battery life and the restraints of digital rights management - against those of mobile phones: burdens of storage, functionality and cost, to see which format could soon be singing its swansong.Technology columnist Charles Arthur opened the debate with a damning speech on mobile phones and the download space: "Can I store my entire album collection on my mobile phone? No. Can I download tracks quickly and easily? No, 3G isn't offering that yet. Can I access my music in a couple of clicks? No."The mobile companies do win on payment - people are used to buying ringtones on their mobile and having that charged to their phone bill, &#91;and&#93; the same system can work for downloads. But anything else - including navigation of the content, the price of the actual songs because of the licensing madness that is going on with the various formats, transferability backwards and forwards between a PC and mobile phone, especially the question of backing up - I think they will lose."The reach of the mobile industry, however, and its potential audience is far greater than any of the music download platforms, said Steve Mayall, MusicAlly mobile and wireless analyst. "It took the iPod four years to sell about 20m but you look at the growth of mobile phones and it just completely obliterates that," he said. "The text message market is bigger than the whole music community globally."Numbers are one thing, but customer satisfaction is another, and more operations on a mobile can mean less reliability. Dr Michael Bull, senior lecturer in media and film studies at the University of Sussex, said: "My research shows 25% of iPod users don't like their phones, &#91;often because&#93; they don't always work well," he said. "Phones can play music, but it doesn't mean people will want to listen to music on them."The idea of control and privacy is important to a music lover, and both these things are offered by the iPod. "To some extent, listening to music is about listeners immersing themselves and hopefully not being disturbed. You get a form of control by using an iPod, which mobile phones destroy as soon as someone else wants to phone you. It becomes interruptive," said Bull.Mobiles will also have to offer comparable storage to an iPod - as yet, only the upcoming Nokia N91 gets close. As Arthur says: "While the technology might catch up eventually, &#91;mobile companies&#93; are running out of time because Apple are also moving forward. A wireless iPod is increasingly likely. A video iPod, too."Arthur thinks the well-designed, media-rich PSP, with its large harddisk storage, will prove more of a contender to the iPod. But it, too, has drawbacks, such as its bulkier size and incompatibility with the popular iTunes Music Store.Barney Wragg, Universal's eLabs senior vice president, argued that Apple's focus on presentation and making their product work well holds the key. "If there's one thing that Apple showed us, it's that technology isn't the important thing," Wragg said. "Apple have succeeded because of style and consumer experience."Wragg thinks television may be the next digital music format. "Sky and others will introduce broadband-capable set-top boxes capable of supporting music sales," he said. "But these services will only work if I can transfer my purchases to my iPod."Convergence would be essential if the suggestion of a "celestial jukebox" was to work, too. Mayall argued that music could be sold as a commodity, like water or power, through a subscription model and streamed to multiple devices with always-on access. But, as Bull said: "If you can access everything, you can't choose anything", pointing to the success of the iPod Shuffle, which takes the hard work out of song selection.The final choice will be with the consumer and which format they feel is the best to store and transport their music. For now, the iPod is definitely the Apple of their eye.
More and more of us are creating movies at home on our computers... and to celebrate this, we're today launching theGuardian laptop film award.Click hereto read director Mike Figgis and our film critic, Peter Bradshaw, introducing the award - and find out how to enter.
Come togetherWe have two BT phone lines into two separate buildings about 75 yards apart, and use dial-up internet on both. Could I combine these into one phone line so that either or both computers could be online at the same time as the phone is being used? There is no data cabling between the buildings, but there is mains wiring between them.Nick PeedJack Schofield replies:Switching to broadband and installing a modem/router will enable you to keep two or more PCs connected to the internet and also make voice calls at the same time. In theory, you should be able to connect the second PC via a mains-borne network using standard HomePlug devices. Devolo's MicroLink dLan Starter Kit (www.maplin.co.uk/Media/PDFs/a70cx.pdf) is one example, and there's a review atwww.adslguide.org.uk/hardware/reviews/2004/q4/devolo.asp. However, mains signalling suffers from noise, and typically runs much slower than Ethernet (Cat5) cable. Also, 75 yards may be close to the practical limit, though Devolo's spec sheet says its kit will work at 200m. It's probably worth a try. HomePlug is much cheaper and apparently much easier to set up than a wireless connection, and it should be much faster than dial-up.Pool gamesWe are looking for portable hardware to play simple games while lazing by a pool, such as two decks solitaire, Space Invaders, Breakout etc. We are not getting any younger, so the screen would need good visibility.Les and Wendy MunnJS:Nintendo's Game Boy Advance SP is the obvious choice, but it must be the SP version for the backlit screen. It is neat, very portable, has a good selection of old games, and is fairly reasonably priced at about &pound;70. The Nintendo DS (Dual Screen) may be even better, at about &pound;100, for the stylus controller. The DS will also run GBA games. However, Sony is launching the PlayStation Portable (PSP) on September 1. This is much more powerful than the GBA SP and has a bigger 4.3in widescreen. The PSP's main drawbacks are the price - about &pound;180 - and the limited battery life. If price is not a problem, it would be best to compare the three main options in a shop.Playing tagI signed up with a web hosting company a year ago and after many disconnections, email failures and other problems I want to move our site somewhere else. The problem is that this company will not answer the phone or reply to emails, and the new hosting company needs them to release the domain in order to complete the transference.M A MarquesJS:Contact Nominet UK, which will change the domain tag for you for a fee of &pound;15 plus VAT, regardless of whether the holder likes it or not. The change will be made regardless of any disputes or unpaid debts, so registrars can no longer try to hold domain names hostage. There are answers to common questions atwww.nominet.org.uk/TagHolders/TagChangeFaq/Cruisin' tunesI've downloaded some protected WMA files from a music site, not knowing they were in this format. I want to change them to wav files so I can play them on a CD in the car. I've bought two different converters, neither of which will convert the files.Jack ChambersJS:You should look on the music site for an FAQ (list of frequently asked questions) or other help file that says what you are allowed to do with the files: permissions vary. With all protected music files, most people seem to get round the problem by burning them to CD in the original format, then re-ripping them. In fact, you may find your CD player can play WMA (Windows Media Audio) files. There's also a commercial Windows program called Tunebite (www.tunebite.com), which will run in the background and automatically re-record songs in the open Ogg Vorbis format. The site claims: "This is legal and foolproof.".Backchat&middot; Last week, Judith Chegwidden was looking for a travel charger to handle a range of devices. Simon Haye says: "I travel with a laptop, digital camera, iPod, cellphone, Bluetooth headset and PDA. I have a Juice power supply (www.igo.com) as sold in Radio Shack stores across the US. This will work on 120/220/240V and in a plane or car, and will power most laptops. There is a small add-on module that will allow you to charge iPods, digital cameras etc via a small changeable tip. It costs about $120 (&pound;68), plus $3 per tip for each additional device." Seewww.mobilityelectronics.com/power/juice/&middot; I suggested buying a domain name (such as joebloggs.com) to get a personal email address. Steve Lyon says: "Don't forget the opportunity to have a .me.uk address."&middot; In the quest for cheaper printing, Tim Kaye points out that his Canon has four separate ink tanks so individual colours can be replaced as they run out. "Non-Canon replacement tanks can be obtained for as little as &pound;1.30 on eBay," he adds. Send comments and questions to Jack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Zen takes on the iPodAt face value, it would appear that Creative's new 20GB hard disk jukebox, the &pound;199 Zen Sleek, is unlikely to cause Apple or Sony execs too many sleepless nights. It can't rival the Sony NW-HD5's superb battery life or compact size, and as for the iPod, while the Zen Sleek's Touch Pad makes finding tracks simple, it is no match for the Apple player's scroll wheel.The Zen Sleek does, however, have plenty going for it: a neat silver and white finish and an excellent large backlit LED screen. It also has an onboard FM radio tuner, can double as voice recorder and it will play back WMA files downloaded from online music sites such as Napster.The Creative Zen Media Explorer software offers an alternative way of adding tracks to the device. Sound quality is good, delivering a gutsy, upfront sound that's bassier than its two rivals. It might lack the sex appeal of the iPod and NW-HD5, but if the extra features appeal it's worth considering.www.creative.comAshley NorrisTelevisionNext year, Sky will introduce high definition TV (HDTV) to the UK, delivering cinema-like pictures to high-end flat screen TVs. However, while many viewers will be enjoying the richer colours and pin-sharp resolution of HDTV, very few of those images will be accompanied by cinema-style sound. For although TVs, DVD players and systems with home cinema facilities have been available for more than a decade, according to Sony only 8% of British home owners have invested in one.Kulwinder Singh Rai, spokesman for home cinema retailer Sevenoaks Hi-Fi, believes that home cinema system makers in the UK face one key obstacle - the size of British homes. "The average US house measures 2,100 sq feet in area while UK houses average out at around 1,200 sq feet. That extra space makes it much easier to accommodate a stack of home cinema separates plus a multi-speaker surround sound system."Over the years, manufacturers have come up with a host of ways of offering surround sound without the rear speakers, almost all of which have been spectacularly unsuccessful. Last year, however, Yamaha introduced the YSP-1, a lozenge-shaped system designed to sit under a screen that houses 42 digital amplifiers driving 42 speakers. It works using a digital signal processing system that formulates delay and phase differences between the speakers to fire surround sound into the room.Sony recently unveiled the DAV-X1, which delivers what the company claims is true home cinema surround from just a pair of speakers. And, though it is no match for a wired surround system, it clearly works, with some effects appearing as if they are coming from behind the listener. Philips' HTS8000S system, which works in a similar way, is due in a couple of months.The problem for consumers is that the systems are expensive (the Yamaha costs &pound;800 while the Sony will debut later this month for &pound;900), though Yamaha is promising to offer a more mass market oriented system in September.While the Yamaha and Sony systems show promise, many in the industry are still convinced that consumers who want to replicate the cinema experience in their home need a wired set-up.Manufacturers remain optimistic that as consumers upgrade to HDTV they will open their ears to surround sound. "There might have been a lot of column inches about HDTV," argues Susan Richardson, home audio and video product manager for Sony, "but as consumers get used to better picture quality, so they will demand better audio to match."Ashley NorrisOut with the oldFlat screen television sales have overtaken those of traditional cathode ray models for the first time, according to high street retailer Argos. The firm, which sells more televisions in the UK than anyone else, says that 60% of its customers are buying LCD or plasma - the first time they have placed higher than old-school style sets. Sharp will be one of those looking for a little booster on the back of this news, with a new pair of titanium-style LCD screens. The GD7 comes in at 32in or 37in and boasts an integrated digital tuner, while the GA6 is also available in 26in, but without built-in DTV. Both models will go on sale in September, but there's no news yet on price.www.sharp.co.ukMirror imageBritish company VisionMirror has introduced its debut product - a mirror that incorporates an LCD TV. While the set, which is housed in a 3ft x 2ft mirror, is switched on, its owners can watch analogue TV via its integrated tuner or connect it to an adaptor/network to view digital TV stations or surf the web. However, when the set is turned off, the manufacturer claims it becomes invisible with users only seeing the mirror. The set is available in a trio of sizes: 15in 4.3 shape, and 17in and 23in widescreen. They will be available later in the year.www.visionmirror.comAudio equipmentStations galoreHi-fi specialist Acoustic Energy has unveiled a standalone radio unit that can tune into internet stations via a user's wireless network and play them back through its integrated speakers. The radio is compatible with all three main streaming solutions (Real, Windows and MP3) and has 2,500 stations stored in its memory. To play them, users select the station they want using the radio's rotary control knob and LCD display. The device can also play MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files that users have stored on PCs in their wireless network. The Wi-Fi Radio goes on sale in the autumn for about &pound;200.www.acoustic-energy.co.ukSounds good to meThere might be a month left until we finally see the official European launch of Sony's PlayStation Portable, but that hasn't stopped the torrent of accessories. Logic3 is the latest company looking to cash in on the market, with two new products both aimed at giving a boost to the unit's audio appeal. The Sound Effects unit, &pound;50, works much like one of the many iPod speaker systems available, acting as a dock that can turn your PSP into a small hi-fi. Conveniently, it can either be powered by battery or mains, and also works with MiniDisc and MP3 players. The &pound;20 SoundGrip, meanwhile, is a clip-on combination that will boost the sound of your PSP while you play. It's probably not the best idea to use it on the bus, as if mobiles weren't bad enough, but in the comfort of your own home.www.spectravideo.comCamerasSensitive stuffFujifilm has released a high-end digital camera that boasts digital SLR style features yet is housed in a compact camera-style case. The &pound;500 FinePix S9500 Zoom has a resolution of nine megapixels, sports a 28-300mm Fujinon zoom lens with twist-barrel zoom control, features a 1.8in LCD screen and can capture VGA video images at 30 frames per second. The camera also has a sensitivity setting of ISO 1600, which Fujifilm claims makes it ideal for shooting in low light conditions. It has a start up time of just 0.8 seconds and stores images on xD-Picture cards.Sony-liteSony has unveiled the latest in its range of ultra-thin T digital cameras. Due on sale in the UK in September, the 15.3mm thick DSC-T5 features the Carl Zeiss Vario-Tessar lens, five megapixel resolution, 2.5in LCD monitor and 3x optical zoom of its predecessors, the DSC-T3 and T7. The new camera has improved battery life with more than 300 shots per charge and is available in four "autumnal colours": red, champagne gold, silver and black. It also features 32MB of internal memory, which can be supplemented by a Memory Stick Duo card, and includes a flash and MPeg video capture and playback. There's no confirmed price yet.www.sony.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie JohnsonStat of the weekCraigslist surges in popularityCraigslist, the free classifieds site that started out as a round-robin email in San Francisco, is increasing its market share dramatically. Visits to the site rose by 62% year on year, although not many visitors go to the areas dedicated to British cities.
The New York Times is to merge its online and offline newsrooms in an effort to enhance its digital journalism.The move comes 10 years after the launch ofNytimes.com, which is now the most visited newspaper website in the world.The executive editor of the New York Times, Bill Keller, told the Guardian the merger was not an attempt to save money."We're not planning on getting rid of anybody," he said. Instead the Times is to spend more on new media training for its journalists as it seeks to better exploit the potential of the internet.In an email to staff announcing the changes, Mr Keller said: "By integrating the newsrooms, we plan to diminish and eventually eliminate the difference between newspaper journalists and web journalists - to reorganise our structures and our minds to make web journalism as natural to us as writing and editing, and to do all of this without losing the essential qualities that make us the Times."Mr Keller told the Guardian that it had become increasingly obvious in recent years that nytimes.com had developed as far as it could as a standalone operation."As long as the two newsrooms are separate, it almost inevitably means the web is something of an afterthought - you do your journalism for the paper, then you figure out ways to repurpose it for the web," he said.Mr Keller expects the merger to result in more content produced solely for the website including blogs, videos and other forms of interactivity. "All of those tools we use very sparingly at the moment," he said. With more than 80% of regular nytimes.com visitors now connected to broadband, there is a growing demand for such features.Although nytimes.com has an editorial staff of 50, it does not employ any dedicated online reporters. For the past six years the Times has operated a "continuous newsdesk" regime, where reporters file first for the website, and then for the paper. As part of the merger of the online and offline newsrooms, reporters will now be trained in ways they can enhance their journalism for the web.Mr Keller said there was "a lot of pent-up enthusiasm" among staff for closer integration of the website and print operations. "So far their reaction has mostly been along the lines of 'it's about time, how do I get a piece of the action?'" he said. "Almost everyone understands the web is the future."Jonathan Landman, the deputy managing editor of the New York Times, will oversee the mergerof the newsrooms. The transition will begin in the next few weeks but will not be completed until 2007 when the Times moves to a new building.The website recorded 11.2 million unique users in the US in June, and 14.3 million visitors worldwide.The decision to merge the newsrooms comes just a month before the New York Times launches a special paid section of its website.Subscribers to TimesSelect will pay $49.95 a year for daily access to copy from 22 prominent columnists and 25 years' worth of archived New York Times articles.
Sugar rushCharlie and the Chocolate FactoryPlayStation 2, Xbox &pound;39.992K Games,*When a game is out in the shops before a review copy arrives, the alarm bells start ringing. Sadly, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory fulfils all your fears, and more. This game is a shocker, and it is only slightly redeemed by the audio.First impressions, though, are fairly positive. The intro captures the whimsical and psychedelic nature of the film and book, and hopes are raised for a piece of solid children's entertainment. Then the action starts and it all goes wrong.Essentially the game is a mixture of platform jumping and Lemmings-style commanding of Oompa-Loompas. The latter is more interesting, with each Oompa having a different skill: some weld, some gather. Players have to use these talents to solve problems, such as unblocking a chocolate river drain. While this sounds good in theory - and credit goes to the developers for more than just platforming - in practice, the camera and controls render the action almost unplayable.The main problem is the Oompas themselves, who regularly get stuck behind scenery. Combine this with unresponsive controls and difficulty spikes that are out of kilter with most of the action, and you have a recipe for frustration. The platform sections are marginally better, but they are still marred by an erratic camera. Even the graphics are underwhelming, a big surprise considering the bold primary colour source material.It's obvious that this was rushed out to coincide with the film release, and underneath the mess there is a half decent game trying to get out. But, as it stands, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is enough to make you nauseous.Greg HowsonWorld in actionMeteosNintendo DS, &pound;29.99Bandai/Nintendo, ***Over the years, Nintendo has sought to add twists to the basic block-matching concept pioneered by Tetris, and Meteos falls into that category. The trick with such games is to combine the addictiveness of Tetris with gameplay that does not feel like that of Tetris, and Meteos manages this with aplomb. However, at times it feels as though it labours too hard towards those ends.The basic plot is somewhat risible: coloured Meteos are bombarding the universe, but when three or more are aligned horizontally, they ignite and lift off, rocket-like, towards space. So instead of differently shaped blocks falling to the bottom of your screen, single coloured blocks rain down, and you must align them by dragging and dropping vertically (within existing columns - no lateral movement of Meteos is possible). If you ignite Meteos at the bottom of a large stack, they may not have enough energy to leave your planet's atmosphere, so you might have to engage in further mid-air alignment.Overlapping stacks of rocket-fuelled Meteos can also send existing stacks that are above them (but returning to ground) into space. The end result is hectic, absorbing and extremely addictive in an untaxing manner. The lack of game modes does not impress - you can play until your screen fills up or save individual planets - but it's decent, frothy fare.Steve BoxerFiller fodderEarth 2160PC, &pound;34.99Reality Pump/Deep Silver, ****There's good and bad news here for fans of the Earth series. Certainly, it's the best looking of what was becoming a visually tired series. With a reasonably good PC, this looks as impressive as realtime strategy gets, with a 3D engine that rotates and zooms in effortlessly on some excellent animations and varied terrains.It's also generous, packing in four large single-player campaigns, each with their own distinctive units and strategies. On the down side, there are niggles: some are easily patched, others less so. The missions are so tightly scripted that they are unplayable if you achieve the objectives in the wrong order, and there's a bug that lets the game continue playing during scripted dialogue - very annoying if you're in the middle of a battle. It's also true that the Earth series used to have a stronger tactical element, but these ideas have been dropped for no good reason, exposing the fact that these are hardly campaigns at all - merely a series of increasingly similar missions.If you had been able to choose which territories to attack or defend, it would have raised this to the very top level of realtime strategy. It remains, however, a very competent filler.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Brian Lara International Cricket 20052.Madagascar3.Fantastic 44.Medal of Honor: European Assault5.Charlie and the Chocolate FactoryLeisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Although I'm a huge fan of the iPod and iTunes combination, I often think "that's it: nothing interesting left to say about them". Yet there's always something in the news that compels me to look at it again - this time it was the news that fraudsters could use iPods to steal company information.I love it when fraud investigators say things like "we found the data the employer said was missing on a former employee's iPod". I expect the company thought it had fallen down the back of the sofa. It reminds me of the story of the new office junior sent to fax a letter. "I don't get it," the junior said, "the machine says transmission successful, but the letter's still here".It looks as if the iPod is the latest TTCAWKI (threat to civilisation as we know it). Last year, I remember a similar headline, then caused by the Ministry of Defence, which was reported to have banned the iPod from sensitive areas because it can be used to copy and hide large amounts of data.If Apple had merely put out some advertisements mentioning that the iPod is a handy portable 60GB Firewire hard disk as well as a music player, who (apart from nerds like me) would care? The article went on with a "warning" from an expert that it's incredibly easy to download large amounts of data to an iPod. So not only is it convenient and portable but it's easy to use as well!Most people with iPods probably had no idea you could use them as hard disks. They do now. It's certainly rather useful to be able to keep a boot system on your iPod in case something goes wrong with your hard disk, and I imagine that some people do keep stuff other than music on theirs: but it's hardly earth shattering. On the other hand, now that this capability is officially a TTCAWKI, what self-respecting young person would want to be without one?What the Ministry of Defence was actually worried about, of course, was people wandering around secure areas with portable hard disks and other storage or communications devices. The last time I visited one of their establishments, I had to hand over my laptop and phone to be locked away until I was leaving.Apple must have the best public relations in the world to keep the iPod in the news this way, transforming a dull story about dreary Ministry of Defence security procedures into an exciting tale of hip culture versus the forces of reaction. But they could only have done it knowing that journalists would never have actually checked into the background.This is not to say that organisations with data that they don't want copied shouldn't have security policies in place. Peter Cochrane, formerly chief technologist at BT, once told me he'd been sitting in a record shop cafe and seen a group of teenagers taking CDs off the shelves, coming back to the cafe with them, ripping them on a laptop PC and loading them to each other's MP3 players. Having got all the music they wanted, they got up and walked out leaving the CDs in a tidy pile. It just shows us what we already knew: kids understand what it's all about before grown-ups do.
Passion for PacsI hope you get lots of feedback from senior clinicians like me, who are passionate about the new NHS picture archiving and communication system, Pacs (The last picture show, July 28). The hurdles to procurement are real, not least because of the costs of implementation. A cultural change among NHS staff, to win hearts and minds and change working practice, is also needed. But the benefits are real and most clinical staff I know want to embrace them.The issue of medical grade monitors is, however, important. The reporter, usually a radiologist, needs a high-resolution image that is equivalent to this so-called "19th century technology". Photographic images are resolved at a molecular level and users of early digital cameras were very aware of the grainy images produced. A similar problem occurs with digital medical images if they are displayed on a conventional monitor. Patients need their images "read" by an expert in timely fashion, but a high-quality display must be used to ensure all abnormalities are detected.Nick SpencerEmpty claimsHere is a new take on broadband and BT's marketing claim that it is available to 90% of the population. Oh no it is not, as I have discovered to my cost. BT is able to make that claim purely on the basis of whether they have ADSL-enabled an exchange, not whether anyone can actually be provided with the service. It has happened to me, where BT met its target of ADSL-enabling my exchange on July 20. In reality, nobody can have ADSL as BT say the exchange does not have the capacity to actually provide it. So, it seems BT is able to make claims that bear absolutely no resemblance to the reality experienced by customers. Nice bit of marketing, BT - more misinformation as usual.Chris BirdCornwallVista vexationJack Schofield yet again acts like an extension of the Microsoft PR department (Inside IT, July 28). No searching questions, just the docile acceptance that having all our digital media devices and content locked into one operating system is a good idea. He gave the game away when he had a dig at Apple. Microsoft may well have built a digital hub 10 years ago, but it still doesn't work properly. As far as I can see, OS X does practically everything Longhorn/Vista is promising without making everything Apple Media File format, which is what Microsoft's real game is here.Frank CooksonDesign don'tI sometimes come up against customers who've got their "clever" 14-year-old nephew to knock out a website for them. The question that stops them cold is: "Do you let him sign-write your van/dress your shop window as well?" Of course, if you mess up your van or window design, you can do it again, and the people you want to impress will probably see it. If someone has a bad experience on your site, the odds are they will never come back.Marc WilsonSwindonLinux liveFor those who don't want to download Knoppix 4 (Feedback, passim), you can get it on DVD from Elucis.com. Mine cost &pound;4.67, arrived in less than a week, and came with a selection of languages, including English.Nick DaviesCoulsdonNo dealMy employer offers the home computing initiative and it is an incredibly bad deal (Public Domain, July 28). You do not get a &pound;1,500 computer - you get a computer valued by the initiative at &pound;1,500. Real price in the high street or on the web? Vastly less.Unbelievably, thousands of my fellow employees have been taken in by this non-bargain. But then millions of people are taken in by the bull talked in computer shops, too.Ian McRobertPeterborough Many readers contacted us to ask about the home computing initiative, which gives government assistance to help workers buy computers, and offers tax breaks to employers. There are more details at the DTI's website:www.knowledgenetwork.gov.uk/oee/hci.nsf/BlogBackThe NHS employs about 1.3 million people in hundreds of GP practices, hospitals and specialised units - and is busy designing a single IT infrastructure for the lot. OK Heart (Modern medicine, July 28) is a hospital that the NHS can only dream about. Significantly, it is a stand-alone operation, so it has been able to implement systems that fit its needs. The NHS, of course, wouldn't want that to happen. It wants the seamless transfer of information throughout the system, ignoring the fact that as long as the data can be interpreted, systems do not need to be fully integrated. I don't offer any odds myself on much learning from previous experience taking place.www.free-conversant.com/irweblog/online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Google has redefined search on the internet, forcing every other search company to change its approach. Over the past year, Google has also been doing something that may have even more impact: redefining the way web applications are created.As with search, the company is not changing the world by forming committees, setting standards or signing up partners. It is doing it by creating applications that are better than the alternatives. There's a fair chance that these will become popular enough to force rivals to follow suit. Even if they don't, they are stimulating similar developments.The process started more than a year ago with the launch of the beta test version of Google's email system, Gmail. This was strikingly different to familiar web-mailed mail systems, such as Yahoo Mail and Microsoft's Hotmail, although we didn't have a trendy buzzword for it at the time.Gmail has been followed by a string of applications that use similar techniques, ranging from Google Suggest to Google Maps. The same ideas have also been used by other high-profile sites, including Amazon's A9 and Yahoo's Flickr. And a company called Adaptive Path has given the approach a catchy name, calling it Ajax, from Asynchronous JavaScript and XML.Many web developers will tell you there's nothing really new about Ajax: they've been doing the same sort of thing for years. Indeed, Microsoft practically invented the idea in 1997, for Outlook Web Access, the web-based version of its organiser. But several things have changed. Thanks to Google, everyone can now see exactly how Ajax can change the web, and thanks to Adaptive Path, they have a handy way of talking about it. Perhaps even more important, the rapid take-up of broadband internet connections has finally made Ajaxing practical.Web-based applications are normally slow and unresponsive because of the time taken to fetch things from the remote server. With an Ajax application, you have to download probably a couple of hundred kilobytes of code first - the Ajax engine - but after that, the application is (or should be) fast and very responsive.Once that code has been downloaded, the user is interacting with the Ajax engine on the local PC, not waiting for the remote server. And while information still has to be exchanged with the server, it is done asynchronously, and ideally in the background. It gets away from the World Wide Wait. It's easy to experience the difference by switching between the "standard" version of Gmail and the web-based http version provided for users with less capable browsers.There are lots of different ways to create applications that run in a web browser. Until Gmail, the conventional approach was to download Java applets or Microsoft ActiveX components, or possibly a Macromedia Flash application. All have their fans and uses.But, leading by example, Google is showing that Ajax can deliver the speed and responsiveness users crave without the heavy downloads and other overheads of alternative approaches.LinksAjax: A New Approach to Web ApplicationsAjax reconsidered&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
RSS feed frenzyGoogle has added more options to its experimental personalised portal page, and users can now add bookmarks and more news sources, among other things. Unfortunately, it looks as though you have to enter bookmarks one at a time, rather than just synchronising your current ones. iGoogle also works as an RSS reader, though it doesn't mention RSS on the main page, and the feature is hidden away. Briefly, you have to click on Add Content, then Create a Section, and paste in your RSS feed, such as blogs.guardian.co.uk/online/index.rdf for Onlineblog. Microsoft's latest experiment "myw3b" Start page is slicker and works better. On Start, go to Popular Feeds, click Staff Picks, and select MSN Bloggers Map for a neat example. Either way, My Yahoo has been doing RSS feeds since 2004, and the layout is much more practical than Google's.www.google.com/igwww.start.com/3/http://my.yahoo.com/Ask for the moonGoogle has had a hit with Google Maps and Google Earth, generating far more interest than Microsoft's old TerraServer (from 1998) and MapPoint offerings. Now Microsoft has responded with a beta version of MSN Virtual Earth. Google Earth is more polished and more fun to use, but if you want just want to compare maps, Ryan Jonasson has created a website where you can view the two side by side. However, only Google covers the moon.http://maps.google.com/http://virtualearth.msn.com/www.jonasson.orghttp://moon.google.com/Newspaper trailInsular Americans can now find out what the rest of the world thinks about them from the Watching America website. This is actually of wider interest because it carries translations of foreign news stories that are not available anywhere else in English (although most of them seem to be software translations that have been smoothed out by volunteers). Story sources range from The Belize Times to Botswana's Mmegi to South Korea's JoongAng Ilbo via a wide range of European and Middle Eastern papers.http://watchingamerica.com/Folk for fansThere's not much folk music on the radio, but fans can now turn to Radio Britfolk, a not-for-profit station on the web. The site is owned by Folkwise and run by a group of professional folk musicians from the Britfolk Yahoo Discussion Group, but anyone can contribute shows. A fully functional trial site is running now, and if successful, will lead to a launch in the autumn.www.radiobritfolk.co.ukwww.folkwise.orgCatch rising starsMTV has launched a webzine that is created by its readers. The company says Starzine "will undoubtedly open doors for kids who want to get into photography, journalism or who just want a new way to communicate with other people". It works on a points system, so the more readers your page gets, the more prominently it is displayed. MTV is launching Starzine in 11 European countries, each with its own very slow Flash site.www.mtv.co.uk/starzineRaise a handThe Left-Handers Club says it will be updating and relaunching its website on August 13, to celebrate the twelfth annual Left-Handers Day. It is also offering Lefty Zone posters for left-handers to download and display.www.lefthandersday.comA good eggClarence Court Eggs has installed a webcam so that you look at the "free-rangeness" of its hens, which include Mabel Pearman's, Burford Browns and Old Cotswold Legbars. According to the press release: "There is a calming, stress-relieving quality to watching chickens potter about." A hencam from your typical supermarket egg supplier, however, would probably put you off eggs - or supermarkets - for life.www.clarencecourt.co.uk/hencamSix of the bestSky Sports/MSNhttp://footballmsn.skysports.com/Soccernet/ESPNhttp://soccernet.espn.go.com/Team Talkwww.teamtalk.comFanbasewww.fanbase.inuk.comSoccerbase statisticswww.soccerbase.comFantasy Footballwww.fiso.co.uk
Cisco holedThe annual Black Hat security conference, held in Las Vegas last week, turned into an international incident after Michael Lynn, a researcher with Internet Security Systems, revealed a security hole in the Cisco routers that carry most internet traffic. In an attempt at censorship, Lynn's paper was torn from the conference proceedings, and his talk was cancelled. However, he then quit his job with ISS and demonstrated that he could gain control of a Cisco router - prompting lawsuits from Cisco and ISS for the public disclosure of illegally obtained proprietary information. Lynn settled with the two companies by agreeing never to repeat the information, and Lynn and Black Hat agreed never to disseminate a video made of Lynn's presentation. Lynn had said that exploiting the security flaw could bring the internet to its knees: "It is one of those cases where software can destroy hardware." Although Lynn said he only divulged "maybe 5%" of the information needed to do what he demonstrated, hackers are attempting to complete the task.http://tinyurl.com/b2z5uWi-Fi phoneCisco and Motorola are joining forces to develop a dual-mode GSM mobile phone with built in Wi-Fi wireless networking to provide internet telephony over a company's wireless data network. The companies say this will provide "a single mobile communications device that bridges the physical and virtual-office environments to enable anytime, anywhere communications for mobile business professionals." Cisco will provide the network and wireless infrastructure, while Motorola will handle the GSM and mobility aspects. The phones should be available early next year.Broadband cutsBT is slashing broadband access costs for small businesses and branch offices by 30%. The company will introduce the new charges for its wholesale SDSL service in November. Whereas download speeds for asymmetrical digital subscriber lines (ADSL) are faster than the upload speed, SDSL broadband uploads and downloads at the same rate. The cuts will benefit businesses needing extra capacity to run email servers and to provide remote access to online applications and teleconferencing. Connection charges for BT IPstream Symmetrical and BT Datastream Symmetrical will fall from &pound;450 to &pound;315 with lower annual rental costs and data transfer charges.http://tinyurl.com/87n8kUK leadBirmingham is the top city in Europe for e-government development, and a report from the University of Zaragoza in Spain places six UK cities in the top 10 online public administrations. Birmingham narrowly beat Barcelona for availability of services online, the level of e-democracy and web maturity. In the study of 35 cities across 12 EU countries, few cities are shown to be engaged in e-democracy by providing citizens with feedback forums and online voting but most have addressed local tax collection. Appointments and service bookings are still at an early stage of development. The other UK cities that made the top 10 were London, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Sheffield and Leeds.http://tinyurl.com/8yakrBig ironIBM is fighting the growth of clustered servers with the release of the zSeries z9 mainframe. Sales of the million dollar machines have waned in the three years since the z990 appeared, but IBM says it expects a turnaround as companies realise the advantage of the mainframe's reliability. The z9 can hold up to 56 processors and uses the latest version of IBM's Virtualization Engine to allow it to be sub-divided into 60 smaller virtual servers. IBM is targeting the emerging markets in China, Russia and Brazil to increase sales.http://tinyurl.com/c9og5Open scoresOne problem with open source software is that it is hard to know whether it is any good. However, Intel is joining with Carnegie Mellon West University and start-up company SpikeSource to sponsor a Business Readiness Ratings (BRR) scheme to categorise up to 10,000 open source programs according to each application's usability. The companies are inviting comment from users and developers over the next three months to shape the proposal. BRR ratings will be available by the end of the year and will be based on suitability for different business environments sub-divided into 12 star-rated categories. An overall score will then be calculated from these results.www.openbrr.org/Genuine mistakeIt took hackers less than a day to crack Microsoft's latest attempt to reduce the piracy of Windows software. Microsoft introduced the Windows Genuine Advantage programme to check that only registered copies of its operating system would be able to access special offers and the Windows Update site. Soon afterwards, a hacker website published a one-line string of JavaScript commands that can be pasted into a browser's address bar thereby bypassing the check. Microsoft says that it will repair the hole in the next version of the software checker.www.microsoft.com/uk/windows/genuine/
VoIP, or Voice over Internet Protocol,is the most popular means of sending telephone calls across the internet instead of using the traditional telephone network.This means that instead of switching circuits to complete your call, VoIP switches around packets of data. Each one is able to reach its destination by the shortest available online route, allowing many more calls to be crammed into bandwidth you are already paying for from your internet service provider (ISP). It is yet another killer application for broadband, and can also save you money.Tipped to be a revolution for much of the decade, internet telephony has been a great idea waiting for technology to catch up. Firstly, the demands of transmitting two-way audio required the speed and always-on connectivity of broadband. Then it needed user-friendly software and finally, an agreed standard so that everyone could plug into the same network. Although it can only lay claim to two of those conditions for mass-market acceptance, with Wireless VoIP also set for takeoff, the advantages are becoming hard to ignore, especially for businesses.Firstly, there's the functionality, which combines "better than mobile" sound quality with instant audio-conferencing, ringtone differentiation, call hunting and simultaneous text, speech and video. Then, of course, there's cost, which for those calls made from one PC to another usually remains free.However, if you want to dial or receive calls from a conventional landline number (what's known as "nomadic" VoIP), you'll need a premium package where you either top up your credits like a pay-as-you-go scheme or pay a flat monthly rate to send and receive all national calls.You may also be allocated a new telephone number or require a new modem/router, though this is often included in the cost of the service.As for the cost of nomadic calls, this differs greatly from service to service - some even charge a connection fee per call and all have varying rates for different countries. Typically, international calls will be significantly cheaper than via the fixed-line network: quick local calls, though, can actually end up being more expensive. As always, read the terms carefully before signing up.The main question is, of course, how do you start saving money on your calls? Naturally, you'll need a reasonably powerful system - Windows PC or Mac - a minimum 512Mbps broadband connection and, preferably, a USB headset and microphone (though a normal headset will suffice). Then you'll need a VoIP client, usually free to download.The best known is Skype (www.skype.com), but Communicator (www.bt.com/btcommunicator) shows how even BT has embraced what remains a critical threat to its core telephony business.However, as with instant messaging, there is no single VoIP standard; so if you're using Skype's basic fixed package, you can only talk to fellow Skype users. Some clients such as Vonage (www.vonage.co.uk) use an open source standard known as Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) that is widely expected to become the industry standard over time.For now, check what your friends, family or colleagues are using before paying for any extra packages. Once installed, simply add new numbers or contacts as you would with instant messaging and wait for your new digital phone to "ring".Finally, remember that VoIP is not yet a true landline substitute. Many networks cannot handle emergency calls, you'll probably need yet another new number to send and receive faxes, and you will almost certainly lose all services during a power failure - whereas your landline continues to draw power from the telephone network.You should also consider your ISP's usage cap, as just a you can quickly exhaust a 1GB per month limit, since you continue to transmit data even when idle. Even if VoIP saves you money, it would take a brave user to dispense with their landline just yet. More guides to technology atguardian.co.uk/online/howto&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
If you want to find out how to do something, your best bet is to use the internet. Unfortunately, that also includes bomb-making. Finding such instructions online is quite easy, and something the authorities are not happy about.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) recently called for "powers to attack identified websites" as one of 31 new measures to tackle terrorism. Last week, prime minister Tony Blair said he and the other main political leaders will consider the list over the summer. Many of Acpo's suggestions look like they will be adopted.But will it work? Already, "if &#91;a website is&#93; hosted in the UK, it should be relatively straightforward to get the host to remove the content," says Struan Robertson, senior associate at law firm Pinsent Masons. This is because internet service providers usually remove sites when asked to do so by the police. Robertson adds that if legal pressure is required, the Terrorism Act of 2000 makes it an offence to provide or receive instructions in the making or use of explosives.However, many explosive-making sites use domain names registered to owners in the US (although they could also be hosted elsewhere). The US has a law prohibiting online instructions for bomb-making, but Richard Clayton, treasurer of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, says the country is a popular location for such sites because of the cultural and constitutional support for freedom of speech. "There's a strong lobby here, so these sites will continue to exist whether the British police want them to or not," he says.Clayton adds that attacking websites in the recognised fashion, through either hacking or denial of service attacks, is itself illegal under UK and international law. Acpo's statement, which the organisation will not elaborate on, says any "attack" will require international agreement - a technique which has not led to the removal of sexual images of children from the internet, despite a strong global consensus against such material.Another of Acpo's proposals is an "offence not to disclose encryption keys". Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Ian Blair has called for a minimum 10-year prison sentence for those who refuse to unlock encrypted information. He has also cited the time taken to break encryption as a justification for extending the 14-day limit on detaining terrorist suspects, another Acpo proposal.Andy Clark, director and co-founder of Inforenz, which specialises in recovering encrypted computer data, says his firm has worked on cases that took months, or were impossible, to break.An offence of refusing to decrypt already exists in law, in part three of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, but it has never been activated. Home secretary Charles Clarke could do so by laying a statutory instrument before parliament.But what would happen to someone who password-protected an innocent file, forgot the password and was then asked by the police to decrypt it, asks Professor Fred Piper, director of the information security group, Royal Holloway. "We have to accept we live in difficult times, and there could be things that could be tried, but it's whether they would ever work," he says.Andy Clark says a seized computer should reveal when an encrypted file was last accessed, and this could provide some guidance. "If someone said they had forgotten the password, and they had looked at it half an hour before we'd arrived, I would be surprised, as opposed to a file they had looked at four years ago," he says.Another worry is that such a law would damage the economy by scaring international banks into moving encryption systems overseas. However, banking association Apacs says payment messages are usually stored unencrypted within a bank's systems, with encryption used for messages in transit and to check their authenticity and integrity.Acpo also says it is ready to reconsider its "finely balanced" stance against making intercepted communications admissible in court. The government, however, has doubts about whether this should happen, because it is concerned that usage would reveal the capabilities of the police and security services.But it is public knowledge that, when fighting terrorism and serious crime, the police and security services have the legal power to intercept telephone calls, internet connections and post, with the permission of the relevant government minister.Without such powers, it is hard to see how another Acpo proposal - "the creation of an offence to suppress inappropriate internet usage" - would work. This is a preventative measure to stop the internet being used to "prepare, encourage &#91;and&#93; facilitate acts of terrorism".Richard Clayton suggests the police and security services may want to hide the actual patterns of interception. "If criminals believe that every call they make is tapped because it could be, they will meet more, leave their houses, go under CCTV cameras," he says, which will make them easier to spot.But in practice, some networks and internet service providers are likely to be tapped less often than others, and some technologies may offer partial or complete protection against the interception of information.
What's the main idea behind your new book of computer graphics, Digipop?The book is an edited version of proposals produced over the last 10 years - some realised and some not. They're intended to suggest, inspire, consider, criticise and energise the worlds of the decorative, from objects to fashion, textile and space. I call this period in which we live the Digipop movement - a new graphic world that has its roots in the computer age and is driven by digital technology.Why is there no eBook version of Digipop?I don't believe in things such as the eBook - it's an oxymoron. The internet or virtual space communication channel should enable you to be "everywhere", browse in a non-linear way, have multiple choices or follow non-narrative patterns. Maybe, instead of an eBook, I should launch a website with interactive animated patterns of my designs, where people can "freeze" my graphics and download them, print their own wallpaper, T-shirts, tattoos and just negotiate through my world.How important is the computer to design?I always knew when I was a teenager in the 70s that the digital age would come. I hated making models. I liked to draw and conceptualise with my pen.The digital age is that time of mind-hand connection. The computer has changed our world completely, making it faster and more precise, definitive, accurate, flexible and variable. It has created a seamless product and a streamlined process.What's your weapon of choice?Sadly, the manufacturing and the architecture worlds have become Windows-based. So although I'm an aficionado of Apple Macintosh since 1989, my entire office of 20 computers is all Windows. I travel with a G4 laptop because fortunately Windows and Mac are somewhat seamless now. On the PCs, we run engineering design software Solidworks (www.solidworks.com). My office has rapid prototyping capabilities thanks to an FDM 3D printer (www.3-dprinting.com/3dprinting)Where do you stand on usability v aesthetic?The web has become our everyday environment - it's just another form of space. Why would beautiful not be useful or functional?Do the digital arts get the same recognition as other arts?In my world they do. I'm so fed up of this antiquated idea that we struggle  for recognition. The digital age is about being quicker, easier, simpler, more efficient and, therefore, less painful. Nostalgic society believes all good things need to be acquired through pain, effort and over a long time.What's a good example of a well-designed technology?The world is full of badly designed gadgets with great functions. The shelf life of technology products is only 11 months before their technology is obsolete, so why don't these objects talk about pop culture, fashion, art and momentary beauty? Why are they not more wild, since they are so disposable? I love Hybrid Cars' technology but I need to design a car that really speaks about today.Visit:www.karimrashid.comKarim Rashid's bookmarkshttp://merriam-webster.comwww.expedia.comwww.artnet.comwww.newsfrombabylon.comwww.designobserver.comwww.mixedgreens.com
T here's a lot of money in spyware - and it could be yours. Last year, thieves used spyware in an attempt to steal &pound;220m from the Sumitomo bank.Over half of the malicious software creeping onto PCs is trying to ferret out confidential information rather than cause damage, according to Symantec's latest threat report. The problem is getting so bad that American banks have been officially warned to protect their data - and their customers. Meanwhile adware vendors are making nearly $2bn (&pound;1.12bn) a year from pop-ups, hijacked browsers and redirected searches.While most businesses know spyware is a problem, far fewer have the right systems in place to protect themselves. The average company may not be at risk from commercial espionage and organised crime, but you can lose time and money to adware that slows down your PCs and clogs up your network. Relying on free detection software designed for home use isn't the best way to protect hundreds of desktop PCs.So how big is the spyware problem? There's a lot of scaremongering, and many of the spyware removal tools don't help, as they include cookies left on your PC by advertising networks in their reports. While a cookie from DoubleClick will track you around the net, and could possibly be used to tie your browsing habits to a name and address in someone's database, it's not even close to being in the same league as CoolWebSearch.Anti-spyware vendor Webroot recently published its "state of spyware report" for the first quarter of this year. Based on more than a million scans of corporate and consumer PCs using Webroot's online tools, it showed that 87% of the enterprise machines examined had at least one form of spyware on them.When you exclude tracking cookies, there's still some form of spyware or adware on 55% of corporate machines. CoolWebSearch (browser redirecting adware that's notoriously hard to remove) remains the most common problem, alongside Claria and 180Searchassistant. Malicious spyware is still relatively rare - but it's rapidly becoming more prevalent.While some adware vendors start to clean up their acts, turning into legitimate web-marketing businesses, the bad guys are getting worse. One variant of CoolWebSearch is now based on a rootkit, enabling it to hide itself from scanners, and making it easier for piggy-backed malware to infect systems. And of course, if the software that infects your machine is malicious, there's the serious risk of identity theft.Webroot's figures indicate that in a typical company, anything from 3% to 12% of Windows PCs will be infected with real spyware in the shape of system monitors - most of which are keystroke loggers. Key logging tools can record you typing in passwords and credit card information, then phone home with the details. Some versions, like Advanced Keylogger, can even take screenshots or record audio. There's a significant risk here for business, especially those working in the financial sector. It's hard to be compliant with financial regulations if you have no idea who may be seeing everything typed into your PCs.One thing that's hard to find is a definition of spyware that everyone agrees on. There's a whole ecology of adware, spyware and malware. The recently formed Anti-Spyware Coalition is trying to put together an acceptable set of definitions, but the current draft is 13 pages long. There are also legal issues to be surmounted. Webroot regularly receives threatening letters from adware companies, and Sophos, a UK anti-virus company, has deliberately chosen to detect only spyware that is obviously malicious.Despite the known risks and all the information we have about the scale of the problem, it's hard to put a figure on just how much a spyware infestation will cost you. Poorly written adware affects PC performance, and steals network bandwidth. Greg Day of McAfee tells a story of one company that cleaned up its PCs and found that three-quarters of its internet traffic suddenly vanished.If you're running a helpdesk, you'll already be aware of the impact of spyware and adware. Infected PCs take longer to boot, run more slowly and crash more often. Microsoft estimates that a third of reported application crashes are due to spyware and other unwanted software. The result is more calls to the helpdesk and more time spent tracking down the cause of problems and uninstalling unwanted software. Indeed, Gartner reports that more than 25% of helpdesk time is spent dealing with spyware and its effects. It's not surprising that the usual response to a spyware infestation is a reformat and reinstallation.Anti-virus and anti-spyware tools help protect PCs, but they're not the only thing you need. Browser plug-ins from Cloudmark and Netcraft can warn users of suspicious websites that might download spyware as part of an attempt to steal financial information. Microsoft has bought in similar "phishing filter" technologies, and has added them as part of a range of security improvements in the beta version of Internet Explorer 7, released last week.Many businesses have taken a first step to protecting their PCs, often using consumer anti-spyware tools such as Lavasoft's Ad-Aware and Spybot Search &amp; Destroy as part of their standard PC image. However, these tools only work as long as users keep their scanners up to date. In the longer term, IDC expects that anti-spyware will quickly become a key feature in anti-virus products, security suites, and server-based gateways.Managed anti-spyware tools will also be a key component in any corporate security platform. Today's strict business regulations and their associated compliance regimes mean that it's just too risky to leave corporate information at the mercy of any piece of spyware.Even though vendors such as CA and Trend Micro are starting to integrate anti-spyware software into their anti-virus tools, it isn't that easy to find enterprise-ready anti-spyware tools. According to security vendor Sunbelt, about a third of IT managers are waiting for anti-spyware tools that are easy to manage.One thing to note when evaluating anti-spyware tools: spyware labelled as a single program by one program can show up as 30 different products with a different spyware scanner. A program that claims to detect 60,000 types of spyware may not protect you any better than one that is only capable of covering 20,000.The only way to protect PCs from spyware is a defence in depth, and that includes educating the people who use them. Users need to be shown how to spot software and websites that attempt to install malware on their machines, either by deceit or "social engineering". It's not just a matter of keeping to safe internet sites. Webroot's Phileas web crawler has catalogued nearly 90,000 web pages that might be able to download malware on to PCs, often using exploits (security holes) to sneak their payloads into your web browser.Making sure all PCs have the latest security patches is obviously a good first step on the road to keeping them spyware-free. The internet isn't the Hill Street Blues, but by far the best defence against spyware is to heed Sergeant Phil Esterhaus's regular advice: "Hey, let's be careful out there."
As the debate goes on over Hot Coffee, a rogue download for the best-selling video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas that gives players access to explicit sexual content, politicians and pundits are asking lots of questions about the content and availability of certain video games. But are they asking the right ones?In many ways, Hot Coffee sounds like a classic Rockstar stunt. This, remember, is a developer that courts controversy at every turn - or is unlucky enough to stumble over it. From the first, Grand Theft Auto - pilloried for glorifying carjacking - to the death of a Leicester teenager last year who was allegedly addicted to the game Manhunt, Rockstar remains the closest thing gaming has to a gangsta rap crew: each new release seems to benefit from the notoriety of the last.This time, however, striking the pose has resulted in a sharp drop in share value and the temporary halt in production of its biggest-selling game. If this was just another PR stunt, it has misfired.The controversy has focused on how much Rockstar knew about what was hidden in its own game. The initial defence - that GTA: San Andreas had been reverse engineered to introduce new sexual content  - proved unsustainable once the PlayStation version was also found to contain such material. Others maintained it was an in-joke that was never meant to see the light of day.There is a difference between an "Easter egg" that makes a volcano pop up on your computer screen, and one that shows the hot magma between two consenting sprites. Nevertheless, such hidden extras have rarely caused this degree of outrage.But why debate Rockstar's involvement at all? No one was forced to see these scenes, and in tracking down the Hot Coffee patch, users could just as easily have Googled their way to a real pornographic site.Critics say that it's not the legitimate adult buyers of GTA they're worried about, but the younger players getting their first fix of hardcore porn via a videogame. While this is true, it's also hugely hypocritical. If it's acceptable for a teenager to see random acts of violence, or hear profanities in Grand Theft Auto, why does it suddenly become "adult" the moment people take their clothes off? Even worse, the outcry comes from the generation that chanted "Make love, not war".If you had to choose between the vices we expose our kids to in videogames and movies, there's a strong argument for choosing sex and swearing over crime and violence. If society is concerned about kids imitating what they see, the consequences of the first two must pale into insignificance before the latter.How is the world a safer place for backing the arms trade but banning the violent videogame? And what do kids learn from Hillary Clinton's knee-jerk condemnations? The Hot Coffee debate goes far deeper than whether it was a hack or a publicity stunt - it's about free speech and the way the web continues to test our belief in it.
I've just been browsing an interesting table of OS and browser market shares,here, which I found thanks to Charles (Independent) Arthur'sblog.I was quite surprised so see that Windows XP has, this year, gained 4 percentage points of market share while Mac OS has only gained 0.2 percentage points. (Is that 1/20th as much?) Kind of puts the Mac hype machine in context, doesn't it?Also, XP seems to have gained more users in the past seven months than Linux has managed in its entire history. Linux hype machine, ditto....On the browser front, exciting, progressive Firefox has stormed ahead, picking up 3.2 percentage points of market share this year, whereas Microsoft's dowdy old IE6 has only picked up 3.1 percentage points.It's hard to know how far visitors to the w3schools site reflect the real world, but the numbers do illustrate the momentum you get from a PC industry that's shipping the thick end of 200 million machines per year. Almost all preloaded with XP and IE6, natch.
Each week we sort through your email and letters to reproduce in Guardian Online... here on the blog we try and answer your queries, publish the otherwise-unpublished and take a deeper look behind the correspondence we get.If you see anything on the site that makes you mad, happy or just spurs you to comment, then please email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.It's a quicker Feedback than normal this week, I'm afraid - it's been a busy day and I haven't been able to take as long as normal. But the biggest issue seemed to be the government's scheme to get people to buy computer hardware, the Home Computing Initiative.Michael Crosswrote about it last week, and it got a big response.Taking the initiativeMany readers got in touch to ask where they could find out more about the initiative, which lets employees buy hardware over a long period and gives employers a tax break. There's more information at the DTI's Knowledge Network website,here. Here's the basic idea of the scheme: you lease a computer from the HCI over a period of time, and at the end you can buy it for a nominal fee. The hire price comes straight from your salary and means your employer can save on national insurance: this means you effectively get a discount.Not everybody is happy with the programme, though.Ian McRobert got in touch to have his say. "My employer offers this, and it is an incredibly bad deal. You do NOT get a £1,500 computer - you get a computer valued by the initiative at £1,500. Real price on the high street or on the web? Vastly less."Another Ian, this time Ian Foulkes, also wanted to make a point."While the idea behind the HCI is highly laudable, the practice falls somewhat short. The fact that the scheme is based upon salary sacrifice means that there is a small, but significant effect on pension entitlement in final salary schemes. In addition, the equipment on offer is usually at the high end of the price bracket for equipment that can be brought in a superstore often for half the price."Fair points. As we pointed out in the original article, the scheme also misses out those on pensions and low incomes - exactly those who it's meant to help.Links!Gary got in touch to complain about the lack of links to relevant stories on our website. "Your story on OK Heart hospital made me want to check out the website, but there was no link towww.okheart.com. Come on people, this is an easy one."While we try to endeavour that the right information is put onto the web, there are sometimes lapses. Hopefully we'll have something sorted out in the long term, but for now we have to firefight case by case: please let us know where we've gone wrong.That's all for this week.Remember, if you want to have your say about anything in Online, then email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk- or leave a comment below.
Love them or hate them, Sky have a pretty good handle on the British TV market. Later in the year they'll be launching the UK's first high definition TV, and today they tried to whet our appetites by revealing what the HD digibox will look like.The answer, as you can see, is not that different from an ordinary Sky digibox.But it does herald the onset of high-def in Britain, which is likely to have a slower uptake than in the US. Early adopters and, most probably pubs, will be those switching to HD in the first instance... but look out for the big guns being brought out for the World Cup in Germany next year.And that's not all they unveiled today.Sky also took the opportunity to announce the bizarrely-monickered "Gnome" - a wireless digital receiver that lets you listen to radio (or TV) anywhere in your house. It's basically an audio-only set-top box that can act as a digital radio for homes that already have Sky. The design cues clearly came out of Cupertino, but it's got a little character all of its own. My main concerns are the price (which wasn't confirmed) and the battery life - 8 hours, according to the information I've got here, though I'm labouring under the assumption that you will also be able to plug it in to the mains.
Handheld gaming in Europe will change forever on September 1st when Sony finally launches its PSP. Of course, if sexy design, a beautiful screen, WipeOut and web browsing don't appeal then there is always the new silver N-Gage which is being launched in Europe on the same day. Ahem. You've got to admire Nokia for persevering, I guess. But really guys, it's time to move on.
Bloggers have attacked a Times writer over an article comparing Islamic fundamentalism to Nazism and his links with a rightwing US website.Anthony Browne, the Times' European editor and an outspoken critic of British immigration policy, has sparked furious online debate over his articleFundamentally, we're useful idiots, published in the Times.The piece accuses parts of the British left of supporting "Islamic fascism", criticising the Guardian and the BBC for letting the Muslim Association of Britain "promote sanitised versions of its Islamist views".Browne cites the Guardian's employment of Dilpazier Aslam - who had his contract terminated last month after refusing to resign from the political organisation Hizb ut-Tahrir - as an example of British "naivety".The case generated huge interest in the online community, with manybloggers criticising Aslam and the Guardian.Bloggerswho have turned their fire on Brownehave pointed out that he has had "friendly correspondence" with an American online journal, V-Dare, that opposes immigration and multiculturalism.A spokeswoman for The Times said: "Anthony has not had any contact with anyone at V-Dare about his article from Monday and he has no links to V-Dare."Comments from Browne have appeared on the V-Dare website, a forum affiliated to the Center for American Unity, which is concerned with "whether the United States can survive as a nation-state, the political expression of a distinct American people, in the face of these emerging threats: mass immigration, multiculturalism, multilingualism, and affirmative action".V-Dare - which takes its name from Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the New World - describes Browne in one link as the man who "may have sparked the debate that can save his country".Browne wrote to the site in August 2002 just after the publication of a Times article entitled "Britain is losing Britain" which criticised British immigration policy.Describing the genesis of the article, Browne wrote: "It was bubbling around inside my head making me toss and turn in the small hours, and then at 4am it exploded out in 2,500 words: a cri de coeur about what uncontrolled immigration is doing to Britain, and the almost ruthless determination of the pro-immigrationists to distort facts, smear opponents and stifle debate."He described his reaction to reading the responses to his piece, which he said were nearly all positive: "What came across so profoundly is the deep frustration and anger that people feel about their loss of national identity and the growing social fragmentation of Britain under the weight of Third World colonization, and their utter abandonment by the political class and most of the media which makes any discussion of this all important issue almost a crime."Later in 2002, Browne wrote again to V-Dare after he was denounced by David Blunkett in the House of Commons.Reflecting on media coverage of the furore, he detected a change in the political weather in the immigration debate. "In many ways, the battle has just begun. But it has definitely begun," his piece concluded.The Center For American Unity was set up by Peter Brimelow, a British-born journalist who has been highlighting concerns about immigration to the US since publishing a controversial book, Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster, in 1995.He wrote an article for The Times coinciding with the book's release, entitled "When whites become a minority", and in 1996 penned a piece for the paper advocating Republican presidential hopeful Pat Buchanan.
Today's Mirror has apieceon how kids are afraid to go outside nowadays and so spend endless hours, "playing on their PlayStations". It's a slightly confused article, unsure of whether to castigate videogames or today's society. In the end it settles, somewhat dejectedly I feel, on the latter.Talking about confusion, the same paper has agreat reporton Eminem's alleged rider for his forthcoming UK tour:"The hip-hop megastar wants his dressing room turned into a fully-quipped games parlour with an "arcade-type ambience".The singer insists that his play room - which has to "comfortably accommodate eight persons" - is kitted-out with full-sized electronic games, a monster TV with PlayStation, ping-pong table and basketball hoop."Two things. "Arcade-type ambience"? Does that mean he wants a group of 15-year-olds in shell suits gathered round swearing in mockney accents, while a man in a grubby windcheater loiters in the doorway gathering the courage to pop into the porn shop next door? And what the hell are "full-sized electronic games"? Has Eminem been ripped off on a previous tour, perhaps walking into his dressing room to discover a miniture Xbox, and teeny versions of Halo and Splinter Cell? No wonder he's so angry in all his songs if they try to pull that kind of s**t on his ass.
Go N, open door, get watched by bulbous eyes - yes, text adventure games, or "interactive fiction", have been played since the very early days of computer entertainment. Who can forgetZorkorHitchhikers Guide to Galaxyor even the highly frustrating techno marvel - it had graphics! that drew very very slowly - that wasThe Hobbit. Since those heady days of the 80s the genre has retreated from mainstream gaming and found a niche in various webcommunities. That could all change now withKotakureporting on a new breed oftext adventures for the iPod. Yes, Apple's omnipresent device has got a new string to its overloaded bow. No idea on the quality or implementation yet, but the fact that you can play whilst listening to music marks this down as worth a look.
"In less than one year, the open source Firefox Web browser has been downloaded onto more than 76 million computers worldwide. Now, the Mozilla Foundation, the non-profit entity that develops and distributes Firefox, is forming a for-profit subsidiary that will eventually capitalize on the browser's popularity," reportsForbes.The Mozilla Foundation will announce today that it has formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Mozilla Corp, that acknowledges the economic value of the Firefox browser, and will attempt to get a return on it without violating the fundamental tenants of the open source Mozilla Foundation."We want to make money if and when it's appropriate for the goals of the project to do so," says Mitchell Baker, president of the Mozilla Foundation. "We don't just want to pull money out of Firefox."
"People working with early versions of the forthcoming Intel-based Mac OS X operating system have discovered that Apple's new kernel makes use of Intel's Trusted Computing hardware. If this 'feature' appears in a commercial, shipping version of Apple's OS, they'll lose me as a customer -- I've used Apple computers since 1979 and have a Mac tattooed on my right bicep, but this is a deal-breaker," writes Cory Doctorow atBoing Boing."If Apple carries on down this path, I'm going to exercise my market power and switch away, and, for the first time since 1979, I won't use an Apple product as my main computer. I may even have my tattoo removed."My data is my life, and I won't keep it in a strongbox that someone else has the keys for."
