A 17-year-old London schoolboy has sold his app company to the internet giant Yahoo for an estimated £18m. But he won't be moving to the company's California headquarters just yet … because he wants to finish his A-levels.Nick D'Aloisio, from Wimbledon, south London, created the app, calledSummly– which provides bite-sized summaries of content from news and other sites – a little over a year ago from his bedroom and now joins an elite group of teenagers who have become internet millionaires.D'Aloisio, who is still too young to be a director of his own firm, said he had begun tinkering with apps for mobile devices as a hobby and had not expected to profit from it. The money from the sale of the business will go into a trust fund, although he said he does intend to get a new computer, as well as some new trainers. "I'll be staying in London," said D'Aloisio. "I want to finish my A-levels, and I couldn't really live on my own out there."His mother, Diana D'Aloisio, appeared to still be somewhat in shock. "I knew he was a little out of the box, but I didn't expect it to happen all of a sudden like this," she said. "From a young age he displayed abilities in technologies I frankly didn't understand. He was doing 3D programming, and we bought him a book called C Programming For Dummies. My husband and I just used our computers for work, he was doing totally different stuff."The price tag is understood to be £18m, 90% in cash and 10% in Yahoo shares, though other reports suggested the total could be up to £40m. Neither D'Aloisio nor Yahoo would confirm the details of the deal.D'Aloisio began using computers at the age of nine, making films, and then moved to programming at the age of 12 when Apple opened its App Store for the iPhone. The teenager's success comes less than five years after he released his first app, called Fingermill, an onscreen virtual treadmill for fingers.Summly, launched in November 2012, won one of Apple's best apps of 2012 awards. The app produces summarised versions of news stories, with the number of words tailored to fit into a single smartphone screen; so far 90m summaries have been read, the company says. But it will not be available much longer – as part of the acquisition, the app will be shut down and integrated into Yahoo's business as it tries to remould itself for the fast-growing mobile market.D'Aloisio, whose father is a commodities trader and mother a lawyer and director of the company, is taking maths and philosophy A-levels at King's College school, and trying to decide whether the third one should be physics or history. "He still wants to go to Oxford University," his mother said. "He's just a normal kid really. When he's at home, he tidies his room. He's quite neat — very organised, in fact."After the takeover is finalised, he will work in Yahoo's Soho offices by day, where he will be the company's youngest employee, and continue studying for his A-levels in the evening.D'Aloisio got the idea for the app in 2011 when revising for his exams and finding himself frustrated with web pages that broadly repeated the same content. He produced an early version of Summly, called Trimit, which was downloaded more than 200,000 times.The publicity from the Apple award attracted the attention of Hong Kong investor Li Ka-shing and his venture capital firm, Horizon Ventures. External investors – others are said to include actors Stephen Fry and Ashton Kutcher and artist Yoko Ono – bought a third of the company's share capital, according to documents filed at Companies House last October. The rest is owned by D'Aloisio's mother.It was those investors who brought in a savvy team of directors, engineers, business managers and PR professionals who have been working to turn Summly into a potential world-beater, including older staff such as the chief technology officer, Eugene Ciurana, who boasts 20 years' experience in the technology business, and the head of R&amp;D, Inderjeet Mani. Both of them will be moving to Sunnyvale, close to San Francisco.Yahoo is one of the oldest names on the web but has struggled to keep pace with more nimble rivals. Chief executive Marissa Mayer is trying  to refocus the business around mobile technology.  Sites such as Facebook and Twitter are now more used on smartphones than on the desktop and she has made a string of small acquisitions.D'Aloisio told the Guardian that it had not been the price that had determined who he would sell to after months of negotiation."It was spending time on the campus. Marissa Mayer wants to reinvent the company, and they have a big opportunity. They have a really strong focus on mobile and taking daily habits and reinventing them for a mobile device. I can't wait to work on that level."Other web youth sensationsAlex TewIn 2005 Tew, 21, from Swindon, was looking for a way to pay his student loan from the University of Nottingham. He came up with theMillion Dollar Home Page: sell a million pixels at a dollar (or so) each. Advertisers bought on the guarantee that the site would stay up for at least five years. Hundreds of others tried (and failed) the same idea in his wake. It's still going today. Tew, meanwhile, has moved to San Francisco where he is head of calm.com, which offers online relaxation sessions.Tom HadfieldIn 1994 Hadfield, 12, and his father Greg created Soccernet – a sports internet company – at a time when most people in the UK hadn't even heard of the internet, and fewer still were online. Five years later they sold a 60% stake to Disney's ESPN for £15m. They then set up Schoolsnet, an education website, which they still control.Christian OwensIn 2008, aged 14, Owens, from Corby, began Mac Bundle Box, selling discounted bundles of software for Apple computers; he said it took £700,000 in revenue. By 2010 he had set up an internet advertising network called Branchr and was claiming to be an internet millionaire.Mark ZuckerbergIn 2004, aged 19 and studying at Harvard University, Zuckerberg created "Facemash to let users vote on which of two students was the more attractive. He then developed TheFacebook.com, aimed only at US colleges; new colleges were only added once a certain level of demand was reached. That became Facebook, which opened to the wider world, went public in 2012 and is worth about $14bn (£9.2bn).Shawn FanningIn 1999 Fanning, 18, released a public version of a program called Napster, which helped people share music between computers. Use exploded at Northeastern University, in Boston, Massachusetts, where he was studying, and soon Napster the company was shaking up the music business, which responded with lawsuits.  Fanning became a millionaire, but left Napster in May 2002. He now works at Silicon Valley startup  Path.com.
it's Tuesday. How was your Monday? I'm in Stockholm, by the way. Now what could I be looking at in Stockholm?
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAd industry threatens Firefox users with more ads if Mozilla moves on tracking plans &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThe online ad industry has attacked Mozilla over its decision to block third-party cookies in a future release of Firefox, calling the move "dangerous and highly disturbing," and claiming that it will result in more ads shown to users.The fierce reaction came from the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) and Association of National Advertisers (ANA), both of which laid out positions in blog posts on March 14.Ads are optional, except when they aren't. (Thanks @Stephenjpc for the link.)CyanogenMod founder Steve Kondik leaves Samsung, criticizes TouchWiz on way out &gt;&gt; The VergeBefore leaving Samsung, Kondik had some time to play with his former employer's new flagship. While he praises the Galaxy S4 for its specifications, which he says "blows the competition out of the water," his comments on Samsung's modifications to its TouchWiz UI aren't so complementary. The Android developer believes that TouchWiz now "feels like it has been sent a few years back in time to the Froyo days."Kondik joined Samsungin August 2011,statingthat he would be working "on making Android more awesome."19 months in the job. Did he make a difference? His departure is still mysterious. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)(Virtual) hands-on with Windows 8 "Blue" build 9364 &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsWhile my previous report about the leaked Windows 8 "Blue" build was based on screenshots posted to a Polish tech enthusiast forum, I've since gotten my dirty little mitts on the build and have installed it to a virtual machine. Based on a quick run-through of the build, I can say it's real and that Blue is pretty much the combo feature pack/service pack we've been expecting.New apps: Alarms, Calculate, Sound Recorder, Movie Moments. Also many more settings now available without dropping down to the desktop. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Learning from big data: 40 million entities in context &gt;&gt; Google ResearchWhen someone mentions Mercury, are they talking about the planet, the god, the car, the element, Freddie, or one of some 89 other possibilities? This problem is called disambiguation (a word that is itself ambiguous), and while it's necessary for communication, and humans are amazingly good at it (when was the last time you confused a fruit with a giant tech company?), computers need help.To provide that help, we are releasing the Wikilinks Corpus: 40 million total disambiguated mentions within over 10 million web pages -- over 100 times bigger than the next largest corpus (about 100,000 documents, see the table below for mention and entity counts).Awesome.Disruptions: FAA may loosen curbs on fliers' use of electronics &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton (who has been on this subject like a dog worrying a bone for ages):According to people who work with an industry working group that the Federal Aviation Administration set up last year to study the use of portable electronics on planes, the agency hopes to announce by the end of this year that it will relax the rules for reading devices during takeoff and landing. The change would not include cellphones.One member of the group and an official of the F.A.A., both of whom asked for anonymity because they were not allowed to speak publicly about internal discussions, said the agency was under tremendous pressure to let people use reading devices on planes, or to provide solid scientific evidence why they cannot.So that'll be approval then.HP Envy Spectre XT TouchSmart review &gt;&gt; The VergeBattery life is where the Envy Spectre XT TouchSmart's value falls apart. In our Verge Battery Test, where we run through a series of high-res images and websites over a wireless connection with screen brightness set to a modest 65 percent, the laptop lasted just 3 hours, 34 minutes. That's already one of the lowest scores we've seen from an ultrabook — a full hour below even its shortest-lived competitors — but you haven't heard the worst yet.When I tried to actually use the Spectre XT TouchSmart with my typical workload of auto-refreshing browser tabs, two push email accounts, and Pandora streaming music in the background, the laptop died after just 2 hours and 18 minutes of use. There's a word for that: atrocious. HP currently quotes a 5 hour, 15 minute battery life, but I can't imagine a realistic computing scenario where that would be true.Looks good, has a good touchscreen, fails on this part. Is this really where ultrabooks are? Is the touchscreen the cause of the shortened life?Dealer cheating causes havoc at Volvo's China unit &gt;&gt; ReutersSwedish auto maker Volvo has uncovered widespread cheating by its car dealers in China, where retailers inflated sales to win cash rebates from the company for hitting volume targets.An investigation by the struggling, Chinese-owned car maker uncovered thousands of fake sales booked in 2011 - but also an under-reporting of sales in 2012 to make the books balance. That meant it actually performed better last year than it had thought, according to a senior Volvo executive.Shipped v sold.6 things Apple needs to copy from Microsoft Surface in iOS 7 &gt;&gt; GeekWireGalen Ward:The Microsoft Surface is an easy target. It is Microsoft's attempt to get into touch computing and it is easy to see it as a me-too iPad competitor. Microsoft is frankly just so uncool that their products get much greater scrutiny, and people delight at picking everything apart.But, the Surface RT is good. I've owned one for over three months now. And here's the crazy thing: I use it all the time. More than my iPad.Why? A bunch of reasons really. But six things really make it stand out.Now read on.2009: NewsGator surrenders to Google &gt;&gt; Ed BottIn August 2009, he remarked:selfishly, I'm glad Google has won. It's the default online RSS reader, and I think they've done a fine job with it. I can still use FeedDemon and NetNewsWire on Windows PCs and Macs respectively.…In the bigger picture, I hate being beholden to Google for yet another service where they can watch what I do and who I watch. But I'm willing to trust them, just as I'm willing to trust Microsoft on many issues.Now see his newer post this week:Embrace, extend, extinguish: How Google crushed and abandoned the RSS industryOne release away from irrelevance &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller (of the analysts Directions on Microsoft):I believe that the first thing you have to firmly grasp in technology – or really in business as a whole – is that nothing is forever.  You must figure out how to out-innovate yourself, to evolve and grow, even if it means jettisoning or submarining entire product lines – in order to create new ones that can take you forward again. Or disappear.I've been rather surprised when I've said this, how defensive some people have gotten. Most people don't like to ponder their own mortality. They sure don't like to ponder the mortality of their employer or the platform that they build their business upon. But I think it is imperative that people begin doing exactly that.There will come a day when we will likely talk about every tech giant of today in the past tense.Newspapers (mostly) won't miss Google Reader users &gt;&gt; Martin BelamThe findings are quite simple. Two papers, The Guardian and the Financial Times, have built up a significant RSS audience via Google Reader. The Guardian has nearly 250,000 subscribers, the FT over 55,000. Only the Telegraph and the Mail, with 15,000 and 11,000 subscribers, come close.So that's lots of Guardian readers who are going to miss it. Has everyone moved over yet?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Technology billionaire Michael Dell's plans to take his troubled computer company private were dealt a blow on Monday as two rivals topped his offer and raised the prospects of a bidding war.Dell's shares soared on news that investor Carl Icahn and private equity firm Blackstone Group had tabled offers higher than the company founder's own offer of $13.65 a share, a price that values the firm at $24.4bn. A special committee set up to look at the bids said it would continue to negotiate with the two rival bidders."We intend to work diligently with all three potential acquirers to ensure the best possible outcome for Dell shareholders, whichever transaction that may be," Alex Mandl, the chairman of the special committee, said in a statement.Michael Dell, who founded the company that bears his name, teamed up with private equity firm Silver Lake to make his bid last month. Dell shares have collapsed as investors have worried about its ability to transition away from the declining PC market to faster the faster growing tablets and mobile sector and hit a three year low of $8.69 last November.But some of Dell's biggest shareholders including Southeastern Asset Management, Dell's largest outside shareholder, balked at the $13.65 bid. Southeastern argued Dell was worth closer to $24 a share. A 45-day "go-shop period" was agreed, and Dell's books were opened up to potential bidders.Blackstone and Icahn are proposing to leave part of Dell as a public company. Icahn is offering shareholders the choice of receiving shares in the new Dell on a one-to-one basis or $15 a share in cash for 58% of the company. Blackstone is offering $14.25 a share in cash or stock and said existing shareholders would have the opportunity to remain on board. The offers expire this Thursday.Roger Kay, an analyst with Endpoint Technologies, said: "Michael may have made a tactical error. It would be ironic if he has put himself in a position where he could be ousted from his own company because of a process he had started." He said he expected Dell and his backers would come back quickly with a better offer.Dell was set up in the dorm room of its founder at the University of Texas, Austin in 1984. He soon dropped out to build what became the most successful PC firm of the late 1990s and early 2000s, surpassing Compaq to become the largest PC manufacturer in 1999.But the company was wrongfooted by the the rise of Apple and the shift to mobile computing. Sales growth slowed as the PC market matured and the company has lost ground to cut price rivals including Lenovo, Asus and Acer. "But it remains a substantial business. People often forget that," said Kay.
Age:28.Appearance:Likely programmer. Unlikely billionaire.This is the Facebook guy, right?That's him. Mark "Zuck" Zuckerberg, chairman and CEO of Facebook, Inc, and the first person to make several billion dollars from a website with a "poke" function.What's he doing now?Poking his way into politics. Zuck has got together with a group of other top Silicon Valley executives to create anissues-based political action committeefocusing – for the moment, at least – on liberalising the US visa and&nbsp;immigration systems.And why do they want to reform immigration?They're a group of top executives.Ah. Because it's costing them money?Pretty much. Earlier this month, Zuck and a gang of 99 other chief execs, including Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer, co-wrotea letter to President Obamacalling the current immigration system "outdated and inefficient". They said highly skilled immigrant workers were often unable to obtain permanent visas and forced to leave the country – and others were so put off by the system they wouldn't even bother coming to the US in the&nbsp;first&nbsp;place.And did Obama listen?He did. He has also consistently said the same thing. In fact, there are&nbsp;two bills in the Senate already aimed at addressing precisely those problems. But Zucky B – as he's known to no one – felt a committee was in order anyway.So who has he got on this committee?A bipartisan team of political consultants, with – shock horror – at least two Republican strategists on it.You don't mean …?Perhaps.Mark Zuckerberg isn't …?He might be. He also&nbsp;held a fundraiser at his homein Palo Alto earlier this year for GovernorChris Christieof New Jersey.Who is …?Yup. A Republican. And one with an eye on running for the White House.Shocking.I know, right? Who would have thought a billionaire with a controversial approach to privacy would have rightwing sympathies?Do say:"I liked him better when he just ran that poking service."Don't say:"I would 'unlike' him but I never 'liked'&nbsp;him anyway."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 23 March 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Gears of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (1)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (4)33 (–)The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)Wii U (1)14 (6)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (30)VITA (6)Wii (4)265 (4)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)PC (2)26 (2)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (101)27 (–)Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate(12+)3DS (55)Wii U (45)18 (5)SimCity(7+)PC (100)39 (7)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (5)1710 (9)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii U (1)1911 (19)Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance(18+)PS3 (64)Xbox 360 (36)512 (8)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (36)513 (11)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)Wii U (3)2114 (13)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (17)3DS (5)2315 (14)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (36)Wii U (11)VITA (9)2116 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)PC (13)517 (16)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (20)PC (13)6618 (–)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (22)3DS (20)Wii U (10)1419 (12)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)PC (2)1820 (17)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (30)Wii (18)PS3 (17)DS (17)37UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
In 2013, the world of streaming music is becoming increasingly crowded. There are the grizzled US veterans (Pandora, Rhapsody), newer upstarts (Spotify, Deezer, Rdio), consumer electronics giants (Xbox Music, Sony's Music Unlimited, Samsung's Music Hub) and regional players keen to expand (WiMP, Simfy).Oh, and then there is the looming threat of competition from Apple, Google and Amazon – who are all reportedly in negotiations with music labels and publishers to launch streaming services – as well as headphone-maker Beats, which ispromising its own Daisy offeringby the end of the year.It's not a battleground for the faint-hearted, or for the poorly-funded. Of all the services above, Deezer has been the most aggressive in its global expansion, fuelled most recently by a$130m funding round in October 2012from Access Industries, the parent company of major label Warner Music Group.From its beginnings in France as a controversial (for rightsholders) streaming site named Blogmusik, Deezer has grown steadily to the point where it nowclaims more than 3m paying subscriberswho listen to 60 hours a week each on average.It was also one of the first streaming services to benefit from a tight partnership with a mobile operator – Orange in France in its case – to bundle the cost of a premium subscription into people's monthly mobile tariffs.I sat down with chief executive Axel Dauchez at the Mobile World Congress show in Barcelona to talk specifically about the mobile element to Deezer's business, although the conversation ranged onto streaming music's cannibalisation of download sales; criticism from music artists; and the potential for streaming services to help people discover more music.Dauchez said mobile has been important for Deezer and its rivals – "it became the way to monetise the music" compared to their free web-based services – but he added that the company tries not to merely think of mobile as meaning mobile phones."We restrict too much the mobile to mobility," says Dauchez. "If people pay 10 Euros a month, it's for having access on every device: PC, tablet, mobile, car, TV… In any kind of location, you can find a way to listen to music."Dauchez is also keen on the notion that people assign different "missions" to the various music-playing devices that they own. For example, he said playing music on a TV or car stereo is often not just one person listening: "It's social sharing within that space. You are playing music to other people."The implication being that the way a streaming music service is presented on/in these spaces has to reflect the likely usage. But what does that mean for mobile and tablet apps?"Of course, one mission is mobility: listening to music wherever you are. But at Deezer we think there is something else that's something to do with spare time," said Dauchez.That means people's habit of taking their phone out when they have a spare minute or two, whether it's to text friends, check social networks or play games. Deezer wants more people to see these idle moments also as a way "to enrich their music experience".How so? "Mobile can be a place for active discovery. You are in the tube, stuck in a waiting line… It's the perfect moment to discover music, build your playlists, to share. We are trying to elaborate around that."Operator partnershipsPartnerships with mobile operators are part of that ambition, and while Deezer was early with its Orange France deal, rivals understand the potential too. Spotify, for example, recently signed a deal with Telefonica in Spain to offer its premium service to customers at half-price.Not so long ago, many mobile operators would rather have launched their own digital music services rather than promote third-party brands. In fact, many of them did. What's changed?"Operators realise that whey have their own-brand music, for most people it means crappy music, because it's the brand of the operator," he says. "What was supposed to be a good idea to enlarge their brand positioning was in fact decreasing the value of the music that was provided."Instead, Dauchez sees operators in 2013 as understanding that strong partnerships with the likes of Deezer are a way to both attract new customers and retain their existing ones, with the latter particularly important."Music is the best ever retention tool, more so than video, sports or TV," said Dauchez."If you are subscribing to your operator and Deezer, and you are using Deezer, you will use it for 30 hours per month, and if you investigate switching operator, you know you will have to pay £10 a month to keep your music. The retention power is the key to the deals with the telcos."Is streaming music also the key to helping the music industry bounce back from more than a decade of declining sales of recorded music? Industry body the IFPI announced in February thatglobal sales rose 0.3% to $16.5bn in 2012– the first year of growth since 1999.Subscription services were a small but growing slice of this pie: more than 20m paying subscribers accounted for more than 10% of global digital music revenues in 2012. In countries like Sweden and Norway where streaming services are most established, they took an even bigger slice of the pie.Even so, revenues from music downloads sold on iTunes and other stores are still much larger than streaming subscriptions, on a worldwide basis. Dauchez, however, is unsurprisingly bullish (given his job) about the pace at which this will change."We see the end of music downloads as coming this year, not in terms of volumes but in terms of the concept," says Dauchez. "It's a point, for me, like five years ago when Gmail conceptually killed Microsoft Exchange. You couldn't imagine having your emails stacked somewhere close to you any more."At this point in the interview, Dauchez must have spotted my raised eyebrow at the thought of 2013 being this moment for music downloads too, given the IFPI stats."I have no prediction about the timing of the shift," he quickly added. "So many big interests are involved. For example, when will Apple have an interest to sacrifice its current model to move to the next one? Nobody knows."Artist outreachA number of music artists are concerned about the transition from CDs and downloads to streaming, with some focusing on the size of their payouts from plays on Spotify, Deezer and other services, and others worried about the bigger picture – a world where the Spotifys and Deezers all count major music labels as their investors, not just their licensors.Deezer has already mounted a charm offensive towards artists – its Deezer for Artists initiative (D4A for short). It wants more of them to register for "certified" accounts on Deezer, start creating their own playlists and posting updates, while also uploading extra material including demos, live recordings and interview clips.The company also wants to share more of its data with artists on how and where their music is being listened to on Deezer, to help them plan tours and get support from radio and other media in countries where they're popular."We want to re-engage people with music, but you cannot do that without doing the same for the artists," said Dauchez. "We want to be serving the emerging artists, too, not just the big stars."The company hopes to start helping artists popular in one part of the world to break through elsewhere, based on mining its data. There's potential in this, although Deezer is far from the only company exploring the idea: Spotify is doing it too, and Beats is planning similar data-sharing capabilities for Daisy."We want to be a partner for the artists, to find and develop their audience," said Dauchez. The payouts debate isn't going away any time soon, but the prospect of all the streaming services competing to be the most "artist-friendly" is more positive for musicians.Figuring out new ways for people to discover music is another key challenge for Deezer and its rivals. Attend any music industry conference in 2013, and you'll hear hundreds of mentions of "discovery", "recommendations" and "curation" as the next big leap forward for digital music.It's not just hot air: one of the flaws in existing streaming music services is their reliance on search: on people knowing what they want to listen to.It's something Beats' executives have been shouting about in recent months, suggesting their established rivals are little more than search boxes, whereas Daisy will be built around smarter, curated recommendations.All those rivals are already working hard on going beyond the search box too.Spotify held an entire press conference on its plansin December 2012, for example. Deezer too is focusing on the discovery challenge."I think we have invented 5% of what could be invented to drive active discovery," said Dauchez. "It's virgin field. Maybe Daisy will come onto this field and find some new things. But we all have to keep investigating."He added that music discovery has to be driven by people as well as algorithms: the idea of hand-curation in the form of playlists and recommendations from friends, rather than simply code to chuck out x-sounds-like-y streams – although these personal radio features are also part of the picture."If you only discover music through algorithms, you're not growing," said Dauchez. "You're clustered. When I see my kids or myself, we are growing when we make non-predictable choices. It's important to create disruption. It's human nature."
This week, industry insiders from all over the world are converging on the annual Game Developers Conference in sunny San Francisco. This enormous get-together is where coders, artists, producers and writers meet up, attend talks and generally chatter about the future of gaming. And with a new console generation looming, it's not difficult to guess what topics will be at the top of the agenda.Making her way down there from the eastern edge of Canada is Jade Raymond. The veteran programmer and producer is now managing Ubisoft's Toronto studio, overseeing the last weeks of development onSplinter Cell: Blacklist. The 300-strong team is also doubtless has staff working on next-gen console projects.Raymond is heading to San Fran to do a bit of recruitment, a few meetings and to catch some of the many development sessions that will align industry thinking for the months ahead. And it's not just about new consoles; it's about a whole new way of selling games – to a new audience that wants different experiences from interactive entertainment. This is a challenging time to be running a development studio – especially one responsible for a major console franchise.So we managed to intercept Raymond just before her trip south and asked her about the future of Splinter Cell and the wider industry. Whether you're interested in open-world game mechanics, the evolution of multiplayer or the spread of microtransactions, you'd better read this.So you're off to the Game Developers Conference. What do you think will be some of the key areas of conversation this year?People are going to be talking about the business model for games, how it's changing and what that means for next-gen consoles. Is it going to change the way we make games? There will be a lot of people talking about managing big teams and generally discussing their approach to next generation machines.Do you think the free-to-play and microtransction models are going to become a key part of triple A console development going forward?Absolutely. We can't help it – the audience for games is becoming broader and even core gamers who are used to buying games in boxes, are spending more of their time on mobile. So whether it's long-term gamers or the new generation who started out by playing free games on the web or mobile, we have a whole bunch of people who've been trained to think differently about the way they spend money on games. There's an expectation to be able to try for free, and only spend money if they want to. We have to figure out how to make that type of thing work with console games as well.There are profound game design ramifications aren't there? Microtransactions won't work unless the product is structured around them – and that has to be done without alienating your core audience of veteran console gamers...Yes, and I think also without it becoming a whole different business from the developer's standpoint. At Ubisoft we have the luxury of working from a certain approach – treating our games as an art form, I guess. The company challenges the teams to ask questions. As the creator, what message do I want to convey? What are the themes I want to deal with? What are the emotions I want the player to experience? The games we make are entertainment products: how do we bring the vision of the creative director to life to create some kind of special experience? I love that approach and it's very different from, 'OK, right, we need to figure out how to make X amount of money on additional items, so what game do we design that supports that?' For game creators that's... less interesting.But is there a growing financial imperative here? Teams are getting bigger, costs are going up… There's a perception among gamers that microtransactions are just about squeezing every last dollar of extra cash out of the customer – but is it actually more about simply making a living these days?Well, I think there's still room for really great triple A games that can, despite the budget, retain the classic model of expecting people to pay in one big chunk. There's still room for that. But the big publishers have to be honest with themselves – there's only room for let's say 10 successful titles a year on those sorts of budgets. So you have to go all-in on those; you have to be sure you'll have a hit, and when you make it you have to invest everything to make sure it's amazing.But that's still only one audience – you do have to think about the other people, the other types of gaming experiences that are popular. There are interesting things to do here. Clash of Clans is making a lot of money and a lot of people enjoy it, and it's a very different type of game than for instance, Assassin's Creed – but there's a lot of room in the market for that. Every challenge is a possibility; we have to think about this not just in terms of how do we make money, but in terms of audience needs. What are their lives like? How has that changed and how do we make games a better fit in that? Perhaps one of the reasons that smartphone and casual games have become so popular is that a higher percentage of gamers have less time and want to play their games in small chunks; and a higher percentage want to play against other people rather than alone in front of their TV or at their PC for several hours.The way that people like to play has changed too. I mean, you can look at the data and say, OK, the sales of traditional games haven't been rising and we need to change things; but you can also look at this as the opportunity to reach new types of audience with new habits … How do we evolve our industry? What are games going to become? Well, they're going to becomea lotof different things.The PS4 launch was really focused on this idea of pervasive gaming - about taking elements of your games around with you whoever you go. That's going to be a major challenge for designers isn't it?Yes, for sure! It's something to think about. But on the other hand there aren't so many franchises out there that people will want to engage with on a 24-hour basis. A that point, if you're thinking of a game that people will engage with constantly on all of their devices, then you're talking about a new kind of pastime. Not all brands are made for that. It can't be, 'Hey, let's take everyone of our games and turn it into a 24-hour-a-day experience!'But with a game like Splinter Cell I can see the value of a companion app that lets you configure things like load-outs and equipment.Well, we will have a mobile app, but we're going to be talking more about that at E3…On the subject of Splinter Cell: Blacklist – what are the challenges of creating a game right at the end of a console life-cycle? I'm sure that the advantage is that most of your staff will have masses of experience on these machines. But also, the expectations are very high, and there are a lot of amazing games out there at the moment.One of the reasons we decided to make a Splinter Cell game right now at Toronto was that we're starting a new studio – we definitely wanted to have a big triple A franchise that would enable us to attract lots of the best talent. The mandate here is to ramp up to an 800-person studio and to do it quickly. Since we started out, we've been ramping up at a little over 100 staff a year. Growing that fast doesn't work if you don't have a solid foundation. If we had gone down the usual route for a new studio – which maybe cuts its teeth on some ports, does a little co-production, does a few smaller mobile games – we wouldn't have been able to attract the heavy hitters of the industry. By starting off with Splinter Cell, which is one of Ubisoft's biggest franchises, we're able to get some unbelievable talent from across the industry. Our art director created Prototype, so he has experience with new IP; our level design director worked on lots of Rockstar titles; and also Max Béland and Alex Parizeau came with me from Montreal … getting people like this to uproot their lives and come to a new studio – you can't do that unless you have the right project.But of course, shipping your first game while ramping up the studio size is a huge risk – we couldn't do it while also trying to do a new engine on platforms we hadn't seen before. You can only take so many risks! Max and Alex had already shipped Conviction, they knew what to do next, they knew where they wanted to take the series, we had tech to build on. It minimised the risk a little.In gameplay terms, Blacklist seems to come in somewhere between the action-orientated feel of Conviction and the more stealth-based Chaos Theory. Is that correct?When we started, our guideline was to innovate through the roots. Our objective wasn't to just re-code every single feature that had been in Chaos Theory, or the original Splinter Cell or whatever; expectations have grown and we can do a lot more than we could at the beginning of this console cycle. We wanted to innovate while being inspired by earlier titles. A lot of stuff fans want to see, like being able to ghost through missions, take people down non-lethally, all that stuff - we brought that back, and in most cases innovated to allow for more scope and greater variety.And at the same time you have this new Killing In Motion feature which lets players seamlessly plot out attack moves while running, so the whole thing looks and feels fluid…That was another big focus for us, especially when we started working on multiplayer – which we're not really talking about yet, so I can't say too much. But with the Conviction multiplayer, one thing we realised was, when you move around, you press the A button to interact with a lot of things; you'd walk up to a window and press A to jump through and hang on a ledge, then you'd have to press A again – there was a lot of starting and stopping at different objects.What we wanted to do was add the sort of fluidity that people are coming to expect in action games, I guess in part because of Assassin's Creed. Just to be able to really traverse the environment, to move around things – people are used to that and it's no longer fun to push a button to leap over an object. Players expect that the character will do it themselves in a cool way without them having to think about it. I think also from a pure gameplay perspective, that sort of control interrupts multiplayer a lot because it's more tense, there's more pace – you can't be thinking about buttons and looking down at the controller. You need to look at where you're going and who you want to take down.  We really had to focus on adding that kind of fluidity and the extreme of that was the Killing in Motion – so Sam has this feeling that he's always one step ahead.Do you have lots of fresh ideas for multiplayer? I've heard that the popular Spies vs Mercs mode is coming back, but are there new innovations, too?Yes, but I can't say much. Multiplayer is going to have a completely fresh and new feeling. I think Conviction had pretty good feedback on single-player but where it really shone was in co-op. Well, now we have co-op ++, and we a bunch of new stuff in multiplayer and it's going to surprise people. In current games we're still seeing a lot of tacked on multiplayer and lots of modes that are familiar from game to game. But we have something unique – I think multiplayer is going to be a reason to by this game. I hope so anyway!We've seen a few games that have sought to breakdown that division between the single-player and multiplayer experiences – Dark Souls and ZombiU being obvious examples. Do you think we're going to see a lot more of this convergence in the future?Yes, and that was another big objective of Splinter Cell that we haven't talked about much yet. That integration between single-player, co-op, multiplayer, the mobile app, the communities … it's something that we've reorganised the whole game to allow for. This is part of the reason why Sam has moved from lone wolf to leader of the pack, leading his own team – it's a set-up that allows seamless integration of all these modes…As an industry veteran, what has interested you about the PS4 announcement?Well, it's always exciting to be getting bigger and faster machines – developers always have ideas they can't currently execute! I do also like this core idea of connectivity – it's what a lot of people are looking for. Also, the architecture of the PS3 was very interesting but because it was so different than anything else it required a lot of specialist work – it was hard to find the type of programmers who were able to squeeze the juice out of it. Certainly, when the first parties make the decision [to simplify hardware], it helps us developers keep our costs down.Are you having to find different sorts of staff now? Will the next-generation machines require very different skills?Yeah, that's a great question. Wearelooking for different profiles – it's effected several different areas, in terms of strategy for our studio. Telemetry and measuring the way that people are actually playing the game, and having ways to visualise the process and react to those things, is going to be incredibly important for games moving forward. Finding people with database experience and people who think about data tracking and data mining, and how to tune those things live… unless you've been running an MMO not very many developers have been thinking about that stuff, but it's going to be key for big budget games.Also, in games where the business model is changing, you need some designers who are cross-trained with finance people so you can model how different game systems will work. You now need much more complicated ways of calculating the profitability point for your games. Before, it was a simple calc of, well, I think we'll sell this many boxes, and we make this much profit per box, so the budget for the game can be this much. It's much more complex when you have different systems,  you need people who can figure out how to model game design so that you know at what point it will be profitable.Also, Ubisoft believes that all games will become HD – look at what the latest Samsung phones are capable of: you can plug in a controller and people are playing mobile games on a large screen TV. As more games become HD there are lots of interesting things to push in terms of, say, facial animation. David Cage talks a lot about this. How do we show more emotion in games, how do we take characters to the next level? There's some interesting stuff to do on the narrative side, the realisation of the story … We have a motion capture facility here in the Toronto studio and it's allowing us to get some great performances. I'd like to invest in some innovation there – now that we have the body, how do we get the facial expressions?But do you think that the quality of the narrative itself is going to have to step up too?Absolutely. We need to hire top notch writers, top notch actors, everyone has to be at the top of their game. I mean, not so long ago, the writer on the game could be a programmer who just happened to be able to write. Now, we're not just working with people who are homegrown in the games industry, we're working with writers who move back and forth between games and TV, we're all competing for the same people. That's interesting.And how about AI? That tends to get overlooked, but it will surely be vital if we're talking about richer more complex game worlds?That's one of the most exciting uses of bigger processors. It's nice to have a prettier game, but with the extra power you can have more AI characters and greater intelligence. If you look at Assassin's Creed, because the main character can go everywhere and the city is full of nav meshes, it took us forever just to get the people on the street to walk normally and not bump into each other or turn in circles! There could be a whole new level to open-world games if the AI archetypes are arranged in new ways. Imagine a mafia game that had real social relationships and your way to take down the head of the family could be to take down certain sub-clans or different characters within the social chain, infiltrating from different ways… I love thinking about these things. I'd like to have a game that's totally open in how you complete your objectives.It's great to see the sort of emergent situations in games that can only come out of functioning AI systems. Far Cry 3 players have been trading a lot of stories about simply watching the island inhabitants interacting – for example, wild animals raiding outposts. Emergence through solid gameplay systems is great.Yes, but the best thing, even better than AI, is other people. I think if you can add real people to the mix you get an even better experience. If you think about what gamers are looking for, it's options and the ability to have your own play style. Games have gone from linear levels, to sand boxes where you can create your own paths – the next step is more sophisticated AI that allows you to chose how you will achieve your objectives in a much broader sense.People try to classify the age we're in now – we've had the age of enlightenment, the age of reason, the industrial age… I would say this is the age of self-expression. We see it through social media, everywhere, everyone is artistic in some way, customisation is a huge growth area across all services. That holds true for games. People want to play in their own way and they want to share the way they're playing. That's one of the big opportunities – it's something we can really explore with the greater computing power [of next-gen consoles].Have you thought much about how Splinter Cell will evolve in the next generation?Well, we're still so focused on Blacklist! But from a brand standpoint, what's exciting is that Toronto is responsible for Splinter Cell long term across all media. So we've been talking about the comic, the next novel, the film and how all of those things tie together with the next game. We've had a lot of high level discussions, but I … oh, there are so many moving parts, I can't even go there right now!• Splinter Cell: Blacklist is released on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC on 23 August.(This article was amended at 23:00pm on 25 March. Ubisoft pointed out to us that the Toronto studio is not currently collaborating on the next Rainbow Six title.)
After the breast-beating about the impending demise of Google Reader over the past couple of weeks, andmy own calculation about how long services and APIs that don't survive tend to last(a little short of four years, though I'm still gathering data points), the question now is: which is the next we-can't-do-without-it service that's for the chop?Feedburneris obviously on its way to the abattoir. Its API was turned off on 20 October 2012, and while the service itself staggers on, "Feedburner's future's so dim, it could stare straight at the sun with impunity," in thewords of Lex Friedman at PC World.He also points out thatOrkut(rememberOrkut? Social network) can't be long for this world - though it's done pretty well so far: launched on 24 January 2004, and still going str.. still going.Others however are more concerned about another big Google service:Google Alerts.Introduced in September 2004 (at leastjudging by the Wayback Machine), Google Alerts sends you an email when new search, news or other items appear in Google's index. According to those who have relied on them heavily, they're not working as well as they did.Here's TheFinancialBrand, whichsays that Google Alerts are "broken, now useless to financial marketers":Reports about Google Alerts breakdown are all over the place (here,here,here,here,hereandherefor instance). How does Google respond? With trite, dismissive, evasive "customer service" crutches like,"Hi all, thanks for the update. We're currently investigating this."Phbbbt…Google, you know your Alerts system is busted, so why won't you fix it? Or is it your intent to slowly wean users off Google Alerts by deliberately making them less relevant, less frequent and less useful until one day you can just pull the plug entirely?Bottom Line:The Financial Brand has frequently encouraged bank and credit union marketing executives around the world touse Google Alerts.This advice is nowfully retracted.There's been a definite silence from Google to the requests from people who have written about the strange silence from the Alerts - the dog that isn't barking in the night. One wonders whether, as with Reader, the idea is that Google wishes that rather than reading this stuff in all sorts of (inaccessible) inboxes spread across the web, people would come and read it on Google+.Increasingly, it seems as though Google is shrugging off the idea of the open web in favour of its own social network - one which doesn't have any APIs for sharing content.The worry for people who rely on Google Alerts is whether it has slipped into a zombie state - that it functions perfectly well (complaints apart) but doesn't have any dedicated staff such as a product manager or engineer, and so won't evolve or improve. Certainly nothing seems to have been done to change its capabilities in years. You can't, for example, pick a time when you'd like alerts to arrive.The reason why the lack of change or response is worrying is because that zombie state is exactly what Reader fell into. And Googleintimated to Liz Gannes at All Things Digitalthatthe shutdown wasn't just a matter of company culture and bigger priorities, sources said. Google is also trying to better orient itself so that it stops getting into trouble with repeated missteps around compliance issues, particularly privacy.That means every team needs to have people dedicated to dealing with these compliance and privacy issues — lawyers, policy experts, etc. Google didn't even have a product manager or full-time engineer responsible for Reader when it was killed, so the company didn't want to add in the additional infrastructure and staff, the sources said.Essentially, it's saying that the fallout from the Google Buzz debacle, Google Street View Wi-Fi wardriving debacle, and Safari hacking debacle has made Google more wary of products without continual oversight.Reader had certainly fallen into that state. If Alerts has too, then it might not be long for this world. What happens then to all the people who rely on them? And would that include you?
Apple has bought WifiSLAM, a company providing indoor mobile location services, which lets people figure out their location inside a building using the strength of its Wi-Fi signals.Indoor mobile location is a burgeoning field as more and more people use their smartphones inside buildings - with at least two Finnish companies, Walkbase and IndoorAtlas, offering their own systems for zeroing in on where they are, and a map of their surroundings.Appleconfirmed to the Wall Street Journalthat it had bought the company, though it didn't comment on the estimated $20m price tag. It said that it "buys smaller technology companies from time to time".WifiSLAMuses the variation in different networks' Wi-Fi signal strengths to triangulate the user's location. The company co-founders include a former Google staffer, and has backing from Don Dodge, who worked at both Google and Microsoft.Walkbase has beendeveloping its offering since 2009, and presently has an Android app offering. IndoorAtlasuses variations in the earth's magnetic fieldto determine the user's location - meaning it doesn't rely on Wi-Fi or other data, and doesn't need hardware.Finnish mobile phone company Nokia already offersDestination Maps, an indoor mapping service.For Apple, improving its maps offering has become increasingly important since it dumped Google's  mapping service for its iPhone and iPad products last September. That met with widespread criticism, and forced chief executive Tim Cook toissue a grovelling apology, and saw the ousting of Scott Forstall, who had been in charge of the iPhone software division, and of thehead of the mapping team.
How was your weekend? I played a teeny bit of Bioshock Infinite. It is good.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAs Obama visits the West Bank, Palestinians reach for their tech startup future &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMike Butcher went there and found a thriving - determined - startup scene. Wewrote about the travails of life there in 2007.If we could remake films in the past... &gt;&gt; TumblrNothing to do with technology, unless you like time machines: six famous modern films reimagined through their posters if they were made up to 50 years ago.Apple iPhone now nearly 25% of China's smartphone market, but Android's growing faster &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaKantar says Apple hit 23.2% of China's smartphone market in January, up from 18.6% in September 2012. But Android saw even more impressive growth, jumping from 65.2% of the market in September to 71.5% of it in January. The big losers, unsurprisingly, were everyone else. Symbian and Windows Phone both dropped (to 3.5% and 1.2%, respectively) and other OSes didn't even register.Smartphone penetration is only 22%; plenty of room to grow. Also, these are shipments rather than installed base.In the Clouds: Inventing Chromebook &gt;&gt; Jeff NelsonAn ex-Googler:Here's a few interesting tidbits about the invention of Chromebook.First, Chromebook was initially rejected by Google management. In fact I wrote the first version as early as July 2006 and showed it around to management.  Instead of launching a project, the response was extremely tepid. My boss complained, "You can't use it on an airplane." Actually, you could as, under the covers, it was still a bare-bones Linux distribution and could execute any Linux program installed on it.Second, Google OS was not originally written for Chrome or called "Chrome OS". The first versions were all based on Firefox. When I wrote the first version in 2006, Google had not yet started developing a web browser of its own, nor did the name "Chrome" exist as a Google product. Chrome versions followed in 2007, after internal beta test versions of Chrome started to be passed around inside Google.Google's trust problem &gt;&gt; Washington PostEzra Klein:The problem, I'm beginning to think, is simply mismatch. The core services of Google's business are often not the Google services I rely on most. And even when their core products and my needs do meet, the business connection is indirect.In this, Gmail is a good example. Google just needs me logged into their system so they can amass data on my browsing habits. That's the business. They don't make their money by giving me — or even letting me pay for — a superb e-mail program that offers unlimited storage. That's just how the business was sold. But perhaps that's the business I need.Together, the Gmail experience, the death of Google Reader, and the closure of Picnik all have me questioning whether I want to keep investing time and energy in "free" Google products or whether I need to start looking for paid services that are explicitly making money off the thing I am paying them to do.Google Reader's closure is a milestone in Google's relationship with its users.Back to stock: get the Nexus look on any Android phone &gt;&gt; The VergeUnlike iOS, every version of Android allows you to install replacements for a variety of UI elements. Some things, like menus, settings, and fonts, can't be changed easily, but you can get a very stock-like experience just by downloading a few apps available in Google Play right now. By replacing apps like the built-in launcher, lock screen, and keyboard, you can enjoy the cleaner, more beautiful "Nexus look" in just a few minutes.No rooting or hacking required.Setback for Google's VP8: Nokia refuses to commit patents to royalty-free or FRAND licensing &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsNokia is refusing to offer its patents that if says are used in video codec VP8 under FRAND or royalty-free licences to the IETF:Nokia doesn't have an obligation to make a FRAND promise with respect to VP8. It wasn't involved in VP8 standard-setting. VP8 was and in practical terms (even if not in formal terms) still is a single-company project (when Google says "open", it usually means "control"), and that's why no one can be forced to support it. By contrast, H.264 was an industry-wide initiative and everyone sitting at the standard-setting table agreed to FRAND licensing from the beginning.What Nokia is doing here is simply the normal course of business if a patent holder (Nokia) does not share the vision of another company (Google) with respect to a proposed standard and reserves all rights. What motivation could Nokia possibly have to donate something to a Google initiative? None. No motivation, no obligation, no license. Simple as that.Please stop fighting about your smartphone &gt;&gt; Wired.comMat Honan:The phone wars, the platform wars, should be left to people who work for Apple and Samsung and Google and Microsoft and Nokia and BlackBerry. Do you work for Apple? Do you work for Samsung? No? Then shut up.Nobody cares what kind of smartphone you believe in. It's not a religion. It's not your local sports team even. Stop being a soldier. You are not a soldier. You are just wrong. Shut up. You there, with the blog, in the comments, in the pages of the newspaper or the magazine or on Twitter or Facebook. Whatever your opinion is, as soon as you employ it in partisan fashion, it's deeply and profoundly wrong. Just by sharing it, you are wrong. And nobody cares. Except for the people who do. And they are wrong too. Myself included."But, but, but," I hear you stammering like some sort of horrible person who has mistaken a code base for a system of moral beliefs, "the screen is too big and not big enough." No. You're wrong.A thousand times yes. If someone could write the music, we will make this our national anthem. The comments on the story are also worth reading. (Thanks @garymross on Twitter for the link.)Apple rolls out fix for password reset security hole, iForgot site back up | iMore.comNick Arnott:Apple's iForgot password reset page is now back online, and iMore has verified that the security hole,discovered earlier today in Apple's password reset page, has been closed.Previously, after providing a victim's Apple ID and date of birth, an attacker could send a URL to Apple that would change the password for that account, without needing to answer any security questions. In response, Apple blocked access to the password reset page, and a short while later took the entire site down in light of another loophole that still allowed the attack to be performed.This vulnerability came at an interesting time, just a day after Apple began to roll out its two-step verification system. Users who had already enrolled in the new system seem to have been immune from the password reset vulnerability.Unfortunately some users were held in a three-day waiting period for enabling two-step verification, while others live in countries where two-step verification is not currently available.About six hours from publicity to fix (though there's no way of knowing how long it might have been exploited before that (althoughthe pagewhich detailed it was dated 22 March, the same day. Basically, it shows how risky GET is in URLs used for logins.BlackBerry: Morgan Stanley ups to overweight; less burn in devices Division &gt;&gt; Barrons.comShares of BlackBerry are up 73 cents, or 5%, at $15.76 after Morgan Stanley's Ehud Gelblum raised his rating on the shares to Overweight from Underweight, while raising his price target to $22 from $10, writing that the smartphone division, while having zero value in his appraisal of the company's worth, will nevertheless provide less of a burden on the profit of the services business, and that the company could turn a profit this year instead of the loss he had been expecting."Overweight" is a good thing - as in "fill your boots". This is positive news for BlackBerry: Gelblum reckons that the handsets business will stop burning cash later this year, which will bring the whole business back into profit.Why the EU is unlikely to crack down on Apple over its carrier contracts &gt;&gt; GigaOmDavid Meyer:A good (though not perfect) point of comparison here would be Intel, which found itself the subject of a$1.45 billion EU fineback in 2009 for abuse of its dominant position. Intel, which utterly dominated the x86 processor market as it does now, gave secret kickbacks to computer manufacturers and retailers for not stocking AMD-based products. It even paid manufacturers to delay or cancel the launch of non-Intel products.That was a clear-cut case of illegal practices, hurting consumers by limiting their choices. It's hard, if not impossible, to argue that consumers in the EU do not have easy access to non-Apple mobile devices.Android has won; now what? &gt;&gt; The H Open: News and FeaturesGlyn Moody:Nor does Google have many friends left among the handset manufacturers. After the upbeat start five years ago, the Open Handset Alliance (OHA) has faded away – the last "What's New" item on itshome pageis dated 18 July 2011. It is probably no coincidence that shortly afterwards, on 15 August 2011, Google acquired Motorola Mobility, thus placing itself in direct competition with the other OHA members, who were presumably pretty cheesed off.Despite these bad things happening, it's worth emphasising how much Google has achieved with Android. Single-handedly it has established open systems and Linux as the default approach for mobile computing – both for smartphones and tablets. That may explain in part the sudden flowering of alternatives, all of which take for granted the fact that their systems will be Linux-based and open to varying degrees.Imagine this chart as an actual hot-air balloon &gt;&gt; SplatfThere should be a skeumorphic way to represent this. A balloon would be good.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The founder of Dell faces competition for his proposed $24.4bn (£20.7bn) buyout of the ailing personal computer company after two new bidders emerged.Blackstone, the world's largest private-equity group, and the billionaire investor Carl Icahn have thrown their hats into the ring after Michael Dell, the founder and chief executive, backed by private-equity firm Silver Lake, sought to take the business private.Both parties have reportedly submitted expressions of interest rather than formal, full-scale bids, before the weekend deadline for other possible buyers to come forward.Reuters reported that Blackstone was offering up to 10% more than Michael Dell's offer of $13.65 a share. Major shareholders, other than the founder, who owns 16%, have protested that his offer significantly undervalued the company and pledged to vote against it.Dell has been listed publicly for 24 years and was booming at the beginning of the previous decade through online sales of cheap PCs and low production costs. But its fortunes have declined, and it has only a 10% share of the global PC market that has been superseded by consumers' moving to tablets and smartphones.Analysts believe any buyer could sell off the underperforming PC division that still accounts for most of Dell's sales and about half of its profits.Dell executives say they will seek to expand the software and services it offers for corporate customers, along the full-service model that has worked successfully for IBM.Michael Dell, who launched the company in 1984 when he was a student at Austin University in Texas, is believed to want to turn his company away from the scrutiny and financial pressure of Wall Street. Shares in the company dropped by a third last year.Whoever ends up taking over Dell, it is likely the transaction will be the largest buyout since the financial crisis brought an end to the private-equity boom.
Price £33,695MPG 68.9Top speed 132mphCertain journeys fix a&nbsp;car in your mind for ever. Almost 25 years ago my wife and I took a taxi fromAswanon the Nile to the colossal rock temples atAbu Simbel– some 300km across the flat and limitless desert towards Sudan. We shared the ride with two Australians – one had a thermometer round his neck which read 40C, and that was at 8am. It later rose to over 55C. The trip took nine hours and we were at the temple for less than an hour. We had no aircon, but kept the windows shut as opening them was like being blasted in the face with&nbsp;a&nbsp;hair dryer. I sat between the Aussies in the back, where the hair on our bare thighs matted together with clotted sweat which then seeped down into the stained velour… And the car? An&nbsp;almost indestructiblePeugeot 505.That heroic jalopy – the camel of the desert – was a&nbsp;low-tech marvel. Head to any corner of the world and you'll still find them, welded and crabbed, but churning out the miles. I've been thinking about that old white estate a lot this week – God knows what we'd have done if it had broken down – because I have been driving its distant descendant.The 508 is the latest addition toPeugeot's remarkable 5-series– but it has as much in common with that battered Egyptian 505 as Danny DeVito and Arnie Schwarzenegger do&nbsp;inTwins. The 508 is smart, stylish and sophisticated; the old one was simple, spartan and agricultural. And it's about 20 years too soon to know if it's been built with the 505's legendary toughness riveted into its panels.This is the latest version of the 508 – the508 RXH. It's a&nbsp;technological marvel, though by the end of the week I&nbsp;thought it might be a bit too clever for its own good. The 508 RXH is wider and longer than the ordinary 508 SW, has 4WD and packs as much body armour as an American football&nbsp;linebacker, but its real USP is that it's the first of its class to boast a&nbsp;diesel-electric hybrid drivetrain.Eh? That means it has a 163bhp, four-cylinder diesel engine driving the front wheels and a 37bhp electric motor powering the back. This wizardry means you can, allegedly, get almost 70 miles to a gallon of fuel – an amazingly high figure for such a large and luxurious 4WD – and almost double what you might reasonably expect. Hooray! But the downside is that you also have to pay almost double what you would for the basic SW. However, if bought as a company car, by the time you've factored in benefit-in-kind tax, the RXH will save youthousandsa year compared to a comparable Audi A4 Allroad, VW AllTrack or Volvo XC70.For those who aren't company directors with a taste for hybrid technology, what will you be missing out on? A great-looking car for starters – with triple "lion's claw" running lights at the front. It's spacious and refined, and strapped in and gazing up through its all-glass roof you get to feel what it might be like to be a specimen. You'll also miss out on fiddling with the multiple engine settings and seeing if you can drive home on battery power alone. On the other hand you won't have to put up with its maddening electronic key which the car keeps telling you you don't have in your hand, nor  the six-speed automatic gearbox, which was as lumpy as the custard I&nbsp;made last Sunday.The 508 RXH happily did all I&nbsp;asked of it, but the wilds of southern England don't compare to those of southern Egypt… and there were no sweaty Australians in the back.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one placeExplore Italy's 'Motor Valley' as Lamborghini celebrates 50 years of luxury drivingItalian job: enjoy the best of Italian motoring from Modena to Mantua. Photograph: ObserverThe Unesco Quadrilateral, which covers the Italian towns of Modena, Ferrara, Reggio Emilia, Bologna and Mantua, is birthplace to some of the world's most desirable and expensive cars and motorbikes, from Ferrari to Ducati; Lamborghini to Maserati, De Tomaso to Dallara. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of Lamborghini, a procession of hundreds of luxury cars will tour through 1,200km of Italian streets from 7-11 May, featuring some of the brand's most iconic models, from the unforgettable classic GTs to today's futuristic supercars. Aside from Lambo's extravagant celebrations, the Unesco Quadrilateral region has a wealth of automotive sights and attractions to offer, including car shows, museums and motoring experiences. It's the perfect driving holiday for anyone who loves Italy and Italian cars. To plan your trip have a look at some of these useful sites:emiliaromagnaturismo.itturismomantova.itdeltapocard.itmotorvalley.itfacebook.com/RediscoverItalytwitter.com/RediscoverItaly
On Monday last, amid great hoopla, theQueen Elizabeth prize for engineeringwas awarded to Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Robert Kahn, Vinton Cerf, Louis Pouzin and Marc Andreessen.The15-person selection panelsaid the five men had all contributed to the recent revolution in communications that has taken place in recent decades. Which is manifestly true. But the fine distinctions between the contribution each made escaped BBC News, which treated them all as inventors of the&nbsp;internet.The truth is more complicated: Cerf,&nbsp;Kahn and Pouzin can legitimately get most of the credit for designing the&nbsp;network; Berners-Lee built the web on the foundations laid by them; and Marc Andreessen (withhis colleague Eric Bina, who is strangely omitted from the prize list) in turn built on Berners-Lee's work by creating the first major web browser.The cavalier way in which the BBC lumped all these contributions together led your exasperated columnist to tweet "BBC News makes elementary schoolboy mistake – confusing the web with the internet. Bah! #cluelessness".Which in turn led a bemused follower to ask the following day: "What's the difference between the web and the net?"If at this stage you detect the buzzing of a bee in a bonnet, then you're spot on. I devoted a year of my life to writinga book on the subject, triggered by a conversation I had with a senior politician in which he revealed that he thought the web and the internet were the same thing. This seemed to me about the biggest misconception one can have about the technology (it's like believing that Virgin Pendolino trains are the railway network) and led me to wonder how someone so powerful and well-informed could confuse a single application with the infrastructure that makes it possible.A few months later, I mentioned this conversation to Berners-Lee at a Royal Society symposium about the net. He smiled his enigmatic smile. "There are 200 million people in the world who thinkFacebookis the net," he said. (This was when&nbsp;Facebook had about 300&nbsp;million&nbsp;users.)Since Facebook now has a billion users, we may safely assume that this misconception has spread like a virus. There are currentlyabout 2.4 billion internet usersin the world, which means about 4.6 billion people are still unconnected.Not surprisingly, Facebook (and Google) are already targeting them. One of the mantras of Google's chairman, for example, is "the next five billion". Facebook, for its part, has signed up 44% of the US population, 30% of Europeans and 37% of Latin Americans. But it only has 6.6% of Asians and even fewer (5%) Africans.What's happening now is therefore predictable. Most new users of the internet in poor countries will be connecting to it via mobile phones. So, according toan intriguing pieceby David Talbot in theMIT Technology Review, "Facebook and Google are … persuading wireless carriers in poor countries to offer customers free or very cheap online access that is limited to stripped-down versions of the &nbsp;web giants' sites. The idea is that once these new users get some experience in a walled garden of Facebook or Google, they will want more internet access and pay for it, making the carriers' initial investment worthwhile."It's a smart strategy, and it will have one predictable outcome, namely, that many new users of the internet from poor countries will think that Facebook (or Google)isthe Internet. This would be a particularly pernicious outcome for those who find themselves inside Facebook's walled garden, because it's much more comprehensively fenced than anything yet constructed by&nbsp;Google.Why does this matter? Well, in a way, it comes back to the guys who won the Queen Elizabeth prize. The network that Cerf and Kahn built was deliberately designed as an open, permissive system. Anyone could use it, and if you had an idea that could be realised in software, then the net would do it for you, with no questions asked. Tim Berners-Lee had such an idea – the web – and the internet enabled it to happen. And Berners-Lee made the web open in the same spirit, so Mark Zuckerberg was able to build Facebook on those open foundations.But Zuckerberg has no intention of allowing anyone to use Facebook as the foundation for building anything that he doesn't control. He's kicking away the ladder up which he climbed, in other words. And if he ever gets the Queen Elizabeth prize then I'm leaving the country.
EA's latest in its much-lauded city-building series hasn't fared too well so far. The need for the internet always to be on has led to chronic server problems, with many owners simply unable to log on and play the game. Several community and sharing features have been stripped out to help server load, making it hard to get a feel for everything the game offers.It could be great, though – once connected,SimCityproves to be complex yet accessible, with citizens' demands on your resources proving a satisfying challenge to meet. However, I'd wait for server glitches to be fully dealt with – and hope for an offline mode to be introduced – before visiting this particular metropolis.
Ever-vengeful Kratos returns, though, arguably, for the first time. This fourth outing of glorifieddeicideserves as a prequel to earlierGod of Wargames, telling of the violent antihero's battle against the Furies and exploring the roots of his debt to Ares.Single-player gameplay remains much the same – furious attacks, extravagantly gory finishing moves against hordes of enemies, and epic battles against gargantuan bosses – butAscensionalso delivers a multiplayer focus, a series first. With four modes to choose from, players battle against rival teams to earn the favour of the Greek gods. It's a different experience for hardcore fans of the saga, but one that freshens up the otherwise standard solo campaign.
WithBulletstormdeveloper People Can Fly taking over the reins forGOW: Judgment, the attendant scrutiny has ensured the team was keen to leave its mark on Epic's flagship franchise. And they have done: the resulting prequel to theGearstrilogy (starring Baird and Cole) offers a new spin on the campaign mode and just enough multiplayer content to justify the price tag.Gone are the narrative histrionics and set pieces that have come to define theGearscampaign, replaced with something subtler.Judgmentis divided into small, action-packed skirmishes with a distinctly arcade focus. Awarded stars at the end of each segment, the player must vary their combat style to achieve the highest ranking. Executions, headshots and gory finishes reap rewards and they can take on declassified sub-missions, which impose extra victory conditions&nbsp;such&nbsp;as weapon restrictions and time limits.Although this new arcade sensibility certainly shakes up the formula, the fragmented campaign is lacking in spectacle and surprisingly po-faced. A mini-campaign, Aftermath, fills in some story gaps in the trilogy but, strangely, ditches the star system and feels out of place with the developer's arcade vision.On the multiplayer front, the real highlight is the class-based Overrun, which requires a pleasing degree of teamwork and strategy, but some series fans may feel somewhat short-changed by the modest selection of maps and lack of Horde mode.
Rare gems of originality are often crowded out in the busy app market  but occasionally one really does shine.Towelfight 2: The Monocle of Destiny(65-60p, Butterscotch Shenanigans, iOS/Android) has some impressively fresh gameplay. You play the part of an old Indian man, Hardik, who is whisked through a magical portal to a strange land while out walking his dog. There, the kindly Jobi bestows upon him a projectile-firing monocle with which to defeat the evil Forn, who controls the land. Instead of bullets, the eyepiece fires animals – 40 types, each with different strengths and weaknesses.Controlled with two D-pads either side of the screen – one for movement and one for shooting– the visuals are a pleasing top-down 2D style, reminiscent of the classicZeldagames, but given an idiosyncratic twist. It makes for a novel fusion of styles liftingTowelfight 2above the standard fare. Using the pads is sometimes a bit fiddly, but they work well enough not to detract from the enjoyment. With many different animals to be collected, as well as the many power-ups for them, there's plenty to do – and with a level of humour not seen in a standard shooter. Rather than "headshot" or some such popping on when an enemy is fragged, entirely random words or phrases flash on the screen. Perhaps reading "spleen" when a bad-guy is dispatched shouldn't be funny, but the incongruous nature of the congratulations can't help but raise a smile. If only all developers made their offerings feel so excitingly novel.
Next year, the Volkswagen Golf celebrates its 40th birthday. They've sold 29m of them since 1974. Perhaps the car's enduring popularity is founded on the fact that it can bridge two stages of life. Unlike most of its competitors, with their slightly frumpy connotations – the Ford Focus, the Skoda Octavia – the Golf feels fun enough to buy when you're young, single and relatively carefree, but won't need replacing if you have kids. At least until you become fully aware of the untrammelled horror that is driving with small children, realise that said horror is mitigated slightly if the kids are as far away from you as is physically possible, abandon any pretensions that driving is about fun or passion or soul or any of those Top Gear adjectives, and buy a people carrier. I give up, just bring me the Citroën Picasso. You might as well stick The Best Of Dire Straits in the CD player while you're about it: I'm officially middle-aged.I reached that stage some years ago, and driving the Golf en famille didn't make me think I'd made an error of judgment. There's nothing like realising the three-year-old having a meltdown in the rear seat is noticeably closer to the back of your head than usual to distract your attention from the smoothness of the ride and the increased fuel economy achieved by making the car lighter than its predecessor.Which is a shame, because there's a lot to like about the redesigned Golf. It's nearly £2,500 more than a&nbsp;Ford Focus, and about 15 billion quid more than the new Skoda Octavia (a car that uses the same platform), but you can work out where your money goes. The interior feels more luxurious than its rivals, while the mid-range model I drove appears to be clairvoyant. Something called a PreCrash system "detects the possibility of an accident" – yes, yes, my wife made the joke about it going off as soon as I sat in the driver's seat, too – then tenses up the seatbelts and closes the windows to ensure the airbags provide the best protection.Even the entry-level model has something they refer to as a&nbsp;touchscreen infotainment centre with DAB radio, USB inputs and Bluetooth telephone preparation, which sounds more complicated than it is. Indeed, I can tell you from bitter experience that even a child could use it: sitting in the front passenger seat, my eldest daughter happily whiled away one journey switching stations every 10 seconds, turning the volume up and down, etc. It was at this point I&nbsp;decided the Golf definitely wasn't for me. Anyone unencumbered by the nonpareil joy of parenthood could do substantially worse.Volkswagen Golf SE 2.0-litre TDI 150 PSPrice£22,015Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6 secondsAverage consumption68.9mpgCO2emissions106g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewGears Of War has a formula and Judgement isn't going to mess with it: one of your ludicrously proportioned musclemen kicks open a door to find a room littered with waist-high barriers; aliens with guns arrive; using the barriers as cover you shoot them all into meaty chunks before moving on. Although this was in place for previous instalments it's never felt as rigid as it does here, though there are novelties, including sections where you place gun turrets to help defend fortified positions – a feature that transfers nicely to multiplayer. It's great fun while it lasts, but both Judgement and Aftermath (an extra, unlockable mini-campaign) feel less like a full game and more like a slightly extended piece of downloadable content, offering more of the same before suddenly ending without fanfare or ceremony.
The latest iteration ofSimCitycontinues to take a drubbing, after Electronic Arts insisted players connect to its servers in order to play. The side effect of this draconian anti-piracy measure was that vast numbers couldn't actually play the game for days at a time, a situation that got even more embarrassing when a player hacked it to work offline, making its publisher's claim that essential parts of the game's processing were performed centrally into a very public whopper.Other games out this week includeHyperdimension Neptunia Victory(PS3), a baffling, text-heavy role-playing game that parodies the Japanese games industry but suffers from lacklustre translation and its innate strangeness, whileThe Walking Dead: Survival Instinct(Xbox, PS3, Wii U) detaches itself from the award-winning adventure games based on the TV series to deliver an action-orientated first-person zombie shooter.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWith no plot and tutorials so perfunctory they're practically nonexistent, Monster Hunter 3 is a game unswervingly focused on stalking prey, ranging from man-sized lizards to hulking leviathans. Unlike most games of its ilk, you can't level up, relying instead on crafting weapons and equipment to improve your character's chances against the game's more lethal beasts. Similar to 2010's Monster Hunter Tri, this one adds underwater combat and lightly refreshed visuals, although playing on Wii U, the fuzziness of its visuals is all too reminiscent of a GameCube game. On 3DS things look better, and you get the same game on both systems, with the ability to transfer your save between them. Monster Hunter 3 is at its best taking on one of the game's towering predators with a team of human adventurers, but it takes a time to discover why this inscrutable game is so popular in Japan.
Hannah Hart describes herself as an entrepreneur in the entertainment industry. Her series, My Drunk Kitchen, was an instant hit when it launched in March 2011, turning Hart into a celebrity and launching a full-time career. But her channel is not cable TV, it is YouTube, and she is one of a new breed of video makers who make their livelihoods from the site."I tell people, I am a small business owner, and the business I produce is entertainment," said Hart.YouTube, which is owned by Google, has how created its own network to support the industry that has cropped up around it.Hart, 26, had no ideaMy Drunk Kitchencould be a business when she launched that first video two years ago. After it caught fire she was motivated to continue posting videos, working independently for a year before joining forces with the online content division of entertainment management company The Collective in June 2012.She then quit her day job and lived on friends' couches for six months before moving to Los Angeles, where The Collective is based andwhere Google openeda nearly 41,000 square feet production studio for YouTube creators.Creators get access to the studio by being part of the company's free partner program which offers support with networking events, best practice guides and production space.Hart's income is generated by a combination of advertising, merchandise sales and crowdsourced funding.That tacticis supporting a yearlong worldwide tour that starts in April, during which she will host charity meet-ups in the cities that had the most fans contribute to the campaign.Fan support is one key to the success of YouTube creators, according to Dan Weinstein, chief content officer for Collective Digital Studio."The thing that has the most value is the relationship that some of these creators have with their audience and the power of that influence and how they are able to tap into that," Weinstein said.He said that changing consumption habits among key demographics like millennials mean the line between television and online shows is thinning, because to that demographic, it's all just content, available on all kinds of media platforms."I think that will continue to be the case and there will continue to be improvements in monetization and business models," Weinstein said. "You'll be able to sustain a profitable, very successful business without having to 'migrate' to television."The Collective has made television deals for YouTube stars, such as the Annoying Orange on Cartoon Network, to drive audiences to the video site and to the network. "We didn't have to go to television, the measure of success was not necessarily going to television," he said.YouTube creators including Hart don't consider a transition to television as the ultimate career goal. JR, of thesports show JR Sport Brief, said he knows people at ESPN but is happy doing his own "everyman's approach" to sports journalism."I find great joy in not necessarily being filtered in what I have to say," said JR. "It's not suit and tie, I don't have anybody yanking on my chain, saying 'you can't do this, you can't say that'."That creative freedom also means people likeEpic Meal Time's Harley Morenstein, who is also represented by The Collective, can curse and drink as a full-time gig."2013, it's the future." Morenstein said. "It allows me and my friends to have a job eating macaroni and cheese and getting drunk."Morenstein said he committed to YouTube full-time when he made his first video, which involvedpiling a batch of fast food treats on top of a pizza, covering it with cheese, then eating it with his friends. It quickly accumulated 100,000 views. His second video had 600,000 views and the third had more than a million.Like his cohosts, Morenstein has no culinary training, which isn't exactly necessary when smashing bacon and bourbon onto piles of meat. "I don't know how to cook, but because of YouTube, I now have my own cookbook."
The head of BlackBerry has attacked Apple's iPhone as "outdated" as he launched the company's new full touchscreen phone in the US.Thorsten Heins, BlackBerry's chief executive, made the comment on Thursday before the long-delayed launch there of the Z10, the first phone running the new BB10 software which had been expected as much as a year ago.He also said that it will be two or three months before the launch of the Q10, a handset running BB10 but with a keyboard – which might be preferred by many existing lovers of the keyboard-based BlackBerry devices.Attacking the iPhone, which makes up 38% of the installed base of smartphones in the US – against 5.9% for BlackBerry – Heins told the Associated Press agency that Apple lacked innovation and that the phone could not multitask: "It's still the same," Heins said of the iPhone. "It is a sequential way to work and that's not what people want today anymore. They want multitasking."BB10 lets users flip between apps and "peek" at emails or other messages without leaving the frontmost app. "We're changing it for the better because we're allowing people to peak in the hub," Heins said. He said the iPhone was revolutionary five years ago, but was now "just kind of sitting there".He admitted that success in the US was essential: "You got to win here to win everywhere else," he said. "That's just the way it is. We've lost market share quite a bit, to put it mildly, and we absolutely need BlackBerry 10 to turn us around."Heins also faces an uphill struggle persuading US carriers to carry the phone: T-Mobile is only selling the Z10, while Sprint will only offer the Q10. And there will only be a month before Samsung's new Galaxy S4 arrives in the US and other markets, where it is expected to sell strongly.Heins said initial sales in other countries are encouraging, but he could not release numbers ahead of RIM's earnings report next Thursday."I get more and more excited every day," he said. "I really have to make sure I stay grounded and I don't lose my sense for reality. But for the whole company this is so important to finally be here, and to see people buying it, after we were told 30 months ago when we started that two quarters down the road we would be bankrupt, we would be out of business."Heins seemed to imply that the Q10's delay was down to carrier testing: "It's our job to deliver the right software package and the right software quality to the carriers," he said. "Then it is on the carriers to decide how intense they want their testing cycle to be and that really can range from a few weeks to three months."Research firm IDC says shipments of BlackBerry phones plummeted from 46% of the US smartphone market in 2008, a year after the iPhone's launch, to just 2% in 2012. The iPhone and Android now dominate, controlling more than 90% of the installed base of 129.4m users.BlackBerry – previously named Research In Motion (RIM) until Heins rebranded it with the launch of the Z10 in January – has struggled with declining market share as the iPhone drives into its former corporate strongholds and Android phones eat into its consumer base. It is due to report its fourth-quarter financial figures on Thursday, having lost $744m in the past three quarters and seen revenues in that period shrink by 41%. The fourth quarter will only include one month of sales of the Z10 in the UK and Canada, though they are two of BlackBerry's strongest markets.Getting strong sales of the Z10 and, once launched, the Q10 is important because they are more profitable for the company compared with its older handsets, where price competition with Android devices and Nokia phones is intense.The company has had mixed news elsewhere. This week it emerged that BB10 has not yet been approved by the UK government to the same level as its older BB7 software, which is the only one approved for use by the UK's CESG – part of the spy centre GCHQ – with restricted materials. CESGsaid: "Discussions with BlackBerry are ongoing about the use of the BlackBerry 10 platform in government. We have not yet performed an evaluation of the security of the platform, but we expect to be issuing platform guidance in the summer."BlackBerry told the Guardian: "We are continuing to work closely with CESG on the approval of BlackBerry 10 and we're confident that BlackBerry 10 will only strengthen our position as the mobile solution of choice for the UK government."That will delay the rollout of the more profitable devices to sensitive parts of the UK government, although some departments whose civil servants do not need to deal with restricted documents are already using other platforms, including Apple's iPhone.The US Pentagon meanwhiledenieda report that it was to throw out 470,000 BlackBerrys in favour of iPhones. But it did not rule out the possibility of buying in iPhones or Android phones for new projects.A number of Wall Street analysts who follow BlackBerry have offered gloomy prognoses. Earlier this month Mike Walkley of Canaccord Genuityrevised his forecastfor the number of Z10s sold during the quarter to 2 March from 300,000 to 800,000 – though he had originally thought it would sell 2m.Meanwhile James Faucette at the stockbrokers Pacific Crest, who has a "sell" rating on BlackBerry, said in a research note looking at sales in the UK and Canada that in his opinion, "sell-through run-rates for the Z10 have declined meaningfully in the weeks following launch. We believe carriers and third-party retailers in the UK are well above typically targeted inventory levels."He added that retailers Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U have begun discounting the handsets. "Carphone Warehouse has cut the price of the Z10 on the 3 network to £29 up front on a £29 per month, two-year contract," Faucette wrote. "Previously the contract cost £36 per month with a free handset, so the total reduction is around £139." Carphone Warehouse has confirmed to the Guardian that that is correct."We are concerned that… may ultimately push the Z10 downmarket" and hit profit margins, Faucette told clients.Concerns over BlackBerry's financial position have grown so far that earlier this week, Canada's industry minister declined to say whether he would block any attempted takeover of BlackBerry by the Chinese PC and smartphone maker Lenovo. Christian Paradis told Reuters: "I hope BlackBerry will continue to be a Canadian champion in the world, that it grows organically." But, he added, "we don't know what might happen. The market is very aggressive. When you talk about the telecoms sector … this is a very very aggressive sector."Asked whether he would block a bid from Lenovo, mooted last week in an interview with that company, Paradis said: "As the industry minister I don't want to send a signal and I don't want it to look like I prejudged a deal or not."The Canadian government could block the deal on national security grounds. Last year the Chinese state-owned oil company CNOOC bought Canadian energy firm Nexen, but it provoked a storm. Analysts reckon the US and UK governments might block a similar Chinese bid for BlackBerry because of its importance to secure email.
It's an unusual experience trying to report on something like Saint's Row 4, because normally games companies are pretty cagey about what sort of thing they'll say as an opener. Not Volition, though. Not by a long shot. They love Saints Row 4, in the same way that parents might love a gifted but obnoxious child. They want to tell us all about it.They give us so much to write about that there is barely time to look down at my notebook and scratch out a phrase like "DUBSTEP GUN" or "DANCING MECH SUITS" before two other things happen simultaneously on screen, both of them worthy of comment. There's a multicoloured cavalcade of absurdity coming at us, like a bunch of rainbow slinkies tied together and poured out of a bucket onto our heads. This is ridiculous stuff, unashamedly so, and it's presented with a mad, wide-eyed grin from the developers present.Previous games have dealt with organised crime and how the criminal world can be a bit difficult at times but, essentially, lots of fun when you get down to it. Starting off as a GTA clone and competitor – a contest it was nowhere near good enough to win – the series managed to win over the hearts and minds of gamers after they woke up one 2008 morning to the grim reality that was Grand Theft Auto IV. Saints Row 2 was fun. Saints Row 2 kept the combination of open world, wacky minigames and tongue-in-cheek brutality that made San Andreas perfect, and rolled with it.Saints Row the Third in 2011 was obviously the last time the series brushed up against reality – and it featured an opening sequence where you skydive out of the same plane twice without stopping – but it's clear from even a casual glance at Saints Row 4 that any allusions to sense are long-gone from the developers minds.The plot is: you (the main character, gender and features remaining undefined in a remarkably egalitarian move from a studio which tied explosive buttplug chariots to gimps and then had you use them in a car chase) are the US president. You are going to rescue the previous president after they have been kidnapped by aliens. The aliens have somehow drawn you into a virtual version of the city that Saints Row the Third took place in. Because you are in a virtual virtual world and not just a virtual world, you now have superpowers. GO.The UI is identical to Saint's Row the Third, which is understandable as it's running on the same engine and at this stage in the console generation cycle there's little push to rejig the mechanical workings of a game only for potential players to witness much shinier graphics on the next gen of consoles. What they've changed is the stuff, the grab-bag of weapons and items and objectives, that floats in the purple neon broth that is now Saint's Row.Case in point: the Dubstep Gun, as mentioned above. There is a gun that shoots dubstep music at people, causing them to explode. Everyonenearby will begin to frantically throw shapes when the gun is fired. Cars will rock back and forth on previous unreferenced hydraulics. Lasers happen. It's the sort of thing that makes you laugh out loud when you see it and immediately wonder why you were laughing once it stops.In any other game, that would be a fan mod. Or a bonus afterthought, a joke put in for completing the story – Red Faction Armageddon for example, an otherwise fairly serious title, had an unlockable weapon that took the form of a miniature rainbow-farting unicorn, which the protagonist carried around like a rocket launcher – but here, it's the third thing they show us.(The first is the presidential reveal, illustrated by suplexing a bystander while wearing an Uncle Sam hat. The second is a new gun that inflates people until they pop.)The demonstration continues, with the developers almost tripping over themselves to tell us about all the cool things they've done in the game – showing off those aforementioned superpowers, for example, by freezing targets solid and then throwing vans into the crowds of bodies so they shatter, or taking the opportunity to drive the sort of customised monster truck that Snoop Lion would drive if he decided to become an African warlord. We're offered brief forays into other content – police officers transforming into aliens, super-powered wrestling, duels with extraterrestrial badasses atop floating sky cities, rocket launchers in guitar cases, a dancing mechanical robot suit that you use to blow up civilians. But it all seems so impossibly daft it's difficult to get a handle on it.The game is excess – needless, baseless, senseless excess, operating off a base of reality that's obviously well out of sight. There's nothing to transgress against, no expected norms to subvert, nothing to take a break from. The entire game is breaks, and it looks like it might have broken.Of course, without laying hands on it, it's hard to tell whether it'll keep the pace as well as Saints Row the Third did, which was an excellent if shallow experience – that title held onto the last scraps of rebellion that made SR2 such a wonderful, perfectly-pitched game, and what let it out-Grand Theft Auto Grand Theft Auto. It would be wonderful if it could, but at this stage, things don't look too hopeful.
Apple has made a small but significant change to iOS app listings on its App Store, adding a prominent "Offers In-App Purchases" line for freemium apps on its store.The new tagline is currently only appearing in the desktop version of the App Store that sits within iTunes. For now, it's not shown in the iOS App Store app, nor does it appear on webpages for iOS apps.Update:Over the weekend, after this story was initially published, the warning message went live on the iOS App Store app.Apple confirmed to The Guardian that the message is a new addition to the App Store. Its location – directly below the icon and "Free" button on each app's page – makes it even easier for people to identify that an app uses in-app purchases (IAP) before downloading it.A big change? Not as such: there is already a space on freemium apps' pages showing "Top In App Purchases", which lists the most popular purchases made within them. Even the least tech-savvy iOS users would be likely to draw the right conclusion after spotting it.That said, the addition of a separate "Offers In-App Purchases" message is still significant. For example, as metadata for iOS apps, it could be the key to a future settings change that enables users (parents, in particular) to easily filter out apps with IAP when browsing the store.The message may also be a response to the negative publicity in recent months around children running up huge bills buying virtual items within iOS apps without their parents' knowledge.Examples include one British boy whospent £1,700 playing Zombies vs Ninja, and another whobought £980 worth of virtual donutsin The Simpsons: Tapped Out. In both cases, Apple refunded the parents.Apple has also recentlysettled a US lawsuit over in-app purchasesmade by children, agreeing to spend as much as £66m refunding parents whose kids spent without asking them.Adding an extra notification that apps contain IAP to the desktop App Store isn't a solution to this problem, not least because as Apple's services boss Eddy Cueexplained at the company's iPhone 5 launchin September 2012: "More than two thirds of our [iTunes] downloads now come directly for iOS devices."There is a spirited debate within the apps industry about the use of IAP within children's apps, as shown by the often-heated commentson The Guardian's article on the subject earlier in March, as well as a follow-up post giving parents advice onhow to restrict IAP on their devices.The gist of the debate was that parents must take responsibility for knowing what apps their children are using and how IAP settings work; that developers of children's apps must be responsible in their use of freemium (this, at a time when it's increasingly common for children's games on iOS to offer IAP of up to £69.99 at a time); and for Apple to shoulder some of the responsibility for educating parents about all this.Making it clearer which apps use IAP is a step in the right direction on the latter front. More may follow at Apple's WWDC developer event this summer, when the company is expected to unveil its iOS 7 software.
The cyber attack against TV stations and banks in South Korea on Wednesday this week seems increasingly likely to have been by a government-level hacker who may have inserted a virus into a central computer providing antivirus protection, says an American security company.But researchers from Fortinet, which specialises in internet security and who are still investigating what happened in Korea, said they are still unsure quite how the hack was done – although they are increasingly confident that it was the work of a foreign government targeting banks and broadcasters, which were hit earlier this week.As many as 30,000 PCs in Shinhan Bank, Jeju Bank, Nonghyup Bank, the Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation, YTN and the Korea Broadcasting System (KBS) had their hard drives wiped when a virus activated at 14.00 local time on Wednesday 20 March.Guillaume Lovet, threat response manager for Fortinet in Paris, said: "In examining some of the code for the malware responsible for the attack, we've found that it refers to a RAT – a remote access tool. That's not a phrase a normal virus writer would use. That's more like a professional." He explained: "My feeling is that the author of this is not a typical virus writer. So it could be a government-led attack."But, he added, "if it is, then it's the least sophisticated attack that we have seen in years." He pointed out that despite the attack, the TV stations had been able to continue broadcasting and the banks had only reported brief interruptions to some ATM services.That would suggest that the attack was done principally for propaganda purposes – in which it seems to have succeeded. At first, government sources in South Korea had blamed Wednesday's events on a cyber-attack orchestrated by North Korea. On Thursday, it said it hadtraced the attack to an internet address in China– but thenbacktrackedand said the infection had come from a system inside one of the companies."We are still not sure about the vector of infection – how the virus got onto the machines," said Lovet. "The antivirus servers should be hardened against this sort of attack." One possibility was that the infected PCs were already part of a "botnet" – PCs which are surreptitiously under the control of a hacker who rents them out without the user knowing – and that the virus writer hired or bought access to them. Such transactions are common in the underworld of cyberspace.North Korea faces UN sanctions over its 12 February nuclear test, and has been making aggressive military overtures – and sending warnings to South Korea – apparently as part of attempts to test the resolve of the south's newly elected prime minister.In response, it has accused South Korea of hacking attacks, while being blamed itself for trying to carry out similar attacks against the south.But North Korea is also believed to have been ramping up its capabilities for cyber attacks. The anti-virus firm McAfee blamed an attack in 2011 on systems based in the north, which it said at the time could be a test of the south's resilience.
Nathaniel McClure spent six years working on the very first Call of Duty titles before leaving Activision to set up his own small studio in Michigan.Scientifically Proven Entertainmenthas already produced several successful titles including the award winning children's app, Trashers and a tie-in with TV show Man vs Wild – but its next project could really be the one that thrusts it into the limelight.Blood of the Werewolf is an unashamedly hardcore platformer, seemingly in the blueprint of Konami's much-loved Castlevania series. You play Selena, a lupine mother who comes home one night to find her husband slaughtered and baby son missing – she must now traverse a rugged Gothic landscape to track him down and punish his kidnappers.From the trailer, this has everything we expect from those classic platforming adventures – cruelly precise jumps, blood-splattered scenic traps and fast-paced combat. Selena is also able to transform into her werewolf alter ego, providing a savage claw attack to slice and dice enemies ranging from vampires to Frankenstein-esque abominations.The game is due out this summer on Xbox Live, PSN, Wii U and PC.
Welcome to the Apps Blog's weekly roundup of new iPhone and iPad apps, hand-picked from new releases in the last seven days (and the odd pearl that slipped through the net in the last month).The roundup includes apps and games, with the price in brackets relating to the initial download only – so those marked (Free) may be freemium, using in-app purchases.This week'sAndroid apps roundup can be found here. Now check out this week's notable iOS apps:Petting Zoo by Christoph Niemann (£1.49)There's only one word for this animated animals children's app: delightful. Created by author and illustrator Christopher Niemann, it's a collection of hand-drawn animals for kids to interact with through swipes and taps, and is fizzing with character, craft and humour.iPhone / iPadYogify (Free)Yogify is a mobile yoga app aimed at beginners and veterans alike, with more than 50 classes and 275 yoga poses to practise. Photos, audio instructions and social features aim to get you bending and stretching just so, with the classes sold as in-app purchases. The publisher may be a surprise too: games firm EA.iPhoneSnoop Lion's Reincarnated: Track Notes App (Free)Coveredat more length earlier in the week, this is an advance promotion for the new album from Snoop Lion (formerly Dogg). Aiming to offer the tablet equivalent of liner notes for vinyl albums, it offers songs, videos and notes on Snoop's inspiration for his career pivot into reggae.iPadSolitaire Blitz (Free)PopCap Games – now a subsidiary of yoga giant EA – had big hits with Plants vs Zombies and Bejeweled Blitz on the App Store. Solitaire Blitz is cut from the same cloth as the latter, boiling the familiar card game down into 60-second rounds, with Facebook connectivity enabling players to challenge friends. In-app purchases push the action along if desired.iPhone / iPadThe Very Hungry Caterpillar &amp; Friends Stickerbook (£0.69)If you missed this week's annual Very Hungry Caterpillar Day (yes, it's a real thing) this app may be a good way to belatedly celebrate. Based on Eric Carle's famous children's book, it presents kids with five scenes to decorate with 57 digital stickers of characters and items from the book – as well as other Carle titles full of creepy-crawlies.iPhone / iPadCouch Music Player (£1.49)If  you're using your iPad lots to play songs from your iTunes collection, Couch Music Player is well worth a look as an alternative to Apple's default Music app. Designed for sofa usage, it helps you swipe songs into queues and slider-bar your way through tracks. Good for solo use and house parties alike.iPadThe Word Monsters: Learn to Read (Free)This is the latest app hoping to help children learn to read – in this case, through phonics-based stories about a group of cartoon monsters. Its educational principles are impeccable (albeit based on the US rather than UK curriculum) while its mixture of storytelling and colourful mini-games offers entertainment rather than just education.iPadIndiana Stone: The Brave and the Boulder (£1.99)As concepts go, this one's rather marvellous: an endless runner game starring a pixelly Indiana Jones clone – but where you play as the boulder rolling after him. Or, as developer TwinSky puts it, a "roll reversal". Ouch. But yes, the game's retro graphics, "metric ton of unlockables" and four modes should provide plenty of fun.iPhone / iPadLittle Dead Riding Hood (£1.99)Parents of younger (or sensitive) children may wish to give this retelling of Little Red Riding Hood a miss, what with it being based on an undead corpse with an eye missing. Older kids will love it, I suspect: scary in all the right ways, with excellent production values. A creepy treat.iPadFetch (£2.99)Publisher Big Fish Games apparentlyspent a year and $1m making Fetch, which is a bold move given the ferocious competition on the App Store. It looks very impressive though: a well-crafted adventure game with aliens, robots and a lost dog named Bear.iPadMonster World (Free)Monster World may just be the most well-known game in this roundup: publisher Wooga says 50m people are already playing it on Facebook. This is a completely separate game though – the two don't synchronise – but the gameplay is similar. Your job is to grow a garden, complete quests and visit friends, with in-app purchases available to speed things up.iPhone / iPadNitro (Free)Free-to-play driving games are big business judging by CSR Racing and Real Racing 3, even if they can also be controversial. Nitro is the latest at the starting line, offering a familiar blend of street-racing and car customisation, including real-time multiplayer racing and – yes indeed – in-app purchases for keener petrolheads.iPhone / iPadGlide – Instant Video Messaging (Free)There are quite a few startups betting on video messaging being the next big breakout category on the App Store. Glide is the latest with its app that aims to combine "the personality of video chat with the convenience of texting". The idea being to ping videos to friends, and chat live if they're online and available. Facebook provides the social connectivity.iPhonePevsner's Architectural Glossary (£2.99)Something more serious here: an app that brings the architectural terms from Sir Nikolaus Pevsner's Buildings of England book to your iOS device. More than a thousand are included, with line drawings, images and map locations for relevant buildings. "From abacus to zigzag via dosseret, hoodmould and squinch..."iPhone / iPadFreckleface Strawberry Monster Maker (Free)Freckleface Strawberry is a character dreamed up by Hollywood star Julianne Moore for a series of children's books. Now she's on the iPad, with an app that offers a story as well as a monster-making section for kids to create their own beasts and share them with friends and family.iPadOrder &amp; Chaos Duels (Free)Gameloft's Order &amp; Chaos games have found a wide fanbase on iOS and Android alike. Now the company has used its fantasy franchise to leap on board the card-battler bandwagon. This game involves collecting more than 250 cards, sorting them into decks and then fighting other people online. The publisher promises "Accessible gameplay. Deep strategy". Hopefully it'll nail both – many mobile card battlers, although popular, aren't as accessible as they might be.iPhone / iPadGuess How Much I Love You - Interactive Episodes (£1.99)It's been a really good week for interesting new children's apps on iPad. Guess How Much I Love You started as a book, then was turned into an animated TV series. This app is based on the latter, with two tales of Big and Little Nutbrown Hare. Cartoon sequences are broken up with interactivity: mini-games, puzzles and musical fun.iPadHang w/ (Free)More social video, but this is entirely live, and broadcast "from one phone to many, from anywhere at anytime". The idea being that you follow other people (in the app, not in real life, please) and then get notified when they're broadcasting live. The App Store listing hints that celebrities, athletes and musicians could use it to broadcast to fans in the future, too.iPhoneAudioBoo 2 (Free)Sound platform AudioBoo has been around for a long time now, but it has a brand new iPhone app – replacing the previous one rather than simply updating it – for browsing and listening to other people's "Boos", and recording your own.iPhoneEndgame:Eurasia (Free)Initiallyrejected by Apple when it was about the conflict in Syria, a name-change later and Endgame:Eurasia has been approved for App Store distribution. It aims to explore "modern war" as you try to bring a rebellion to a successful conclusion. Any Big Brother connotations in the new title were presumably diplomatically ignored by Apple's review team this time round.iPhoneGoatup 2 (£2.49)In many ways, 2013 should be veteran games developer Jeff Minter's time: goats are thetop trending animal on YouTube, after all. Known for his furry-animal focus and some of the best-loved games in the 1980s, he's been working on a steady flow of iOS games in recent times. Goatup 2 stars, yes, a goat – leaping around a series of platform levels eating, swimming and farting. A level editor lets you create your own challenges for friends too.iPhone / iPadPixies - Fun With Photos (Free)For many people, the be-all and end-all of having "fun with photos" is Instagram. Still, for those looking for a new photo-editing fix, Pixies may be worth a look. It's a way to quickly slap text and digital stickers onto your photos then share them to social networks – or turn them into physical products (t-shirts, mugs, mousemats etc – via a partnership with Zazzle.iPhoneThe Trip Little Critter Reading Adventure (£2.49)I get the sense book character Little Critter may be better known in North America than on this side of the Atlantic. Perhaps his appearance in several apps – including this new one – will boost his fame. It's a "reading adventure", which means a mixture of storytelling and puzzles based on letters, numbers, shapes and colours.iPhone / iPadDrawma: Celeb Gossip Doodle (Free)More photo-editing with this app, which could be subtitled "Do to photos of famous people whatPerez Hiltondoes". Scribble on them, in other words. It pulls in photos, videos and articles from more than 20 gossip websites, and lets you doodle on the pics before sharing them with friends.iPhoneThe Jump: Escape The City (Free)If 3D racing games are your bag, The Jump may be the latest to flex your fingers. One nice touch: it's designed around "bitesize" play as you try to escape a series of challenges in five minutes or less. There's also music from DJ Poet – a Grammy award-winner, no less.iPhone / iPadMrs. Potato Head Create &amp; Play (Free)This new app from Callaway Digital Arts follows a similar Mr. Potato Head app earlier in the year. The idea is the same: create and tweak the chippy character with more than 200 parts, capture snapshots of her and – assuming you're happy to – pay to remove the ads or get extra playsets.iPhone / iPadAbalone (£1.99)6m copies of the Abalone board game have been sold, but now it's available in digital form for mobile devices. The game, which involves pushing marbles around, can be played against a friend (locally) or against AI opponents, with a 60-level challenge mode to refine your skills.iPhone / iPadDoodle Learning Times Tables (£0.69)Another children's app, this time with a pure educational focus. This is all about multiplication, as children match questions with answers, and create their own scenes with digital stickers as a reward.iPadMini Golf MatchUp (Free)This social mini-golf game shot past 1m downloads in its first day of release. It sees you playing 70 holes over five courses, negotiating dinosaurs, pyramids and sharks along the way, while challenging Facebook friends and bragging on Twitter.iPhone / iPadFireman Sam - Fire &amp; Rescue (£2.99)One final app for kids, with a famous brand behind it. Fireman Sam is the hero in this collection of mini-games and activities, with Pontypandy villagers to be rescued, fryer fires to be put out, and hoses to be mended.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations or pass judgement on the apps above in the comments section.
Is the world of online gaming racist? Thursday was the UN'sInternational Day for the Elimination of Racial Discriminationor, if you prefer, Don't Be Racist Day. But for many black gamers there is unlikely to have been much respite.According to astudyin thelatest issueof the New Review of Hypermedia and Multimedia, Microsoft's online gaming platform Xbox Live has become a new home for "the overt racism that used to permeate our society". The study followed a group of African American gamers whose voices and use of language identified them as black to other players. It found they suffered racial abuse "on a daily basis".This is unlikely to be news to most online gamers. Many, regardless of their own racial backgrounds, will have encountered it themselves. I know I have. In a game of FIFA 13 last night my opponent got in touch to let me know I'd been scoring "JEW GOALS". I am, as it happens, of Jewish descent, but I doubt it was apparent from the way I made some little men kick a virtual ball into a net. (They didn't, for example, whip out a little dreidel as a celebration, or line up around a taller player in the shape of a menorah.)The study blames the racist abuse suffered daily by many gamers on the white male hegemony of the gaming industry. It argues that black gamers, as well as gay, female or older gamers, are seen as "deviant" because games – and the white, male-dominated elite who make them – perpetuate a myth of white male uniformity.That seems unfair. Major games such asMass Effect 3andDragon Age IIhave enabled players to choose black or female avatars and pursue homosexual relationships, and even the much-maligned Grand Theft Auto series has had, at one time or another,an African American protagonistandgay major characters.Most culpable, of course, are the gamers hurling this abuse. Yet, as the study notes, most of them would not act the same way in the real world and "view their behaviour as annoying – not racist". One abusive player, when confronted about using the n-word, explained: "It's just a stupid word. I just say it to fuck with people."It is too simplistic to lay the charge of enabling racist language at the door of Microsoft's Xbox Live, PlayStation's PSN and other games platforms. It is the people sending messages, not the medium, that are at fault. Or, put another way: don't hate the game, hate – and censor and ban – the player.
Earlier this week, Google introducedGoogle Keep- a service intended to let you store notes and other information "in the cloud". Those with a long memory may think that it looks a little familiar; that's because it is: Evernote offers a very similar service already (and has donesince June 2008). Also also, Google used to have a product called Google Notebook, introduced in May 2006, which did much the same thing. So why Google Keep? Because Notebook waskilled- unloved, apparently unnoticed - in November 2011. (The love had already stopped in 2009, whendevelopment ended.)You might think that the introduction of Keep would see the early adopter geeks jumping to use it - even those who don't remember Notebook's demise. Instead, it's been met with sidelong glances.That's because the announcement earlier this month that Google Reader, an RSS aggregator,will be shutting downfrom 1 July has made people who relied on it much more wary about trusting their data to Google's services.The worry this time isn't about privacy; it's whether they'll wake up in a few years' time and read a blogpost with the doom-laden words like "sadly, it never gained the traction among users…" followed by a date when the lights will go out. And then either your data will die, or it will have to be collected and then toted around like an old sofa, which will then have to be pushed up the stairs into a new service.Closing timeWhen is that likely to happen? According to data I've gathered on 39 Google services and APIs - ranging from the short-lived "Google Lively" (a 3D animated chat introduced on 9 July 2008 and euthanised just 175 days later, on 31 December) to the surprisingly long-lived iGoogle (a personalised Google homepage, to which you could add RSS feeds and data, introduced in May 2005 and due for the chop in November after 3.106 days) - the average lifespan of products that don't make the cut is 1,459 days. That's just two days short of four years. For those keen on statistics, the standard deviation is 689 days; bar one item (iGoogle) all the group members lie within two standard deviations of the mean.In collating the group, I excluded hardware (such as Google Mini, a stand-alone search appliance, or the incredibly short-lived Nexus Q from 2012 which never even made it to shops) and initiatives such as RE&lt;C, which aimed to get the price of renewable energy below that of coal. I did include services which moved from being free to paid (such as theGoogle Translate API) or denied to new users (such asExchange Active Sync for Gmail). I also excluded services which were rolled up into others (such as some parts of Google Voice). In calculating dates, I used precise dates where they were available; where they weren't, I used the first day of the month for the start and/or end. This would only affect the lifespan by 15 days on average, and should balance out across the group.How long do Google services and APIs survive? A Guardian analysis of 39 that have been killed off says just under four years, on average. Click for larger version.So if you want to know when Google Keep, opened for business on 21 March 2013, will probably shut - again, assuming Google decides it's just not working - then, the mean suggests the answer is:18 March 2017. That's about long enough for you to cram lots of information that you might rely on into it; and also long enough for Google to discover that, well, people aren't using it to the extent that it hoped. Much the same as happened withKnol(lifespan: 1,377 days, from 23 July 2008 to 30 April 2012), or Wave (1,095 days, from May 2009 - 30 April 2012) or of course Reader (2,824 days, from 7 October 2005 to 1 July 2013).If you want to play around further with the numbers, then if we assume that closures occur randomly as a normal distribution around the mean, and that Google is going to shut Google Keep, then there's a 68% chance that the closure will occur between April 2015 and February 2019. Even the later date wouldn't be much longer than Evernote - which is still growing - has already lasted. Is Google really that committed to Keep?The core lives on - but what's core?The obvious objection is that these figures ignore all the services and APIs that Google has started and kept going. There's search, obviously. There's Android. There's Google Docs. Google Earth. Google Maps. Street View. Google Voice. And so on, and on.To which the answer is: yes, but there's no way of tellinga prioriwhether a service or API that you start using is going to be one that receives Larry Page's favour, or whether it's going to turn out to be the next one to fall victim to the scythe of "more wood behind fewer arrows". It's that uncertainty which has people worried.The more one looks into it, the harder it is to discern what makes a service "core" to Google. After all, iGoogle (3,106 days) seems like the perfect way to make people keep coming back to Google's home page, and more than that to make sure they logged in: it let you create a customised version of the Google home page with RSS feeds and other information. Isn't that part of the core business - to get people to come to Google and be signed in? Yet it's for the chop.Or how about Google Search Timeline, which gave you a visual representation of search results for a particular phrase or subject over time? That's the sort of tool, again, that other search engines don't offer; it seems like a USP (unique selling point) to add to many others, because it lets you zero in on particular periods. Ideal for researchers; a great way to get those high-quality, influential people who do deep search to keep coming back, and recommending it to their friends.But no - it was one of the shorter-lived products, launched in April 2009 and killed in January 2011, a 640-day existence.This apparently inability to decide whether something's important or not is acceptable behaviour in a small startup that's desperately throwing everything at the wall in the hope that it will spark the magic moment where everyone flocks to its service (and even hand over money).But in a giant corporation that is a household name, it's extremely dangerous. Once the geeks stop trusting you, they stop recommending you. I've noticed a number of developers this week saying that they're not going to start using Keep precisely because they're worried that it, and by extension their data, is on borrowed time. They're even looking askance at Appspot, Google's virtual machine in the cloud, because they wonder about its commitment to that, or how it might be changed.Hence Om Malik, usually a consumer of all things new, telling Google that as far as he's concerned, "Sorry, Google, you can Keep it to yourself" because he's so angry that Reader has been thrown under the bus. Hence Mike Loukides at O'Reilly Radarhardly helping thingsby noting that "in the larger scheme of things, Keep is small potatoes". That's precisely what people are worried about, of course.As Loukides says,"What if they kill thePrediction API, and you rely on that? There are alternatives to Reader, there may be alternatives to Docs (though most of the ones I knew have died on the vine), but I don't know of anything remotely like the Prediction API. I could go on with "what ifs" forever (Authentication API? Web Optimizer?), but you get the point."We do indeed.By the way, the Prediction API was launched on 19 May 2010. That seems to suggest we should be watching out for a blogpost around 16 May 2014. Sorry, Mike.A quick update: George Mooreasks on Twitterwhether there's a trend towards killing services sooner. As a quick sort on the table below shows (click on the "Started" column so earlier dates are at the top), there is - services are being killed quicker.The list of services, with dates, is below. Please add any other closed services and APIs you know about in the comments, with start and end dates (with links please). Please note: dates below are in English format, ie dd/mm/yyyy.Google services and APIs: life and deathService/APIStartedEndeddaysGoogle Lively09/07/200831/12/2008175Google Aardvark01/02/201101/02/2012365Google One Pass01/02/201101/04/2012425+1 Reporting for webmaster tools01/06/201101/09/2012458Google News Badges01/07/201101/10/2012458Google Search Timeline01/04/200901/01/2011640Fast Flip01/09/200901/09/2011730Google Sidewiki23/09/200905/12/2011803Google Listen01/08/200901/01/2012883Classic Plus01/06/201001/11/2012884Buzz09/02/201016/10/2012980Wave01/05/200930/04/20121095Google Maps API for Flash14/05/200802/09/20111206Places Directory app (Android)01/02/200901/09/20121308Google Health01/05/200801/01/20121340Google Code Search API01/04/200801/01/20121370Knol23/07/200830/04/20121377Google Friend Connect01/05/200801/03/20121400Google Apps for Teams01/06/200801/06/20121461Google Adsense for Feeds01/08/200801/09/20121492Google Translate API22/10/200701/12/20111501Google Video for Business01/01/200801/03/20121521Jaiku01/09/200701/01/20121583Google Talk Chatback26/02/200803/07/20121589EAS sync for Gmail09/02/200901/07/20131603Google Spreadsheet Gadgets01/03/200801/09/20121645Google Answers01/04/200228/11/20061702Google Pack01/06/200601/02/20111706Image Labeller01/09/200602/09/20111827Google Sync for BlackBerry01/05/200701/06/20121858CalDAV support for Gmail28/07/200816/09/20131876Subscribed Links01/05/200615/09/20111963Google Notebook15/05/200611/11/20112006Picasa for Linux01/05/200601/04/20122162Google Bookmarks Lists01/10/200501/12/20112252Google Desktop01/10/200414/09/20112539Google Video01/01/200501/08/20122769Reader07/10/200501/07/20132824iGoogle01/05/200501/11/20133106.
LUIGISuper Mario Bros, spin-offs, and – this month – Luigi's Mansion 2It's not easy being the younger brother of gaming's most famous mascot. Starting life as an ignominious palette swap (Luigi was originally justMariorendered in green and brown), technology eventually let him emerge as a taller, thinner plumber whose timorous personality makes him the perfect character to investigate haunted mansions.Trembling at every creak and crying out in fear as he beams in using Professor E Gadd's unreliable "pixelporter", his stuttering Italian-accented tones accompany your travails as you search for ghosts by unravelling the game's physical puzzles, which delight in showing you rooms you can't yet reach, challenging you to find a way in. He's nervous, lanky and would never be played byBob Hoskinsin a movie, but perennial underdog Luigi gets the job done and – rumour has it – is happy to accept cash in hand.TAILSSonic The Hedgehog seriesIt's still unclear why Sega, in creating a character driven by a lust for speed, decided to make him a hedgehog. Other than tortoises or sloths, it's hard to imagine any creature less prone to rapidity.Sonicbenefitted from a variety of largely forgettable sidekicks (Knuckles the echidna? Anyone? Anyone?) but he found long-term happiness with Tails, a fox whose full name is Miles Prower. Yes, side-splitting. Tails was known for his brace of tails, which he used to sustain brief, helicopter-style flight, a talent that offset his lack of speed – or any other defining characteristic. It's also the case that, in the wild, you might expect foxes to take more than a passing interest in hedgehogs, an interest usually expressed by eating them. That Tails has managed to suppress his appetite and wholly natural urges through more than a dozen games, several spin-offs and an animated TV series suggests that as well as an extra tail, he also has extraordinary willpower.LYDIAThe Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimOver the course of your adventures in the vast, snowbound reaches ofSkyrimyou'll accumulate a range of hangers-on; from Shadowmere, a horse with eyes like hot glowing coals, to a vampire who fancies himself as a comedian. But for most who play the game, Lydia provides the first hint that your travels don't always have to be solo, as she joins you, fights at your side, gets wounded, falls over, then bravely picks herself up again. She's a woman of few words, and while there are chattier, more powerful and more beautiful companions to discover, there's a bond that emerges from Lydia simply being at your side in those early formative hours. Later on, when adventurers start thinking of getting married and settling down, Lydia's a frequent choice of bride who will happily tie the knot with both male and female characters. In the emancipated land of Skyrim, gay marriage doesn't raise so much as an eyebrow.KAZOOIEBanjo-Kazooie and sequelLike a particularly compact helper monkey, Kazooie lives and works in Banjo the bear's backpack (naturally), pecking and flinging eggs at miscreants while offering caustic putdowns to the slow-witted bear. She also argues openly with other characters, giving many cruel yet apropos nicknames in the process. It doesn't stop there: as well as egg and epithet-hurling, Kazooie can turn into a dragon, breathe fire at enemies, and lay waste to any who would stand in the duo's way. Her relationship with Banjo is a pleasing inversion of the normally acquiescent sidekick schtick, and she has plenty of reasons to despair at her plodding friend and transportation device, while also helping him every single step of the way. Many keen observers see Kazooie as a bold step forward for sidekick kind; the nearest analogue to this being that of cartoon crime fighter, Hong Kong Phooey, whose cat, Spot solved all his cases.CORTANAHalo seriesBuilt from the personality of Dr Catherine Halsey, mastermind of the super soldier-making Spartan programme, holographic AI Cortana is Master Chief's digital sidekick. While unable to hold a gun or toss grenades she's handy in all sorts of ways, from plot exposition or unlocking troublesome doors to hacking dusty computer terminals and listening in on transmissions from nasty extra terrestrials the Covenant. She's also less than a metre tall and conveniently downloads herself into the Chief's battle armour when not offering guidance. Becoming suspiciously more voluptuous as the series went on, Halo's developers also made an unfortunate attempt to develop Cortana's character, with her artificial brain suffering something of a breakdown and putting her apparent invulnerability into question. Perhaps this was an attempt to make her sympathetic enough to actually care about, but it didn't really work. You're a computer lady, Cortana! Master Chief can simply go online and download a new one.WEIGHTED COMPANION CUBEPortal, Portal 2Portal and its sequel are made by Valve, the brilliant and enigmatic developers of classics including Half-Life and Team Fortress 2. Characters in Valve's games tend to be anything but standard, and so it is with this unlikely take on a totally inanimate sidekick. Introduced by GlaDOS, the game's Nurse Ratched-like AI, the Weighted Companion Cube is an object that "will never threaten to stab you and, in fact, cannot speak". It's also a vitally important object in solving many of the games' elegantly designed lateral-thinking puzzles. But Companion Cubes have a disturbingly heartwarming presence, forcing GlaDOS to admit that they may in fact be sentient, before making you destroy several by placing them in the snappily titled Aperture Science Material Emancipation Grills or finding other methods of total disintegration. The Companion Cube is an unconventional sidekick, but one with the capacity to generate strange, real feelings. That said GlaDOS is right: they don't say much.DIDDY KONGDonkey Kong Country, Diddy Kong RacingMario was originally called Jumpman, and was responsible for saving a princess from an ape named Donkey Kong. That makes Donkey Kong one of the most venerable names in interactive entertainment, and also means he needs a youthful apprentice to lure in the all-important children's market. And that's where Diddy Kong comes in. Although his relationship to Donkey Kong has never been firmly established, what we do know is that he's smaller, funkier, and has the capacity to use a barrel-shaped jetpack. Despite his marketing-inspired conception, Diddy still managed to star in the surprisingly wonderfulDiddy Kong Racing(which remains possibly the best attempt at producing a cartoon kart racing game that's not Mario Kart), and Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy Kong's Quest, in which he teams up with girlfriend, Dixie Kong. This is patently way more of the Kong family than anyone in their right mind would wish to know.DOGFable IIDesigned specifically to tug at heart strings, this playful canine companion joins your character from his or her early childhood and never leaves your side. Its barking is helpful in warning of impending attack and your dog always fights to protect you; it bravely bites monsters many times its size; it can even sniff out treasure, and is driven only by a heartfelt desire to keep you safe. All it asks for in return is that you play with and fuss over it to maintain its morale. You can also teach it tricks to delight villagers. As the game goes on, you start to find joy in the simple pleasure of your ownership; the bond between gamer and dog only grows. Naturally, then, the game takes this gentle, loving relationship and smashes you in the face with it, delivering a quasi Sophie's Choice moment right at the end, which has been known to leave players with a dead dog and a great deal of unresolved anger.Luigi's Mansion 2 for Nintendo 3DS is out on ThuWho have we missed? Add your favourites below
It's time for this week's roundup of new and notable Android apps, covering smartphones and tablets.The apps and games included came out for the first time in the last seven days. The prices relate to the initial download only, so (Free) may mean in-app purchases are used within the app itself.The weekly iOS roundup will follow later in the day. For now, here's the latest Android apps worth checking out.Google Keep (Free)It may be a transparent attempt by Google to compete with cloud-memory service Evernote, but Google Keep is still attracting plenty of attention. It's an app for entering and storing text, voice notes and photos, colour-coding notes for later reference, and storing them on Google's servers to access from web browsers.Ravensword: Shadowlands (£4.63)Crescent Moon Games has won plenty of fans for its Ravensword RPG games. The latest has now made the leap to Android, merrily swinging its blade as it goes. The game sees you exploring a vast fantasy world fighting and questing.Sky Movies (Free)BSkyB's Sky Movies app is a way to see what films are available on the Sky Movies channel and the company's download store, and remotely set recordings for the former. If you have certain devices and are registered for the Sky Go service, you can also stream films directly to the device.UP by Jawbone (Free)Jawbone's UP wristband is one of a plethora of fitness gadgets available to track your activity and sleep patterns (see also: Fitbit, Withings, Nike FuelBand etc). Now its companion app is available on Android, enabling UP owners to dig into their data, while also logging their eating and drinking, setting sleep alarms and see what friends are up to.Doodle Jump (Free)Doodle Jump? New? Well, a version of the hugely-popular upwards-platformer has been available on Android before, but the game's original developer Lima Sky has now replaced that with its own version ("finally properly optimised for Android" as they put it). As before, the game involves jumping up a sheet of graph paper, avoiding enemies and big drops. Still as addictive as when it came first out.Al Jazeera English for Tablets (Free)News and current affairs channel Al Jazeera already has an Android smartphone app for its English-language service, but now there's a separate tablet version. It includes a live stream of the channel, as well as video clips, news and blog posts, photo galleries and social sharing features.Order &amp; Chaos Duels (Free)Gameloft's Order &amp; Chaos games have found a wide fanbase on iOS and Android alike. Now the company has used its fantasy franchise to leap on board the card-battler bandwagon. This game involves collecting more than 250 cards, sorting them into decks and then fighting other people online. The publisher promises "Accessible gameplay. Deep strategy". Hopefully it'll nail both – many mobile card battlers, although popular, aren't as accessible as they might be.iRig Recorder (Free)IK Multimedia has made a number of high-quality music apps for iOS, but now it's on Android too. iRig Recorder is a recording app, which offers a number of editing effects as in-app purchases for musicians (or, indeed, anyone who needs this kind of app – podcasters for example) to upgrade to.Mini Golf MatchUp (Free)Hundreds of thousands of people have already downloaded the Android version of this social mini-golf game in a couple of days since its release. It sees you playing 70 holes over five courses, negotiating dinosaurs, pyramids and sharks along the way, while challenging Facebook friends and bragging on Twitter.Manuganu (Free)A fair few developers are exploring the idea of blending endless-runner games with traditional platform gameplay, with Manuganu the latest. It gets you – in the form of a boy named Manuganu – running, jumping and swinging through colourful 3D levels, while occasionally indulging in a spot of rope-climbing.Dynamite Jack (£1.97)Made by the developer of excellent space-strategy game Galcon, Dynamite Jack is a neat top-down action-puzzler that involves sneaking around some mines detonating bombs and evading enemies. 28 levels are included, plus a level editor to make your own and share them with other players.Traxsource (Free)Google may have its own music downloads store nowadays, but alternatives are available. Traxsource focuses on a specific niche: underground dance music for "DJs, clubbers and music lovers who desire to dig deeper and discover what lies beyond the mainstream". I don't think they have the Olly Murs album, then. The app enables you to browse Traxsource's catalogue and add songs to your purchase cart.Raft Pirates (Free)"Finally! What we've all been waiting for... a robot pirate-themed MMO!" chirps the Google Play listing for 6waves' latest freemium game. Well, quite. The game sees you building a ship, recruiting a crew and sailing off to fight other players over the network. Some early reviewers have had technical issues getting the game to work, but the premise is fun.Astraware Crosswords (Free)Crosswords are certainly big in the print-media world, but are they set to be popular as apps too? Astraware is one of the developers hoping to find out: its game offers 45 crossword puzzles and three difficulty levels, with the promise of another new puzzle every day – which players around the world will compete to be the fastest at solving.Wilton's Mystery (£1.49)This is a very nice idea: an app based on the Wilton's Music Hall venue in London, where you explore a virtual version solving puzzles and cracking codes. Proceeds will go towards the real-world hall's Capital Project, which is raising £2.5m to repair the houses at the front of its auditorium. "We thought making an app packed with history, ghosts and games would be a wonderful way of launching the Public Appeal," explains the venue. And so it is.Abalone (£2.99)6m copies of the Abalone board game have been sold, but now it's available in digital form for mobile devices. The game, which involves pushing marbles around, can be played against a friend (locally) or against AI opponents, with a 60-level challenge mode to refine your skills.The Jump: Escape The City (Free)If 3D racing games are your bag, The Jump may be the latest to flex your fingers on Android. One nice touch: it's designed around "bitesize" play as you try to escape a series of challenges in five minutes or less. There's also music from DJ Poet – a Grammy award-winner, no less.Plasticine Jungle (£0.87)This week's Live Wallpaper That Isn't Rubbish (a thankfully-growing category) sees a collection of colourful plasticine animals messing about on your Android homescreen. It changes as the day progresses, and is the first Android app I've seen with "Flying monkeys on the rope" listed as a feature. Marvellous.Elves Quest (Free)More fantasy gaming here in this location-based RPG from Cellap. It sees you battling monsters in traditional style, with the twist being that you scan the real world around you for treasure and loot. An interesting spin on location-based gaming.Rethink (£1.35)Finally this week: Rethink, which bills itself as a "revolutionary way of keeping track of your tasks". A To-Do list app, then – of which there's no shortage on Android. Here though, you're able to create what its developers describe as "context-specific tasks", setting triggers to remind you of a task based on location, time and specific contacts. An interesting idea.That's this week's selection, but what Android apps are you enjoying? Make your views known in the comments section.
In a nondescript office block on the east side of central Paris, there is a game development studio that is very, very interested in emotion. Even if you had never heard co-founder David Cage talking on the subject, even if you missed wrought psychological thrillers such as Fahrenheit and Heavy Rain, you'd know that 'emotion' is an important abstract noun here. That's because huge letters spelling out the word have been hung on one wall overlooking the area where many of the staff sit and code. Whenever they look up from their PCs, the word emotion towers over them with Orwellian menace. Quantic Dream is a factory of feeling. And its latest product, Beyond: Two Souls, certainly has emotional drama in surfeit. It has life, it has death, it has birth. Yes, birth. Just keep that in mind, we'll come back to it.You may already be aware of the concept behind the game. Jodie Holmes is a girl with a gift – though at dark times in this supernatural biopic she will call it a curse. Since birth, she has been psychically  attached to a spectral presence named Aiden, which has taken on the role of a rather jealous and angry guardian. Holmes is played by Ellen Page who filmed for weeks in Quantic Dream's advanced motion capture studio, lending not only her voice, but her body and face to the character. It is one of the most convincing digital performances we've yet seen: 80 reflective markers were placed on the actor's face through the capture sessions and they convey every nuance of emotion; it is eerily photographic at times. And Page inhabits this character with as much conviction as she has in any of her movie roles. "It was surprising," says Cage. "She told me that there were many aspects of Jodie's story that reminded her of her own life and things that she went through. She really became jodie - she would sometimes refuse to deliver lines, saying, 'no Jodie would never say that'. I had to say, 'hey Ellen, I'm the writer!'"We follow Jodie's story from the age of eight to 23 – an ambitious 15-year span in a medium that rarely shows characters ageing. We see her taken away for analysis by the apparently well-meaning psychic researcher Nathan Dawkins (played by Willem Dafoe), and later we see her homeless on the streets of some dead-end town, contemplating suicide. What happens in between is the emotional meat of the game and it seems to take her from a claustrophobic and observed childhood through to the vast deserts of the American West. "While writing Beyond, I was thinking about what makes a life," continues Cage. "There's love, hate, death - there are happy moments, there are very depressing moments. I thought, how can I put all this in this in a game? How can we offer that journey? I think we're only just at the beginning of an era in which games can address these wider themes."Players don't just control Jodie, they can also hit the Triangle button to play as Aiden, free to whoosh through floors, ceilings and walls, while using telekinetic powers to shove and smash objects. The two characters must collaborate to progress, and Aiden can only ever move a certain distance from his human charge – they are bound by some sort of ethereal chain. There is no escape for either of them. In practise, this relationship works like most asymmetric partnerships in games: if there is an object Jodie can't reach, Aiden can probably get to it.Deliberately and characteristically, Cage is keeping many of the plot details hidden. We know that something terrible happens. While Jodie is still assisting Dawkins, a government paranormal research facility accidentally unleashes a group of furious and psychotic phantasms, which murder a lab full of scientists and their would-be military rescuers. Jodie offers to go in and look for survivors. What she finds haunts her for the rest of her life.The game is essentially a narrative adventure, each 'scene' playing out a key moment in the character's life. In a structure Cage refers to as 'chronological disorder', these scenes are experienced out of sequence: one minute you might be controlling Jodie as a child, undergoing telepathy tests in Dawkins's creepy lab; the next you might be the teenage Jodie, on the run from government forces. It's a structure inspired by movies like Memento and Pulp Fiction. "It's very intriguing, it provides a new level of interactivity," explains Cage. "You don't just watch a story, you have to think about it, you have to connect the dots - the player is a part of the process of reconstructing the events. When people first read the script they were worried gamers would get completely lost, but when it was in the game, testers were really positive, they felt clever because they had to put the pieces together."During a press tour of the Quantic Dreams office, Cage sits a large group of journalists down in the motion capture studio and talks us through a 45 minute demo of quite arresting intensity. It is a scene named Homeless. Jodie is 23 and freezing to death on the streets when she is saved and befriended by a homeless man named Stan; he takes her back to a small vagrant community making shelter beneath a concrete overpass – they are troubled individuals, existing on begged food and each other's companionship; one of them is Tuesday a heavily pregnant woman terrified to seek medical help for the delivery in case her child is taken into care. Throughout the scene, Jodie helps Stan as he begs for food; when Stan is attacked by a bunch of thugs, Jodie steps in and saves him, using the game's fluid combat system to see them off.The interface is an evolution of the system that Quantic Dream designed for Heavy Rain. Players move Jodie around the environment using the left analogue stick, and anything she can interact with is marked with a white dot: to use the object, you simply move the right analogue stick in the appropriate direction – so if Jodie approaches a door, pushing the right stick forward makes her stretch out her arm to push it open. Every action in the game is contextual - there are no real gameplay mechanics, no jump or crouch functions. Sometimes, if Jodie has to climb along a ledge or through an open window, there will be a specific button to press, with a command displayed onscreen, as in Heavy Rain, but this apparently is rare.And the story changes with the decisions and actions of the player. There are apparently dozens of ways each scene can play out, the ramifications stretching away into the future. Gameplay, too, is affected by chronology. "Every scene of Jodie's life is a challenge, and you have to adapt to each context," says lead gameplay designer, Caroline Marchal. "Aiden's powers are more limited when Jodie is a child, for example."Cage preceded the demo by claiming there are no quick-time events - you will never be required to hit a series of buttons in the correct sequence. But combat has a familiar choreographed design – instead of button prompts, fights play out in bullet-time, allowing players to read enemy moves and push the analogue stick in the correct direction, countering the attack and replying with a punch or kick. Slow time event? I don't know, but it least looks more intuitive and seamless than the highly-staged interactions of previous combat mechanics.One night, Tuesday goes into labour and Jodie aids in the delivery process. The player's role as an interactive agent appears to be kept to a minimum – there don't seem to be any sixaxis controls for grabbing the baby's head and pulling, but it is a brave and arresting sequence all the same. Heavy Rain was not universally loved – some hated its pretensions toward deeper meaning, as well as its bouts of terrible acting and a leaden script loaded with noir cliche. But it did things that other games don't – it attempted to get beneath the skin of parental guilt and fear; it tried to show the extremes of emotion, it tried an awkward and robotic sex scene. It refused to be hemmed in by accepted conventions and barriers. And, boy oh boy, Beyond Two Souls looks to be designed in a similar vein. Those who never expected to hit R1 to cut an umbilical cord may be on queasy territory here. I'm just wondering if there'll be a midwife Trophy…The scene ends with a devastating fire, an escape and a horrific act of violence. While some attendees felt that the sequence was rather too packed with incident and drama, others were visibly moved – for European journalists, this is saying something. Who knows where things will go for Jodie. But Cage has hinted all the way through the publicity process that we may well follow this character beyond her earthly existence. This is a game about life and death… and afterlife. Which sounds… well, typical of Quantic Dream.  "It's very difficult, very challenging," says Cage. "It's representing something that no one has seen, but everyone since humanity began, has tried to figure out.  And I think there's something interesting about the vision of it that we have created. It is interactive; players get the chance to participate in it."The game looks beautiful. From the clumps of snow falling across shadowy streets to a burning laboratory where particle effects sparkle from the immense flames, it exudes moody authenticity. This is a brand new engine, with new animation and new effects. Cage says the studio took delivery of PS4 development kits two years ago and claims that some of their work on the new machine has inspired the coding of Beyond. In a quick hands-on session, I play part of a scene where Jodie goes back into that research centre, looking for survivors of the paranormal attack; she walks gingerly through the blood and damaged equipment, her frightened gaze darting across each room. This is the game's survival horror scene, filled with tension, slowly cranking toward some kind of nightmarish showdown. It captures the best moments of Heavy Rain - the dread and terror palpable in every frame of character animation.It is ambitious stuff, and also unapologetically divisive. "You need to take risks, and when you take risks, you know some people will love it and some won't," shrugs Marchal. "We hope with Beyond we'll interest gamers that were repelled by the quick-time events in Heavy Rain. Watching our game on video won't tell you how it plays - it's not an interactive movie where you press one button an hour; when you play it, this is very different. If you've played Walking Dead or Catherine, the experience is similar, it's about playing a great story with believable characters."True, Cage exasperates some gamers with his grand Gallic pronouncements on art and emotion. But, you know, this industry could do with a few more triple A developers happy to talk unselfconsciously about the artistry and meaning of games – if only as a counter-balance to everything else. And at least he walks the walk: Beyond is going to be hyper-emotional, epic, fascinating - how often do we get to say that with big first-party releases? Set for release in October, it is pretty much a swansong for the PlayStation 3.Does Cage want it to say something to gamers? "I don't have a message to deliver," he laughs drily – this has been a long day of interviews and explanations. "At the end, I would like players to have the feeling that they saw a life, that they know Jodie, that they were there for the important moments. And when they switch off their console, I want them to feel that they have lost someone." And with that, our discussion ends and we file through the office, past those letters on the wall and past the 180 staff toiling away beneath them.Beyond: Two Souls is released on PlayStation 3 in October. Keith Stuart attended a press trip organised by Sony Computer Entertainment, which included travel and accommodation.
Wow, that was quick!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIsrael patrols its borders with 10 autonomous off-road vehicles &gt;&gt; Geek.comWhen we talk of unmanned vehicles working in hostile zones around the world, it's usually in reference to aerial drones that can monitor and even attack a target. But in Israel, they are using a land-based alternative in the form of the Guardian UGV autonomous off-road vehicle.No association with this organisation, we should say. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Why is Google not supporting the Open Document Formats? &gt;&gt; MuktwareGoogle was one of the supporters of ODF and it was expected that it will fully support ODF formats. Let's see how is Google supporting ODF across its products including Android, Chrome OS and Google Docs (the direct competitor to Microsoft Office).Yes, let's. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Google Research: most of the time, the smartphone you search for is the smartphone you buy &gt;&gt; Product Launch BuzzFrom November 2012, but still relevant:Google has justpostedresearch findings on how certain factors affect the launch of a smartphone, with data coming directly from search. According to author Matt Seitz, the senior analytical lead at the Google Agency Blog, searches predict smartphone sales "with over 90 percent correlation throughout the launch cycle."With this data, the search giant has uncovered the most important factors that determine whether or not a smartphone will launch into the arms of millions of adoring fans, or to an audience that either doesn't know the phone exists or simply doesn't care.Apple looks to protect dropped iPhones by shifting their orientation mid-flight &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderFinally, the system requires a mechanism to either reorientate the device while in flight, or otherwise protect certain sensitive device components in the event of a fall. Here, the patent calls for a number of solutions, including the movement of a weighted mass within the device, a means to "grip a plug" to prevent a freefall, lift foils that can be extended out from the surface of a device, and a thrust mechanism such as a can of gas, among other countermeasures.Er.. OK.Pentagon swears it isn't abandoning BlackBerries for iOS devices &gt;&gt; Wired.comBig caveat: the Pentagon'snew "mobility" planmaylead troops and Pentagon civilians to get secured Apple smartphones and tablets. Ditto for Android devices. And Windows devices. "And let's not leave RIM out of that picture", John Hickey, the mobility program manager for the Defense Information Systems Agency, told reporters last month.If he was speaking last month, ie February, hadn't he heard that it's not RIM any more, it's BlackBerry?Chatbot wears down proponents of anti-science nonsense &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewFrom November 2010:Nigel Leck, a software developer by day, was tired of arguing with anti-science crackpots on Twitter. So, like any good programmer, he wrote a script to do it for him.The result is the Twitter chatbot@AI_AGW. Its operation is fairly simple: Every five minutes, it searches twitter for several hundred set phrases that tend to correspond to any of theusual tired argumentsabout how global warming isn't happening or humans aren't responsible for it.It then spits back at the twitterer who made that argument a canned response culled from a database of hundreds. The responses are matched to the argument in question – tweets about how Neptune is warming just like the earth, for example, are met with theappropriate links to scientific sourcesexplaining why that hardly constitutes evidence that the source of global warming on earth is a warming sun.Unfortunately, the account seems to have been suspended. Boo.Logitech Harmony Touch Review &gt;&gt; AllThingsDBonnie Cha:I've been using the Harmony Touch for the past week, and there's a lot to like about the remote. Setup is easy. The touchscreen provides one-touch access to 50 of your favorite channels, and you can use gestures to perform various tasks. That said, it also poses some problems.Due to the location of the remote's 2.4in display, some key buttons are placed out of easy reach. Those who like physical buttons might also take issue with the remote's reliance on the touchscreen for things like entering channel numbers.But the biggest hurdle may be its expensive $250 price tag. At this point, the touchscreen is a nice-to-have feature, not a must-have, so it's not worth the extra cost.If you ever needed proof of the ocean between hardware companies - which solve problems by adding more buttons (or touch screens) - and software companies, which solve problems by repurposing features and adapting to the user, here it is.Also:$250??Post "Good Google", who will defend the open web? &gt;&gt; Fogbeam LabsPhilip Rhodes:Sadly, there are not a lot of obvious candidates. One wonders, who else has the clout to do it now, as well as the motivation? Does anybody see Marissa moving Yahoo that way? I'm guessing "no" but would love to be proven wrong. Yahoo *have* done some pro Open Web things in the past, but even if they had the inclination, I'm not sure they have the clout to do a lot, especially since they don't even run their own search engine anymore.It won't be Microsoft, you can bet on that. They have been notoriously inimical towards Open Standards, Open Source, and pretty much "Open Anything" for most of their history. And I haven't seen any recent evidence to suggest any fundamental change of heart on their end.Stop The Cyborgs"Fighting the algorithmic future one bit at a time". Get your Google Glass Ban Signs here. Is this the first time people have seriously considered the privacy implications of a technology so far ahead of its release? Certainly feels like it.New iPhone lock screen exploit discovered in iOS 6.1.3, exposes contacts and photos | The VergeQuite a bizarre one involving the SIM tray. As one commenter says, how do you find hacks like this?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple is introducingtwo-factor authentication for users of its iCloud and other services, adding an extra layer of protection against hackers trying to access peoples' accounts by requiring mobile phone verification for changes in personal details or online purchases.The move was announced coincidentally just hours after the weakness of single-password systems was demonstrated publicly on Twitter when theBBC Weather Twitter account was hacked, apparently by pro-Syrian activists who either guessed the password or captured it from an unwary user of the account.Twitter is working on the introduction of two-factor authentication, but has not announced any date for its introduction.The move brings iCloud, which has more than 250m users, into line with Google's Gmail services, which have offered such "2FA" security for some years.Two-factor authentication relies on the user having a "trusted" mobile phone in their control - though users are also given a backup code in case they lose their phone or are outside network coverage. Any change to the personal details made online have to be verified using a code that is sent to the mobile phone. Without the code, the changes - such as altering a backup email address or password - will not be approved.However it doesn't prevent children or others from spending large amounts of money on devices where they already have the password; that has to be prevented by settings on the device.The 2FA system replaces "security questions" which often contain information about people that is publicly available.The change can be made on the under "manage your Apple ID".The weakness in single password security was highlighted last year when the writerMat Honan saw his iCloud account wipedafter hackers accessed it after getting access through an Amazon account. Apple was criticised for allowing password resets over the phone, while Amazon was criticised for accepting changes to account settings via phone. Honan's experience - in which the hackers guessed his Apple email, and then broke into his Amazon account via a credit card number and billing address.The hackers then methodically wiped his Gmail account of emails, took control of his Twitter account, and remotely wiped his iPhone, Macbook and iPad.Apple said: "Apple takes customer privacy very seriously, and two-step verification is an even more robust process to ensure our users' data remains protected. We are now offering our users the choice to take advantage of this additional layer of security."The service will initially only be available in the US, UK, Australia, Ireland and New Zealand.
Twitter is seven. These days, regular users know it as the only website in the world that can a spark a government revolution as easily as it can fuel a celebrity feud, but since we know you're probably too busy retweeting someone's snarky comment about dying attention spans –bonus points if it's from a Darth Vader parody account– to think about how much Twitter has changed since its infancy, we did the thinking for you.Behold,with some apologies to Shakespeare, the seven ages of Twitter:Chapter 1: birth (Twirth)Twttrwas bornMarch 21, 2006, to Jack Dorsey, who, presumably after he realized "Twttr" is impossible to pronounce, later added a few vowels. Along with Twitter's vowel-less birth, Dorsey's concept for the logo was also questionable:What Twitter looked like seven years ago today:twitter.com/EliLanger/stat…&mdash; Eli Langer (@EliLanger)March 21, 2013This all changed when British artist Simon Oxley got involved andgave us the all the birdwe know as "Larry."This is what Twitter founder Jack Dorsey looked like when he raised their first round of fundingtwitter.com/BuzzFeedNews/s…&mdash; BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews)March 21, 2013Chapter 2: nom nomAround the time Twitter reached kindergarten, people started signing up and trying to figure out what to do with this newfangled "microblogging platform". After the first tweet ("is there anybody there?"), what to say? The natural answer was to tweet about food ad nauseum.http://twitpic.com/9457- Shrimp po-boy, nom nom.http://piurl.com/1DA&mdash; TheGrundle (@TheGrundle)August 26, 2008Nom Nom Nom Nomhttp://tinyurl.com/2wsypr&mdash; Cheezburger(@Cheezburger)January 19, 2008broccoli kitten demands his nom nomhttp://tinyurl.com/6gauur&mdash; Sulamita Garcia (@sulagarcia)December 10, 2008mm chicken&mdash; Craig Kanalley (@ckanal)September 5, 2008According to Topsy, a service which measures social analytics, the phrase "nom nom" has been used in tweetsroughly 2m times.Chapter 3: oversharingTwitter continued to stuff itself until atweeting presidentwas elected and suddenly gave the platform some serious clout – yes, with a "c".Then came the celebrities, who quickly solidified a tradition of self-promotion that has endured to modern day. Suddenly, Larry King was live-tweeting his race to 1 million followers against Ashton Kutcher. Then there was Kutcher's then-wife, Demi Moore (neé@MrsKutcher) who took a very publicized break from herpioneering efforts in the art of the selfieto dissuadea follower from suicide.Meanwhile, Stephen Fry hilariously kickstarted the global culture of oversharing while stuck in a lift:Ok. This is now mad. I am stuck in a lift on the 26th floor of Centre Point. Hell's teeth. We could be here for hours. Arse, poo and widdle&mdash; Stephen Fry (@stephenfry)February 3, 2009The tradition has endured, embraced by politicians, celebrities and hot messes alike. The best thing about Twitter's long oversharing history? Sweet, archived irony:Hold your horses world.I've been hearing all kinds of rumours about someone being cast to play me in a film about Richard and myself.&mdash; Elizabeth Taylor (@DameElizabeth)July 23, 2010"Big girls need big diamonds." - Liz Taylor. She was so wise and oh so lovely.#LizandDick@lifetimetv11/25 @ 9pm.#LiveChat#Liz101.com&mdash; Lindsay Lohan (@lindsaylohan)November 24, 2012Chapter 4: celebrity feudingNow is about the time we start to see pop culture really cross over to what's happening on Twitter. Case in point:Awkward!We're good to stop here.Chapter 5: KloutThis is around the time things start to get dark and existential. The phrase "twinfluencer" starts to rear its head, and users start wondering if their "score" determined by "measurement" "service" Klout could end up jeopardizing their social life and job prospects. Soon, anyone who was anyone was trying to raise their Klout score.I wonder if starting a nuclear war would increase my Klout score.&mdash; KimJongNumberUn (@KimJongNumberUn)August 10, 2012Then key twinfluencers wised up and determined it all very en vogue to act like we didn't care:What Klout score do I get for not giving a shit what my Klout score is?&mdash; Jeff Jarvis (@jeffjarvis)April 28, 2012Many of us followed suit. At least until we took a few minutes away from prying eyes to log in and see if our mean tweets about Klout had demoted us from Thought Leader and taken away beta Spotify access.Chapter 6: OUTRAGE!With maturity came pitchforks. As with oversharing, we quickly perfected our tendency to groupthink ourselves into collective outrage and our eventual swing back into collective acceptance, because someone eventually produces a rational, well-written thought about the issue in question.Witness theMarissa Mayer "everyone has to physically come into work" debacle. Witch-hunt begins:People were literally ready to take Vines of themselves jumping out of office windows in solidarity with slighted Yahoo workers.Usually I reserve judgment on ppl in the public eye, but Marissa Mayer, who has a nursery installed nxt to her office, is an elitist idiot.&mdash; Marcia Wade Talbert (@newsgyrl)February 27, 2013btw I was pretty sure Marissa Mayer was an idiot when she was at Google. Her pisspoor leadership at Yahoo only increases that thought&mdash; Robert Gillespie (@nffc65)February 26, 2013So are we all agreed that Marissa Mayer is a heartless bitch?&mdash; NatSecWonk (@NatSecWonk)February 27, 2013This continued for a few days, until there was actual reporting on the subject which indicated Mayer may be trying to save adead-on-the-inside culture at her company. Witch-hunt ends.Outrages currently occur roughly once a day because 140 characters is the perfect medium for your half-baked angry screed. By the end of Twitter's seventh birthday, tweeters will have ruined the celebration by claiming that March Madness brackets are inherently sexist and Peeps are against gay marriage. Because we can't have nice things.(Update: True to form, Buzzfeed is working onruining everything a little earlier than planned.)Chapter 7: the end is nighThere is self-evidently a direct correlation between the amount of parody accounts now produced in a week and the speed with which Twitter's oncoming apocalypse approaches.I AM THE NEW POPE OF ROME. PAY HOMAGE.&mdash; Vatican seagull (@DefiantSeagull)March 13, 2013Bishops love sci-fi.#pope&mdash; Vatican Seagull (@PontiffSeagull)March 13, 2013Awful parody accounts have brought on a new form of Twitter vigilantism to save the service from itself, but it's impossible to say if quick-thinking twinfluencers will be able to stop the onslaught of madness:Hello, this is @jakefogelnest. As a public service, I have registered this Twitter account to prevent another parody account.&mdash; Russia Meteor (@RussiaMeteor)February 15, 2013The good news? When an asteroid eventually does hit Earth –it's likely!– no one will be around to create @asteroid_OFFICIAL.By the way, as of 2.30 pm ET, that user name is available.
Despite it being a full 10 years since Luigi last donned his custom vacuum cleaner and captured ghosts in a haunted mansion, the overdue arrival ofLuigi's Mansion 2was well worth the wait.The sequel still sees the world's second most famous plumber suck up ghouls, which remains a satisfying gameplay feature. But this is a longer adventure, with five mansions riddled with secrets and puzzles to explore, and each of them has been split into bite-sized missions, which is ideal for on-the-go gaming.The controls can be fiddly and the otherwise superb visuals look pixelated on the 3DS XL, but nevertheless, this is a deep, charming adventure, with superb audio and challenging puzzles. An essential purchase for Nintendo fans.
Who's the person you'd least expect to discover is a BlackBerry user? How about the executive chairman of the company whose software has been crucial in eroding the Canadian company's position in the consumer market?That's right: Eric Schmidt uses a BlackBerry. Why? He likes the keyboard, he says. One could questionwhySchmidt uses a BlackBerry: there are Android phones you canbuy now!which offer a keyboard.Here's the Samsung Replenish in the US- though it reminds us of another make (can't think which just now) and only runs Gingerbread 2.3 - you know, from December 2010. Still, the reviews are good. (Plenty more here: tick the "QWERTY keyboard" box under "Style" on the left margin.)What's more, he thinks that Apple's iPad mini - the "small tablet" format that Google and Amazon have both made popular through their Nexus and Kindle Fire offerings - is "too small" compared to the large-format iPad.Schmidt was speaking in aninterview with Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian's editor-in-chief, in India at the Activate conference earlier on Thursday.That people at the top of Google don't alwayseat their own dogfoodisn't necessarily a surprise: even when he was chief executive of Google in 2009, Schmdt wasspotted using a BlackBerry- andonce more in 2011.And Marissa Mayer, who was one of the most senior executives at Google before she left to join Yahoo in July 2012, was famously an iPhone user - asevidenced by her tweetsand various photos.Equally, pictures from inside Google frequently shows its engineers and staff working on Apple laptops, even after Google had launched its Chromebook - though we await more recent ones from inside the Googleplex following the launch of the Chromebook Pixel with its high-DPI screen.And the non-dogfooding ocurs elsewhere too - Steve Sinofsky, the former head of Microsoft's Windows team who's since left the company, had todefend his use of an iPhone(apparently he's owned every model - something he managed to keep quietwhile around Steve Ballmer).The only way to top that lot might be if Andy Rubin were to be spotted using a Nokia Lumia running Windows Phone. We won't hold our breath, though.• Asked whether Android and ChromeOS will be merged now that Sundar Pichai (head of ChromeOS) has taken over from Andy Rubin, Schmidt responded that "No, we don't make the decision based on who's heading the service." He also said that they are "certainly going to remain separate for a very long time, because they solve different problems."That isn't quite a denial of what he said in 2011 - that the two would merge over time - but it seems like a clear rebuttal of the idea that Pichai would lead an immediate integration. Then again, integrating a mobile operating system built to hook into apps, and a desktop one built around a browser, is quite a challenge.
I'm looking for a digital voice recorder to collect my parents' oral history, so that the grandchildren can listen to it in 20 years' time. I need something less hissy than a digital notetaker but not something so fancy only the BBC could afford to buy it. What could I get on a budget of £50 to £60, if anything?David GeeThe voice recorder market, like the compact camera market, is under pressure from mobile phones, which do a reasonable job without you having to carry an extra device around. The remaining market for more powerful devices has two major segments: dictation and music. Your application falls nicely into the hole between the two.Dictation products are aimed at recording voices either for memo-taking or transcription. The main features are long recording times and long battery life. The audio requirement is clarity, not fidelity, so sound is usually mono, and a bit rate of 192kbps in Microsoft's WMA (Windows Media Audio) format counts as "super high-quality" (SHQ). Cut-off filters may be used to cut down background noise. If you use these devices for interviews, as journalists do, they work best if you thrust them fairly close to the person's mouth. They also include small loudspeakers so you can listen to the recording. The leading suppliers in this market are Olympus and Sony.The music products are aimed at people who want to record sounds or live music in CD- or twice CD-quality with a full spectrum of stereo sound. People tend to record uncompressed WAV files that take up huge amounts of space, but when you've filled one SD card, you simply slot in another (and change the batteries). These recorders are often used on a small stand or mini-tripod, sometimes with an external microphone. Typical applications include broadcast journalism and podcasting, simple home recording, and making soundtracks for short films, which nowadays may be shot with DSLR cameras. Post-processing is done on a PC, but if you want to use the recorder to listen to what you recorded, you may well have to use headphones.The overlap is that both types of machine can record MP3 files, which I assume is what you have in mind. MP3 can produce excellent sound quality at high bit-rates (up to 320kbps) and the files will play on virtually every device.Voice recordersYour cheapest option is a good quality dictation machine such as theSony ICD-PX312, which has 2GB of built-in storage and can record to MP3 files. Unlike most handheld voice recorders, it also takes SD memory cards (not supplied), and you can connect it to your PC's USB port. The recommended retail price is £52.99 but Amazon.co.uk has them for £33.06, which is good value. You could add a cheapclip-on microphonefor recording one parent at a time.TheOlympus VN-713PCis also worth considering. This is another WMA/MP3 mono voice recorder with USB connectivity, but it has 4GB of built-in storage and a microSD card slot instead of an SD slot. The VN-713PC has a neat little kick-stand built in, plus noise cancellation to reduce the effect of background noises such as air conditioning. The RRP is £69.99 and Amazon.co.uk has it for £49.98.Both of these recorders have "scene" commands to handle different recording situations, such as (on the Olympus) Memo, Meeting and Conference. If you just want to capture clear voices, both will do the job.Music recordersHowever, if you want to capture a naturalistic soundscape with two or three people talking, then you need a different type of product: a stereo sound recorder, rather than a voice recorder. Until quite recently, this would have been way over your budget (I paid £250 for my Roland Edirol R-09H). Today, you can get aZoom H1 V2for only £79.Although Amazon lists the Handy H1 V2 microSD recorder with its office products as a Portable Digital Voice Recorder Dictaphone, it has a lot in common with products such as the £229Zoom H4n, which are listed in Amazon's music category.The Zoom H1 V2 has two microphones in what audio fans will recognise as an X-Y configuration. This should give you a good stereo effect with two or three people sitting side-by-side, without picking up too much sound from the rest of the room. (The thing about real acoustic recording is that you also record extraneous sounds such as dogs barking at police cars, even though you didn't hear them at the time.)And for only a little more money, you can get the real thing: aTascam DR-05. This is selling for £88 at Amazon.co.uk, though it's currently even better value at Amazon.com:$86.96, reduced from $179.99.The Tascam has two omnidirectional mics so it will produce a less focused, more ambient stereo sound than the Zoom H1 V2. It's more likely to appeal to someone recording music or plays etc rather than interviewing people.Oral historiesThe oral history movement is now growing rapidly thanks partly to the arrival of cheap, easy-to-use digital recorders, and all the serious archives require at least WAV (BWF or Broadcast Wave Format) files, not MP3s. If your parents' stories would appeal to a wider audience, or if you plan to do more oral history recordings, you should definitely get a WAV recorder not a dictation machine.Many archives will also expect you to use a separate microphone. This was vital in the days of cassette tape and MiniDisc recording, but the new WAV recorders make it less important. (I'm still using an oldSony ECMMS907 CE7but see theMicrophone FAQ.)However, if using the built-in mics, it is important to put the recorder on a small tripod or boom, so it helps if it has a tripod bush. Recorders with plastic cases are notorious for picking up creaks and hand noises, and the Zoom H1 V2 could be vulnerable.The UK'sOral History Societyprovides a good guide to getting started, including the importantlegal and ethicalissues. The Heritage Lottery Fund also published a paper on Thinking About Oral History(PDF), as an area it was keen to fund.Whichever recorder you choose, the result will depend on how well you organise your series of interviews. Generally, it's better to ask open-ended questions that lead to interesting areas, rather than turn it into an interrogation. For example, "What did you used to do on a typical Sunday?" is better than "Where did you go to church?" The New Zealand History site, which is heavily into oral history, has a useful list of possible questions for life history interviews(PDF).We all know that history is more than a procession of kings and battles, and that oral histories can provide important insights into what life was really like. At its best, it's not just for grandchildren.
Making apps for kids is a tough business. Dozens of creative, educational and well-crafted children's apps are released every month – many from independent developers – and many of them sink without a trace.Can indie developers make a living from kids' apps? That was the topic for an event this week organised by theLondon Educational Games Meetup Group, with five British children's app developers sharing their experiences in presentations and a panel session, which I moderated.All have apps well worth parents' purchases, and Cowly Owl (MakegoandLittle Digits); Made in Me (Me BooksandSneak); Crank Publishing (Junior Astronaut); Nimblebean (Timmy Tickle); and Frosby Designs (Frosby Learning Games) are all learning how to scrap for attention and sales.Their tone was optimistic, yet realistic. "Can we make a living from kids' apps? My personal answer is yes, but it's really, really, really hard," said Made in Me's managing director James Huggins.Here are some of the key points that emerged on the night:It's a volume gameA lot of talented developers – especially the 1-3 person studios – have less than a handful of high-quality apps, taking months to perfect each one. Lovely apps, but possibly not the best route to commercial success."Always think about more than one app with every single idea that you're doing," said Huggins. "You're much more likely to make a decent living from 10 apps than from one. In a volume game, to make any reasonable money you need to sell lots and lots of apps… Never ever have an app strategy that involves just one app."That's not to say developers should "knock 'em out fast and cheap". Rather that they should be thinking creatively about how code can be reused; how apps might be reskinned and relaunched; or even chopped up into multiple releases.Matt Wasser, from Frosby Designs, said that parents will often buy several games from a developer that they like, but warned they may not wait for months at a time for a new release."Literally in a short time they might buy three of your apps if they're into one app that they like, but six months later they've gone: they've moved onto other apps," he said. "That's why you need a load of apps, a big portfolio."There are examples out there, albeit from larger companies. Toca Boca has generated more than 30m paid and free downloads of its apps, while Duck Duck Moose announced in September 2012 that it had sold 2.4m paid downloads.One challenge for the British developers represented at the LEGup event is that they're all bootstrapping, while competitors elsewhere in the world – particularly the US – are raising multi-million dollar funding rounds to quickly build up their portfolios.Get talented people to helpThis is by no means a trend restricted to app developers, but it's clear that collaboration and creative networks are helping individual developers punch above their abilities in different areas.Crank Publishing's James Law gave the example of hiring Wired magazine's science and space correspondent Adam Mann to act as script supervisor on Junior Astronaut. $200 well spent: not only did Mann's knowledge ensure the app's scientific content was correct: his involvement "gave us credibility: teachers liked it and the press loved it".Nimblebean's Harriet Pellereau talked about the importance of getting collaborators for Timmy Tickle to complement her background in visual design and coding. Voice narration, programming backup and marketing advice were all crucial.Illustration and animation were strong themes in the discussion: the idea that even if an app is developed by a tiny team, it has to look as good as those made by much larger studios to have a chance of success on the app stores."There's no excuse for having an ugly-looking app. We are surrounded by a wealth of creative talent in this country," said Law. Junior Astronaut's visuals are a case in point: they're excellent, and only cost the company £2k – commissioned from illustratorChris Madden.Junior Astronaut's visual style is a big part of its appealDon't be scared of brandsCan a small independent children's app developer bag a major brand or character for its projects? It might be easier than many think, according to Huggins, who noted the popularity of apps based on brands from Disney to Peppa Pig."Don't make the assumption that it's us and them," he said. "A lot of developers assume these rights and licensing are behind these fortresses of corporate scaryness, and are impossible to get at. That's not the case. In most cases these companies are actively looking for ways to either promote or sell their properties. There's a huge appetite out there for developers who've got a nice idea."Huggins added that brand-owners aren't necessarily looking for large upfront licensing payments from developers before letting them get hands-on with their characters. Often, a pure revenue-share deal can be agreed."Do not rule out partnerships, licensing and strong characters. It may not be the be all and end-all of what you want to do, but it could be a way for your idea to live both with customers and commercially," he said.Experiment with pricingIs there a pricing formula for app store success? No. But if there's one piece of advice, it's to stay flexible and keep tabs on wider trends in the market.Cowly Owl's Chris O'Shea advised developers to use sites likeAppShopperto monitor pricing changes for their competitors, and noted that many apps prices regularly go up and down – sometimes in short-term promotions designed mainly to make them pop up on websites that tell smartphone and tablet owners about price drops.How about going freemium? It's currently a controversial topic thanks to some high-profile cases of children spending thousands of pounds on in-app purchases in freemium games, but there are other ways of approaching it.Junior Astronaut was initially a free download with nine chapters included, and another 20 unlockable with an in-app purchase. However, Law said Crank now feels it miscalculated. "We have away too much: we had an experience that didn't necessarily make you feel you had to upgrade."He also added that educational apps can suffer from another problem when using in-app purchases: it makes it hard for schools to make bulk purchases under Apple's Volume Purchase Programme, which enables schools to buy apps in volume then distribute them to teachers and students.Planning PR strategyOne very strong theme at the event was the fact that most press coverage of children's apps simply doesn't generate many sales. There is a growing network of blogs covering children's apps (disclosure: I run one of them outside my Guardian work), yet when a sales spike comes from a review, it's rarely from them."The stuff that's worked is traditional media: national press and stuff on telly," said Huggins, with his fellow panelists nodding their agreement. Law and O'Shea both cited newspaper reviews as delivering a noticeable bump in salesThe problem with newspapers is their limited space, and the difficulty independent developers can have reaching and getting noticed by the journalists who might be writing about apps.And the blogs? O'Shea suggested developers make use of online tools like ReviewForDev'stable of child-friendly app review sitesand their Alexa scores; Highrise for managing the process of emailing journalist and distributing promo codes; andPromoterfor keeping tabs on sites that cover their apps.Some blogs charge developers for "expedited reviews" – the idea being the developer pays to jump the queue of apps waiting for coverage. All five developers said it's not a good idea: less for moral reasons – although there is anongoing industry debate on that score– and more because developers rarely get a return on their investment in the form of sales.Something that came through in the discussion, though, was that unpaid-for coverage can pay off in ways other than immediate sales.For example, O'Shea, Law and Huggins shared experiences of being featured by Apple in its New &amp; Noteworthy App Store promotion weeks or months after their apps had been released – but also after positive blog coverage. More data is needed on whether the coverage was a factor in bringing apps to the attention of Apple's editorial staff.Getting featured on Apple's App Store is still the biggest downloads driverAsk Apple for helpTalking of Apple's editorial staff… It's very clear that the single biggest factor in a children's app finding a healthy audience is being featured on the App Store, even if the sales effect often only lasts as long as the promotion."Petition Apple for support," said Huggins. "They have recently started to show us some love, and it does make a huge difference. It's an unknown quantity, so don't bank on it, but do try to get it."Try? Apple does have developer relations teams, and they're out there having face-to-face meetings with developers – big and small – regularly. Huggins advised swapping notes with other studios to get contacts within Apple, and pointed out that the feedback on how a developer can improve their apps can be just as useful as the prospect of an App Store promotion.What does Apple look for? Quality, first and foremost, although making use of the latest features in its devices doesn't hurt."Concentrate on creating a brilliant product, and try to learn about what it takes to get featured by Apple," said Law. "By all means do your marketing, but good marketing can never rescue an average product. Get the product right, then concentrate on the marketing afterwards."What about Android?Hang on, you're quite possibly thinking. Why is this article – and the event it was based on – so focused on Apple? In fact, there are a growing number of children's apps being released for Android devices too, quite often simultaneously with their iOS releases.Should developers be thinking more about Android? "I'd love to, but it's very hard," said Pellereau, citing the costs of porting and testing on Android devices. "It's just a really difficult world, but it's certainly worth thinking about."The impression I took away was that for small independent developers – the kind of studio capable of making a well-crafted children's app, but not necessarily porting and testing it on hundreds of Android devices – staying iOS-only isn't about being a fanboy for one platform over another.The cycle seems to be more that developers start on iOS, and leave Android until later, when they've made enough money to cover the porting costs. But if they're struggling to make money on iOS…"If it's hard enough making it on iOS, how much harder is it on Android? People aren't paying for apps there," said O'Shea. But the panel agreed that developers should be keeping an eye on Android – including devices like Amazon's Kindle Fire and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook, which may attract parents.Other tipsOther pieces of advice from the event included a creative lesson learned by Pellereau. "If I was doing it again, I'd be clearer on what my app purpose was," she said."Timmy Tickle had painting, counting, reading… lots of different activities going on, but it's hard for people to categorise and explain what it actually does. It might be better to just do one thing really well."She also advised developers to get a thick skin before reading their App Store reviews. Which isn't to say ignore negative reactions entirely, but more learn to distinguish between constructive feedback and unrealistic expectations."Be prepared for the expectations on the App Store, and the vitriolic response you can have for something that cost someone £1," she said. "I was inventing a whole world, creating a 3D character, giving him a story and animating him, and it was being shot down for a button not responding quite as quickly as people wanted."Meanwhile, Huggins said developers should investigate some of the deals and discounts websites that tell people about offers for a range of products and digital content, including apps."It might sound dodgy, but they drive massive amounts of traffic to our apps whenever we do a deal promo and put them on these sites," he said. "It's gone crazy, way more than anything else we've tried on that front."Timmy Tickle in cake formReaping the rewardsQuite a lot of the above discussion may seem negative: it's really hard to sell apps, blogs aren't that useful, reviewers on the App Store can be mean, and the single biggest success factor – an Apple feature – is completely unpredictable.What struck me, though, was that while all five developers want to build businesses out of their children's apps, they weren't just motivated by profit. For various reasons – Huggins making apps that his own children would love, Pellereau creating a character of her own from scratch – they all had deeper reasons for braving this brutal market.They all had "punch the air" moments to talk about too. One child liked Timmy Tickle so much, their parentcooked a Timmy-shaped birthday cakeand emailed a photo to Pellereau.Law woke up one morning to find a photo of a beaming Junior Astronaut fan showing the app to one of NASA's senior astronauts on a visit to the space agency. O'Shea, too, has seen plenty of YouTube videos uploaded by parents of children playing with Cowly Owl's apps.Many children's apps may struggle for sales, but the feedback from parents and kids can be genuinely meaningful. It's that kind of response that encourages developers to keep plugging away."I do think you can make money from this area," said Pellereau. "Can you make a living? You can definitely have a lot of fun doing it. It's been an amazing journey."
Meaningless statistics are everywhere these days. Whether it's self-selecting samples in surveys, or incomplete data just not showing you what you need to know, they're all over the place. They're the fructose syrup of news: they might make a story look fascinating, but in fact they're empty.Here's the latest one. Carphone Warehouse says that the Galaxy S4 has generated more than four times as many pre-registrations as its predecessor, the Galaxy S3. To be precise, it says, 446%. Here's the money quote: "in the first three days since announcement the S4 has received four times as many customers registering their interest than did during the SIII pre-reg phase."OK! There's a statistic. First of all, though - is it fourfold, or 446%? After all, 100% more is twice as much. Unless it's saying that the demand is 446% of the year-ago period.Here's the regulation quote. Graham Stapleton, the retailer's chief operating officer, said: "The vast number of pre-registrations we've had for this device is evidence how hot the Galaxy S4 is going to be. The launch event in New York clearly captured the imagination of many of our customers - acting as the driving force for the busiest pre-registration period we've ever seen."Now, what does it actually mean, in terms of anything that matters? "Pre-registration" sounds good - except what is it? According to CPW, it's "people expressing interest in being told more about the phone's pricing when that's available".Here's the pre-registration page.It's emphaticallynota "pre-order" - which is someone saying they want to buy the phone once it goes on sale. (Interestingly enough, CPW issued a press release last September saying that the iPhone 5 had the highest number of pre-orders it had ever seen for any phone ever in its history. It didn't say whether those translated into sales.)But hang on - why "pre-registration"? What's "pre" about it? Surely it's "registration" - people are registering their interest. And the page itself calls it "registration", not "pre-registration". The phone isn't yet on sale, and there isn't a tariff yet, but that's why people are registering their interest. They're not "pre-registering". That would be the stepbeforeregistering. They'reregistering. In large numbers, it would seem. (Let's drop the "pre-" stuff. Pre-registrations are registrations, pre-orders are just orders made slightly early. They're orders all the same.)Howlarge, though, in actual numbers? And how does it compare to other brands and handsets, such as the HTC One, or the iPhone 5?Also: how many registrations typically convert to orders? All of them? Half of them? 10%? Having a comparison of how many registrations turn into orders, and how many orders there were for the iPhone 5 and how many registrations there have been for the S4 would give a useful comparison of how the two phones are selling at their peak.Alas, that would count as useful information rather than a meaningless statistic. We did ask CPW. Answer came there none. So all we know is that interest - but not money down on the counter (orders aren't yet open yet for the S4) - is much higher than a year ago.That definitely reflects Samsung's heightened presence in the smartphone market, which has grown dramatically in the past year. But as for useful comparisons of one device's potential sales with another? Not there.The smartphone business, and technology generally, abounds in these sort of not-quite-useful numbers; and you can tell how useless they are because when you ask for more detail, nothing happens. When you ask for comparative detail, you get none. It's just another meaningless statistic to ingest before realising that it's totally empty of actually useful information.And why write about it? So you know to watch out for empty stats like these, and to enquire further. There's little enough solid data out there. Let's not make it worse.
In this week's edition the Guardian's digital correspondentJemima Kissmeets web entrepreneurJuan Guerrawhose startupstudentfunder.comis attempting to change how university education is funded and re-establish meritocracy in the international education market.Also Jemima meetsGary Swart, CEO of one of theleading online job sites oDesk, to discuss the growing importance of the remote worker and why this tech industry employment model is starting to spread into other industries.And we have a roundup of this week's big tech news stories, including the birth of a new kind of online avatar called Zoe (see the video here) and the changing of the guard at both thecomputer games company Electronic Artsandthe UK chip designer ARM Holdings.
YouTube has a billion unique users visiting the video-sharing website every month, equivalent to one out of every two people on the internet – and the generation that has grown up with it watches video on smartphones just as much as PCs.The new generation of video viewers – dubbed "Generation C" or Gen C for short – "tunes into YouTube throughout every part of their day,"according to Gunnard Johnson, Google's advertising research director.But they are also turning away from TV, at least in the US: Gen C are 45% more likely to be light TV viewers, watching less than two hours of US broadcast TV per day, according to research company GfK.A decade ago the arrival of 3G phones led some analysts to forecast that people would watch live TV on their phones – and led to a boom in attempts to interest people in TV on tiny screens. But while those faltered, it turns out that YouTube, and video viewing generally, has filled that gap perfectly as network connections, smartphone processors and screen sizes have grown big enough to show absorbing video.But a key thing about Gen C, identified by the Nielsen Research Group, is that unlike the Generation X and Y of the past, they aren't defined by their age. Instead, it's their "connected behaviour" that's the common thread: they constantly switch between devices, are deeply engaged with online video (both for watching and creating), thrive on the community around it, and are expert "curators" – able to find the content they want.YouTube usage on smartphones mirrors desktop usage. Photograph: Nielsen Mobile NetView/GoogleBecause Gen C inhabits a multiscreen world, of smartphone, tablet and PC, it tends to be in the 18-34 age group; and the growth of faster networks, especially 4G in the US, means that time spent watching YouTube videos has risen by 74% among Gen C in the past year.UK online viewing of videos over smartphones is expected to grow in line with the introduction of 4G services from more carriers this year, following theauction of 4G airwaves in February.Says Gunnard: "41% tune in to YouTube on their smartphone while waiting for something/someone, 18% while commuting from work or school, and 15% tune in while commercials are running on TV."That has also driven growth in use of YouTube. "If YouTube were a country, we'd be the third largest in the world after China and India," the company said in ablogpost on Wednesday.YouTube's growth poses a challenge for Facebook, which only offers limited amounts of video – and where video content is frequently cross-posted from YouTube, which has made embedding of its videos simple across the web.Facebook reached a billion active users in September, a level of global penetration that has made its quest for sustained growth more challenging.For both YouTube and Facebook, hitting the billion-user mark took eight years. Facebook was founded in 2004; YouTube in 2005 by three former PayPal employees, who initially wanted to create a dating site and thought that adding video would be useful. Google bought it for $1.65bn in 2006 – a price that at the time was thought excessive.Instead, the video site now represents one of Google's key opportunities to generate new sources of revenue outside of its traditional internet search advertising business.The popularity of music videos such as South Korean singer Psy's Gangnam Style has contributed to an explosion in viewership on YouTube. Thevideohas so far racked up 1.45bn views.
Sorry about yesterday, Folks! I forgot to set up Chatterbox in advance and then went off to Paris and the studio I was visiting had no functioning Wi-Fi! Can't tell you who I went to see just yet, but I can say that the French capital saw some very heavy rain this week.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKinky Android X-ray app laid bare as malware &gt;&gt; The RegisterJapanese mobile users are being warned not to download an Android app promising to allow them to see through clothes with the phone's camera, as the malware hidden within will steal address book data and try to blackmail them to the tune of ¥29,000 (£202).The app's first manifestation is usually an SMS message appearing to come from a friend. That message recommends the recipient try the "Infrared X-Ray" app, Symantec researcher Joji Hamada wrote in ablog post.Statement from CyanogenModThis morning, a comment from a CM collaborator on XDA was taken to be as an 'absolute' in regards to support of the S4. He offered the opinion of four TeamHacksung maintainers, their frustrations and lack of interest in supporting the S4. What's seemingly lost on those reading this is that his comments as an individual do not speak for CyanogenMod as an organization.As for the team's stance on the S4, there isn't one at this time, and most definitely won't be one before the device is sold at retail.-The CyanogenMod TeamEU's Reding: Apple still not informing customers correctly about warranty rights in EU &gt;&gt; Dow JonesIn a speech Tuesday, the EU's Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding honed in on the Apple case as an example of weak and diverse enforcement of consumer rules within the EU.Ms. Reding wrote to national governments last September encouraging them to take action over the way Apple advertises their commercial warranties and to ensure Apple was respecting the legal guarantee of a two-year warranty that consumers are entitled to under EU law."This case and the responses I received since I sent my letter have highlighted rather clearly just why the Commission cannot sit on the side-lines on enforcement issues," she said. "The approaches to enforcement in these types of cases turn out to be very diversified and inconsistent at a national level. In at least 21 EU Member States Apple is not informing consumers correctly about the legal warranty rights they have. This is simply not good enough."(Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)New Samsung security flaw – disable lockscreen, get total control &gt;&gt; Terence EdenThe latest to occur only in Samsung's lockscreen, but not in stock Google:I have discovered another security flaw in Samsung Android phones. It is possible to completely disable the lock screen and get access to any app - even when the phone is "securely" locked with a pattern, PIN, password, or face detection. Unlike another recently released flaw, this doesn't rely quite so heavily on ultra-precise timing.You do have to be pretty precise, though. But he unlocks the phone in less than 3 minutes. If it had been stolen, that might be enough. Samsung says it is "aware of it" - just as Apple has rolled out iOS 6.1.3, which removes its lockscreen bypass. (Thanks @rquick for the pointer; Eden also told us.)Discussions about DRM often land on the fundamental problem… &gt;&gt; Ian HicksonArguing that DRM doesn't work is, it turns out, missing the point. DRM is working really well in the video and book space. Sure, the DRM systems have all been broken, but that doesn't matter to the DRM proponents. Licensed DVD players still enforce the restrictions. Mass market providers can't create unlicensed DVD players, so they remain a black or gray market curiosity. DRM failed in the music space not because DRM is doomed, but because the content providers sold their digital content without DRM, and thus enabled all kinds of players they didn't expect (such as "MP3" players). Had CDs been encrypted, iPods would not have been able to read their content, because the content providers would have been able to use their DRM contracts as leverage to prevent it.DRM's purpose is to give content providers control over software and hardware providers, and it is satisfying that purpose well.Hickson is a Brit who works at Google. It is the music business's biggest regret that CDs were not encrypted.Blackberry 10 in UK Government &gt;&gt; CESG"Discussions with Blackberry are ongoing about the use of the Blackberry 10 platform in government. We have not yet performed an evaluation of the security of the platform, but we expect to be issuing Platform Guidance in the summer. This will cover a number of platforms, including Blackberry 10 (and the use of 'Balance')."We have a long-standing security partnership with Blackberry, and this gives us confidence that the Blackberry 10 platform is likely to represent a viable solution for UK Government."For the avoidance of doubt. It's not approved yet. But the expectation is there.Build collaborative apps with Google Drive Realtime API &gt;&gt; Google Developers BlogGoogle Drive lets users createDocs, Sheets, and Slides, collaborate on them in real time, and have their changes saved automatically. With the newGoogle Drive Realtime API, you can now easily add some of the same real-time collaboration that powers Google Drive to your own apps. This new API handles network communication, storage, presence, conflict resolution, and other collaborative details so you can focus on building great apps.Developing for the Drive Realtime API is almost as simple as working with local objects. The API provides collaborative versions of familiar data objects such as maps, lists, strings, and JSON values and automatically synchronizes and stores modifications to these objects. Your application reads from and writes to these objects like any other local object. Change event handlers can be added to collaborative objects so that your app can react to changes from other collaborators.Sounds really good. How confident would you be in developing against it, though? What if it gets rolled up in a couple of years? After Google Reader (even though that was an undocumented API), that's the nagging worry developers have begun to express. What if it turns chargeable, like Google Maps API? And so on.Samsung vs. Google: an Interview with Rafael Barbosa Barifouse of Redacao Epoca &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:You can also think of it this way: If they [Samsung and Google] "divorced" there would be minimal to no impact to their fortunes in the foreseeable future. Buyers of Samsung phones will still buy Samsung phones because they will look and feel very similar and Google services will still be available through browsers or apps (e.g. Google maps on iOS). Conversely, users of Google services will continue to use them because they will be available on Samsung devices, no matter what OS is running. The services Google offers are independent of Android and are cross-platform. They will make sure they are available on all major platforms (as they were before and during Android). Google is far more loyal to Search and Maps and Gmail and YouTube than they are to Android.Engadget 1985 &gt;&gt; EngadgetAll the tech news that was fit to print in 1985. True in every way.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Kilimanjaro on Google Streetview.After allowing everyone the pleasure of snooping into other people's back gardens,Google has now updated its Streetview to take you on a virtual tour of Kilimanjaro, Aconcagua, Elbrus and Everest base camps. For those of us who have sometimesidly thought of climbing these mountains, but prefer to do without the cold and the danger, these images take us a few steps nearer to our dream.Camp Colera on Aconcagua as seen on Google Streetview.Click on the arrow and you can get a 360-degree view, thanks to the Google employees who hiked the peaks with a lightweight digital camera and fisheye lens. If you want to get to the top, though, you'll still have to get out of your chair. For the time being.
