The National Autistic Society (NAS) today described an advertisement for mobile phone screen wallpapers, found likely to have caused "serious and widespread offence" to people  with autism, as a "borderline criminal offence".The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) today upheld a complaint against the Onetoo advertisement. It featured an image of actor Dustin Hoffman from the film Rain Man - in which he played a man with autism - with the word "RETARD" stamped across the picture.Stuart Notholt, the director of policy and public affairs at the NAS, said that, in light of the new disabilities discrimination act, the advertisement was a  "borderline criminal offence"."Imagine if you had something like that against a black person or other minorities?  It would not be permitted," Mr Notholt said.The advertisement appeared in the January issue of football magazine FourFourTwo. It featured a full page of mobile phone wallpapers and ringtones, and the picture of the offending wallpaper was around one inch square.In its defence to the advertising watchdog, Onetoo said that the image had been "adapted from a T-shirt design created by a popular skateboard brand, and was intended to be humorous".Mr Notholt complained to the ASA in January after receiving a number of phone calls from NAS members, including people with autism and the parents of people with autism."We thought it was in inconceivably bad taste, and we knew immediately that it was going to upset an awful amount of people," he said.     The advertising watchdog upheld the complaint, finding that the image "was likely to cause serious and widespread offence amongst people with autism, their carers and their families".Onetoo said that the image had been removed and would not be used again.It is the fourth complaint upheld against the Birmingham-based company.  According to the ASA's website, Viz magazine had published an advertisement featuring several pictures in January."One of the pictures was of a black woman: she was wearing a bikini, and a gorilla's face was superimposed over hers. The complainant objected that the picture was racist and offensive," the website reported.Another previous complaint had been for a leaflet, inserted in Sugar magazine, which stated: "Anonymous abuse generator - send different types of abuse to your friends, enemies and workmates."Just select which type of abuse from the list below ... your victim will then recieve &#91;sic&#93; a random message from our database full of amusing abuse. You will also recieve &#91;sic&#93; a message so you're in on the joke.""The leaflet featured a list of subjects of abuse: the list stated "odour. face/head. intelligence. breath. x-rated. sexual performance. size," and gave instructions on how to use the abuse generator, with 'your breath smells' as an example of an abuse message," the ASA said."The complainants objected that to advertise the abuse generator was irresponsible, because it could encourage bullying."
ZDNetasks the question, and finds the answer in a Q&amp;A they republish. The money, it says, goes "into the EU's central budget", which sounds a lot like it just gets lost in the vastness that is the EU machine. What a shame they can't use the windfall to stimulate innovation in technology round the EU, so Europe can compete on capabilities and skills, and not just rely on Mario Monti &amp; Co to protect its markets from companies intent on abusing their dominant positions.
Microsoft's lawyerBrad Smithsaid in a conference call a few minutes ago that removing the Windows Media Player would harm consumers by delivering them less value and a lower quality, less functional product that would not work properly with many programs and Web sites. Consumers would be better off, he argued, if the EC had accepted Microsoft's offer to ship three media players with Windows instead. "I think today's decision is not just a setback for Microsoft but for for the entire industry, and for consumers.Smith also said that the Commission was "ordering the compulsory licensing of our intellectual property". This "infringes our rights in Europe," he said, and "runs afoul of" the EC's obligations to the World Trade Organisation.Microsoft will now take the battle to court, a process that Smith expected would take four or five years.Comment: Microsoft's offer to ship three media players would have applied worldwide, which is a solution that Microsoft rejected in the US anti-trust case, where I seem to recall that Gates compared it to forcing Coke to ship bottles of Pepsi. However, it seems that only Europeans will be forced to accept broken copies of Windows.
Guardian Unlimited'sMark Tran reports:"The EU today imposed a record fine of 497.2m euros (£331.3m) on Microsoft, accusing the software giant of abusing its 'near monopoly' to squeeze competitors in other markets.In a landmark ruling, the European commission ordered the company giant to offer a version of its Windows operating system without Windows Media Player within 90 days.The commission also told Microsoft to disclose enough information in the server market so their products can have 'full interoperability' with desktop computers running Windows, the operating system in over 95% of the world's PCs. Microsoft has 120 days to fulfil this condition. [...] Today's fine exceeds the record 462m euro penalty imposed on Switzerland's Hoffman-La Roche in 2001 for leading a vitamin cartel. But large as the fine may sound, it will be just a pinprick for Microsoft as it has about $53bn (£28.7bn) cash on hand."
1994:EU and US justice department settle allegations about Microsoft's software licensing and marketing behaviour. Microsoft agrees to stop making computer makers pay a fee for every PC sold, regardless of whether it contained Microsoft software.1997:EU forces Microsoft to release Santa Cruz Operation from contract requiring it to include Microsoft code in its Unix operating system and pay royalties whether it used code or not.March 1998:EU makes Microsoft alter licensing agreements with internet service providers that allegedly violate competition rules.May 1998:US justice department and 20 states sue Microsoft, accusing it of thwarting competition to extend its monopoly.October 1998:Justice department sues Microsoft, alleging it violated 1994 consent decree by forcing computer makers to sell its internet browser along with Windows.December 1998:EU begins investigating complaint from Sun Microsystems that Microsoft withheld software code for Sun to be able to develop products that would "talk" properly with the ubiquitous Windows PCs.February 2000:EU begins investigating complaints that Windows 2000 would give Microsoft dominant position in e-commerce.April 2000:US district judge Thomas Penfield Jackson finds Microsoft violated US antitrust law and attempted to monopolise the Web browser market.June 2000:Judge Jackson orders Microsoft to split into two companies.August 2000:EU sends formally accuses Microsoft of abusing its Windows monopoly to dominate the market for server software.April 2001:EU closes investigation into Microsoft investments in European digital cable TV. Company agrees to modify agreements.June 2001:US appeals court throws out Judge Jackson's break-up order.August 2001:In new charges stemming from Windows 2000 case, EU accuses Microsoft of violating antitrust law by tying its media player into Windows. It also merges case with charges regarding server market.October 2001:With justice department under new Bush administration, Microsoft tentatively agrees to settle US antitrust case.March 2002:Microsoft proposes concessions to EU that it says go beyond those agreed in the US to help rivals' equipment operate with Windows.November 2002:US district judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly approves most provisions of Microsoft settlement with the US government. It prohibits Microsoft from retaliating against PC makers; lets customers remove icons for Microsoft features and requires that Microsoft disclose more technical data to software developers.January 2003:Computer, phone and internet companies file EU complaint saying Windows XP is designed to extend Microsoft dominance into new markets such as instant messaging and mobile phones.August 2003:Backed by new evidence of continuing abuses, EU sends third charge sheet to Microsoft and gives it "last chance" to defend itself before demanding changes in Windows.January 2004:EU competition commissioner Mario Monti prepares draft ruling against Microsoft.February:Monti rejects Microsoft offer to include rival digital media software on CD-roms sold with Windows.March 15:Advisory committee of EU national regulators unanimously backs Monti's draft decision.March 16:Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer holds face-to-face talks with Monti.March 18:EU says talks failed.Wednesday:EU levies record fine of &euro;497m (£331m) against Microsoft to offer Windows version without digital media player and to release programming code to makers of rival server software.
TheAdam Smith Institute webloghighlights an interesting piece in USA today, on why "offshoring" - or the departure of call centre and programming jobs to India - isn't as bad an idea as many in the US suggest it is.Tech columnist Kevin Maneyarguesthe process is actually the free market's way of letting the US economy focus on what it does best - innovation - while letting the Indian economy do what it, increasingly, does best - programming. It's a controversial concept, and he can find only one tech executive - Netscape founder Marc Andreessen - to back it in public. But Andreessen does so heartily, saying: "The system works so amazingly well that it's a wonder anyone doubts it, and yet, of course, people do". He seesimprovementsin the quality of living for Americans as the rest of the world gets wealthier through this kind of work (although, as the story notes, try telling that to a programmer who's just seen his job - and hundreds more - vanish overseas). And it's not just economic benefits that can be realised through this process, suggests Maney."The more this goes on, the less likely the United States will have enemies. If India's economy is booming because U.S. companies outsource there, India pretty quickly becomes our friend. Same with China and elsewhere. We'd have a lot easier time with North Korea's Kim Jong Il if a few American telemarketers could move their call centers to Pyongyang."Call centres to heal the world? I'm not quite there yet, but it's a very interesting thesis.
"Terra Lycos' HotBot search site on Monday launched a search toolbar that includes the ability to search local hard-drive content and to read RSS feeds," reportseWeek."The local-content search feature supports e-mail files from Microsoft Outlook or Outlook Express, Microsoft Office files, PDFs and most text-based file formats. The toolbar also lets users index their Web-page browsing history so they can search content from those sites."Comment: HotBot Desktop also blocks pop-ups and is availableherefor Microsoft Windows 98/Me, 2000 and XP with Internet Explorer 5.5 or higher.
"AT&amp;T Wireless said Tuesday that its 22 million customers in the United States can now send and receive short text messages to more than 263 million mobile phone users in Europe," reportsReuters."AT&amp;T Wireless signed deals with 71 European operators in 25 European countries, reaching more than 263 million European handset users, including most in Britain and Italy. Operators in Britain include Vodafone, France Telecom's Orange, MMO2's O2, Hutchison Whampoa's 3 and T-Mobile, which is owned by Deutsche Telekom."
The European commission is preparing to fine Microsoft a record-breaking &euro;497m (&#163;333m) for abusing its dominance of the personal computer software market.Representatives of national competition authorities from 
 the 15 European Union governments took less than an hour yesterday to approve the proposed penalty put forward by the EU competition commissioner, Mario Monti. The meeting had been scheduled to last all day.The penalty was far higher than had been expected. The commission has the power to levy a fine equal to up to 10% of sales, which would in Microsoft's case mean a fine of $3.5bn (&#163;1.9bn), but penalties rarely reach the 10% limit.The fine tops the previous high of &euro;462m levied against the drugs maker Hoffman-
 La Roche in 2001 for being the ringleader in a vitamins cartel.The 20 European commissioners meet tomorrow to give final consideration to the proposal. The members are expected to give their overwhelming backing.Microsoft's associate general counsel for Europe, Horacio Gutierrez, responded to the widely leaked figure in a statement last night.He described the penalty as "unprecedented and inappropriate". Commission regulations say that a company must infringe rules "either intentionally or negligently" and 
 Microsoft argued that it did neither and could not have known it that it was breaking anti-monopoly rules.But critics of the company noted that Microsoft, which is sitting on a $53bn cash pile, could easily absorb the fine. "This is a traffic ticket for Microsoft," said Thomas Vinje of the law firm Clifford Chance, which represents some of Microsoft's rivals.Mr Monti issued a draft ruling last week which found that Microsoft had abused its Windows monopoly, harming consumers and competitors in the markets for digital media and 
 server software. The EU is expected also to set limits on the bundling of Microsoft software, demanding that the company offer a version of its Windows operating system without its Media Player software to help competing products on to desktops. It will also order Microsoft to release more of the underlying code for Windows to rivals in the server market.Microsoft is expected to appeal the ruling in a case that has already dragged on for five years. Settlement talks between Microsoft and the commission broke down last week. 
 The company was reluctant to accept a provision that would have curbed new features on Windows.Microsoft's Windows operating system is on 90% of the world's personal computers, which means it has the power to make or break rival software firms.The two companies likely to benefit most from the ruling are Sun Microsystems, which makes servers, and RealNetworks, which pioneered software to enable audio and video on personal computers.Microsoft was found to have abused its monopoly by a US 
 court in 2000, although the tough remedies the judge originally proposed were substantially watered down on appeal. It reached a landmark settlement with the US government in 2002.Microsoft faces fresh EU inquiries into allegations that its Windows XP system is allowing it to extend its dominance into other technologies such as mobile phones.Microsoft is also under scrutiny because the next version of Windows, in 2006, is expected to include a search engine that would challenge the likes of Google.
Ericsson yesterday frustrated the ambitions of bitter rival Nokia by deciding to take up its right to increase its shareholding in mobile phone software joint venture Symbian.The move will prevent Nokia from gaining more than 50% of Symbian and is being seen as an attempt by Ericsson to retain the company's independence from its Finnish rival.In January, Nokia stunned other shareholders in Symbian, which makes the software that powers hi-tech mobile phones, by agreeing to buy the 31% of the firm owned by British technology company Psion for &#163;136m. The deal, which Psion accepted after failing to secure   the promise of an imminent flotation of Symbian, would increase Nokia's shareholding to 63.3% and sparked concerns about Symbian's independence.Yesterday, however, Ericsson said it would use its rights to buy up some of the Psion stake in keeping with its existing shareholding. Ericsson is the second largest shareholder in Symbian, with 17.5%, while its own joint venture Sony Ericsson has 1.5%. Together the two companies could increase their stake to a total of 27.6%.Panasonic, the next largest shareholder in Symbian, with a 7.9% stake, seemed to count itself out of the race yesterday. A spokeswoman said that while the Japanese company was "aware of the situation with   Ericsson" it was "not looking to implement its pre-emptive rights at present". Samsung, with 5% of Symbian, has yet to make any decision while Germany's Siemens - with 4.8% - is still assessing the situation.A spokeswoman for Nokia said yesterday: "We welcome other shareholders to use their pre-emption rights," echoing comments made by the company's chairman and chief executive, Jorma Ollila, when Psion announced the original deal.It remained unclear last night whether Sony Ericsson would use its precious cash resources to follow Ericsson's move and buy more shares in Symbian.
"Ten organizations submitted applications to sponsor new Internet domains, including .mobi for mobile services and .xxx for adult content, the group that oversees key aspects of the global network said Friday. Each organization paid $45,000 to apply for suffixes that are to be set aside for specific industries and interest groups. The deadline for applications was Tuesday," reportsAP."The other applications are: .asia, .cat, .jobs, .mail, .post, .tel and .travel. The .tel name was sought by two groups."Comment: So who is going to register steve.jobs?
More than half (55%) of the child abuse images on the internet reported in Britain last year originated from the United States, the UK internet industry regulator said today.This was a 3% rise in the amount of child abuse material traced to the US from the previous year, according to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF).The IWF's annual report, published today, also highlighted the rapid growth in the amount of child abuse images traced to Russia, which rose from 5% in 1997 to 23% last year.John Carr, the internet safety adviser at the children's charity NCH, said that the apparent failure of the US authorities to crack down on child abuse websites was undermining international efforts to combat online paedophilia."It's shocking. How are we ever going to persuade the Russian authorities to crack down on child abuse images when the richest and most powerful nation on earth seems incapable of doing so?"Mr Carr said that the US legal system prevented tough action against internet paedophiles because law enforcement agencies required far more evidence to obtain a warrant to search a suspect's computer.The proportion of child abuse images traced to the US peaked in 1999, when 77% of such content reported to the IWF was found to originate there.Mr Carr said that the proportion had only fallen since because the amount of people worldwide using the internet had increased considerably.The IWF report also highlighted the continued reduction in the proportion of child abuse images on the internet traced to the UK. This stood at 1% last year - a 17% drop since 1997.NCH praised the foundation for spearheading the removal of child abuse images from UK newsgroups and internet discussion boards. No such images were found last year."This is a great success and follows the IWF's request to all British internet service providers which were carrying newsgroups identified as carrying child abuse images to stop hosting them," said Mr Carr.The IWF received 19,553 reports of illegal online content last year, up 9% from 2002, which equates to 400 reports every week or 80 per day.The number of reports relating to child abuse images over the past year actually decreased for the first time. In 2002, the IWF received 16,183 reports relating to child abuse images - 82% of the total. Last year, this fell to 15,652 reports - 78% of the total.The number of reports passed to the police rose by 14% last year. One report of a peer-to-peer user distributing child abuse images led to the offender being jailed for four years. Devon and Cornwall police investigated another report that led to an offender being jailed for 15 months for 10 counts of making and distributing indecent images of children.The internet watchdog predicts that reports of illegal content online will rise to 23,824 this year and reach 26,802 next year.
onGuardian Unlimitedtoday, and you can alsochat to Paxtoday from 1pm GMT.
Last-minute efforts to reach a settlement in Microsoft's epic anti-trust battle with the EU have broken down. As a result, the EU competition commissioner, Marion Monti, is expected to deliver a serious legal blow to Bill Gates' software colossus in the next few days.Barring any late surprises, Brussels will require Microsoft to produce two versions for the European market; one that includes its Windows Media Player, which is used for video and music, and one without. The ruling will also require Microsoft to disclose information to competitors that would allow Windows-based computers to perform tasks like printing and file sharing better.Microsoft's five-year battle with the EU shows that the central issue raised in the company's anti-trust battle in the US - which was settled in 2002 - never went away. The disputes in Europe and the US hinge on Microsoft's key claim - that it should be allowed to add functions to Windows, the operating system or brains, in more than 95% of the world's PCs.A company upgrading and improving its products is pretty uncontroversial. The problem is that Microsoft is no ordinary company. It is effectively a monopoly as the US courts ruled. Because of the ubiquity of Windows, Microsoft will always enjoy a huge advantage over smaller companies, no matter how innovative they are.The EU competition commission said in its final ruling in August, Microsoft's alleged policy of tying "sends signals which deter innovation in any technologies, which Microsoft could conceivably take interest in and tie with Windows in the future."If you are a consumer, why bother downloading rival software for audio and video, when that software already comes pre-packaged with Windows. In the US, once Microsoft started incorporating its internet Explorer browser into Windows, the writing was on the wall for Netscape, the pioneering company that first made the running on browsers.Since Netscape, the battleground has shifted to audio and video software and the pattern has repeated itself. RealPlayer took an early lead, but it has been overtaken by Microsoft as it "bundles" its own audio and video software into Windows. Microsoft is already gearing up for the next battle. The next generation of Windows, code-named Longhorn, is to incorporate search functions, thus pitting Microsoft - surprise surprise - against the world's most successful search engine, Google.Throughout the anti-trust case in the US, Bill Gates adamantly argued for Microsoft's right to tack on more bits to Windows. This was logical as what chief executive does not want to improve his product? His successor, Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, made the same argument in the present dispute, flying into Brussels personally to sweet-talk Mr Monti. But unlike the US authorities, Mr Monti has stuck to his guns. Microsoft will be ordered to unbundle audio and video software from Windows in Europe.This goes much further than the US settlement, where the authorities allowed companies to remove icons for Microsoft products from computer desktops. The EU decision sets down an important marker and Microsoft will have to tread carefully in the future if it wants to add more functions to Windows. But ahead lie years of legal wrangling as Microsoft is sure to appeal the EU's decision.Having to unbundle its media and audio software has other implications. Microsoft wants to make its media player the industry standard for protecting the digital copyrights of Hollywood and the music industry. Ending automatic distribution of its media software would be a setback in this campaign.The EU anti-trust case is not the only big challenge for Microsoft. Open-source software, which is free and which companies can modify to their own needs, is also a headache for Microsoft. Open-source software based on Linux has been catching on, particularly outside the US. So far, Linux has been used mainly to run corporate networks. But governments and companies are now looking at open-source alternatives for applications that run on individual computers, including Windows and Microsoft's Office package of word-processing and spreadsheet applications.In some ways it is reassuring that a company as powerful as Microsoft, sitting on $50bn (£27.2bn) in cash, is not immune to competition. But this does not absolve governments from making sure Microsoft does not use its Windows monopoly to unfairly muscle its way into other markets.
The CeBit 2004 exhibition held last week in Hanover certainly threw up some interesting stories. We witnessed one of the most impressive 3G demonstrations so far, a pair of innovative handsets from a rather unlikely source, and what some people are calling "Microsoft's iPod killer".While almost every area of IT was represented at the huge show, the limelight was inevitably stolen by mobile phones. Perhaps the most impressive display was the enormous Vodafone stand where delegates couldn't move for company staff demonstrating 3G handsets.Vodafone in Germany is slightly ahead of the UK in terms of 3G, with its Mobile Connect Card (basically a 3G card that fits into laptops) already rolled out to corporates and soon available to consumers.While we are sure that Vodafone would have taken every step to ensure its 3G network at Hanover was functioning as well as possible, its demo was nevertheless very impressive, with excellent quality streamed video and speedy access to web pages.Just as impressive was the parading of the company's first 3G handset for consumers - the Samsung Z105. With its clamshell design and large screen it looks more like a slightly chunkier version of the Vodafone/Sharp GPRS camera phone the GX20. Yet that's where the similarities end.For, incorporated into the Vodafone Live web portal, were features far too bandwidth-hungry for existing GPRS networks.Like many other 3G handsets the phone features person to person video calling and in terms of its quality it was at least as good as the current range of phones offered by Three. The only weakness is that users have to use a headset to hear the other person speaking.Yet to many Germans the phone's killer application is the phone's ability to stream video programming. Unlike UK 3G network Three, which offers a range of short clips of Premiership goals that can either be streamed or downloaded to the handset, Vodafone was showing whole games of streamed football from both the German equivalent of the Premiership (the Bundesliga) and the Champions League.Vodafone in the UK wouldn't confirm if it was going to offer this type of football video in this way in the UK, or even in Germany for that matter. But it does seem a little odd to parade an application at a high profile trade show and then not launch it.Were the company able to offer live, or more likely, near-live streaming of high-profile matches, it would surely tempt at least some football-mad customers into upgrading to 3G handsets.We are likely to find out more about Vodafone's 3G strategy for the UK in the next few weeks.Over at the stands of Vodafone's rival network O2 was another surprise, namely the unveiling of pair of new mobile phone handsets. Last year the company offered a low-end camera phone, the X1. It claimed that no existing high profile manufacturer could supply a handset that fitted the network's requirements -a clamshell camera phone that could be given away to monthly subscribers and sold cheaply to pay as you customers. So it used a third party manufacturer to fashion its own model.For 2004 02 is delivering a pair of own-brand handsets as well. The first, the X2, is a direct replacement for the X1, with a better screen, camera and interface. More interesting is the X3, which sees O2 take on phones from established players like Nokia, Motorola and Siemens.Manufactured by Taiwanese company BenQ, the X3 combines a state of the art 262K-colour screen with a 1.3-mega-pixel camera. In theory at least it should take higher resolution images than either the Sharp GX30 or Nokia 7610 - both of which have one-mega pixel cameras. It also features an MP3 player and comes with simple access to O2's Wap portal.O2 wouldn't say how much it is likely to sell for when it launches it in early summer, but you can bet that it'll come in way under the price of similarly specified rival handsets.O2 also wasn't saying what percentage of handsets it sells that it would like to sport the O2 brand. But if the X2 and X3 meet the company's expectations, it could be bad news for established mobile phone makers, who are already operating in a very competitive market.Away from mobiles CeBIT also saw Microsoft commit to launching its Personal Media Center (PMC) devices in Europe in the summer. Dubbed, at least by certain sections of the press, the "iPod killers", the devices from Creative and iRiver pair a 40 Gigabyte hard disk with a 3-4inch LCD screen. They use Microsoft software to enable consumers to transfer video, images and music from Windows XP devices so they can view and hear their content on the go.The devices themselves, especially the Creative Zen Portable Media Center, look rather cool and deserve praise for their high-resolution screens and simple-to-operate interfaces. Where they could come unstuck though is they are only compatible with video stored in the Windows Media format and not MPEG4, the most popular, compressed video format.And while in the US there are websites like CinemaNow (www.cinemanow.com) which enable users to download new-ish movies in Windows Media which can then be transferred to the devices, there is no equivalent online movie shop in Europe.So the PMCs are certainly no iPod killers. But if Microsoft can kick-start legitimate movie downloads in the Windows Media format in Europe, it may find itself with a product that will - at least - steal a little of Apple's market share.
A fierce battle has broken out for control of Baltimore Technologies, the former dotcom darling, after its biggest shareholder, Acquisitor Holdings, called for an extraordinary meeting in an effort to unseat the entire board.Baltimore's management last night accused Acquisitor, which holds a 10% stake, of an "opportunistic" attempt to take control of the troubled company, which is now little more than a cash shell. The internet security firm surged into the FTSE 100 after a series of acquisitions, and was worth more than &#163;5bn at the height of the dotcom boom.But its fortunes followed those of many of its hi-tech contemporaries when the bubble burst, and it sold off its assets piecemeal last year, after failing to find a buyer for the whole business. At Friday's closing price of 38.5p a share, it was worth just &#163;20m. In a letter to shareholders in January, executive chairman Bijan Khezri said it had netted &#163;41m from asset sales, but was still losing &#163;5m a month.Baltimore's board said last night that Acquisitor had pre-empted its plans for the future. Mr Khezri had promised to announce a strategy at the end of the month with its full-year results. Options include voluntary liquidation."The board is open to considering any viable alternative plan that Acquisitor has for Baltimore, provided it offers fair value for shareholders and is presented in a transparent way. No proposals have been forthcoming," it said last night.On Acquisitor's demand for an extraordinary meeting, Baltimore said it would be "taking appropriate action", but advised its shareholders - many of whom are small, retail investors - to sit tight until Acquisitor's intentions are clear.
Expansionary times at Six Apart, the apparently all-conquering maker ofMovable TypeandTypepadweblogging systems. Loic Le Meur, the French entrepreneur who runsuBlogand whowrotefor our own Business Solutions recently, has just announced he's becoming Six Apart's representative in Europe. According toLoic's new Typepad weblog, German and Dutch versions of Typepad are due shortly, with most other European languages soon after. I suspect those announcements are but the tip of the iceberg.
"China has banned a Norwegian-made computer game involving a spy-for-hire chasing military secrets on the mainland because it allegedly blackens the country's image, the government said Friday. The State Press and Publication Administration said the game, Project IGI2: Covert Strike, violates Chinese regulations prohibiting games that hurt China's national dignity and interests, the official Xinhua News Agency reported."The PC game first released in 2001 "was created by Oslo-based Innerloop Studios and is published by the British company Code Masters," saysAP.Comment: The country responsible for the Tiananmen Massacre in Beijing, the invasion of Tibet, the suppression of democracy and a long list of human rights abuses is worried about looking bad in a computer game?
"CNET Networks said Friday it acquired tech thinker Esther Dyson's EDventure Holdings for an undisclosed amount of cash and stock. EDventure, of New York, publishes the Release 1.0 technology newsletter and holds executive conferences," reportsAP."Dyson will become editor-at-large of CNET's Business Technology division."
Microsoft is facing millions of euros in fines after failing to reach a settlement in its epic anti-monopoly battle with European regulators.Mario Monti, the EU competition commissioner, yesterday announced that since talks had broken down the US software company would be subject to a precedent-setting ruling and financial penalties."We made substantial progress toward resolving the problems that had arisen in the past, but we were unable to agree on commitments for future conduct," he said."It was impossible to achieve a satisfactory result in terms of setting a precedent. In the end I had to decide what was best for competition and consumers in Europe." Clear principles were needed "for future companies with such a dominant position in the market".Brussels has the power to fine a company up to 10% of its worldwide annual turnover which in the case of Microsoft is about &euro;2.5bn (&#163;1.7bn).Microsoft is understood to have made a last-minute offer to include rival media programs with Windows alongside its own.The dramatic EU announcement signalled the end of two days of talks between Mr Monti, who in 2001 blocked General Electric's takeover of Honeywell, and Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, who was seeking concessions on software monopoly charges."I believe we reached agreement on the issues of the case," said Mr Ballmer. "But we were unable to agree on principles for new issues that could arise in the future."Microsoft stands accused of unfairly grabbing market share by bundling its version of products with Windows - the operating system in nearly every personal computer. Microsoft says this benefits consumers, but rivals say it is unfair competition and intended to drive them out of business.The EU says Microsoft's non-disclosure of the interface information - necessary for competing servers to properly "talk" to Windows equipment - pushed client support in the direction of the US group.The EU has been demanding that Microsoft offer computer makers in Europe a discounted version of Windows without its Media Player so rivals such as RealNetwork's RealOne Player and Apple's QuickTime have a better chance of reaching consumers.Next week's commission decision, backed by the EU's 15 member states, is unlikely to be the end of this four-year dispute. Any demands and sanctions levied by the commission are likely to be challenged by Microsoft in the European court of justice, a process that could take years of legal wrangling. Microsoft could ask the court to suspend any order to change its behaviour pending a final ruling.Ed Black, of the US computer and communications industry, said: "The significance &#91;of yesterday's announcement&#93; is that the commission will now shift its attention from the important media player and server markets to many other areas of continuing monopoly abuse."
My favoured RSS newsreader isNetnewswire, but I don't get to use it too often. At work, we don't have OSX yet, and we can't install software in the office anyway. So I'm enjoying playing around with the recently launchedRocketinfo, which seems a good stab at providing a browser-based RSS reader. It works in a little window by itself, and can be set to fetch updates from your chosen sites at given intervals. The interface is clean, and response pretty snappy. I've never managed to stick with browser-based readers before - this one looks a little more likely to stay the course...
&gt;connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:Gordon Brown's budget is seen by some as the launch of a bid  to succeed Tony Blair as prime minister, but how will the changes affect you? Our financial expert DrMoney is here to answer all your budget questions.LadeezMan:well Im thinkin abt starting a business but im worried abt taxBronco:me next DrMoneyDrMoney:OK. What sort of business is it?Host_Chris2:don't worry Bronco. You're the only other person herePashmina has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:hi room hi DrMoneyLadeezMan:selling sperm over the internetBronco:I got to pee thoPashmina:omigod wot have I walkd in on!DrMoney:interesting. What sort of sperm? Bull sperm? Human sperm?LadeezMan:my spermPashmina:so niether thenLadeezMan:shut itHost_Chris2:morning Pashmina. Have you got a question for DrMoney?Pashmina:no but I got 1 for LadeezMan!!!Bronco:Im next anywayPashmina:whos gonna want yr sperm!!!DrMoney:I suppose VAT is your primary concernLadeezMan:lesbainsHost_Chris2:would he qualify for the flat rate scheme?DrMoney:that depends on his turnoverBronco:LOL. Not sure whyDrMoney:but can you sustain such a business with a single supplier, as it were?LadeezMan:no problemPashmina:aint u supposed to donate spermBronco:is it my turn yetDrMoney:do you have any experience with internet selling?LadeezMan:only cocainePashmina:I bought a dolls house off ebay onceBronco:DrMoney is u a boy or a girlHost_Chris2:DrMoney's gender is not importantDrMoney:I'm a womanBronco:how old are youHost_Chris2:DrMoney is a qualified financial advisor and a chartered  accountantDrMoney:34Host_Chris2:does anyone have a question about petrol duty? Inheritance  tax?Bronco:so are you singlePashmina:I thought u had to peeDrMoney:I am single, as it happens. Why?LadeezMan:need any spermconnection to server has been terminated ...
"A convergence of three separate trends is conspiring to kill off TiVo," claims Jim Louderback of PC Magazine,here.
Regular readers will know we've been keeping a close eye on themySocietyproject,introducedby Tom Steinberg in our pages in October last year. In short, it's an effort to link techy skills and financial support with great ideas for socially useful technology projects. They had theideas, and they had plenty of skills... and now it's just won a cool £250,000 in funding from the office of the deputy Prime Minister. Glasses are, I suspect, being raised, even as I type...
ZDNetreports that Intel is poised to move away from the traditional gigahertz ratings of its processors, in an effort to emphasise overall performance instead of running speeds."Under the model number plan, each chip's clock speed will become one of several features -- including cache size and bus speed -- that go into summing up performance. The system is designed to help consumers compare chips on a 'good,' 'better' and 'best' basis, the source said."Apple, of course, has been calling for this for years, having claimed some of its processors performed better at certain tasks that faster-rated Pentiums (despite clock speeds that were much slower). Intel's motivation today is, presumably, that some newer chips perform less well than older slower-clocked chips. But is it also possible that pure processor performance is becoming less of an important factor for many users?
This is close to heresy. But, and forgive me for saying this, Apple is no longer the coolest. In the world of legitimate paid-for downloadable music, Apple gets all the attention. Market leader for MP3 players with the iPod, last year's launch of the iTunes Music Store (iTMS) in the US took the industry by storm. There, the iTMS has around an 80% market share, in an already competitive market. Everyone from Microsoft to AOL offers some form of commercial music download service, all based around arcane licensing deals and proprietary formats that limit what you can do with your purchased music.So arcane are these arrangements - enforced by the record companies - that despite the internet making location completely irrelevant, European music fans can't access the US- based services. iTunes Music Store Europe is rumoured to be opening soon - Apple is as tightlipped as ever about the exact date - but until then, people wanting to download music they have paid for will have to try elsewhere. Luckily, there are much cooler places than boring old Apple.TakeMperia.comfor a start. Launching into beta last week, it offers online hosting and sales for anyone with music to put out there. Backed byBitpass.com, the micropayment system we wrote about in August, artists get 70% of their track's price ticket. Songs are typically less than a dollar a go, and there's some great stuff on there.The downloads, in contrast to the record label's own attempts at doing this, are available in ordinary MP3: no special player needed, and no copy-prevention mechanism built in. Mperia's top man, Joshua Ellis, is not interested in restricting his site's files, despite the industry's common wisdom on online piracy.He writes: "The record companies have been making a lot of noise about file-sharing and peer-to-peer software. While we certainly have our own opinions about the whole P2P question, we think it's a red herring. The record labels are afraid of the internet because they can't control it. They can't stop you from selling your work directly to your fans. You don't need them anymore ... and they know it. Peer-to-peer software isn't a cause, it's a symptom. The world is changing."Peer to peer services, such as KaZaA, are very popular, but not without their problems. Illegality aside, it's remarkably tricky to download complete albums, and rare to get a solid, fast connection for the MP3s you do manage to find.In a bid to change this, yet not charge the same prices, or add the same restrictions, as the more legitimate download sites, other sites have started to spring up. Based outside the US, and thereby taking advantage of more liberal copyright laws, these sites point out another rather uncomfortable truth about the internet: distance doesn't matter.Weblisten.com, based in Spain, offers unlimited MP3 and WMA format downloads for &euro;33 (&#163;22) a month, from a catalogue of 140,000 tracks. It has signed deals with the Spanish licensees of major label music, so claims that under Spanish law, it is perfectly legitimate. Like radio stations in the UK, Weblisten pays a fee to the local copyright authorities, who then distribute this to the songwriters.Cheaper still isAllofmp3.com, a site based in Russia, although there is   a link to change to the English version. It pays fees to the Russian Organisation for Multimedia and digital Systems, Roms.ru, which divvies up the takings on behalf of Russian copyright holders. It charges $14.95 (&#163;8.30) for 1,000 files a month, or $0.01 per megabyte, and offers downloadable videos as well as music. One clever feature is its online encoding - you can choose which format and sample rate you would like to download, up to 384kbps MP3, perhaps three times the clarity of an average MP3.The problem is that, according to the recording industry, these sites are breaking the law. As Alan Dixon, general counsel of the London-based International Federation of the Phonograph Industry, says of Weblisten: "They have not less than six lawsuits pending against them, and two criminal proceedings. They are taking advantage of the way the Spanish legal system moves incredibly slowly: they have never been declared as legitimately distributing the plaintiff's recording."The issue is that recorded music has three sets of rights to be argued over. The songwriter has the copyright to the song, the artist his own rights in it, and the record label and producers a third set. While these Russian and Spanish sites may be paying the songwriters, via a collection agency, they are acting without the permission of the other copyright holders.The Russian sites claim that, under Russian law, foreign record labels releasing music in Russia give up their rights to prevent this. Not so, says Dixon. Such Soviet-era rules were rescinded under "article 47 paragraph 2 of the Russian Copyright Code" years ago. Downloading from such sites would be infringing both British and Russian copyright law, he says.This is a pity. For if a legitimate deal were put in place, the Russian sites would prove far superior to the current European offerings. Not only are their connections fast, and the quality of the files much better, but the price is perfect. The new Norah Jones album, for example, is going for 31p - less than the cost of a single track from the Apple iTunes Music Store. And remember, as with Mperia, these are plain MP3 files, unencumbered by any form of copy protection.Anecdotal evidence shows that, legal or not, these sites are doing well. Not so their American rivals. The latest version of Napster, no longer the illicit music sharing network of past fame but a legitimate subscription based service, lost $15m in its first two months of operations, with around 90,000 subscribers. Although it is happy with this - chairman Chris Gorog claimed last month that it expects to launch in Europe later this year, and predicts it will double revenue - staff have been laid off.Then again, it's not always about money. There are many free MP3 sites out there, covering many genres. A few of the latest, and perhaps more interesting, bring this article full circle. Apple'sTuneYard.com,MacIdol.com,MacJams.com,MacBand.comandMacJukebox.netall offer places for users of Apple's new GarageBand software to upload their musical creations.In a cruel world of micropayments, format wars and cross-border lawsuits pitching record companies against music fans, there's something rather nice about people writing songs in their bedrooms and uploading them to the world. From trance bhangra to old-school funk, people are using the web to play to each other.One such musician is Sonny Brown, a 38-year-old, self-titled sound nerd from London. He bought GarageBand on the first day of its release, and now shares his creations online with hundreds of musicians around the world."I guess the thing is," he says, "it's really easy to put songs together. It's all very punk rock, the attitude."It's early days, yet, agrees Brown. These sites have only been active for a month or so, and are still having trouble dealing with categorising the music, or allowing it to be ranked. Plus, there are some, albeit old-fashioned, debates about whether it is actually real music."You don't play the music. You construct it," Brown says, "but you still have to be musical."But perhaps the most striking feature of these sites, beyond their rapid rise and the quality of the music, is the number of teachers using them. When I was at school, we learnt Three Blind Mice on the recorder. Now, one MacJams.com track boasts this in the creation notes: "My students and I laid down this track after school today.""If I had this when I was young," says Sonny Brown, "I think things would have been a lot different."Linkswww.mperia.comwww.weblisten.comwww.allofmp3.comhttp://club.mp3search.ruwww.tuneyard.comwww.macidol.comwww.macjams.comwww.macband.com/http://macjukebox.net/www.macband.com/~zakmacwww.macjams.com/filemgmt/jam.php?lid=84
Why does Apple seem to have more kudos than Microsoft in the musical world?For the most part, the decision of Mac-versus-PC has almost always been economic. I don't think it's been a particular preference or a great understanding of the technology. If there was, they would almost always opt for a Mac - if only because your machine isn't going to be attacked every time you go online for email!How did your Utopia Graphics Tablet System come to Apple's attention in the 80s?Apple was one of the first companies to come out with a personal computer with colour. You    could plug it directly into a television, but because of the trick it did with the NTSC signal, it didn't work on all systems. I authored a program on something running in the New York Institute of Technology (www.nyit.edu), where a lot of the pioneering computer graphics work was done. There I met Alvie Ray Smith (who later foundedPixar), in the late 1970s, when they were pioneering work with a computer-based paint box program. I was so fascinated I bought the computer. I got a third-party graphics tablet (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphics_tablet), which was essentially a flat board with a stylus-pen attached via a wire. It detects your position in relationship to the board and then maps it to the screen.That must've been very unusual?Back then, it was a bizarre concept. Essentially, this was the first example of a paint-box program that used cutting-edge programmers tools to build a tool intended for artists, not necessarily programmers. It was meant to be a companion program to graphics tablet hardware that Apple was going to put out as an accessory to the computer. It could have been really popular but it was not designed properly and it failed its FCC (www.fcc.gov) emissions test.What would the Todd Rundgren of 1980 think of the graphics capabilities of computers now?I wouldn't be that surprised. I went to the early Siggraph Conferences (www.siggraph.org), which were being attended only by computer dweebs, no marketers! In the days of the old MacWorld expo (www.macworldexpo.com), it was all about programmers and pushing the envelope of their particular area of interest. Anybody who had exciting graphic stuff   would have had a significant amount of processing power at their fingertips.Do you support the RIAA's measures against file-sharers?No. I don't like them persecuting my audience in my name. They're not doing me any favours by trying to snuff out a thirst for music. I want people to want music and I don't want them frightened away from listening to it. The RIAA tactics are going to be futile.Do the iPod and iTunes spell the end of the CD as a format?The CD is still the preferred format for portable music. It may eventually lose its dominance but most portable listening devices don't allow you to get sound out. You can only put sound into them.Interviewed by Hamish MackintoshVisit:www.tr-i.comTodd Rundgren's favouriteswww.ebaumsworld.comwww.flashkit.com/index.shtmlwww.google.comwww.otisfodder.com/365days.htmlwww.mcli.dist.maricopa.edu/director/
Working in tech, we get more than our share of daft press releases, and it's noticeable that the frequency is increasing to dot.com boom levels again. It can only be a matter of time before we get a repeat of the 1999 episode, when an uninvited posse of rather demoralised actors hidden inside giant bumblebee outfits turn up the front entrance, promoting an "e-currency" that didn't see out the year.Anyway - a release in today takes the biscuit, boasting that Kirsty MacKay, an artist and photographer, is going to create "the first ever digital diary" using her mobile phone and text messages, and show it off in a gallery in the just-past-trendy Hoxton district of London. "From Samuel Pepys, through Alan Clark to Bridget Jones," the press release burbles happily, "Britain has a fine tradition of producing great diarists. Now,for the first time[their emphasis], the mobile phone is to challenge the might of the pen."I'm sure I speak for us all when I issue a hearty "hurrah!" at this fine example of bleeding edge Hoxton innovation.
You've loaded your CDs in to your iPod, you've assembled playlists and discovered the joys of shuffle mode. But the first flush of gadget love is fading. What can you do to re-kindle the affair? Why not experiment with digital audio books? There are several obvious advantages. With books on tape/CD, you're often juggling several cassettes or discs. In contrast, an unabridged doorstopper by Tolstoy fits easily on an MP3 player/iPod, with space for more. And thanks to electronic book marking, you can keep your place on several digital audio books at once.That said, choice is still fairly limited. If you don't have broadband, you may have to settle for lower sound quality or lengthy download times. And, at the moment, digital rights management and copy protection measures restrict what you can do with your "books on file". But there are bargains on offer, along with spoken word audio content you can't find elsewhere.In business since 1997, the market leader isAudible.com, which now offers 18,000 items on its site. Not all are digital audio books: many are alternative forms of digital audio spoken word content - digests of magazines, such as MIT's Technology Review, and newspapers, such as the New York Times, authors reading short stories, short interviews and radio shows.Audible's site has various tools for finding/filtering content - search engines, directories, customer reviews and more. In general, pricing is competitive and you can listen to samples online before you buy. Initially, the selection can seem very late 90s libertarian net geek (with science fiction, Ayn Rand novels and tech business titles, such as Alan Deutschman's The Second Coming of Steve Jobs highlighted on the front page). Drill down and you find literary classics (James, Twain and more), anti-corporate bestsellers (Fast Food Nation or Dude, Where's My Country), tech business classics (The Cluetrain Manifesto), big idea titles (Greg Easterbrook's The Progress Paradox), modern fiction (Jonathan Franzen's The Corrections) and pop science (Linked, Albert-Laszlo Barabasi's introduction to network science). Audible also sells its own original content, ranging from stand-up by Robin Williams to short briefings/ interviews with technology and business innovators.Aside from buying individual titles, heavy users can subscribe to Audible. The basic $14.99 (&#163;8) plan includes one audio book a month, plus one magazine/newspaper subscription, plus Audible's own Otis player free. It's no iPod, especially in terms of storage space, but it's fine for audio books. If you live in the Richmond-Upon-Thames area, you can try out the Otis. The borough's libraries lend players and digital audio books.Buying from Audible is secure and simple enough for experienced net shoppers. Initially, your purchases are stored in your Audible library. You can download them from there, but need to select a format first, which means deciding on sound quality (anything from telephone and AM radio to FM radio and MP3). One hour of MP3-quality sound takes 44 minutes to download via a 56k modem, five minutes via broadband.So if you want all 23 hours of Moby Dick in high-quality sound, you'll need broadband. Actually, telephone quality isn't as bad as you might think (you can test it on the site). Books you buy remain in your library, so if there's a problem, you can download them again.PC users need the company's Audible Manager program (part of its copy protection strategy and free to download from the site) to transfer books to a player. For Mac users, Audible Manager is now part of iTunes 3. Some of the titles on Audible can be burned on to CD: it's clearly marked on the relevant pages.There are a few gripes online about Audible's copy protection software and the problems it causes. And with only 6,000 books available, you may not find exactly what you want. Also, because of the problems over international audio rights, some books are only available to US consumers. In contrast, all the magazines and newspapers are available worldwide.Overall, Audible is way ahead of the competition, most of which is still just dabbling with the format. For example, Time Warner sells 16 titles (James Patterson thrillers, financial advice, the Dalai Lama's autobiography) direct to readers, in the Windows Media Audio format. Pricing is reasonably competitive - if you're into bestsellers, it could be worth a look. A slightly larger selection is available at PayPerListen.com, the digital audio books section of Audiobooks.com. The shopping process is similar to Audible. You can choose to download your books an hour at a time, or all at once. PayPerListen uses its own copy protection software, which doesn't work with all players - but the site has clear information on all this.If you're really out to save money, try the British-basedAudioBooksForFree.com. Their rough and ready site offers MP3 versions of out-of-copyright classics (Arthur Conan Doyle, Joseph Conrad, even a bit of Nietzsche), all free once you sign up. Sound quality isn't great - if you pay, you can get something better. But the site has some classic children's fiction (Alice in Wonderland, Oscar Wilde's fairy stories and E Nesbitt's novels). It's a good place to try out the format and see if you like it. If you don't, the net can help there, too. Try Talking Books, a specialist UK online shop: it has a great selection of audio books on old-style tape and CD.LinksAudiblewww.audible.comPayPerListenwww.payperlisten.comTime Warner Digital Audio Bookswww.mytimewarneraudio.comAudio books freewww.audiobooksforfree.comRichmond-Upon-Thames libraries: eBookswww.richmond.gov.uk/depts/opps/eal/leisure/libraries/pn/ebooks/eaudio/default.htm
At IBM's yearly knees-up for partners in Las Vegas earlier this month, Steven Ward, general manager of the Personal Systems Group, surprised many by announcing that IBM is one of the leading vendors on eBay, the online auction site, where it has been selling IBM products since April 2001. IBM's store sits alongside Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard and Dell. All sell new and refurbished stock in the US only, and HP also sells refurbished products on eBay's UK site.To most, eBay is the world's largest online car boot sale. It has 95m subscribers and around 10m bids per day. Last year, it recorded $2.17bn in transactions on $24bn worth of goods, expected to rise to $3bn this year. In the UK, it has 7.8m users and is visited by 30% of UK surfers each month. Sellers pay listing fees and a sliding-scale commission beginning at 5.25%.IBM and Sun organise their eBay sales through ChannelAdvisor, an eBay preferred solution provider (and part-owned by eBay), which created their sites and organises all aspects of auctions on eBay. The vendors simply deal with fulfilment. So, although eBay would appear a direct route to market, it benefits from outsourcing the day-to-day aspects of managing this route to market. In the US, HP sells through its reseller NAE.Sun Microsystems' site lists products from &#163;140 for a workstation up to &#163;22,000 for an enterprise storage system. All the stock is new or refurbished. The success of IBM's service has also led to its credit division using eBay to sell non-IBM products that it handles when new clients lease IBM equipment.Part of the attraction seems to be the ability to find new buyers. ChannelAdvisor says that 60% of IBM's eBay buyers are new customers, and that 25% have returned to buy other IBM products. Traditionally, buyers on eBay have been a mix of collectors and buyers of specific useable products. However, eBay reports that it is selling a far greater percentage of new products since it initiated the "buy it now" option, which allows buyers to halt bidding and just pay an agreed price. Instant buys accounted for 28% of transactions in the last three months of 2003.Scot Wingo, chief executive of ChannelAdvisor, says that enterprise businesses are increasingly attracted to using an intermediary to manage sales on eBay. "Selling on eBay isn't simple. You need experience to apply the best techniques for attracting sales such as making products appear scarce and doing special offers each week. It also serves as a way of marketing the brand to millions of new buyers."Meanwhile, Agilent, a test and measurement vendor (a company spun off from Hewlett-Packard in 1999), is trying to partner with sellers on eBay to improve the quality of its products sold on the service. It says that 60% of the $50m test products sold on eBay last year were Agilent's. As a result, it is setting up an assurance programme so sellers can send the kit to a test centre for approval prior to sale.If sold on eBay, the product will be shipped directly by Agilent. Hans Stromereder, from the Agilent channel manager financial solutions unit, says it may change the way people do business on eBay. "Big businesses are concerned about how trustworthy vendors are on eBay, and by creating this system, we can guarantee quality levels of kit and still ensure buyers get a good discount. We are the first to do this with eBay, and it could help create a new level which is attractive to IT vendors."One aspect of these stores is that they are relatively hard to find, because eBay maintains what it calls a "level playing field": it does not want enterprises to gain precedence over individual sellers. This means that listings within a store do not appear on searches unless they are entered   in the main site as individual auction items, although eBay provides software to help vendors automatically re-list products.But it suits the psychology of selling to eBay users, according to ChannelAdvisor's Scot Wingo. "Vendors like IBM used to think you could sell 1,000 laptops in one go on eBay. We showed them that, in fact, eBay buyers are put off by that, and wait for the price to come down if it is a job lot. So it's better to have a small list of products to sell, and to make products look like a scarce commodity," he says.So could this growth in brand names on eBay extend to eBay's UK service? In the US, attempts to accelerate this trend have faltered. Consultancy house Accenture set up a US service called Connect to eBay to make it easier for firms to sell liquidation stock through eBay.   However, it has since closed the operation and farmed out the business to Auctionworks, another provider of services to high volume sellers on eBay.Ina Steiner, editor of Auctionbytes. com, says eBay is a mixed blessing for vendors. "It's basically a liquidation site, so margins are tight and they have to be careful that it doesn't create channel conflict. There is also evidence that prices are coming down on eBay because eBay has been so successful at attracting more sellers."Meanwhile, research by Goldman Sachs suggests that search engines - notably Google and Yahoo - are having a growing impact on online shopping by becoming the first point of contact for buyers. The research found that last Christmas, 40% of US shoppers went to Google to find an appropriate online store. This also fuelled the use of comparison sites, which eBay shuns. eBay has even taken legal action against some sites that list their auctions and prices.Many sellers have been attracted to Google's advertising service, which allows details of a sellers' site to be highlighted when a certain word or phrase is searched for. The beauty of the service is that payment is triggered by results, making it very easy to justify as a means of driving traffic to an independent site. Amazon is also gaining a reputation for its Merchants@ service, which provides auctions of end-of-season goods.But Elspeth Knight, head of the seller programme ateBay.co.uk, says that since introducing HP in December, eBay.co.uk is confident that many vendors will set up shops within the service. She says that HP sees it as an ideal way to sell refurbished and discontinued stock.eBay also says it will continue to grow by developing more enhanced search services to attract more buyers, and by launching city-based services that allow buyers to shop according to geography. It is already in the process of allowing longer string searches within categories. ChannelAdvisor is also bullish: it has just raised $7m in funding, and plans to open offices in the UK and Germany to help boost the number of European firms using eBay.
A chance for peace, then, in the fiercest war you've never heard of. For almost five years, some of the internet's best-known developers have been fighting among themselves over the fate of RSS, the content syndication specification. This month saw one of the main protagonists, Dave Winer, Harvard fellow and former blogging software developer, issue a proposal to merge RSS with its main competitor, known as Atom.RSS and Atom are most commonly used by websites, such as the Guardian's and the vast majority of weblogs, to supply headlines and articles to user's reader applications. Through these applications, users can keep up to date with hundreds of sites easily. It is a powerful thing to use, and increasingly popular.Many pundits have pointed to this year as the tipping point for the idea of content syndication and desktop readers. Some consider it to be a potential big earner, so the raging battle over who controls the dominant specification has flared up again.The history of these specifications is one of deep division. RSS was first developed by Netscape in 1999, but its merger with AOL, and the subsequent closing of the RSS team, left the specification homeless. Winer's company, Userland, of which he remains majority shareholder but plays no day-to-day role, picked up the orphaned specification and republished it under its own copyright notice.A few months later, a grassroots effort to improve the specification was rejected by Winer, and RSS split into two versions, with Winer controlling one, and the other under the jurisdiction of the members of an open mailing list. Both threads have evolved separately, with Winer's version called "RSS 2.0", and the other "1.0".With continual revisions, there are now nine different RSS specifications and much bad blood between the developers. Last year, Winer declared the RSS 2.0 specification finished and frozen, but a growing number of people considered it to be lacking in several areas and imprecise, and started a rival project called Atom.As the project manifesto puts it: "RSS is five years old. It was designed for news sites, a way for them to list the stories they had. Things are different now, and RSS is mostly used as a way of sending around the content of weblogs. RSS has been kludged and pushed into this world, but it doesn't really fit."The style of the Atom project differs greatly from the RSS 2.0. Whereas RSS 2.0 is controlled by a steering committee of Dave Winer and two others, Atom has been developed by an adhocracy of interested developers, with decisions reached by consensus."The internet has changed considerably in the five or so years since RSS first came along. We can't get by any longer with just Really Simple Syndication, Sellotape and String," says Danny Ayers, a developer.And so, as it stands, the content syndication world has two competing specification "brands": RSS in its many flavours, and Atom. The Atom project has been very successful, with the two biggest weblogging firms, Blogger (run by Google) and Six Apart (the people behind Movable Type and Typepad) adopting the standard. This produced more than half a million users alone.This switching effect, where one or two developers can move thousands of users between different specifications, highlights a valid point: for the end users, the argument is close to meaningless. As long as their RSS reader software can read Atom as well, they will never notice the difference - and most of the contemporary RSS readers have been, or are being, upgraded by their authors to support both specifications. This has happened before, when Userland, under the guidance of Winer, automatically upgraded its entire userbase to a new RSS specification overnight. No disinterested user noticed.Nevertheless, Winer feels that the adoption of Atom has harmed content syndication, causing confusion in the marketplace. "The community is served by removing confusion," he says. "Every article about RSS begins with the arguments of the tech community, and that slows adoption."That Google and Six Apart chose to add another argument, more confusion, is something I would like them to think about, and consider reversing." Winer says. His proposal, as described on his weblog, is to merge RSS and Atom to create "rssAtom", which "would differ from RSS 2.0 as little as possible".The Atom community's reaction has been limited. Neither Blogger nor Six Apart has responded to requests for comment, and only one Atom developer, Sam Ruby, would go on record. He said the Atom project would, in August, petition to become an official project under the auspices of the Internet Engineering Task Force. Should this happen, he says, the rules of the IETF state: "Participation is open to all." If this happens, then anyone, Winer included, would be free to contribute to the specification, but no one would be in overall charge.&#183;Ben Hammersley is author of O'Reilly's Content Syndication with RSS.LinksThe peace proposalhttp://blogs.law.harvard.edu/ crimson1/2004/03/08#a1243RSS 2.0http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rssAtomwww.intertwingly.net/wiki/pie/FrontPage
T-Mobile has signed a deal with record giants Sony and Universal to offer mobile phone users music  downloads from the likes of Beyonc&#233; and Lemar directly to their handsets in less than two minutes.The mobile phone giant has developed a new format that will allow owners of the latest generation of mobile handsets to download clips of between 90 and 120 seconds of new songs from an initial catalogue of more than 200 tracks.T-Mobile's move is the latest of several big announcements in the world of mobile music following last year's launch of O2's dedicated music download service, which requires a special player, and this week's announcement that Heart FM-owner Chrysalis would sell ringtones and full songs to mobile owners.Mobile Jukebox, as the new T-Mobile service is called, is designed to provide a bridge between the 2.5G handsets currently on the market, which allow users to watch short video clips, play games and take colour photos, and the 3G phones due to be launched before the end of the year.The company claims it will take less than two minutes to download the excerpts in high quality, allowing customers to sample tracks before they buy. With the shift to 3G networks, it plans to offer full tracks from the labels concerned.All the big mobile operators are concentrating on video clips and music being big drivers of data traffic over their networks as they look for ways to boost the amount that each customer spends.T-Mobile customers will also be able to listen to the clips before they decide whether to download them to store on their phone. Other artists available in the initial batch of 200 tracks include Anastacia, Big Brovaz, Lionel Richie,  Sugababes and Limp Bizkit.Nikesh Arora, the marketing chief of T-Mobile International said that already half of all downloads from its T-Zones portal were music related."With Mobile Jukebox we are moving on to the next evolutionary stage. Together with our partners from the music industry, we are providing customers with a truly superior and unique mobile multimedia music service. Our commitment to this industry is unequivocal," he added.Record labels are also keen on working with mobile operators because they offer a path to secure downloads, in stark contrast to the internet where piracy is rife, and customers are already used to paying for everything from ringtones to picture messages."Mobile Mix enables music fans to download a 90 to 120-second excerpt of a song in just a couple of minutes, allowing them to get a feel for the music almost instantaneously, and takes the mobile music entertainment experience to an entirely new level," said Thomas Gewecke, the senior vice president of  Sony Music Digital Services.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Intel's Centrino mobile chip-set got an unwelcome birthday present last week - from China. While the rest of the world gets to pick from the more than 130 Centrino notebook PCs made by a wide range of manufacturers, they will all be banned in China from June 1.The Chinese don't object to the Centrino per se. The problem is that the Chinese government has decided to compromise its support for IEEE-standard 802.11 networking, which has become very popular in versions guaranteed to interoperate by the multi-vendor Wi-Fi Alliance. Instead of supporting Wi-Fi's WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) security protocol, the Chinese are mandating their own WAPI (WLAN Authentication and Privacy Infrastructure).Foreign companies don't like this for at least two reasons. First, it's stupid to have local variations on global standards because it increases costs, introduces incompatibilities and has the effect of preventing free trade.Second, access to WAPI encryption technology is restricted to 24 Chinese companies. Foreign manufacturers have to deal with them, and pay what China's People's Daily describes as "expensive licensing royalties".However, since China is now one of the world's biggest PC markets, WAPI is an opportunity for some suppliers. According to the People's Daily, Zeng Wenqi, general manager of the "mainland branch" of BenQ, said his company would "soon put out laptop computers that satisfy the national standard".BenQ ("Bringing Enjoyment And Quality" to life) is a brand name used by eight independent companies, including Acer Peripherals, but they are all based in Taiwan. Given China's intention to "liberate" Taiwan, this could be a wise move. A company could think harder about supporting WAPI if China's missiles could take out its factories.The People's Daily also reckons the introduction of WAPI is "a god-given opportunity for AMD", which traditionally occupies a distant second place in Intel-compatible chip sales. AMD has Wi-Fi technology, based on its purchase of a small Texan company called Alchemy. Although Alchemy uses Mips processors (as used in Sony PlayStations, mobile phones and other devices), AMD followed its acquisition of Alchemy by licensing Mips Technologies' architecture.However, the impact on Intel may be limited. Centrino isn't a processor, it is a branding and marketing exercise. Manufacturers can only use the Centrino name and butterfly logo if they buy the whole Intel Wi-Fi package, which is integrated, optimised and tested to work with almost 30,000 wireless "hotspots". But Intel will continue to sell Centrino processors in China and elsewhere as the Pentium-M (for Mobile) range.The Pentium-M, formerly code-named Banias, is a neat design, developed by a team in Israel. But notebook manufacturers can still use the Pentium-M with their choice of wireless technology. And while some could switch to AMD's XP-M processor - announced on March 12 last year, the same day as the Centrino - it doesn't have the same level of "unwired" marketing and advertising support.LinksWi-Fi Alliancewww.weca.net/BenQwww.benq.comAMD Alchemy Wireless LAN Familyhttp://masl.to/?Q5F122CB7Anand Lai Shimpi's Pentium-M reviewwww.anandtech.com/mobile/showdoc.html?i=1800
Bouncing mailI've started getting returned emails that I've never sent. They've been sent to people I don't know (none is in my address book). I've now had an email from Intermail saying I've sent an infected email to them and should check for a virus. What is going on?Marie RyanJack Schofield replies:Current viruses are sending billions of messages to email addresses they find on people's hard drives. Netsky, for example, searches for email addresses in htm and html files, txt, doc and rtf files, eml (email messages) and wab (Windows address book) files, and more. Unfortunately, many companies, some internet service and a few user providers use anti-virus software to "bounce" these virus messages back to the forged address, thus advertising that they don't have a clue where they came from. This is making things worse. If you don't run unsolicited attachments, and you are running a virus checker such as Grisoft's AVG with the occasional online scan as a double-check - which you are - then it is unlikely your PC is infected.Waiting for SP2Is the forthcoming Windows XP Service Pack 2 simply a compilation of the updates offered by the Windows Update service or something different?Ted ListerJS:Usually a Service Pack would mostly be made up of old updates, but XP SP2 offers much more. It changes many of the Windows default settings to make them more secure (better late than never), and also adds pop-up ad blocking, a new firewall and a Security Center, which provides one place to control many security settings. Unlike some Windows Update fixes, it has also been widely tested. SP2 should therefore be considered an essential upgrade, and I hope Microsoft will make it widely available on CD and via computer magazine cover discs. For a preview of SP2, see the SuperSite for Windows,www.winsupersite.com/reviews/windowsxp_sp2_preview2.asp.Broken WordI have a problem with Microsoft Office 2000 SP1: every time I save and then open a file in Word, it has become corrupted. It contains various details about the file, and random letters, a bit like opening an exe file in Notepad. Pictures are even worse, with one adding about 57 pages on to the document.Huw PryceJS:I don't have a specific answer, but I have a general clean-up routine that seems to solve most common Word problems. It goes as follows:(1) empty the Temp and Temporary Internet Files folders and defrag your hard drive.(2) Run a virus check, eg online at Symantec (http://security. symantec.com/ssc/).(3) Restart your PC.(4) Run Windows Explorer, go to C:\, press F3 and search for normal.dot files.(5) Delete all of them (there should be at least one).(6) Restart your PC and run Word.The drawback is that any personalisation, including macros and headings stored in the normal.dot file, will be lost. (Normal.dot is the template for your new Word documents.) Otherwise, many Word problems can be solved by consulting the Word MVP (Most Valued Professionals) website athttp://word.mvps.org/.Photo storeI have an Epson 3200 scanner, which by default saves scans slides as .BMP files. However, these files are very large, and I cannot see any difference in quality if I save them as .JPG files, which are a lot smaller.Michael G GaffneyJS:BMP (Windows Bit Map) files are very large because they are not compressed. JPeg files are smaller because they are compressed, but this compression is "lossy": it loses some information. If you are editing and re-saving files, it is better to use a non-lossy format or the image quality will be reduced each time you save it. One approach is to keep backups of your images on CD-R or DVD discs and keep JPegs for everyday use. However, generally TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) is preferred to BMP for long-term storage.IncomingI am using a dial-up modem to connect to the internet. Is there any hardware or software that can inform you of a call waiting while on the internet?Simon BrooksbankJS:There are several options listed atwww.spot-internet.co.uk/technology/internet-call-waiting.html, such as BuzzMe's Internet Call Waiting (www.buzme.com). I have not used any so I don't know which is best, but perhaps readers can let us know how well they work.Backchat&#183;Nick Rouse asked about removing hidden edits and other information from Microsoft Word files before sending them to someone else. John King points out that one solution is to publish Adobe PDF (portable document format) files instead. He suggests searching Google for "create pdf" to find affordable alternatives to Adobe Acrobat, and the first hit is for pdf995 (www.pdf995.com).
Bad patchIf your Ethernet network seems to be slowing down, it could be because you are using cheap cables or patch cords. Independent tests have shown that the majority of cords are not compliant with cabling standards. The Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) has published a white paper and a technical information note (TIN:017) about the problem. It is also warning manufacturers, importers, distributors, resellers and installers that supplying cables under a "misleading trade description" is an offence under the Trades Description Act 1968.www.tia.org.ukPower struggleThe Trade and Industry Committee expresses concern that power failures may become more frequent if investment in the National Grid does not double in the next decade, with much electricity generating equipment nearing the end of its 40-year lifespan. Anthony Foy, group managing director of Interxion, a data centre and managed services company, warns that businesses should be making provisions, such as deploying large-scale batteries and on-site oil generators to cover prolonged periods of power loss. These "should be central to future business continuity plans", he said.http://masl.to/?D29715CB7Euro-IP enforcersThe European Parliament last week passed a draft directive on enforcing intellectual property rights. It was weakened from an early draft calling for penal sanctions for illegal copying, and now allows individual governments to decide whether criminal or civil penalties are appropriate. However, the UK already has both kinds of penalty in place, with criminal penalties for large or commercial copying. Campaigners still believe the move will damage activities such as the development of open source software.http://masl.to/?Y1C721CB7Patchfest 2003Symantec's biannual Internet Security Threat report says that 2,636 vulnerabilities were disclosed last year. On average, 99 of the 220 reports per month were classed as high severity - those giving attackers increased privileges and access to more prominent targets - while 70% of all vulnerabilities have been easy to exploit. The report records that August was the blackest period, when three major worms struck during a 12-day period: Blaster, Welchia and Sobig F. Symantec estimates that these attacks caused $2bn worth of damage. Malware attacks are becoming more malicious, with random emailers giving way to password and decryption key extractors and user keystroke loggers.http://masl.to/?E31715CB7Junk mailThe deluge of junk email continues unabated, despite EU and US legislation and the combined legal activity of Microsoft, Yahoo!, AOL and EarthLink in taking spammers to court. Against this backdrop, anti-spam software developers continue to create increasingly sophisticated filters. The latest product from Red Earth Software, Policy Patrol 3.0, can weed out emails that pull in images from remote sites, but its main defence is a Bayesian database. It builds its information from words and phrases in legitimate emails and spam as a comparison table to detect and remove unwanted messages.www.redearthsoftware.comOpen by defaultState-developed software could be open source by default, according to a draft policy issued by the office of the e-envoy. The consultation document says an open source licence would be the default for software developed at the taxpayer's expense, except in defence, police and government trading funds such as Ordnance Survey. The draft suggests banning programs that do not support open standards, which is a different issue, but says software should still be chosen by value for money, rather than by the type of licence. The office is asking for responses by June 11.http://masl.to/?N18626CB7Crime data onlineThe Home Office has placed online local crime data for England and Wales, broken down by 376 policing areas. The site, launched last week, provides local data on crime reported to the police by type and by three-month periods, currently covering April 2002 to March 2003. It also holds non-localised data from the British Crime Survey, research designed to measure crimes not reported to the police. "Fear of crime is still high, despite the fact that your chance of being a victim of crime is at its lowest level for more than 20 years," said home secretary David Blunkett.www.crimestatistics.org.uk
The trouble with images taken on camera phones is that their resolution is too low to print out. Not any more, though, for Sharp and Vodafone have delivered the GX30. It is the first to reach the UK market that features a one megapixel camera. Given that the images it takes are twice as detailed as rival phones, is it time to ditch the camera?Well, not yet. In terms of colour and exposure levels, there's some way to go. There's no flash, either, and movement by the subject blurs the shot. The phone boasts a quality 260k colour screen and an enhanced display on its facia. There's also a video camera, Bluetooth and an MP3 player. Battery life rates a respectable 200 minutes talk time and 22 hours standby. Annoyingly, there's no POP3 email compatibility and no USB cable - you have to buy your own if you want to port the images from the phone to a PC. It takes an age to store images on the phone, too. Yet despite these gripes, the GX30 is the best quality camera phone around.www.vodafone.co.uk
When we're admitted to hospital, we expect the surgeon wielding the scalpel to be a registered professional. But what about the person wielding the computer? The NHS last week announced plans to require people involved in running healthcare information systems to be members of a new professional organisation, the UK Council for Health Informatics Professionals (UKChip).The organisation estimates that around 29,000 people work in health informatics in Britain, mostly in the NHS. This number is likely to increase as the NHS's &#163;6bn IT modernisation programme gets seriously under way this spring. Recruitment agencies are advertising salaries of up to &#163;200,000 for management consultants to work on the programme; job pages in journals are bulging with ads for IT specialists to work in the NHS and supplier firms.In theory, it is possible to walk into these jobs with no formal qualification. Attempts to create a system of professional registration date back more than a decade. But, while some IT managers are members of the British Computer Society and about 2,000 are members of Assist, an association of ICT staff in the NHS, many have no formal accreditation.Former health minister Lord Philip Hunt, chairman of the National Patient Safety Agency, said last week that for the sake of patients' safety, this needs to change. "Health informatics professionals are at the heart of improvements to patient services. They are helping to protect patients and the public by managing and using information effectively and in a way that does not compromise patient safety."He was speaking at the formal launch of UKChip, a body modelled on the medical professional councils. Although it has been around since 2002, supported by the NHS Information Authority, it last week launched a membership drive, including an online registration form, which collects information about qualifications and work experience, and asks candidates if they have criminal convictions or have been declared bankrupt. There are three levels of membership, which costs &#163;20 a year.As well as providing "recognition through registration", the council will define qualifications and standards for health informatics professionals, introduce a code of conduct and "ensure a de-registration process is in place to protect patients," a statement said. "Eventually, it is envisaged that statutory registration will be introduced to protect the interests of the public," a spokesperson said.In theory, registration could be compulsory in as little as five years. In practice, given the state of turmoil in NHS IT, it is likely to take longer.The issue of NHS IT staff competence is likely to be high on the agenda when the IT community meets in Harrogate for the annual Healthcare Computing conference.Richard Granger, the director general of NHS IT, will describe a catalogue of progress over the past year, culminating in the award of eight contracts worth &#163;6bn to IT contractors to introduce electronic health records. Although his speech is likely to stress the continuing role of NHS IT staff, the theme of the programme has been to bring in new blood.Health authorities in north-east England have already ruffled feathers by announcing in a statement about the local contract with Accenture:   "The NHS is not an expert on the design or implementation of IT systems: the contractor is." Staff point out the NHS was a world leader in computerising GP services - and that Accenture's last high-profile role in NHS IT was in the Wessex regional information systems project, which was cancelled after cost over-runs.The spectre of Wessex surfaced earlier this month when Granger cancelled a high-profile IT contract, predating his appointment, for a &#163;90m secure email system from Electronic Data Systems. The programme cited the slow roll-out of the system. Although it was designed to meet doctors' concerns about security, only a minority had registered for NHS email addresses through the system.BT will now take responsibility for handling NHS email under its contract to run a new NHS-wide network. Significantly, Granger moved the management of the network away from the NHS information authority to his own team. "I want it delivering in the same way as the other things we are delivering, on time and on budget," he said last month.The developments are good news for IT professionals who understand the NHS and have an appetite for pushing through controversial changes.A recruitment firm, Huntswood Search &amp; Selection, is advertising rates of up to &#163;1,000 a day and salaries of &#163;200,000 for healthcare management consultants because of the "huge demands" the programme is placing on the market. "You need to have worked both in the NHS and in pure change management elsewhere," says Keith Mackenzie, head of search and selection. "Firms are looking for passion and commitment to the service."www.ukchip.org.uk
Camera PhonesO2 budget specialsFollowing on from the X1 it launched last year, O2 has announced the arrival of two further budget clamshell phones in the X2 and X3. Scheduled for a May launch, the X2 will - they claim - be the cheapest clamshell camera phone on sale. It features a 65k colour screen, tri-band facilities and Java for downloading games and ringtones. It will retail for &#163;149.99 on pay as you go tariffs and will be free for subscribers who pay monthly. Set to arrive in early summer is a higher specified clamshell camera phone, the X3. In addition to the X2's features, the handset adds a better quality (260k) colour screen, video capture facilities and compatibility with O2's music player.www.o2.co.ukTel-Me twiceIn the month in which Sharp and Vodafone has delivered the first megapixel camera phone to the UK market, an Austrian company is claiming it will have the first GSM phone with a two megapixel camera on sale later this year.Tel-Me, which has a limited market presence in the UK, will unveil the T939 at the CeBIT exhibition in Hanover this week. A PDA-style handset, the T939 uses Microsoft's Windows CE operating system to deliver applications such as Outlook, Word and the Pocket Explorer web browser. Aimed ostensibly at business customers, the T939 will first be rolled out to African and Asian markets with a European launch to follow.www.telme.atNokia gets webwiseAfter a series of announcements from its rivals, Nokia has finally unveiled its first megapixel camera phone. Due in the second quarter of 2004, the 7610 is a small candybar-style smartphone that runs on the Symbian/Series 60 platform. It is also the first Nokia phone for the UK to feature a full HTML web browser (supplied by Opera) as standard. There's no flash but the handset does boast a 4x digital zoom and a night shot mode.The 7610 can also capture video in bursts of up to 10 minutes. This can then be edited via the supplied Movie Director software. The phone ships with Nokia's innovative Lifeblog application. When the phone is synched with a PC, this automatically ports all recent images and text messages to software on the computer and organises them chronologically, enabling users to create a personal diary on their PC. Other features include both MP3 and video playback, Bluetooth and POP3 email.Nokia is also launching a multimedia storage device - the Image Album - featuring a 20 gigabyte hard disk that will enable users to view images and video and listen to MP3 music on their TV/home entertainment system.It has also announced its first "massive multiplayer" game for the N-Gage. Pocket Kingdom is a strategy game   that can be played simultaneously by thousands of N-Gage owners round the world via GPRS.www.nokia.co.ukGadgetsSwissbitAt the CeBIT exhibition in Hanover this week, Swissbit will unveil the 21st- century version of the Swiss Army knife. For, in addition to featuring a corkscrew and tin opener, its USB Swiss Army knife also comes with a data storage stick that connects directly to PCs and Macs via USB. There are seven knives in the series, with storage ranging from 16MB to 1GB. All the sticks are compatible with both USB1.0 and 2.0 connections, with the higher storage   models boasting significantly faster read and write speeds of 6 MB/s (read) and 4.5 MB/s (write). The storage sticks are all password protected. There are no details on a UK launch and prices.www.swissbit.comMedia playersPortable videoMicrosoft has announced that the first devices featuring its Portable Media Center software will ship in the UK in the summer. The Creative Zen Portable Media Center and iRiver PMC-140 handhelds both sport 3.5in LCD screens and 40GBhard disk drives and harness Microsoft's software to enable users to transfer and then view/listen to video, image and audio content they have stored on their Windows XP PC on the move. The devices are compatible with both MP3 and Windows Media, but not MPeg4 the leading compressed PC video format. They will sell for between &#163;400-500. Microsoft has also   announced deals with EMI and Napster to provide Windows Media content.www.microsoft.com/portablemediacentersPhilips ambitionPhilips is also eyeing the personal video player market. Its semi-conductor division has announced the template for a product called the Nexperia Personal Media Player. The design, which is being made available to Philips and other manufacturers, uses a unique Philips chip that has compatibility with a host of formats including MP3 and AAC audio and MPeg-2 (DVD), MPeg-4 and DivX video. Unlike rival products, the Nexperia design also features integrated wireless 802.11a/b/g connectivity to enable users to stream audio and video files. Philips has apparently been working on personal video players for some time and it is rumoured it will announce its first personal video player at CeBIT today.www.semiconductors.philips.comStat of the weekThe US is, by a long chalk, the biggest originator of spam emails, according to Sophos. The US contributes more than half the world's spam, with second-placed Canada notching up only 6.8%. The UK comes ninth, behind France and Germany, producing1.31%.
A Mr Inkley of Preston wrote to the Times last week about a London borough's advertisement for staff "dedicated to putting the customer first". The four new posts, his letter reckons, would cost half a million pounds of ratepayers' &#91;sic&#93; money a year. "I have a feeling that the customer has, at best, come in second."In the same week, the Spectator chose as its "job of the week" - the slot in which it takes the mickey out of Guardian Society - another London borough's advertisement for an "assistant director, customer focus". No comment was necessary.Insiders react to this sort of stuff by rolling their eyes at another predictable round of ill-informed, right-wing sniping. Perhaps Guardian writers should, too: after   all, those small ads keep some of us in beer.I think we should take these snipes more seriously. It's never a bad idea to see ourselves as others do. Mr Inkley may possibly be an obsessive, or a front for some pressure group, but it's also likely that he - along with the Spectator - is articulating a widespread perception of the government's drive for "customer centred" public services.We should welcome the early warning. "Customer focus" is the great white hope of e-government - see the customer relationship management (CRM) national project that the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister launched yesterday. If the whole idea is an object of ridicule, we're in trouble.People who sell CRM technology, and the consultants who imple ment it, usually don't get it. But then they live in a different world.In business-class, management consultant-land, "customer service" is the sort of reception you get at the Mandarin Oriental, Singapore. In a British high street, "customer service" is where we queue to try and get our money back after being sold a dud. And we all remember what happened to trains when station announcers started calling us customers rather than passengers. The word's a joke.Council taxpayers who see their bills soaring while authorities are apparently chucking money at this sort of flim flam are going to complain. One way out is to drop the word "customer". Some suppliers have half-heartedly relabelled CRM "citizen relationship management" when selling to the public sector. But to Britons, the word citizen, with its sans-culotte overtones, is an even bigger joke, especially when applied to the London Borough of Islington.A far better idea is for councils to explain, in terms understandable outside consultant-land, what customer focus means. Like ensuring that council taxes are spent getting jobs done rather than processing paper. Like ensuring that the person answering a call to the council has the training and joined-up IT to act on it. Like ensuring that an abandoned car gets picked up before it gets torched and blights a whole street.Let's hope Mr Inkley keeps watching the ads, and writing in when he sees something risible. Perhaps he'll also take the trouble to learn something about customer centred local e-government. He'll probably like it.
Armed And DangerousXbox, &#163;39.99 LucasArts/Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;Quirky, laddish humour and relentless shoot-'em-up action do not add up to the height of gaming sophistication, but they should attract the average gamer. Despite decent graphics and visual trickery such as spectacular particle effects, Armed And Dangerous has an old-fashioned feel. It takes you back to when shoot-'em-ups routinely boasted apocalyptic weaponry and waves of cannon fodder.You play Roman, who, along with mates Jonesy (half-man, half-mole) and Q (a robot dressed like a Roman centurion), must protect the blind old man Rexus and lay waste to hordes of the evil Forge King's soldiers as they rampage across the land of Milola. The quest involves hanging out in pubs, hypnotising guards into believing they are French so they surrender, and rescuing a sacred lamb before a soldier finishes having his wicked way with it.So, humour that revels in political incorrectness is the order of the day. But in terms of pure gaming merit, Armed And Dangerous fails to convince. The targeting system requires tweaking. The enemy AI is basic, although lack of guile is compensated for by sheer force of numbers. There are some great weapons, though, such as a gun that fires sharks that "swim" through snow.It is also Xbox Live-enabled - and should prove a hit on Microsoft's online service. If you crave sophistication, give it a wide berth. Otherwise, it will make you laugh, and get the adrenaline coursing.Steve BoxerLMA Manager 2004PS2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Codemasters&#42;&#42;&#42;Play LMA Manager 2004 for an hour and you'll begin to see why football management is seriously stressful. After spending 45 minutes organising training, picking the team and honing tactics, it's down to 11 overpaid individuals to keep you in a job.And even expensive names are no guarantee of success. It's very frustrating as your star striker trips over the ball when clean through. LMA Manager 2004 has 778 clubs comprising 18,500 players. Sadly, only about 10 are recognisable. Beckham looks the part, but don't expect your second division striker to look kosher.Xbox owners can use their Live headset communicators to bark out instructions. The satisfaction when the ball finds the net overcomes any embarrassment at shouting at the TV.LMA excels at the use of the controls. Despite being menu driven and stat heavy, you'll never miss the mouse. But don't be fooled. This is not Championship Manager on a games console. Depth is limited, with transfers laughably unrealistic. And hardcore Champ Managers will frown at the 3D match engine. But for console owners who fancy being the next Fergie, it is worth a kick.Greg HowsonBattle Engine AquilaPC, &#163;19.99 Lost Toys/Evolved&#42;&#42;&#42;This is a strange one. Tweaked for the PC's superior graphics, it remains unashamedly a console conversion, and an aging one at that. Battle Engine Aquila never lives up to the coolness of its name, but for old-school arcade action, it's not a bad effort.What you get for the bargain price is a combination of Battletech and Yage - a heavily armoured mech that turns into a lumbering airborne craft by pressing the spacebar - at least for a limited time. Enemies come thick and fast but in fewer varieties than you might wish. And although you can use more powerful weapons as the game progresses, 40 levels makes for frantic, but repetitive, gameplay.However, in short doses, Aquila is great fun, thanks to uncomplicated controls, a variety of terrain and a lock-on system that fools spectators into thinking you have real skill. The airborne action is less fluid than the rest, but at least you get to admire the impressive scenery. There is also a multiplayer cooperative mode, but no option to compete online - unsurprising given the price.Aquila wants to be a great Japanese shoot-'em-up of the past, but it lacks their dizzy ingenuity.Mike Anderiesz
Some media companies are starting to worry about the growth in file sharing of TV shows. Notso the BBC. Here is how I imagine their top brass might assuage fears within thecorporation.From:Director of New Media,BBCTo:All senior managers,BBCSubject:TV shows and internet file-sharingI know many of you are nervous about file sharing on the internet, where consumers swapmusic and video programmes,normally in breach of copyright.We all know what has happened in the music business:Napster and its ilk are popular with consumers,nearly 100m of them,andthe industry has responded badly.File sharing is going to become important for TV as well. My geeks have been using a systemcalled Bit Torrent for the past year.Think of it as Napster but better.A lot of top US shows,like The Sopranos and Smallville,are available (unofficially)fordownload within hours of their first broadcast.The quality is excellent even on my hugeplasma TV.The first message is don't panic! We can respond to file sharing in one of two ways. On theone hand, we can ignore it.We could ignore how effective and cheap a distribution systemlike BitTorrent could be for us.(BitTorrent helps us share the cost of distribution with
millions of users. In time,we might even put Murdoch on the back foot!)We could pretend that
consumers aren 't going to download TV shows. We could,in other words,stick our heads in thesand.Or we can take advantage of the TV file-sharing community. Today it is tiny,probably fewerthan five million people globally. But it is big enough for us to test the parameters of,and customers responses to, file sharing TV shows.At the BBC,we're taking the second approach. We 're trialling our PC-based Interactive Media
Player (IMP),which combines peer-to-peer file sharing of BBC TV programmes with trueon-demand benefits: watch programmes when you want. If successful,we 'll roll it out. Whilewe aren't using BitTorrent, we will investigate using it at a later date.I know many of you,especially programme makers, are worried about rights issues. We areusing Microsoft's rights management system that will only allow programmes to be viewed on aPC for a few days after broadcast. This system is harsh on viewers and may not besustainable. I am certain we 'll need to rethink what intellectual property rights mean.Second, our trial of the IMP is only available on PC platforms. This is a seriousshortcoming and ironic,as most of our TV output is produced on other platforms. I am
determined to address this when the IMP launches: it will run on Macs and hopefullyelsewhere, too.Digital distribution is going to be the future of TV delivery,of that there is no doubt.Today, rights owners are very jumpy, because of the mess the music industry has made ofthings. I hope we 'll be more open-minded.&#183;Azeem Azhar is athttp://azeem.azhar.co.uk
Big BrotherThe idea of spending weeks on end with every move monitored via the web probably sounds like a nightmare to even the most committed webhead, particularly to anyone who has watched the film The Truman Show. But that's what one family has agreed to do as part of printer firm Epson's The Epson Family project. Called a social experiment, it could easily be described as Big Brother, net-style. OK, the &#163;11,250 John and Claire Want will be paid must be an incentive, but it appears the Want family enjoys the attention. It already has a website: thewants.co.uk. The project was launched on Monday and lasts 100 days.www.epsonfamily.co.ukwww.thewants.co.ukSex on locationTomorrow night will send Sex and the City fans into mourning, as the last episode of the sassy series set in Manhattan is aired on Channel 4. Thank goodness, then, that the series' producer, HBO, has a slick mini-site offering plenty of material for fans facing withdrawal symptoms, including a plot synopsis for every show in each of the six seasons, videos of costume designer Patricia Field talking about the style of the show, and a trivia quiz.If you're planning a trip to the Big Apple, the On Location Sex and the City Tour of Manhattan could be for you. For $33, you get a three-hour tour of 35 locations made famous by the show. You can book tickets on the site.www.hbo.com/citywww.sceneontv.com/tour.php/satcYour turnTell most people that a new political party has been launched this week and they will probably groan and ask why we need another one. Your Party - which is to field candidates in the European elections - claims to be different, however. The site claims the party is non-ideological and aims to fight the apathy and disillusionment that seems to be sending voting turnout ever lower with each election. Its founders, including former 365 Corporation founder Dan Thompson, seem to have taken inspiration from the burgeoning net-based campaigning movement in the US, in which sites such as MoveOn and Meetup are leading the field.www.yourparty.orgwww.moveon.orgwww.meetup.comIraq, one year onThe first anniversary of the start of the Iraq war falls on Saturday, and anti-war campaigners are to mark the occasion with angry protests against the UK and US governments. Tomorrow, Voices in the Wilderness is holding a theatrical protest and tour of Whitehall, and Saturday's Stop the War Coalition protest march will set off from Hyde Park at midday. The coalition has posters and leaflets for sale on its site, plus a petition calling on Tony Blair to provide a "full, open and independent public inquiry" into the reasons for going to war. Another anti-war group, Our World Our Say, has a similar online petition, which is backed by Anita Roddick. To find out more about the background to the conflict, the Future of Iraq web portal has extensive links listing everything Iraq-related.www.voicesuk.orgwww.stopwar.org.ukhttp://owos.info/www.justinalexander.net/iraq/Gord of the ringsStill trying to figure out what Gordon Brown said in yesterday's Budget speech? The web could be the best way of figuring out what it means for you. The Treasury's budget microsite features a summary of the key points, a transcript of the speech and related documents. The Moneyextra site has an extensive set of links to useful information and analysis. KPMG, for example, runs through the history of the Chancellor's big day, and has a list of the pithiest budget-related quotations from the likes of former Chancellor Sir Geoffrey Howe ("You've got to twittle on, for the City".) For a bit of light relief, Guardian Unlimited's interactive guide to the budget, Gord of the Rings, recasts the Chancellor as a Tolkien-esque character facing up to "Mount Doom's budget black hole".http://budget2004.treasury.gov.ukhttp://masl.to/?V440129B7http://masl.to/?P280219B7http://guardian.co.uk/interactiveNew &amp; noted11 de Marzo de 2004http://11demarzo.bitacoras.comI, Robot movie sitewww.irobotmovie.comFlexibotwww.flexi-bot.comGame Developers' Conferencewww.gdconf.comSix of the best:Weather watchingMet Officewww.met-office.gov.ukThe Weather Doctorwww.islandnet.com/~see/weather/doctor.htmWeather-Photography.comwww.weather-photography.comStorm Chasers and Spotters Association home pagewww.chasingstorms.comWorld Meteorological Day: March 23www.wmo.int/wmd/Live weather imageswww.weatherimages.org
Leading the wayVictor Keegan (Online on the web, March 5) did not mention a few facts about the digital music market and the two leading services.1) The AAC music format is an open standard (MPeg-4a), developed by Dolby Labs and others and available to all including Microsoft. It was chosen by the Motion Pictures Experts Group after long testing, evaluation and negotiation. Microsoft went ahead with WMA (Windows Media Audio), again intending to use its monopoly position to force its proprietary format on the world. The only thing proprietary about iTunes AAC is Apple's Fairplay digital rights management.2) The iPod has built-in hardware support for WMA, although it is disabled by software. Any time Apple chooses to, a simple software upgrade can enable the iPod to use WMA. Many other players use the same chipset and can add AAC/Fairplay with a similar upgrade.3) Hewlett-Packard and its Compaq subsidiary will begin shipping Windows PCs with iTunes installed in all their consumer models from June. HP will also be selling an HP-branded iPod. HP has pledged to work with Apple to improve iTunes and QuickTime interoperability and performance with the Windows OS.4) iTunes Music Store (iTMS) is selling about as many songs a month as Napster has sold since its launch. This gulf will only widen, as Roxio is losing money and laying off staff . Apple is projected to make more than $1bn on the iPod this year and $2bn next year.5) All Macs and PCs with iTunes installed have Apple's Rendezvous zero-setup networking technology built in. Roxio/Napster have nothing like it.6) Look for a Linux release of iTunes before Christmas. All the necessary tools exist on the OpenDarwin project.7) Purchase of music on iTMS uses Amazon.com's One Click technology, the most secure method of online purchase. The Apple that "blew its lead" in the PC market was the company run by John Sculley and others. The Apple of Steve Jobs is the company that established the lead initially.David GregoryBad offerI was surprised you mentioned BT's service (What's new, March 4) without pointing out what a bad offer it is. Apart from the &#163;19.99 a month for just a connection - no email, no usenet access, no gaming, no web space - you have to pay a &#163;30 connection and, it seems, &#163;50 for your own modem. That's another &#163;80 for the 12-month minimum contract. And a ludicrous 1GB download limit - about five hours of broadband downloading. My ISP allows unlimited downloads from its news server, no limit on software downloads via the web, POP3 email, all for less than &#163;3.50 a month more than BT's basic.Ian McRobertCatching upI applaud Richard Milward's efforts (Feedback, March 11) in securing a replacement LCD display. Until recently, I worked for a large IT reseller, and had to overhaul the customer complaints and faulty returns process. As with many things in the industry, manufacturers called the tune on LCD pixel anomalies.Apple was one of the "good guys". The norm from most manufacturers was that less than eight dead pixels was an acceptable margin of error.By the sound of it, companies are beginning to catch up with consumer thinking after years of dictating terms to business-only clients, which can only be a good thing.Ed RileyBrusselsNot too pickyI had a lovely Samsung 17in display replaced without question by Simply Computers (www.simply.co.uk) . I had wondered whether I was too picky but it was right in the centre of the screen and made photo editing and web design irritating. The company replaced it immediately and gave me a discount on a second one.Peter BaleLondonHow about a book?Poor David Birch. Stuck at an airport, nothing to pass the time with but his iPod, and then the battery runs out (Second sight, March 11). There is another device that can provide hours of distraction, can be used anywhere, is very user-friendly, requires so little power that the user can run it with his own "bioenergy", and is widely available in a huge range of formats. It probably won't be stolen, either. It's called a "book".Dr Hillary ShawUniversity of LeedsBio-energy figuredIf only manufacturers could get their act together so I didn't have to lug around so many AC adapters. My digital camera, video, phone and so on all use different supplies. Even within a single company's range, the problem is the same.I like the idea of a fat burning power supply, though. The Wachowski brothers sure had bio-energy figured out in the Matrix.Andy RowlandsBehind the curveIt's nice Professor Norman has realised there is more to life than "functionality". We have known this in Europe for 3,000 years. Come on, Guardian, you can do better. He might be American, but he's behind the curve. Remember, Apple's i-series is designed by a Brit. There's a reason for that.Neil Gibb
You used to know where you were with "future homes" - those mocked-up houses normally found lurking at technology shows and research headquarters of publicity-hungry companies such as Orange, Panasonic and Philips.Oh how we laughed when the companies that dreamed them up earnestly told us how we would all soon be barking instructions at the cooker via a microphone, or choosing what to wear according to colour-sensitive software embedded into our networked wardrobe.Back then, the closest the homes of the future came to reality was having four walls and a front door (even if it was one with a retinal scan and fingerprinting rather than a key-controlled lock). But now - if this year's Ideal Home Show is anything to go by - it seems the "homes of the future" are in danger of becoming a reality.For, among the usual hotch-potch of stands flogging everything from cheap loft conversions to American-style hot tubs as big as your back garden, this year's show also boasts two show homes that are crammed with technology available now.Admittedly, for Allied Carpets, the decision to incorporate technology - including waterproof touch screens, web cameras and music servers -throughout its surprisingly attractive home was as much a marketing exercise as anything else. "We're trying to change our image so that people see us as a more forward-thinking, cutting edge company - one that appeals not just to old people, but young people, too," confesses stand manager Daniel Tribedy.But for Abrocour, one of the main technology providers behind the Linda Barker-designed show home (is there anything she won't put her name to these days?), there is also a more serious technological purpose: networking the home for audio, video and data services.In contrast to traditional "custom installers" who work with building firms and homeowners to provide internet access and data services via Cat5 (Ethernet) cabling and plug-in points, Abrocour is a new type of custom installation company thatinstalls only wireless technology. And while this is something some people can do for themselves with a little bit of know-how, Abrocour believes it is providing a service for thousands of non-technical people."At the moment, wireless is still a plug-and-pray solution," explains Abrocour's chief executive, Sam Sethi. "We intend to offer all the necessary support that end-users need to get up and running."Key to Abrocour's strategy is working with the major building companies so they can provide new homeowners with an option for wireless technology, in much the same way they would, say, new kitchen appliances. "It's a means by which the property companies can distinguish themselves from the competition," reckons Sethi. Abrocour has worked with Berkeley Homes to provide wireless networking throughout one of the blocks at its Chelsea Bridge Wharf development, and is set to announce wireless partnerships with more than half a dozen companies (including much more affordable developers than Berkeley Homes).At the Ideal Home Show, Abrocour also revealed that it plans to give away 50,000 Elonex Media Center PCs, complete with 30in screens, to property developers. The catch? The companies have to sign up for Abrocour's wireless maintenance package at a cost of &#163;1,500 per homeowner for the first year. The cost of wiring a new three-bedroom house for Ethernet is estimated at just &#163;300.For the new homebuyer, it seems like a win-win situation. Not only do they get the PCs free of charge, they also receive a load of BT wireless gear   including modem/router, a 1Mb BT ADSL connection (with one year's free connection), a wireless home security system, a Voice over IP connection and a pair of DECT phones - a package costing approximately &#163;5,000.Abrocour claims it covers its own costs from the maintenance charge it levies on the building firms, but it is also developing its own MediaCenter portal, which will enable homeowners to surf specially selected internet sites using the remote control supplied with their PCs. "We can't charge for this yet," admits Sethi, "but we hope to be able to in the long run."So is wireless technology really the answer for turning the future home into reality? Not yet, according to Steve Moore, of custom installation SMC, which also works with companies such as Berkeley Homes. "Wireless simply isn't as reliable or efficient as cabling. It's a bit like the difference between having your own lane on the motorway and sharing with hundreds of other people," argues Moore."Also, the technology remains very poor for distributing TV and video around the home."Then there's the problem of the broadband pipe - a vital element if audio, video and data services are going to be networked around the home. Unless the new homes are built in ADSL-enabled areas, there's simply not an affordable option for new homeowners to get broadband. The UK's two cash-strapped cable companies, NTL and Telewest, have both admitted they are not able to spend any more money digging holes for new property developments until financial restructuring takes place."For BT, it's simple to upgrade the network because they've already got wires in the ground," argues Telewest spokesman John Moorwood. "We're now looking at offering alternative technologies such as ADSL and microwave so we can extend our coverage."It looks like the only way that some people will be able to live the wireless dream is by visiting the Ideal Home show after all.
When Pauline Bass gets into work, she can log on to her password-protected "heath and wellbeing" web page. This contains several online surveys that attempt to assess how well she is sleeping, exercising, eating and coping with stress.As well as an overall health and wellbeing score, Bass receives personalised reports that give her advice on improving her health, from eating more fruit and vegetables to ensuring she exercises during the day.Bass, a 45-year-old manager for Standard Life Healthcare in Stockport, says: "Doing these assessments has made me much more aware of my stress levels and how to lower them." Bass says she uses the stairs more, and enjoys the fruit occasionally provided by her company.Bass is just one of hundreds of staff   benefiting from a new online health and wellbeing assessment service provided by technology company Vielife Online, founded last year with private capital of around &#163;15m.Clive Pinder, Vielife's managing director, says: "If people are as healthy as they can be, they perform better. We empower the employee to improve his behaviour and empower management to tackle health issues within their companies."Managers only receive the pooled results of the surveys, and can then spot areas of concern.The concept originates from the work of a French doctor, Francois Duforez, who used a holistic approach when trying to improve the performance of jet fighter pilots. His methods were picked up by Formula 1 champion Alain Prost, and other elite athletes soon followed.Chief executives became interested in how such techniques could improve productivity and reduce absenteeism, which last year cost British industry &#163;12bn, according to the CBI.Vielife's online assessment system is used by seven companies and services around 300,000 employees.Pinder believes the internet is the ideal medium because it is responsive and interactive. "People don't often fill in paper questionnaires because they don't get anything back. With our internet surveys, staff see results straight away and can access the service 24 hours a day. And once staff see management acting on the data, it encourages more to use the service."Vince Mewett, head of human resources at Standard Life Healthcare, says: "When we first asked staff to take the assessment, the average score was 49/100. One area of concern was nutrition: 27% of staff were in the high-risk category - not eating enough fresh fruit and fibre and not doing enough exercise."The company ran health fairs, giving staff the opportunity to be weighed and have their blood pressure and body fat measured. "We were staggered by the response," says Mewett.The company followed this up with poster campaigns reinforcing the healthy living message, instigated free fruit days, free water bottles and healthier options at the canteens. Some staff set up after-work exercise classes, and on-site massages have also proved popular. The last survey showed the score rise to 54, he says. Other measurable benefits include a significant reduction in staff turnover and days lost through sickness.While such improvements cannot be attributed to the system alone, Mewett says: "We would certainly advocate this approach."
TheBloggieswere announced late on Monday night (UK time), so a belated well done to all those who scooped an award. The big winner on the night was the ever excellentBoingBoing, which won weblog of the year, best group weblog and best American weblog. Now that Cory Doctorow, the main man behind the site, is moving to the UK, does that make him eligible for best British blogger too? :-)Big British winner wasPlasticbaggerTom Coates, who won best essay for hisWeblogs and the mass amateurisation of nearly everything. It's an excellent analysis of where weblogs have come from, and where they are now, and is one of a small corpus of pieces that should be required reading for anyone who intends to opine on the issue of weblogs. Tom also picked up best UK/Irish weblogger.Meanwhile, we're trying hard to be dignified about not winning in the best tech weblog category, but it's no disgrace to lose to Slashdot - a site that's more a way of life than a mere weblog. Well done to them, and all the winners. Boo sucks.
"Phatbot allows its authors to gain control over computers and link them into P2P networks that can be used to send large amounts of spam e-mail messages or to flood Web sites with data in an attempt to knock them offline," saysThe Washington Post."Igor Ybema, a network administrator at the University of Twente in Enschede in The Netherlands, put the number [of infections] between 1 million and 2 million computers. His conclusion was based on a Phatbot command that forces infected computers to test their Internet connection speed by sending a file to one of 22 specifically selected Web servers around the world -- one of them at Twente. He said Twente began monitoring traffic from computers running the tests in mid-February, about the time that rival hacker gangs began an online turf war that resulted in a volley of new worms like Bagle and Netsky. By early last week, Ybema said he was tracking an average of 200,000 to 300,000 Internet addresses running the speed test every day."
Finally, you canconfessto writing the famousconfessions of a call-girl, and purchase the thong to prove it. Better move fast - I'd say only the first couple of dozen are likely get their own extensive write-up in theBelle de Jour-obsessedTimes.
Over on our sister blog, the Guardian Unlimitednews weblog, Jane Perrone's just announced Salam Pax - theBagdhad bloggerhimself - will be guest-editing, and answering your questions online, on Monday. You canpost your questions now.
A mother who was arrested in hospital shortly after giving birth appeared in court yesterday, accused of selling her baby to two different couples over the internet.Moira Greenslade, 33, faces a maximum 10-year jail sentence if she is convicted on three charges of obtaining &#163;2,500 by deception from the couples, both childless, who answered an advertisement on an American website.Ms Greenslade, who has another child, spoke only to confirm her name at a short hearing before magistrates in Bingley, West Yorkshire. The baby girl involved in the charges has been taken into care by social services.Ms Greenslade, of Keighley in West Yorkshire, was charged with obtaining &#163;1,500 from a Scottish couple by falsely pretending to pursue a surrogacy agreement with them. The two other charges allege that she dishonestly obtained &#163;1,000 from a couple in north Wales in the same way.Ms Greenslade was arrested in December after giving birth at the Princess Anne hospital in Southampton. She has also been charged under the Adoption Act with publishing an advertisement and making arrangements for the adoption of a child when she was not an adoption agency.Her solicitor, who was given a two-week adjournment by the magistrates, said the case was "unusual and complex". Ms Greenslade was bailed on condition that she did not try to contact any of the couples.
