It's silly season survey time, so here's a good one: Mac users have been found to be better off, and more intelligent, than their Windows-using colleagues. Or, asNews.computs it: "A new study compares Mac-using Web surfers with their PC-wielding counterparts. If you're reading this on Windows, feel free to take your time on the big words." Hey - it made me laugh.
I never thought I'd see the day when hacking was up there with murder, but the US House of Representatives last night voted overwhelmingly to create a new punishment of life imprisionment for malicious computer hackers, reportsCNET News.com. The bill also extends police ability to create internet or telephone wiretaps without the need for a court order. The vote went 385-3 in favour, which suggests it's unlikely to meet many problems in the Senate, although the upcoming holiday season could halt its progress for a while.
Just back from a very entertaining weekend in Leeds, where I was playing in theWorldNetfootball competition. For the uninitiated, this is a huge get-together of members of football email groups: the fans of each side play each other for a cup (for the good sides) and a plate (for the rest). The great thing is the fans teams' fortunes bear no relation to the "real" team's status: in the first stage, the Manchester United side was getting thumped in a group that included Queen of the South, Norwich and Crystal Palace. Teams like QPR and Middlesbrough are the real giants of internet football, although most of the 60 sides up at Bodington Hall weren't there for the winning: it's the "taking part" (in the bar) that counts. For all you net sociologists out there, a fine example of the virtual world bringing people together, creating dozens of physically scattered communities that wouldn't be there otherwise. For football fans, a fine booze up. (BTW - I was playing for Swindon Town's CyberRobins. There's a reportherein the unlikely event you're interested.)
Hereis an interesting outline of how it works, and I must admit it is both cleverer and more complicated than I thought. For Seth's earlier thoughts, following a meeting with five guys from Microsoft, seethisentry. Seth worked for Linuxcare and is moving to the Electronic Frontier Foundation to help "technologists understand the civil liberties implications of their work" (bio). (Thanks toSimon Bissonfor the links.)
Silicon.com says Cisco has Wi-Fied19 European airportswith another hundred to come. (Apparentlynot many people want a wireless Web, but I still think being wireless is a killer attribute. Look what it did for cordless and mobile phones.)
Speculation that PC prices could rise have proved unfounded, at least here. IDC's European Pricing Barometer, July 2002, reckons prices fell in May and June. "Year-on-year, prices remain very low, displaying a decline by 10.3 points overall compared with June 2001, with desktop prices decreasing by 7.6 points, Intel servers by 10.5 points, and notebooks by 12.9 points as a result of fierce vendor competition and continued development of the new entry-level notebook market," says IDC.
USA Today has run the standard piece onalternatives to Microsoft Office, which says: "the latest version, Office XP, costs a whopping $470, which might be a bit much for people who work at home or finish schoolwork there only occasionally." It's arguable whether it's whopping or not, of course: it costs less than Lotus Development used to charge for 1-2-3, for example. Or you could split the full price between the various components and compare with equivalent rival products. But what strikes me as shoddy journalism is the failure to mention a discount or "street price" for Office, or mention the much lower upgrade price, or mention the education price (which gets any student or teacher a copy ofOffice for home use for $149), or mention that Microsoft also offers a cheap suite designed for home users,Works, for $109or less. It is a very good idea to point out that you can get cheap or free office suites from companies other than Microsoft -- I have no argument with that. But it is doing readers a disservice to provide what amounts to a misleading price comparison, instead of telling them the whole story.
Businessweekreveals that a router connects to the Internet and can be used as the basis for home networking. Even more amazingly: "teens could swap instant messages with their pals at the same time Mom pays bills online"!!! Actually, Businessweek's problem seems to be that Microsoft is doing it. The coverage certainly contrasts with its enthusiastic promotion ofApple's Airport, which reflects the weekly's strong pro-Apple bias.
Sharp'sLinux-based Zaurus PDAshave holes that let attackers take control of the device, wipe files and prevent the user from entering data. Worse, if the device is connected to a corporate network, it could be used to attack it, reports CNet.The article adds: "Sharp has not released the source code for the Zaurus' particular operating system to the open-source community, nor has it integrated any community updates to its OS, choosing instead to go a more proprietary route."
The company behind one of the world's best computer games is backing one of the world's worst football teams. That is:Sports Interactivehas signed asix-figure sponshorship dealwithAFC Wimbledon, which has been formed in response to the threat of theWimbledon FCfootball (soccer) team relocating to the outer darkness (Milton Keynes). AFCW played its first game on Wednesday night withinwalking distanceof where I live, and gothammered. Trivia point: Sports Interactive's office is over the top of an estate agent's calledHotblack Desiatowell known to sadly departed HHGTTG authorDouglas Adams. You don't get this kind of detail in the Wall Street Journal, partly because no one really cares outside theM25.
Internet giant Yahoo! has turned in a profit for the first time in 18 months, saying it had put the dotcom bust behind it and was rapidly signing up new advertisers and paying customers.In a sign it is turning a corner in its efforts to support advertising revenue with subscription charges, it made a better than expected profit of £13.8m in the second quarter.This compares with a loss of £31.4m in the same period last year. Revenues rose to £146m, up 24% on the previous year.The company had previously suffered six straight quarters of losses after being hit severely by the advertising downturn, forcing it to lay off staff.Terry Semel, the chief executive of Yahoo!, who in common with other internet bosses has been seeking to downplay expectations, indicated the company was still in transition.After adding fees to more than 20 of its services, the majority of payments were still coming in from personal ads and email features, he said.Yahoo! now has 1 million paying customers, up from 600,000 at the end of the first quarter, and Mr Semel predicted it could pass 2 million by the end of the year.He also suggested there could be further layoffs on top of the 400 announced during the last year.Mr Semel said the company would continue to "streamline aspects of the company that no longer resonate"."As we execute against our business plan, we expect to continue to deliver strong results and profitable growth through the remainder of the year," he added.
The problem with comedy being the new rock'n'roll, (or nearly new, or last-but one) is that everybody thinks they can get laughs. Take this supposition and add the internet, where everyone has a platform to show off just how hysterical they are, and you feel your initial smile turning into a rictus.There's a lot of comedy out there but ploughing through the dross can be no laughing matter. Finding a good site depends on what you're after; TV comedy fans will find that most programmes have their own sites, whether official ones hosted by their broadcasters or fan efforts - a Google search on 'Only Fools and Horses' threw up an alarming 7,500 pages, a proportion of which will no doubt be about horses or sites with the word 'only' in the title, but there's a lot of interest in programmes out there. Luckily there are comprehensive database-based websites like comedy-zone.net; lots of info for the buff and casual logger-on alike in here. If live comedy is more your thing then most of the clubs have websites - there's also a valiant attempt at a comprehensive listings at priestess.co.uk/cc/list.htm,   although it assumes you already know about the big names like Jongleurs and the Comedy Store.Then there are the overt 'humour' sites. Some of these seem pretty funny at first but then you realise they're comprised solely of one joke. Extremeironing.com celebrates ironing in different locations and that's about it; http://homepage.ntlworld.com/mil.millington/things.html, the 'things my girlfriend and I have argued about' page, as seen in the Saturday Guardian as well as online, is just as one-tracked but gets away with it. B3ta.com takes a broader-brush approach, hoovering up comic sites and pages; worstoftheweb.com used to highlight the unintentionally hysterical but since a change of management a few years back it includes a lot of intentionally naff sites as well. Nostalgia buffs can always push off to punch.co.uk - the magazine might have died a second time but the website will serve up cartoons, sell you books and most amusingly it still thinks it's selling subscriptions. The rather healthier Private Eye (private-eye.co.uk) will sell you stuff in the same vein but also has new jokes and a magazine to back it up. beano.co.uk is also pretty funny even if you are    old enough to know better - although since it lost the singing Bash Street Kids a couple of years ago maybe it's lost its edge.Not that you need a magazine to be funny. The Friday Thing (thefridaything.co.uk) has had an understandably high profile among people who know about these things; it has most of the spikiness of Private Eye without any of the investigative journalism. Thebrainstrust.co.uk is just as funny and even looks like a newspaper, as does www.framleyexaminer.com - in fact the first time I saw it I thought it was a real local paper. Theonion.com satirises on a global scale and has been successful enough to spawn books and dupe journalists.So much for the laughs - but wasn't the business of comedy writing deeply serious, or something? The answer is yes and no; yes it's serious when you get your first script rejected and then less so when you realise how much they actually pay for radio sketches. Unless you make it big it's effectively not worth doing, but if you want to master some of the basics you could do worse than to head off to planetcomedy.co.uk, run by a couple of refugees    from Channel 4 who run workshops, take shows to Edinburgh and generally make a living getting the giggles. Buyers of corporate comedy sketches can go to entertainmentinbusiness.co.uk to hire Norman Pace and others. Comedy writing professionals wanting to contact relevant associations can always look in at writersguild.org.uk, which isn't specifically for comedy writers but it certainly welcomes them. Not everything that happens on the internet is immediately funny, of course. Receiving loads of junk mail is automatically unappealing, but someone's found an angle - John Land's spamletters.com consists of the replies he's sent to some serious spammers and the resulting correspondence, and a good percentage of it makes hysterical reading.But for all that, probably the funniest thing on the web just lately has been brought about by consultancy PriceWaterhouseCoopers and its decision to change its name to Monday. To get people's brains around the idea it spent loads on the website at introducingmonday.com; unfortunately it neglected to spend a tenner on introducingmonday.co.uk. Someone else got hold of it, and if the lawyers haven't whipped it away before this issue comes out it's among the best laughs you'll have.&#183;Guy Clapperton used to write for Radio 4's Week Ending and Spitting Image
The Sims Unleashedexpansion pack, due in September, will let players buy pets for their simfamilies, including cats, dogs and fish. (Of course, if this had been a British program, they would have been in the first version....)
One of the unsolved mysteries of our time is why we all pay through the nose for mineral water in restaurants and supermarkets when we can get tap water that is at least as good for practically nothing.Anyone who can solve that conundrum will be well on the way to finding a formula for charging on the internet. At the moment it is the received wisdom that you cannot charge for items like news on the web because the BBC gives it away free - or rather we pay for it through a yearly licence fee. Interestingly, this is the same way we pay for tap water  - by a yearly rateable levy.Yet in the case of water we are prepared to pay up to £3 or  £4 a bottle in a restaurant. The manufacturers say this is because they have a superior product. But as the chief inspector of drinking water, Michael Rouse, reminded us this week, water is now so good (99.86% met his stringent tests this year) that companies ought to bottle it and sell it in competition with Perrier and Badoit.The only qualification he makes is that it should be put in a fridge first so it can be compared with its proprietary rivals on a level playing field.Personally, I wouldn't like to bet money on telling the difference between still mineral water and tap water under these conditions. But I suspect that even if Manchester or London bottled its water and sold it cheaply people would still prefer the bottled equivalent.It has got nothing to do with quality. It is partly because of branding, partly because of the shape of the bottle, and partly because of psychology (it looks a bit mean to be ordering tap water).But there is another factor. As the great economist Alfred Marshall once said, the desire for variety is greater than the desire for quantity.  People often just like something different.They don't want to go out to a smart restaurant to drink tap water.  This ought to be good news for companies contemplating charging for stuff on the internet that has hitherto been deemed to be free for eternity.People may well be prepared to pay for, say, an email that is a bit different or news that has a different slant, or a search engine that has established itself as a reliable brand.I'm not saying that everything on the web should be charged for. One of the truly great things about the internet is that it has become the world's biggest mutual society with people exchanging information with each other on an unprecedented scale.This will never be taken away. But just as commercialisation exists alongside mutuality in the real world so will it do on the web.If the web is to fulfil its potential of unleashing a new form of entrepreneurial energy then ways must be found to reward people for their efforts. How many if us would be prepared to work at our day jobs for nothing?Payments have been slow to arrive on the web partly because of the admirably philanthropic principles of the founding fathers but also because of the absence of an effective system of micropayments.Soon those problems of payment will be ironed out. No one pretends it will be easy to start charging for something that previously came free.But, remember, when mineral water manufacturers began their assault on the market, tap water was (virtually) free. And look what happened to them.
Acer is hoping to leap onthe Tablet PC bandwagonwith a TravelMate 100 design, though founder Stan Shih is aware it may not go anywhere. (Triva note: the TravelMate brand came from Texas Instruments, for which the Taiwanese company used to manufacture PCs.)
Microsoft plans to announce someWi-Fi wireless networking productstomorrow, reports the San Jose Mercury. Windows XP and CE (PocketPC) already support Wi-Fi (802.11b), which will also be used to connect remote screens codenamed Mira. The software giant already has a number of profitable hardware lines including mice (it launched its first mouse 20 years ago), keyboards and joysticks, and some unprofitable ones, such as the Xbox.
Yahoois back in profit and now has more than a million fee-paying users.
War Craft III: Reign of ChaosPC/Mac &#163;39.99 Blizzard/Vivendi Universal 	*****Five million units of this hotly anticipatcted game were distributed worldwide on the day of its (much delayed) launch. Blizzard's WarCraft   series of fantasy-themed real-time-strategy (RTS) games is generally held to be just as responsible for the popularity of the RTS as Westwood Studios' seminal Command &amp; Conquer series.WarCraft III doesn't spring any huge surprises: it has migrated to full 3D and you can now play as one of four    races, with the undead and night-elves added to the humans and the orcs. Blizzard has concentrated on providing a tightly storylined single-player game with deep, involving gameplay that rewards strategic adeptness. Typically, you work with fairly small armies (a certain amount of resource manage  ment is required in the early stages of each mission) which you must upgrade. Mainly by helping your special units, called heroes, gain experience and abilities, but also by building the correct equipment. The different races have distinct characters and bags of personality, the graphics are pretty decent, frequent flashes of humour leaven proceedings and the Tolkienesque atmosphere never degenerates into cliche. Hardcore gamers - most of whom are probably already discovering WarCraft III's joys - have a free World editor with which to imprint their stamp on the game, and Blizzard's free Battle.net , home of WarCraft III online, must be a hive of activity. Perhaps the best-balanced and most involving game to arrive this year, it's difficult to fault it. And you can even play it on a Mac. A classic, without doubt.The Sum of all FearsPC &#163;19.99 Redstorm/Ubi Soft ***The Sum of all Fears feels like an add-on pack for Ghost Recon re-packaged to cash in on the current movie starring Ben Affleck. It borrows some of the plot and characters and bolts them onto a proven engine. The result? Entertaining but deeply disappointing.The first let-down is the absence of movie footage - no voice overs, no familiar faces - just snatches of the original score and briefings loosely corresponding to an action sequence from the film.On the easier setting this game virtually plays itself, with automatic targeting of weapons and a mini-map that leads you directly through each and every objective. Admittedly, you can turn these features off, but up against fairly dumb enemies the game is rarely challenging or surprising - simply storm    one identical building after another and eliminate a few guards or save the occasional hostage. You do have team-members, some under CPU control others supposedly obeying your orders. However,   their grasp of warfare amounts to no more than following you or occasionally charging into a room to be gunned down within seconds. Pretty soon you use them for spare lives, especially as reloading saved games takes forever.While it's an enjoyable diversion, this would be a budget game were it not for the movie licence. Which makes it all the more annoying that there's so little of the movie in it. Unfortunately, Ben Affleck is no Harrison Ford and Sum of All Fears is no Ghost Recon.Spy HunterGameCube &#163;39.99 Game Boy Advance &#163;29.99 Midway **With most of the classics - Space Invaders, Defender - having been already updated for home consoles, publishers have been digging around in their back catalogues for new retro opportunities.With a rich heritage, Midway are in a better position than most and have dragged the mid-1980s arcade racer/shooter Spy Hunter kicking and screaming into the 3D age. A recent PlayStation 2 update has been followed by versions for the Nintendo consoles, although only with mixed results. The GameCube incarnation in particular is disappointing, with muddy and poorly defined graphics that do little to show off the impressive capabilities of the Cube. It's a   shame really, as the action itself is mindlessly enjoyable, at least for a little while. Racing and shooting enemies on tarmac and water, with your morphing supercar changing from boat to automobile appropriately, is a pleasing reminder of a more innocent gaming era. But, despite the welcome inclusion of the bass-thumping theme tune, the fussy controls, muddled mission structure and uneven difficulty level make this a flawed re-make. The Game Boy Advance version fares a little better, there are the same graphics and a mission flaws of the GameCube title, although there are some impressive features. The soundtrack is a marvellous advert for the GBA soundchip while the water effects, especially the reflections, are the best seen yet on the handheld. Sadly though, a straight conversion of the original would have played a lot better even if it couldn't compete in the beauty stakes. Better on Game Boy Advance than GameCube, Spy Hunter is still a disappointing remake.
Sitting in a back room at the Barbican, where the art gallery is hosting the Game On exhibition, Henry Jenkins delivers a line that would have jaws dropping in any gathering of the rich and famous. "I think gaming is going to be the most significant art form in the 21st century," he says.It is, you might think, just what would be expected of someone introduced as "a professor of gaming". But Jenkins is much more than that. He is director of the graduate progamme in comparative media studies at MIT in Boston, which also covers film, television and other mass media."Games are a significant but not the primary focus of the programme," he says. "Our approach has been to integrate games more fully into the study of media, rather than siphon it off into a specialised field." The problem is that videogames have yet to achieve respectability. They are often seen as roughly on a par with pornography, providing instant gratification for the sort of people no one would invite to a dinner party. Practically everyone plays videogames, but you may feel guilty if you are caught at it.Jenkins, a genial and mild-mannered academic, would be high on anyone's guest list, if only for the topics he has    studied. He has written about Lassie, Dennis the Menace (the American one, not the Beano character), Twin Peaks, and Quentin Tarantino, among others. He's also written a book about the transition from stage to screen: What Made Pistachio Nuts?: Early Sound Comedy and the Vaudeville Aesthetic. In fact, like many adults, his interest in games was sparked by his offspring. "I started as a cinema studies person, and I guess I played Pong when it came out," he says, "which dates me. But for about a decade I wasn't paying much attention to games as a medium. Then my son, who'd just turned five, wanted a Nintendo for Christmas, and I was blown away by what had happened from Pong to Super Mario Brothers. The inventiveness, the complexity of the space, it really was a much more compelling medium. So I started writing about games."He also knew "technodiva" Brenda Laurel, author of Computers as Theatre, an underrated book about user interface design. Laurel launched Purple Moon, a computer games company that targeted girls. This led to a conference, sponsored by MIT's women's studies department, and a book that Jenkins co-edited with Justine Cassell, From Barbie to Mortal Kombat: Gender and Computer Games (MIT    Press, 1998). But things did not go exactly to plan. Jenkins wrote: "We were trying to start a conversation about gender, about the opening up of the girls game market, about the place of games in 'boy culture', and so forth. But all the media wants to talk about is video-game violence."The media frenzy reached new heights following the Columbine high-school massacre, which looked like something out of a first-person shooter. Jenkins testified before the US Senate, and described the experience inProfessor Jenkins Goes to Washington. It was set up, he wrote, so that you could either be anti-popular culture or pro-industry. "The thought that as citizens we might have legitimate investments in the culture we consume was beyond anyone's comprehension." Jenkins says: "I'm less troubled by the anti-social side because I don't buy the media arguments about video games: I think they've gotten a bum rap. The question is not whether videogames are violent - obviously all story-telling traditions have included violence and aggression - the question is: 'What are games saying about violence?' Medieval epics are full of hack and slash, and there's a lot of blood-letting - stuff    that would never get approved for a mainstream game title. "The difference is that periodically the fighting stops, you bury your dead, and you remember who was lost. That forces you to think about the consequences of violence. And games are starting to introduce something similar, like Will Wright introducing mourning into The Sims. It's not beyond the industry to say something thoughtful about violence."The problem is that violence takes attention from everything else. "If one imagines 25 years into the history of film, the only thing written about the medium was whether it was violent or not, you'd think you had missed a large part of the story," says Jenkins. Having studied the birth of both new mediums, Jenkins observes that cinema developed standards and routines that enabled people like DW Griffith to build on the past, "whereas a contemporary game designer has had a platform change every year or two. Every new game starts with building a new game engine. It's as if every filmmaker had to invent a camera before they could do anything interesting with it. There's not even a standard template for scripting in games. In screenwriting, relatively early on you knew what a scenario looked like, and later you    knew what a script looked like, and it was pretty standard across companies. Each company may have a very different idea of how you script a game."Videogame studies are also hampered by a shortage of materials. "We're working with the MIT library to see if we can establish a collection that will at least preserve key works going forward," says Jenkins. "It's ironic that it's already easier to study the history of the early cinema than it is to do the history of the web or computer games. The only access we have in most cases is through illegal emulators. If it wasn't for the pirates, there would be no way of tracing one's steps through the medium at all!" This isn't surprising. "In most areas of popular culture, fans and collectors have been the real archivists, because the medium was looked down upon by most of the official protectors of culture," says Jenkins. "They didn't become part of mainstream collections until fairly late, by which time museums are usually dependent on the buffs who held on to and preserved that heritage. Games are a classic example: we're 30 years into the history of the medium and there is no major archival collection out there. That's what makes this &#91;Barbican&#93; exhibition so important. It does recognise the significance of the    medium, culturally, aesthetically and economically."But in the end, what makes games so different, and worth studying, is that they are interactive, and the audience participates in their creation. "The general public is part of the artistic process of creating games," says Jenkins, "and that's an important statement we tend not to make about film or television. It isn't just that players shape what happens, which is a simplified version of interactivity. In this form, the public takes and creates new things.  Will Wright says that he expects in the end that 80 to 90% of the content of The Sims will be created by the players and downloaded off the internet. Wright understands that the audience is part of the process of creating the finished product. There's a medium being born here. It's not just a new form of electronic babysitting."&#183;Game On continues at the Barbican Art Gallery, London, until September 15. Admission costs £11. Henry Jenkins and Kurt Squire have contributed an essay, The Art of Contested Spaces, to the book of the show, Game On: The History and Culture of Videogames (Laurence King Publishing, £19.95).
It's Thursday, so Online isonline.
Asif Iqbal says the internet has had a "big impact" on his life. At work, he likes to use email because it's a quick and easy way of communicating. Outside work he often uses internet cafes to check up on news and sports results. He also uses text messaging daily. In that respect, Iqbal is just like millions of young people for whom the internet is an integral part of life. For Iqbal, though, there's one major difference: he is profoundly deaf.While the internet has affected most of us somehow, it has transformed the lives of deaf people, especially the young, by overcoming two barriers that make many deaf people feel isolated.  One is the geographic barrier separating deaf people from each other: there are about 673,000 severely or profoundly deaf adults in the UK, spread all over the country. They can't just pick up the phone and talk (although the introduction of textphones has made communication easier.)The other is the linguistic barrier that separates deaf and hearing people: many deaf people find speech difficult, and most hearing people don't understand sign language.  Nearly all of us can read and write, however, and tech  nologies such as email, instant messaging and chat rooms mean that deaf people can contact old friends and make new ones anywhere in the world. There are plenty of resources on the web specifically targeted at deaf people, such aswww.deafclub.co.ukandwww.deaf-uk.co.uk- a set of Yahoo-based discussion groups where lively debates take place.Another language    barrier, that which divides speakers of British sign language and American sign language, also melts away.  The internet touches almost every aspect of life. It's much easier to shop online if you're deaf than to make a shop assistant understand what you want. Similarly, the educational opportunities of deaf people, few of whom go on to higher education, could    be transformed by distance learning.  Even more significant is the chance to work. "Email has the potential to revolutionise the employment prospects," says Nathan Charlton, a consultant at the Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID).  Email gives deaf people, who have twice the unemployment rates of hearing    people, the ability not only to communicate with hearing colleagues easily, but to share in news they might otherwise be excluded from.Certainly Asif Iqbal, a campaigns officer with the RNID, feels his career has benefited from being able to use the internet. New developments are taking place all the time. One recently launched RNID project is V-Cam (www.vcam.org.uk), which combines instant messaging with a webcam.  Although 56k modems are too slow to allow users to use sign effectively, the webcam enables them to complement text messaging with facial expressions, which are a very important part of communication for deaf people. The widespread adoption of broadband technology, which will finally allow users to sign over video links, is eagerly anticipated, says Charlton. Although text is a natural way of communicating for many deaf users, those who have been profoundly deaf since birth and use British sign language as a first language (about 50,000 people) often find the written word hard to understand.One way being explored, through an EU-funded project known as ViSiCAST, is to make the internet accessible through avatars - human-like animations that use signs to communicate information. It's still early days. Although deaf people are finding that the internet enables them to do things they could previously only dream of, hearing people - especially employers - have yet to wake up to the difference it has made. When that happens, it really will revolutionise life for deaf people.
Mail safeI have been receiving emails that I suspect may contain a virus. What is the best way of deleting them in the Outlook Express in-box, while making sure they don't open?KMLJack Schofield replies:Security depends on taking a number of steps. First, make sure you are up to date with Microsoft's critical security patches (search Google for Q321232). Many common viruses exploit holes that were blocked months or years ago. Second, increase your security level. Run Outlook Express, select Tools | Options and click the Security tab. Click the radio button marked: Restricted sites zone (More secure). You can adjust the settings by clicking on Restricted Sites in Internet Explorer under Tools | Internet Options | Security. Third, turn on the display of file extensions. Go to Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options, and click the View tab. Untick the box that says: Hide file extensions for known file types. Some viruses look like harmless text files (.txt) because the real extension is hidden (.txt.scr for example).Fourth, turn off Outlook Express's Preview Pane: it is under View | Layout. If you like previews, put an icon on the toolbar so you can add or remove the pane with one click. You can do this under View|Layout by clicking the Customizer Toolbar button. With the Preview Pane off, you can now scroll down your incoming mail and delete unwanted email. If you want to examine a message in more detail first, right-click it, select Properties, click the Details tab and then the Message Source button at the bottom. The raw text of the message will appear in a pop-up box where you can scroll through it without the risk of it doing anything nasty.You may also want to install a program that checks mail for viruses, and you could consider switching to a more secure email program, such as The Bat! or SecureBat! (www.ritlabs.com/securebat/). But it is a mistake to think you can trust one thing to protect you. A virus checker will not do it, nor will installing security patches or mail software. You must be methodical, observant, suspicious and - when it comes to deleting unsolicited attachments - brutal. I take the view that if I didn't ask for something, I don't need it.FaviconsMy Favorites menu used to feature a customised icon next to each entry - the Y of Yahoo or the GU of Guardian Unlimited. Why have they vanished?John LeeJS:The fancy icons are called favicons. They are usually stored in the Temporary Internet Files folder, which means they can be lost when you clear the cache. Also, they all seem to have the same name, which doesn't seem to be a very bright idea. However, if you can find your icon in the cache, you can save it by copying it to another directory: create one called Favicons. Press F2 and change the favicon's name to something sensible, such as Yahoo.ico or whatever. Next, go to C:\Windows\Favorites and find the shortcut file for the website.Right-click it, select Properties, and click the Change Icon button. Click the Browse button at the bottom, select your renamed icon, and it should stick.LavaI have had problems downloading Lavasoft's Ad-aware program, which you recommended.Ann GordonJS:Majorgeeks seems to work best. Go towww.major geeks.com/article.php?sid=506and click on Planet Arden (bottom right).Site wantedI try to connect to http:// FT.com, but I get http://news.ft.com/home/us/. I live in the US, but I want to read the UK version of the Financial Times. I have tried changing the language setting in my browser to en-gb but it makes no difference.James CheyneJS:Big sites now use a variety of ways to place you geographically, including your IP address, language and time settings. However, you should be able to get to sites you want (news.ft.com/home/uk) by arriving via a different IP address: that is, by using a proxy server as an intermediary. You can find lots at www.multiproxy.org. Alternatively, use an anonymous surfing service such as ID Zap (www.idzap.com), which works as an anonymous proxy.Backchat&#183;Last week, Tony Hill of The BRIT School asked if there was a "one-way message system" that could send colourful messages to users on the network. Rob Godfrey has developed a system called ViewPost for educational use that could be useful. "The system is currently being used at Leeds Metropolitan University, where I work. More details are available atwww.viewpost.co.uk".&#183;Ed Perry was suffering from eyestrain (June 27), and lots of readers suggested reducing screen contrast. Duncan Loft said he'd switched to his own "rather drab-looking" colour scheme based on Eggplant. You can change Windows' settings by right-clicking on the desktop, selecting Properties, and clicking the Appearance tab. There's a wide range of options under Scheme. Mary Spence said it helped to change the background colour of documents: the setting for that is on the next drop-down list, Item. Moze Jacobs fitted a glare guard over the screen.&#183;Don Rushforth wanted to print directories from Windows Explorer and I suggested Karen's free printer (www.karenware.com/powertools/ptdirprn.asp). Ed Brown uses another free program, PrintFolder 1.2 (http://no-nonsense-software.com/freeware), which I don't like as much. However, No Nonsense software also offers TexRep 1.1, which will replace text in multiple files in a single operation. Some people will find this very useful and it can be a hard feature to find.&#183;Michael Miller wanted to sell some old home computers and I suggested eBay. Paul Baines points out that CEX  (www.cex.co.uk) - otherwise known for its Computer Exchange shops - buys and sells equipment. Stephen Engelhard adds that you can dispose of old PCs by giving them to Computer-Aid (www.computer-aid.org), which refurbishes them for use in developing countries.
It is no surprise that a billion personal computers have been shipped: what's surprising is that it has happened so soon. According to Gartner Dataquest, which tracks sales, it happened in April, though the announcement was only made last week. Now we are looking forward to the next billion, which Gartner thinks will be shipped by early 2008. The PC industry is supposedly dead on its feet, but Gartner expects shipments to grow from 125m last year to 226m in 2008.Let's put that a little differently. Gartner expects PC   sales to grow from last year's 342,455 per day to around 619,000 per day, including Sundays and holidays.If this is an impressive statistic now, imagine how it would have sounded to the companies that pioneered the market. MITS, which is credited with offering the first commercially successful PC, the Altair, was amazed to sell a few hundred. Even in 1977, when the first consumer-oriented machines reached the market - the Tandy TRS-80, Commodore PET and Apple II - annual sales only reached 48,000 units.Gartner says 75% of the first billion were snapped up by businesses. And while the consumer market spawned a confusing morass of incompatible, proprietary and mostly short-lived systems from Acorn, Amstrad, Apple, Atari, Commodore, Dragon, Oric, Sharp, Sinclair and dozens more, businesses went with the company that had dominated data processing for 50 years: IBM.As Gartner Dataquest puts it: "The big break for personal computers came with the introduction of the IBM PC in 1981. Although the IBM machine was expensive and, in hindsight, carried a certain amount of baggage, it drove ironclad standards into the PC industry. The revolution came from the realization that   absolutely standard hardware eliminated the need to create multiple versions of software for slightly different platforms, and instead advanced the software to deliver on the promise of personal computing."The IBM PC and its clones powered sales from 609,000 a year in 1980 to 15m a year in 1985. And since IBM - fighting the last of a series of anti-trust cases - had based its PC on an Intel processor and Microsoft software, these small companies benefited most from the newly competitive market.The next period "of particular note", according to Gartner, "is the extended period of strong growth that started in 1993, the result of the introduction of Windows 3.1 and the software-hardware upward spiral that was driven by Microsoft and Intel." That took annual sales from 32m a year in 1992 to 115m in 1999.The fact that a billion PCs have been shipped does not mean a billion have survived. Few PCs last more than four or five years before they become obsolete. But allowing for hand-me-downs,   Gartner reckons about half are still in use.If the PC industry is to meet Gartner's projections for 2008, then it won't be enough for all today's users to buy new models, though most will. It will also have to sell new types of equipment and reach new people. The most obvious new type of equipment is the notebook PC, around since the 1980s. However, Gartner estimates that 81.5% of the PCs sold have been desktops. Only 16.4% have been "mobiles", with the remainder being servers.The shift to notebook PCs is noticeable, and Microsoft is hoping to drive it with the Tablet PC design that will be introduced on November 7.The other hope for growth focuses on "emerging markets such as China, Latin America and Eastern Europe", says Gartner. The US has taken almost 40% of PCs shipped, with 25% sold in Europe and 9% in Japan, markets that may be nearing saturation.The drive into less developed areas is helped by falling prices. In the early 1980s, a business PC cost about &#163;2,500. A dozen years later, the typical price was about &#163;1,500. Today it is less than &#163;1,000. The fall is even more dramatic if you include the thousandfold increase in power - from 2MHz processors in early computers to   2GHz today - and inflation.But the future is not assured. One problem Gartner highlights is the "looming spectre" of content protection. The entertainment industry is "pushing hard for powerful legislation that will cripple PCs by preventing them from freely managing digital content. Content protection is shaping up to be a war with economic development at stake."The consumer electronics giants don't want you using PCs that perform multiple tasks such as word processing, playing games, surfing the net and burning audio and video content. They would rather sell you half a dozen different devices where they retain control of what happens to their content.The PC industry is planning to introduce the same kind of control through the Trusted Computing Platform Alliance (www.trustedcomputing.org), founded by IBM, Intel, Compaq, HP and Microsoft in 1999. Although IBM is building TCPA chips into some of its PCs, Microsoft's approach, Palladium, has attracted most attention.Will consumers continue to buy PCs that try to enforce digital rights management? You decide.Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There was a time when you could casually judge a PC computer game by the number of discs it came on, the allure of the box image and whether the manual could double as a doorstop. But, with the birth of the online generation, the face of gaming changed forever and a game's success soon became judged on the size of the virtual communities it attracted.Now things are changing again. The past few years have seen a rising tide in fan-created gaming, initially through gamers hacking into original game code and making their own modifications to the original content, and more recently through the developers themselves releasing official toolkits and code online. Realising that gamers are no longer content with prime steak - now they want the cow and the barbecue, too - developers have started to include toolkits as part of the gaming package. PC games development is no longer just a case of "look what we can do", but "look what  you can do".The fast-paced gameplay of titles such as Half-Life, Unreal Tournament and Quake III, along with their associated online communities, have made the first-person shooter genre (FPS) the most popular target for budding level designers and fan modifications (mods). Most notable among these is Counter-Strike, a team-based terrorist versus counter-terrorist mod for Half-Life, which did for FPS mods what Lara Croft did for lonely male gamers. Counter-Strike's blend of realism and fun won it numerous awards, and regularly captured between 70,000 and 80,000 players at any one time. Doom creator John Romero even said it provided "a strong hope for the future of the genre."The    success of Counter-Strike was compounded further this year when it finally got a commercial release. Since then, every developer has dreamt of their game getting the Counter-Strike treatment. It brings big benefits. For a start, fan mods are the perfect way to procure new talent (many of the original creators of Counter-Strike have now been employed by the developers of Half-Life). It also ensures a steady stream of toolkits and code, plus another planned commercial release for the Unreal Tournament fan mod Tactical Ops.  Graeme Devine, developer at id Software (maker of the Doom and Quake series) says his company has "undoubtedly" benefited from a large community using its tools and modifying its source code to make its games more popular. "We see new talent and groups rise that enter our industry and expand it," he adds. "Groups and individuals that perhaps would have not made it into the game industry have an opportunity with a mod to show off their talent inside a mature environment and get noticed."Although basic terrain editors have been a feature of strategy games for a while, it's taken until now for developers to really embrace the idea of providing specially   designed toolkits as part of a game. It started as a trickle last year with Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, an atmospheric military simulation from the Czech Republic, which gave players the tools not only to create their own levels, but also structure missions, complete with cut scenes and music.  But the downpour of in-game editing tools has come from an unlikely quarter, that of role-playing games. Until recently RPG had been one of the least edited genres because they require more than just combat or strategic considerations, but also attention to storyline and character development. But in the past couples of months three RPGs - Dungeon Siege, Morrowind and Neverwinter Nights - have all been released with extremely sophisticated editing tools. The Aurora toolkit included with Neverwinter Nights is a perfect example of how developers are not only responding to gamers' demands for powerful editing tools, but also how games are being structured around the idea of being restructured."We spent a significant amount of effort making sure the toolset was extremely functional and easy to use," explains Dr Greg Zeschuk, co-executive producer of Neverwinter Nights. "Many of the decisions we ultimately made on the game reflected the fact that our fans would be using the tools, and that they would have a variety of levels of technical ability.  "Neverwinter Nights was developed using the same tools as we shipped with the game. Ultimately, it was a very easy decision to include the tools in the final release because they are so central to the game experience."But Graeme Devine of id Software is sceptical about the future of in-game editors: "The ability to hack and add on to a game is certainly fun and gives certain games a larger presence, but this presence is mostly online, and not all games are online.  "For some games, it's akin to having a new Stephen King book come out and allowing anyone to add a new chapter. It doesn't work."  Only time will tell whether PC games development as a whole will make more of a conscious shift towards providing more in-game tools for fans as a way of bolstering the online community and ensuring the longevity of their titles. But for now, let us revel in our new toys - for we, too, can now become the builders of worlds.
The global communications industry is in turmoil. Dubious accounting practices, profit warnings and corporate collapses have destroyed the confidence of the financial community in companies that painted themselves as the pick and shovel merchants of the dotcom gold rush - guaranteed to benefit what  ever happened.The fear is that the dramatic collapse of some of the companies that control swathes of the internet will cause the global information superhighway to resemble the M6 motorway at rush hour on a Friday night - traffic crawling at a snail's pace with nothing able to get either on or off.The industry    experts say this will not happen, but there is the potential for a dramatic change in the way the UK's 11m households with internet connections experience the web. The future of US giant WorldCom is in doubt after it revealed the largest corporate fraud in US business history. The Mississippi-based company owns UUNet, one of the original pieces of the web. It carries about half the world's emails, and 70% of all emails sent in North America zip through its vast fibre optic network every day.This side of the Atlantic, Dutch rival KPNQwest has already started shutting down after running out of cash in May. Its data network, called Ebone, stretches across the continent and transports roughly a quarter of Europe's internet traffic. With two such key players in the internet facing possible extinction, European websurfers fear a return to the days of the world-wide wait as web pages get snarled up on the network - or worse, the internet goes dark.But the internet is more resilient than the doom-mongers predict. Last week, the new chief executive of WorldCom, John Sidgmore, who used to run the company's internet operation UUNet so should know a thing or two about the business, said he did not see "any significant chance of the UUNet network going dark under any circumstance". "I am as confident as I can be that customers are not going to wake up and not have service. I really just don't believe that's possible," he said. Part of the reason for his confidence is that the company's customers include some of the US federal government's largest agencies, not least the Department of Defense and the Department of State.This side of the Atlantic, Stephen Timms, the new e-commerce minister, also reckons that everyday consumers will not see the internet collapse merely because a US company has been found to be cooking the books. "This is not a flash in the pan. This is where the economy is going and that will continue. I certainly watch very closely what is happening to WorldCom but I do not think that is going to have much impact on users who will continue to increase the extent to which they are using these technologies and the extent to which their businesses depend on them," he said. One of the reasons that many in the industry believe consumers will not see a major degradation of service, is linked to the very nature of the internet. There is an old - in online    terms - idea that the internet was created so the US military would still be able to carry out basic communications activities in the event of a nuclear war.As with most ideas, this is in part true. The US department of defense (DoD) was one of the original sponsors of the Arpanet programme in 1969 which helped link universities, research labs and - crucially for the DoD - institutions in Nato countries to a wide area network. The protocols and technologies that the original handful of scientists produced to operate that network have enabled the internet to withstand various shocks in its history. To understand why the removal of some networks will not cause the entire internet to collapse it is necessary to understand two things: how the internet is constructed and how the modern internet industry has evolved. When a dial-up, broadband or corporate internet user makes a connection to the internet it is done through an internet service provider (ISP). They take the call from the local telephone exchange - or direct from the premises in the case of businesses - and route it through their network to their nearest point of presence (PoP) on the    internet backbone, a vast network of interconnecting fibre optics.Once at this point the ISP is able to navigate a course through the web using a technological specification known as border gateway protocol version four (BGP4). This protocol enables dynamic routing of internet traffic through what are termed domains - communications systems that form the internet backbone, such as large communications networks, internet service providers and even the systems of large companies.BGP4 is the internet equivalent of an airline ticket: the system knows where you want to go and if the destination cannot be reached in one flight through one domain then connecting flights will be arranged. The connections between these domains can be on an international scale through National Access Points (NAPs), on a national level through Local Access Points (LAPs) or by two domains connecting directly to each other. "If the route disappears the protocol allows for another route to be found," explains Mike Galvin, head of customer service and operations at BTOpenworld. "The way the protocol works is that everybody has a table of who else they talk to so if you want to talk to    someone you have no direct connection with you know who to call on.""A typical link to a busy site in the US might go through half a dozen domains." So plotting the progress of an internet connection between the UK and, say, the University of California would involve several networks. There is the initial dial-up connection through the local phone line (usually BT), to the local telephone exchange. Sometime after the exchange the call is captured by the ISP's own network provider - such as Energis or BT again - and taken to the ISPs PoP on the internet.  From there it's a short trip through a transatlantic cable - perhaps using the same network or maybe WorldCom's MCI unit or C&amp;W - to the US. The connection is then picked up by a US operator, probably the University's ISP such as one of the local Bell operating companies. BGP4 negotiates with all of these networks along the way and calculates the best possible route. If any network is suddenly switched off, the dynamic routing capability of the internet looks for alternative means to get the connection to its destination.This complex architecture of the internet illustrates the second reason why many in the industry are confident that web users will not suddenly be left out in the cold. Most ISPs have connections with more than one communications network and all of the network operators have built more network than they need. There is a capacity glut in the market. For instance, industry experts estimate that less than 10% of Europe's optical fibre network is actually being used. The point is proved to some extend by the failure of KPNQwest to sell its Ebone network to anyone. If the network really was so important to the internet in Europe why did no one want it?Richard Elliott, chairman and co-founder of Band-X the independent trading platform for buying and selling different types of telecom network capacity, reckons the answer is simple - network operators are waking up to the fact that "there has been a monumental overestimation of the size of the underlying market."The communications market has been obscured by new carriers arriving on the scene and buying up or building new capacity. Communications companies have built or bought more than they needed because of over optimistic expectations about growth in internet traffic.  In the current financial climate investors do not want to see companies squandering their money on networks that are not being used. That is why some communications companies have been dabbling in a practice known as hollow-swaps where they exchange capacity with other networks and book the deal as a sale even though no traffic actually passes across the network. The ending of such practices - not least because the regulators both sides of the Atlantic will no longer stand for them - should leave the remainder of the internet industry in a much better position because it will have to stand on its own two feet. "There is a lot of overcapacity and this rationalisation process might end up leaving the remaining companies even stronger," according to the UK head of ISP Tiscali Sirgio Cellini.  His message to residential internet users is "don't panic" the internet will survive.In practice, the greatest   threat to the smooth operation of the internet is likely to come from the same quarter as it has in the past - too many people trying to log on to one specific site. While the swarm of internet users who tried to log on after September 11 caused problems in some areas it was actually nothing compared with the publication of the Starr report into Bill Clinton's dalliance with Monica Lewinski. In the UK one of the most recent bottlenecks was caused by people logging onto internet sites that gave details of the recent solar eclipse in the west country, according to Mike Galvin. "There have always been big events on the internet. I do not think a year has gone past when there have not been major changes in backbone companies, new businesses coming in and old ones going bust. Through all of this the internet has survived." And it is likely to survive this current crisis.
Nice OneYou can now listen to most BBC music programmes whenever you want. Late last month, BBCi finally launched a "radio on demand" service for its national radio stations. Much of BBC speech radio has been "on demand" for some time, but wrangles with record companies prevented the BBC from archiving its music shows in the same way. Now, thanks to a new licensing deal, you can listen to shows such as John Peel, Mary Anne Hobbes and next month's Proms concerts on the web up to a week after transmission. You have to use the Beeb's (Real-based) media player and listen to two-hour shows in their entirety, though there is a "skip 15 minutes" button for PC users. You cannot skip tracks or repeat songs.  The service has also prompted an overhaul of the    Radio One site. It now offers regular online chats with Radio One DJs, exclusive music sessions and a new section for unsigned bands.www.bbc.co.uk/radio1 www.bbc.co.uk/promsTate in spaceThe Tate has unveiled a new online exhibition themed around ideas of space. The site is still in its early stages, but already there is space (sorry) for online debates, a competition to design an orbital gallery, and news of a "Tate satellite". The Tate says more projects will be added.www.tate.org.uk/spaceWith VermeerJean Paul Sartre once said that to stand before Johannes Vermeer's View of Delft was to be transported through time into the Netherlands of the late 16th century. Now there is a website that allows you to explore the courtyards and canals that lie just beyond Vermeer's masterpiece. Dutch art historian Kees Kaldenbach and a team from the Polytechnic of Delft have built a virtual three-dimensional model of the golden age city using only drawings by Vermeer and four of his contemporaries.    You can explore their work via five short downloadable movies. Each takes a static drawing as its starting point. The camera dives into the pictures, swooping past boats and under bridges into the heart of Vermeer's Delft. Everything is rendered in original pen and ink: nothing has been added to the originals.www.io.tudelft.nl/id-studiolab/vermeerwww.xs4all.nl/~kalden/verm/ walk/3D_walkENG.htmMedium townLaunched during last month's Architecture Week, Medium Town is a year-long project to create a photographic directory of UK towns. The site aims to categorise the "uncelebrated    architecture" we rarely notice. It has chosen nine categories - including leisure centres, parks and even the humble bus stop - to show what our town centres really look like. Only a few towns are online, but you can register yours and upload pictures. What's there shows how homogenous many of our town centres are. The site has the potential to work as a critique of contemporary urban design and offer a snapshot of town life in the early 21st century.www.mediumtown.comGreen blogsGreenpeace has redesigned its website and added a number of features, including its first weblog. This joins a growing number of Green weblogs that have sprouted in    the past few months. UK Environment is a neat digest of green issues, with a special fondness for nature. Elsewhere, Reiner G&#228;rtner, an Oregon-based journalist, edits a good blog with a global perspective, while Blue Green gives news and opinions with an American accent.   http://weblog.greenpeace.orgwww.ukenvironment.org www.greenswitch.org http://bluegreen.weblogs.comNot all folks!New Warner Brother cartoons featuring old favourites like Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck are online at the new Looney Tunes UK website.www.looneytunes.co.ukShare itWoodstock Systems is touting itself as a possible solution to the problems of file sharing music files. It uses a version of instant messaging that allows you to stream MP3s stored on your hard drive to friends. However, you cannot keep the files. It is hard to see the point, since instant messaging programs can already be used to share files. With AOL Instant Messenger, for example, you can get files from other users or send them via the Direct Connection feature    of the standard message window. Either way, the recipient can save and replay the file.www.woodstocksystems.com www.aim.com
It's not often that anyone out is there is gutsy enough or, indeed, mad enough to give Bill Gates and the ubiquity of his Microsoft empire a run for its money, but a small Glaswegian software company thinks its can.The company, Itsnotrocketscience, is not exactly taking on the full might of Microsoft, of course, but is instead concentrating on the presen tation product Powerpoint with its own product called Pollenate. Pollenate is a nifty little application that differentiates itself from Powerpoint in three crucial aspects.First, it allows real-time video streaming presentation graphics, allowing organisations to differentiate the delivery and design of business presentations. Second, it allows you to write on the presentation with your mouse thanks to a technology called Scribble Layer, recreating a "flipchart" presentation. Third, it enables corporate control with different levels of administrator levels for editing. This is designed to ensure brand and corporate consistency as company logos and so on can only be changed by   a certain administrator level.But perhaps the most interesting point of differentiation is that it is, in fact, not too different. Pollenate is designed with the traditional Powerpoint user in mind and uses the same amount of hard disk space despite numerous additional features. Itsnotrocketscience has also worked Bluetooth technology into the mix to allow more remote presentations via a speaker's personal digital assistant for instance.Why does Istnotrocketscience believe additional features will be enough to grab a healthy stake of the $200m presentation market? It argues that users are bored with Powerpoint. The argument goes that no one ever set out to buy Powerpoint: they   got it as part of their Office package.Yet this is not to say the company thinks there's anything wrong with the success of Microsoft or the giant's dominant marketing strategy. Instead, it sees Pollenate as a niche product aimed at professionals in certain sectors, such as Apple is in the publishing or design sectors.www.inrs.co.uk
Scratch cards for topping up prepaid mobiles will soon become a thing of the past. The Link network of cash machines is about to announce an agreement that will enable prepaid customers to top up their phones at almost any UK cash machine.The system, which will be rolled out from the autumn, will use software from the US-based ACI Worldwide to authorise the transfer of cash from users' bank accounts to the phone numbers they tap in at the ATM. Vodafone is expected to be the first network offering Link top-ups.In a separate development, touch-sensitive screens at which you can add talk time to a prepaid mobile will also start appearing in supermarkets and other retail outlets later this year after a launch today by the mobile payment company Paybox and IBM.Barry Shrier, UK sales and marketing director of Paybox, says: "With existing arrangements for adding credit to a mobile, it's still possible to be out in the early hours and run out of talk time, just when you   want to call a cab."He says the new system can be installed inside or outside shops or in pubs or hotel lobbies. Users will simply touch the screen, select their mobile network, choose the amount they want to spend and either type in their mobile number or swipe through a plastic card containing it.Depending on the location, the screen/kiosk can be available 24 hours a day. Paybox says the system will be secure because it will phone the customer's mobile immediately to verify the transfer of, say, &#163;20 from their bank account. A personal identification number will also have to be typed on the mobile's keypad before the transaction goes ahead.Would-be paybox users must pre-register their bank account details on the company's website ( Paybox.co.uk ) and pay &#163;9.99. They can also use paybox to pay for some other goods and services using just a mobile.Even before this month's developments, mobile operators were trying to reduce their reliance on mobile scratch cards sold through   newsagents and other stores. The cost of distributing them cuts into their profit margin and there is a risk of theft.They are also fiddly to use. Purchasers scratch off an area of the card to reveal a unique number. They phone up the mobile operator and give them the number to get their   phone topped up.But in May, the mobile operator Orange announced the UK's first cash machine top-up service with Abbey National. The service is already in operation in some areas but by autumn, any of the bank's customers with Orange prepaid phones will   be able to use any of its 3,000 cash machines.In Belgium, where Orange customers have had cash machine top ups for three years, 30% of prepaid customers use this method.Most operators also offer electronic swipe cards. For example, you can pick up a plastic Vodafone E-TopUp card in Boots the chemist and dial 2345 to link the code on it to your mobile number. Then, whenever you need to top it up, you can take it into a store that displays the green TopUp symbol, hand the cashier between &#163;5 and &#163;25 or a credit or debit card, and - within 10 minutes - you can make calls again.Another option is to top up directly from the mobile phone. The internet company Network365's mzone avatar is a kind of mobile wallet that includes the customer's payment details. Mzone allows the mobile operator to send a text message to the customer reminding them their account is low and needs to be topped up. Money can then be deducted from the user's credit or debit card.It is also possible to top up a prepaid mobile over the internet - or over the phone - using a credit card. And if you're abroad, foreign scratchcards are available."Scratchcards are still the most popular means of topping up for our prepaid customers," says Bryony Clow of Vodafone. "But we are hoping that in 12 months, topping-up electronically will account for more than half of all activity."
OversightMartyn Thomas makes a good point about oversight when he states that use of special powers should be monitored by an agency that reports to parliament (Feedback, July 4). The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act would have introduced to the field of communications data the oversight of the commissioner for the interception of communications. Unfortunately the recent campaign against the act has failed to prevent the accessing of data but succeeded in preventing the implementation of this much-needed oversight.John Donovanjohn@donovan.netIT cynicismRe: Technology that fakes the 'truth' (July 4). This story almost had me concerned for a second or two. Then I remembered how my kid used to believe everything he saw on TV. Then he realised    that if it was animated, it wasn't real. Then he realised that if it was a movie, it wasn't real. I don't think it'll be hard for him to make the next jump: ie, if it's not verified by a trusted source, it's probably not real. There are plenty of spoof video clips doing the rounds, pretending to be real life, then showing a logo at the end. It's no leap to understand that political organisations can do the same thing. News channels will live or die on how reliable their footage is. Anything that can't be substantiated won't be taken seriously. Far from accepting fake news, we'll simply become more suspicious.Alistair McKechnieAlistair.McKechnie@ogilvy.comCase studyYour piece on customised computer cases reminded me of William Gibson's 1996 novel Idoru, in which a tribal group called The Sandbenders makes casings for futuristic laptops out of recycled aluminium cans, coral, turquoise and other natural materials. In his follow-up, All Tomorrow's Parties (1999), two theories are advanced for the beige/grey cabinet rule. Either it's an unthreatening comforter for users, or the designers are unconsciously    terrified of their product and, as a result, kept it as unexciting as possible. I know which I prefer...Chris Rogerschristopher.rogers@glmca.mcs.gov.ukBad server/ceFurther to John Russell's letter (Feedback, July 4) about the amount of downtime on BT broadband servers. Every day of the week June 17 - 20 our BT email account was down. A few emails trickled in, out of office hours, and emails could be sent, but things were clearly not working properly at the server end. For three consecutive days I tried their helpdesk, each time giving up after being on hold for more than 30 minutes. On the fourth day I stayed on hold for an hour and finally got to speak to someone. The helpful (yet helpless) operator said yes, they knew, it was all being caused by a migration to new mail servers by BT. Their helplines had been swamped. The thing that really infuriates is this: BT has more websites than you can shake a mouse at. They have my email address. They have a "service update" automated message line that is free to call and always accessible. Yet none were used to alert me - and presumably thousands of others - that planned server work might cause an inter  ruption in service. It's amazing how many different ways the digital revolution can give you of failing to communicate.Nick Parkernikkus@postmaster.co.ukSwitched offIan McGhee's problem with Star Office (Online, July 4) has a familiar look to it. In our case, the operating system is Windows Me, and the office suite is Microsoft Office 2000. If Word gets itself confused, it comes up with an error message telling me that I need to shut down the application; if the problem persists, I will need to restart Windows. Unfortunately, when I click on the OK button, the message pops up again, and again, and again...Even the brutal approach of the Vulcan nerve pinch (Ctrl-Alt-Del) won't break the deadlock - the only thing to do is switch off the power. Sun 15, Microsoft 15, I think!Ian Parki.d.c.park@ntlworld.comOpen officeIan McGhee (Feedback, July 4) should not be surprised that Star Office 5.2 doesn't work with Windoze XP; that particular version of the program was probably written before Bill G even thought of inflicting XP on the world. The good news is that the    successor to Star Office, Open Office is now available. The even better news is that it's free and available under the GPL from Openoffice.orgTony Greentony@beermad.co.uk
How important is having Anita Roddick.com?At first it was an experiment. Now it's become a central place for me to organise my thoughts, and to communicate with a much broader audience. The most satisfying revelation has been the weblog community - such a vibrant group of thoughtful people and such an amazing way to share wisdom, outrage and information. It's like being a single synapse in a massive, decentralised, global brain.Which weblogs/sites do you visit?I'm a fan of the more progressive weblogs, like Cursor.org and Randomwalks.com. Ralph Nader's site (Essential.org) is essential. Nlcnet.org is good for information on sweatshop issues. Ben Cohen's Truemajority.org, Alternet.org and Junction-city.com are all good. And I also enjoy Guardian.co.uk.Is the net helping rekindle activism?There's a lot of potential for new forms of activism on the web. The best are probably parody sites such as http://gatt.org and Gwbush.com, which caused Bush to say, "there ought to be limits to freedom". As for activism, the best remain Greenpeace.org.uk and Amnesty.org.uk, which allow users to direct letters and emails of protest to the most effective places. Therainforestsite.com allows you to save a square of rainforest with one mouse-click. I also like Thehungersite.com, Indymedia.org and Workingforchange.com . I'm particularly interested in "hacktivism", which someone described to me as "electronic civil disobedience." One group systematically orchestrates denial-of-service attacks on government websites of Mexico and the US to protest those countries' treatment of the Zapatista rebels. They called it a "virtual sit-in". I think it's brilliant.Should more be done to give everyone net access?There's no point waiting for governments to provide access to the people in developing countries; that won't happen unless there's some corporate interest in doing so. I do see some clever entrepreneurship here and there. Amazoncoop.org is a collaboration between several Amazon tribes to develop businesses that will allow them to be self-sufficient. One of their projects has been an internet cafe on the edge of the rainforest in Brazil. The tribes now own the only ISP in a city of 70,000 people. I'd like to see more thought and entrepreneurial energy dedicated to establishing some common, non-commercial spaces on the internet. The net started out as a virtual public-square but now it's strip mall.Are governments using September 11 to try to regulate the net?Governments are using it to stifle all kinds of dissent by branding dissenters "terrorists". Governments become increasingly threatened by the free flow of information, and the more vulnerable they feel, the more restrictions they impose. You can see this in China, Australia and especially the US. It is ironic because the Taliban restricted internet access last summer. Now we're becoming just like the totalitarian regimes we're supposedly fighting!
Thiswill annoy those control-freak Apple PRs, then :-)
The LA Times reports on the $500ER1 household robotwhich "may do for the personal robot what Microsoft did for the personal computer by setting a standard operating environment in which others can innovate".
Infoworld'sslipis showing....
Aliceis much the best chat-bot on the Web (and IRC), and has twice won theLoebner Prize(aTuring test). But who is behind it? The New York Times reports on the troubledRichard Wallace. Alice featured on the site for Spielberg'sAIbut you can download your ownAlicebothere. (The code is free under the GNU GPL.)
Mac siteThink Secrethas a good editorial on Apple's long "private crusade to rid the world of Mac news sites they do not like". (Thanks to industry analystAmy Wohlfor the link.)
Three-quarters of staff dismissed for inappropriate internet use were downloading porn in the workplace, according to a survey published yesterday.Nearly 75% of companies have taken disciplinary action against staff for internet misuse, with a quarter having dismissed workers. Of those, 69% were fired for accessing pornographic websites.Of the 544 company human resource managers surveyed, 72% said they had been forced to deal with internet misuse. Some 40% of complaints came from co-workers who felt that their colleagues were spending too much time surfing and not enough working.The research, carried out by the software company Websense and Personnel Today magazine, found that chatrooms (26%) and personal emails (23%) were the next most common causes of internet-related complaints. Racist material, gambling and weapons sites were also frequently mentioned.More than half of managers preferred to deal with complaints by having a "quiet word" with workers, but around a quarter of cases ended with dismissal.Internet misuse is relatively new for employers, who have generally treated it as an IT rather than a human resources problem. In the past three years personal internet use in the workplace has almost trebled, with 45% of employees thought to surf during work time."Pornography is the category that people find most offensive and is the one most likely to cause the person to get dismissed," said Geoff Haggart of Webwise."You might for instance say that only one hour's personal surfing time a day is permitted, and no music can be downloaded until after 6pm."Then you can use software to manage that access. If you just ban it altogether you're just   going to come up with even more reasons to fire people."The survey found that managers believed 20 minutes of personal surfing a day was acceptable, even though they were more likely to surf when they should not than staff.The research showed that staff with their own offices or working alone were more likely to visit inappropriate sites.
Virtual nightmareMichael Greaves of Long Buckby, Northamptonshire, wanted to buy a new computer and went to Best Price Computers Ltd, based in Wembley, which he had seen recommended in magazines. But the machine, when it arrived, didn't work. Best Price collected and, apparently, repaired it, but problems continued. The company blamed them on dodgy software installed by Greaves, but an independent technician diagnosed hardware faults.Eventually, Greaves went elsewhere for another computer and took Best Price to the small claims court for a refund. As Best Price failed to contest the case he was awarded damages and costs last October. All happy and good. Except that Best Price chose to ignore the ruling. Greaves took out a warrant to recover his dues, but three months later discovered that the bailiffs had made no attempt to execute it because they thought that there would be nothing of value to seize at Best Price's offices."Best Price are still in business and their website proudly proclaims their high standards," says Greaves. "They even have a 'shark alert page' (but make no reference to themselves)."&#183;The saddest part of this tale is the ineffectiveness of the courts. "They're a pathetic means of getting money off somebody who doesn't want to cooperate," says solicitor Peter Ryder of John Boyle and Co. "Bailiffs aren't on performance-related pay and if you're brazen enough you can get away with anything because the whole system is founded on the premise that people are decent and will pay up."So what does Best Price say? "Thank you, thank you," effuses its director, Clinton Lee. The company did, he said, contest the case, it's just that it missed the deadline. It meant to apply for the judgment to be set aside and Lee claims he didn't realise that his colleagues hadn't got round to it. He's grateful to Consumer for alerting him and will immediately apply for an appeal hearing.But he is prepared to have the computer checked and repaired free "purely as a goodwill gesture and because Greaves is a Guardian reader". Lee's argument is that the original fault was a software problem and that subsequent hardware failures were caused by the independent engineer who "was like a plumber attempting brain surgery".This is not good enough for Greaves, who insists that the machine was a dud so - while still protesting its innocence - Best Price suddenly offers a full refund "in our usual cooperative spirit". Four months later Greaves has a cheque for &#163;1,438, which, Lee begs to point out, is purely an amicable gesture because the Guardian intervened and not an admission of guilt.For the record, plaintiffs who have trouble recovering money granted by a county court judgment can apply to the courts for the defendant to be interrogated about his assets; they can then seize the assets by making a garnishee application against a relevant bank or creditor. Defendants who fail to turn up for the examination could face jail.Line danceWhen David Ibry of London found that his internet line no longer launched him into cyberspace, he rang BT's 50p-a-minute helpline - and rang and rang, until he had notched up a bill of &#163;125. He was variously told to check his configurations, alter his settings and change his dialling number, but nothing worked. Then he learned that the cause was technical difficulties at BT's end; the company didn't have enough lines to support its service. Ibry tried to complain about being charged for BT's own failings, but was told that he wasn't entitled to a refund.&#183;The press office takes a kindlier view. "Problems with his email seem to have been a result of difficulties at our end about which he should have been informed," admits a spokeswoman. "It appears he was not and, as a result, he continued to call the helpline and incur costs."Ibry is to get a refund after all.BT world of its ownIn Edinburgh, Allan Jones had also lost his internet connection and was spending long hours on the helpline. Nothing worked. Then BT discovered that it had terminated his service for no discernible reason, and that he would have to queue for an average of 25 minutes on its order line to get it reinstated. Orders told him that he would have to reorder the whole service (and pay for installation) to get reconnected and passed him to sales where he was told that he couldn't re-apply for the same service.Back to orders, who transferred him to the helpline, which said that it couldn't help and that he would have to call orders. Orders concluded that he would have to pay for reconnection. Eventually his formal complaint brought the following emailed response from the BT Openworld complaint review team: "We at order management are constantly referring to a higher authority. Unfortunately, God, it would appear, is not suitably trained to resolve these problems. Mr Lucifer holds a key position within the organisation, personally overseeing all aspects of the ADSL process, ensuring that its service levels and reliability are like no other in the entire universe. We shall pass your complaint to our Hades office who will deal with it in the manner that has become customary within the organisation."If, the email continued, he wished to pursue the matter, he should be aware that the technical, wholesale and billing departments in BT are false gods in whom many benighted souls "have shown faith and been lost to the relentless wailing of the banshee-like hold music".&#183;"The person responsible for that email no longer works for us," says BT, tight-lipped. "We shall of course be contacting Mr Jones to apologise for the upset and inconvenience." And, hopefully, to restore the internet facility for which Jones has been paying during the month he has been without it.Modem mayhemPeter Smith has also been paying for a nonexistent BT internet service. His problem was that the all-important modem never arrived.BT promised to send another but, two months and many emails on, he's still waiting.&#183;Amazingly, BT's press office manages to secure said item and courier it to Smith the following day. The company has also refunded his first two months of service charges.Watford wind-upTwo readers in Watford are alarmed by an open letter warning of the following scam: a distressed, smartly dressed woman rings the doorbell and asks to use the phone as her car has broken down. She spends five minutes on the line, then departs. When your bill comes you find you've been charged &#163;250. "In fact," says the letter, "She has set up her own &#163;50-a-minute premium rate line and dialled that number on your phone."&#183;"It's a hoax," says a spokesman from the premium-rate line regulator Ictsis. "The highest premium rate tariff available is &#163;1.50 a minute and only network providers can dictate such charges."
The former pit village in South Yorkshire looked an ideal testing ground for the government's plans to ensure that, by 2005, all who want access to the internet will have it.Unemployment is more than twice the national average in Brampton Bierlow, one of seven deprived areas chosen for the &#163;10m Wired-up Communities (WuC) initiative, aimed at getting 14,000 homes online to show how being on the net can transform people's lives by improving their self-image and employment prospects.The government's policy action team has highlighted the dangers of exclusion - people on high incomes are eight times more likely to have access to the internet than those on low pay or benefits - when health information, banking, government,education, jobs and services are more and more available online.As well as unemployment problems, there are high levels of permanent disability, adult illiteracy and innumeracy in Brampton Bierlow, where the aptly-named Pit2Net pilot project was launched last year.Nine months into the project, however, only half the village's 1,200 households have signed up to the free   package, despite the project team having worked tirelessly to gain the confidence of the villagers and get them involved. There have been poor attendances at open days, little use of the resource centre set up in the miners' welfare club, and a lack of involvement in the website - even by people in the village who were online before Pit2Net started. A survey conducted solely among households which had signed up to Pit2Net proved a problem when only 56% bothered to respond.John Repen, project manager,   admits it is a matter of concern. "There is clearly a level of apathy directed towards the project," he says. "One of the most puzzling elements has been the apparent lack of interest displayed by a large proportion of the community."When you consider what they are getting for nothing, I'm surprised the take-up is only 50% - even though others have suggested this is a reasonable and realistic outcome."Under the project, every household in Brampton was offered unlimited access to the net and email   through the now defunct ITV Digital network, using set-top boxes provided free. It was the only pilot to use television in 100% of homes, but the project managers believed people with no previous exposure to new technology would find linking up to the net through a TV set more comfortable and less threatening. Training also was free.The project set up its own website, through which users could contact the council, check out jobs at the employment office and generally keep up-to-date with what was   happening in the community. All of it at no charge. Even when ITV Digital hit the rocks, Pit2Net drew up a contingency plan: free computers were delivered to each household and the set-top boxes replaced with a conventional connection to the net.The project has an "e-learning" factor, which has seen schools supplied with laptops accessed via wireless networks, interactive whiteboards, Intel microscopes, digital cameras and net cams. These have all been installed in the one junior and two infant schools that serve the village and have proved a big success.But while children reap the benefits, many of their families do not. There is resentment at talk of apathy, however, and an apparent and perhaps revealing confusion over what the project set out to offer. Residents commonly say they saw no point in signing up because they already had digital TV.Barry Fitzpatrick, secretary of the miners' welfare and a community activist, says: "We've tried telling &#91;the project team&#93; that many people didn't have to join up because they already had digital - and if they didn't want to go to computer classes, that's up to them. Take myself, I had digital so I didn't need to join. A lot of the older end keep themselves very busy. I don't go to computer classes because I don't have the time."Some locals are enthusiasts. Mother-of-two Helen Carr says: "People have been put off because it's new technology and they're frightened of it, which is sad, because this is a good thing for Brampton. My children are eight and 11 and the project is certainly helping their development. They really enjoy their homework because we have all these extra facilities to work with. It's changing people's lives. This is a great chance that the village shouldn't pass up."The Department for Education and Skills, which is behind WuC, acknowledges the problems in Brampton. A spokesman talks of "scepticism of initiatives" within the community, but argues that the ITV Digital problems have not helped. Brampton is "not doing too badly", he says, and the pilots together are on course to achieve net connection of 14,000 households by the end of the year.This "scepticism of initiatives" is best described by Terry Lewis-Clarke, who heads the Pit2Net team based at the local miners' welfare. It was here, at Cortonwood colliery, that the 1984-85 miners' strike began. It was the beginning of the end for pit communities like Brampton. The Thatcher government has never been forgiven and the community remains deeply suspicious of national government.Lewis-Clarke says: "They're helping us now so there must be a catch in it; that's what they think. The reasoning up here is you don't get owt for nowt."And when it comes to being frightened of new technology, I can empathise with them. I went to university late in life and it took me half-an-hour to dare ask someone how I switched on my computer. It's not easy to admit you don't know how to handle it. People here are proud. There's an enormous cultural barrier for many people to cross."On MessageBramptonis said officially to be not performing badly against the other communities in WuC, each of which has approached the challenge in a different way.Alston, in Cumbria, reports that it has connected up 658 households, the original target having been reduced from 1,200 to 780 after the project surveyed how many people in the community were already online.Blackburn East, in Lancashire, has just celebrated installing its 1,000th personal computer (PC), and is heading for its target of 2,500   households - all of which are already signed up.BothFramlingham, in Suffolk, and the Carpenters estate inNewham, east London, have hit problems that are out of their control. In Suffolk, the project was to use PCs from Tiny, but its parent company went into administration. However, the scheme has had a full take-up and a home awaits each of the 1,500 PCs when talks with the administrators conclude.In Newham, there have been technical problems with the broadband fibre installation and no one is   yet online courtesy of WuC. But all 600 households targeted have already joined the scheme. It is expected to be back on track by September.Ineast Manchester, the project has passed the 1,000 mark, though there is still a way to go to meet a target of 4,500 by the end of the year.The six communities follow the earlier success of the first WuC pilot, based inKensington, Liverpool, which installed a total of 2,000 PCs and is now looking for further funding to expand into a training organisation.
Gene Kan, the 25 year-old net pioneer behind the Gnutella file sharing network, died on June 29. News is slowing working its way around the net.Wiredhas the fullest account I've seen so far.
The Silicon.com newsletter's top headline today is "Google's magic formula - Get the Bloor Perspective". Thank goodness I clicked on thelink- the insight is blinding. Ahem. (lowest form of wit, I know...) Maybe we should have a "dumbest research note" contest?
Cable companies in the US are clamping down on people who let others share their broadband connection via wireless networks, reportsNews.com(andNewhouse Newshas a fuller feature on an alleged broadband 'thief'). You can be sure similar "crackdowns" will make it to this side of the pond as Wi-Fi takes off. What a shame the cable companies didn't come up with a more inventive solution than a cease and desist letter from their lawyers. A solution, say, likeBen Hammersley'ssuggestion that cable companies actuallyencourageWi-Fi sharing - but only to their own customers. Could an enlightened UK telco lead the way? Don't hold your breath...
(viaThe Register) Kent businessman Paul King wants to organise a demonstration outside BT's headquarters, sometime in August or September, to protest at Openworld's dismal levels of (broadband) service. "In our experience these are the worst suppliers we have ever encountered," writes King on hiswebsite.
Amy Wohlmakes a few astute observations on why Apple might have attempted to lock out the Mac rumour sites from the press room at next week's MacExpo. And yes, Apple in the US has the unpleasant habit of treating media - big and small - very badly indeed, just like lots of technology companies.But nobody seems to have made one rather important point: IDG, the show organisers, have not invited rumour sites to the MacExpo press rooms for a long time. I know, because this year in San Francisco (and weeks earlier, via fax from London) I went through IDG's horrendously bureaucratic registration process, designed to make sure I'm not anamateurgossip monger (hey - I do this for a living). I needed a letter from my editor, several forms of ID and proof I was a published journalist before I could eat their press-only danish pastries, and drink the gratis coffee. I'm at a loss as to why Matthew Rothenberg, who wrotethe piecethat kicked off this daft row, didn't make the call to check on these procedures. This ban is nothing new, and makes it pretty unlikely that "the company has apparently prevailed upon IDG World Expo". Maybe Rothenberg has an assistant to do all the pre-show paperwork for him; had he done it himself he'd know IDG hardly needs prevailed upon.Not that the paperwork has ever deterred the big Mac rumour sites, of course. The press room at MacExpo SF this year was full of rumour site people, despite IDG's efforts, and jolly good fun they were too, even if they ate all the sandwiches. And I predict they'll be there munching again next week too.
One in four UK companies has sacked employees for internet misuse, and porn sites were the most common reason, a survey for Personnel Today magazine has found.The research, published today, showed 69% of those fired for abusing their internet connections were surfing for pornography. The next most common causes were web chatrooms and personal emails.The research suggests that, if you feel the need to access porn on the company computer, you are best off doing it when none of your colleagues can see: 40% of all misuse complaints originated from co-workers.Most human resources managers felt that 20 minutes a day of personal surfing time was acceptable, but they felt actual use was closer to 30 minutes a day, the survey found. Researchers also noted that employees with their own offices were most likely to abuse their internet connection.Figures showed that 72% of firms have dealt with internet misuse, with about half of all managers prefering to deal with these complaints by having a "quiet word" with workers, while 29% prefer using verbal warnings.The study - also carried out on behalf of the management consultants Websense - interviewed 544 human resources managers and officers from companies employing an average of 2,500 people.Jonathan Naylor, a barrister in the employment, pensions and benefits division of the law firm Morgan Cole, said: "Dismissing an employee for internet misuse is a substantial cost to the employer. While there are the obvious costs of advertising for new hires, recruitment, training and supervision, there are also additional financial burdens caused by the interruption to work patterns, the damage to morale and the negative publicity to the organisation as a result of the dismissal.""This survey shows it is not enough for employers to have a policy on internet abuse," said Noel O'Reilly, of Personnel Today magazine."If companies want to stop staff from downloading pornography or other offensive material they have to make sure they communicate their policy clearly and regularly."
A Labour MP yesterday highlighted the perils as well as the advantages of using internet technology for political purposes when she apologised for letting her constituency website be used to promote unchecked claims about atrocities in the Middle East.Lynne Jones, MP for Birmingham Selly Oak, made her apology - over a constituent's claim that 86 Palestinian women had been raped by Israeli soldiers - on the day that Peter Mandelson, unveiled his ownHartlepool website.Dr Jones said last night that since setting upher websitein 1997, she had avoided trouble - until she posted the rape claim which she later amended to "not authenticated". As a result she has been innundated with abusive email from pro-Israeli campaigners who have not seen the now-withdrawn claim. To her dismay the pro-Palestinian camp is using her site to validate the claim.Recent increases in office staff and equipment costs has allowed MPs to become more ambitious. Email sent by MPs increased by 44% last year and MPs also received 1,300 new computers free.While Labour'sAnne Campbell, MP for Cambridge, was a website pioneer, the sites of Liberal Democrat MPsEd Davey(Kingston) andRichard Allen(Sheffield Hallam) have been praised.Ann Widdecombehad a mixture of hard news, surgery information and, crucially, everything you need to know about her cats.Mr Mandelson explained last night that he had been approached by website designers 4DMedia who wanted to provide him with the kind of site which might encourage other Labour MPs to develop websites. The result included access to dozens of the former cabinet minister's articles and speeches.&#183;To discover if your MP has a website search the Guardian's political database,Ask Aristotle.
The smouldering embers of the dotcom boom flickered into life yesterday when online auction group Ebay agreed to buy internet payments firm PayPal for $1.5bn (&#163;1bn).The all-share deal is one of the few internet sector takeovers in recent months to have been driven not by a desperate desire to survive but because both companies believe that together they could increase revenues.In an accompanying trading statement, Ebay also underlined its position as one of a small minority of internet firms consistently to turn a profit by raising its earning guidance.Silicon Valley's PayPal operates a payment system used by many of Ebay's customers. It has a membership base of 16m people and facilitates 295,000 secure online payments each day.Ebay said that following completion of the deal it will phase out its own payment system, run in conjunction with Billpoint.PayPal was co-founded by twenty-something technology guru Max Levchin, who wanted to create a secure online alternative to credit cards.He and co-founder Peter Thiel received backing from venture capital firm Sequoia. Michael Moritz, the Welsh-born and Oxford-educated Sequoia partner who funded PayPal, was also the initial backer of Yahoo! The Ebay takeover comes just five months after PayPal floated on the stock market for about $900m."Ebay and PayPal have complementary missions," said Ebay chief executive Meg Whitman. "Together we can improve the user experience and make online trading more compelling."Online payment is seen as a business that could help Ebay meet its stated goal of generating $3bn in annual revenue by 2005. PayPal generates 60% of its revenue from transactions on Ebay and will now look to sweep up the rest of the auction site's deals.The firm went public in February at $13 and traded as high as $30, before yesterday jumping 11% to $22 as the deal was announced.PayPal expects net revenues during the second quarter of about $54m. Ebay lifted its guidance on its own second- quarter revenues from $260m to $266m, putting it in line for its 16th consecutive quarter of profit.
At the time of writing, an article from The Observer --Earth 'will expire by 2050'-- is number one atBlogdex, which tracks the most popular items blogged. The question is, how long will the imminent end of the world keep people's attention? ;-)
TheXbox Linux Projecthas a news item dated July 6 that claims to have run the first Xbox program developed without the Xbox SDK (Software Development Kit). It doesn't say it is a Linux program.
Web-based payment systems have never taken off, but that could change ifeBay buys PayPal. I wonder if the negotiators had a browse athttp://www.paypalwarning.com/andhttp://www.paypalsucks.comfirst?
Like Dan, I'm all in favour of freedom of choice, but it strikes me as strange that anyone who believes in independence is willing to use Apple products. This is the company that prevents other suppliers from making compatible computers, and bought out Power Computing to stop it from providing users with cheaper, faster portable Mac-compatibles. It also stabbed its allies -- Motorola and IBM -- in the back by failing to follow through on CHRP (Common Hardware Reference Platform) designs that would run both Mac and PC software. However the fanboys and fashion victims dress up the facts, these were anti-competitive actions. In what universe is independence represented by limiting your choice of 10,000 PC suppliers to one proprietary PC supplier? And giving up most of your software choice. And suffering from things not working on the Web. Don't worry, Apple gives you a really big software bundle (much bigger than Microsoft) and you can buy your Mac with Mac monitor and Mac software and Mac T-shirt in your Apple shop -- at a suitably inflated price. Apple has been described as a benevolent dictatorship, but it is still a dictatorship. If you want to be independent, buy the bits and build your own PC (which Apple won't allow you to do) and put BSD or GNU/Linux on it and run Star Office 6. You will benefit from the huge cost savings created by the Windows PC market without paying Microsoft a cent, and that's fine with me. It may not be as easy as being spoon fed but who said it was supposed to be easy? If you really care, then you'll take the pain. If not, then spare me the bullshit about independence and ethics.
