The switched-on citizens of Bracknell Forest, a Thames Valley borough where eight out of 10 homes have internet access, may soon be getting new digital toys. Their local authority is considering issuing council SIM cards for mobile phones so that residents can identify themselves and order council services wherever they are. Paul Bettison, the council's leader, sees the scheme as a logical extension to the smartcards already issued as part of the council's e-government programme.Bracknell Forest is a pioneer, but it isn't unique in its enthusiasm for e-government. There's a lot of innovation about. This year's Local e-Government Now report* published by the local government IT managers' association SocITM with the Improvement and Development   Agency (IDeA), bulges with examples of councils doing their job better with the web, broadband and other information technologies.A lot of authorities, however, are not. Probably a majority are doing the minimum needed to qualify for e-government funding. This is why discussions of how to disseminate good practice from pioneers are currently filling so many e-government inboxes.The big worry is that good ideas don't spread on their own. Local organisations are rarely enthusiastic about taking up schemes piloted by their neighbours, even good ones. The whole point of being Market Snodsbury is that you do things differently to Little Snodsbury.Until recently, central government would have just set more targets. But targets (to mix metaphors) are blunt instruments.A fashionable alternative is to borrow commercial marketing techniques. The hot term in America is "sneeze success". The theory goes that 3% of consumers are innovators, ready to adopt anything new. If the product works, they will infect early adopters (the next 15%) who will in turn affect the majority. (The remainder, the laggards, are apparently beyond hope.)Such thinking depends on two big assumptions. First, that innovators such as Bracknell Forest will be allowed to try new ideas freely, and if necessary to fail. "We have to start celebrating failure," Costas Toregas, president of the US local government technology agency Public Technology, told Britain's local "e-champions" this month. It is not certain that the audit commission and the office of the deputy prime minister are ready for this concept.The second assumption is that e-government services behave like commercial products. In the Local e-Government Now report, Kate Oakley, of the thinktank Demos, argues that government cannot be treated merely as a provider of services to consumers: "when citizens become simple consumers of public services, their own ability to shape these services is reduced". The most important public goods - safe streets and good schools - cannot be achieved without citizens' participation.The logical conclusion is that innovation in e-government won't really spread until citizens start demanding it. However much we sneeze.*Local e-Government Now 2003: sustaining the momentum. £175 .www.socitm.gov.uk
Style issuesIn response to Jack Schofield's column (July 17), I wonder if he could clarify what makes a website "cool"? He      refers to websites such as Amazon, Google and eBay as examples of successful design: but these, according to      him, are uncool sites. Does this mean that only aesthetically appealing sites are cool? So sites with more      emphasis on functionality both for owner and user are uncool?Without waging a war founded on the subjectivity of "cool", I think the only way to progress is to stop pointing the      finger of blame at the "trendies" for a crop of inaccessible websites and focus more on the process involved in      delivering a website that both functions well and looks great.Forget the Jakob Nielsen-isms of accessibility and usability. There's no reason a usable site can't be visually rich.      Let's simply ensure the site's main objectives are fulfilled at the development stage. Everyone would be the      winner: the user would have an intuitive and visually pleasing site experience, the owners would enjoy increases in      revenue, brand equity and profit. And the design agency notches up one for the portfolio.Wouldn't that be cool?Kerry HarperSpring DigitalLondonSite for sore eyesThe mention of decorators with keyboards, in Jack Schofield's column, (July 17) struck a chord.       Here in Peterborough we have the headquarters of Deafblind UK and a major centre operated by the RNIB.       The Positively Peterborough promotional website has been adapted to make it accessible to people who are blind,      deaf-blind or have limited eyesight.Michael Hollandwww.positivelypeterborough.orgLooking goodRegarding Jack Schofield's column (July 17), the majority of web designers (myself included) are techies with a      good understanding of the web, its potentials and its limitations, and a desire to make their work accessible. We      also are aware of our limitations in terms of graphic design and enjoy working with talented graphic designers and      implementing their ideas.The problem is that web designers work for clients (very often represented by marketing departments) , who, in      most cases, have no understanding of the web or of graphic design and very little idea of what their website is      meant to achieve, but insist on imposing their taste and values on our work. I have often pointed to the Guardian's      website as an example of good, clear, accessible design. The response in the great majority of cases has been "Bit      boring, isn't it?"Gus ScottTaxing problemsThe reason why the British public are "voting with their feet" (Compulsive user, July 17) is less to do with the way      online government services are promoted and more because it is not user-friendly and lacks convenience.Look at the size of your average online tax forms - they tend to be long, unreliable and impossible to complete in      one session online.       Until we see more widespread adoption of technologies which offer convenient completion online and offline, users      will continue to stay away, regardless of the incentives offered. Instead, why not use intelligent forms which      automatically complete sections based on other data?The problem with thinking that financial incentives and penalties are the magic "cure-all" is that, when it comes to      IT matters such as the e-government initiative, those who are most responsive to such incentives are least likely      to own a computer. This is why the answer lies in usability.Mark WheelerAdobe Systems EuropeDiminishing returnsThere's no need to force me to send my tax return electronically: all they have to do is make it possible      (Compulsive user, 17 July). I used commercially available software to complete my form and secured my pin      number to file it to the Inland Revenue. That's as far as I got since my capital gains transactions numbered 20,      about a dozen more than the Revenue's system allows.Now, is it likely that my share trading is much above the      average for people who use online stockbroker services? I doubt it. If the government wants the public to use      their electronic systems they shouldn't exclude those of us who are already routine IT users.Alex SutherlandCambridgeBlog tipsFirst - keep up the good work - I enjoy the printed Thursday edition of Online and your blog.       I thought you might like to know about this: a Wap-enabled way of posting to Blogger or LiveJournal sites:http://ubique.ch/wapblogger.     You can use Wapsilonhttp://wapsilon.comto test it out from a PC. This way you can send new blog posts from the way to work. But make sure no anti-Mac bias is posted, eh? Just kidding.Luke BarkerWays with wordsHere in Quebec, we also have a lovely word for spam. The word "courriel" which means email, is combined with      "pourri" (rotten) to make "pouriel".Craig LappQuebec
Cisco riskReady-made code to bring down Cisco Systems' networking hardware has been made available on the internet only hours after the vulnerability was reported. Cisco discovered a flaw in how its Internetworking Operating System (IOS) handles IPv4, which renders most of its switches, routers and wireless access points vulnerable to denial of service attacks. When the hardware is flooded with data, it stops working and needs to be rebooted, so a widescale attack could take a network down for many hours. A major part of the internet is powered by Cisco hardware, so patching should be treated with great urgency, says security specialist Internet Security Systems.http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20030717-blocked.shtml%23secproGrid ironIBM is releasing a version of its WebSphere application server tomorrow using grid technology to balance the workload across several servers. This can improve the efficiency of a cluster of servers by ensuring that no processor remains idle when a spike of activity occurs, such as the morning rush to download emails.According to IBM, WebSphere 5.02 can cluster hundreds of servers, and next year, the grid will expand to allow load sharing among several clusters. IBM calculates that in a typical organisation, a mainframe is idle 40% of the time, and some PC and Unix servers may be actively serving for only 10% of the day.www.ibm.com/news/us/2003/07/211.htmlAirline sightsIT accessibility charity AbilityNet said this week that none of the nine most popular airline websites was fully accessible for the visually impaired. It judged Virgin Atlantic's site the worst, because it places important information within difficult-to-access Flash animation. AbilityNet rated EasyJet's website as best, although the charity said it still has a few features that cannot be used by the visually impaired. Owners of websites that are inaccessible to the disabled could be committing an offence under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, although no cases have yet been brought.www.abilitynet.org.ukSmall printCerience has released a free mobile viewer to allow documents produced using its RepliGo application to be viewed on a wide range of mobile platforms. Like Adobe Acrobat, the market leader in this field, RepliGo converts   documents to a file format that allows text and graphics to be viewed in their original fonts and formats, regardless of whether the fonts are available on the host device. Unlike Acrobat, the files produced are smaller and more applicable to the constrained memory used in mobile phones and handhelds. The RepliGo viewer is available for Palm OS, Pocket PC, Microsoft Smartphone, Nokia Series 60, Sony Ericsson P800, and Windows.www.cerience.com/viewers/pc.phpVeil goes upThe NHS has lifted a veil of secrecy on on its &#163;2.3bn electronic patient record system. Documents containing the specification of the integrated care records service (ICRS) have been posted on the website of the Department of Health's information policy unit. Extracts from the specification appeared in Online on June 12 (NHS spree revealed). At the time, the specification, which had been sent to companies bidding to supply the ICRS, was a closely guarded secret.The documents appeared on the site last week with the announcement: "This document is provided for information only. As it is a closed document, the National Programme will not be answering any queries about it, unless these are from suppliers as part of the current procurement process."First contracts to build and run the ICRS are due to be signed in October.www.doh.gov.uk/ipu/programmeJava jivesApplying a Model Driven Architecture (MDA) to Java development can deliver productivity gains of 35%, according to tests conducted by the Middleware Group. For the study, two equally skilled teams were pitched against one another: one used a standard code-centric development environment while the other employed Compuware's OptimalJ, based on MDA.The MDA team delivered the application in 330 hours, while the group using traditional methods finished in 507 hours, according to the report. The result confirms findings by analyst firm Gartner, that tools using models and design patterns will be needed to reduce the 70% of projects that miss both time and budget projections.www.middleware-company.comNeutralise RFIDPR agency Fleishman-Hillard has presented plans to the Auto-ID Center, a Boston-based group promoting controversial RFID (radio frequency identification) tags used for tracking products, which "neutralizes opposition" and "mitigates possible public backlash" to the technology. One suggestion would change the name of RFID tags to "GreenTag - a revolution in convenience, safety and value".www.autoidcenter.orgwww.nocards.org/press/pressrelease07-07-03_1.shtml
Moving house is always a financial shock, but not on this scale. When GCHQ (Government Communications Headquarters) first planned to shift its computers across Cheltenham to its new "doughnut" building, it estimated the cost at &#163;40m. The latest estimate, revealed last week by Parliament's watchdog, the national audit office, is &#163;300m.The auditors said the original estimate "had been made with little knowledge of the real costs" and cited "high level planning and management weaknesses". Although the audit concluded that the Cheltenham spooks are generally getting a good deal from their new HQ, the report will go on file as another government IT disaster.That's a big file. On the day the report was published, the Treasury announced it would no longer approve IT projects funded through the private finance initiative. A major review of the PFI found: "There is still room for significant improvement in the procurement of IT," which "has not delivered the step-change in performance that the government originally intended, and still requires".Although the Cheltenham computers are not PFI-funded, newspapers ran the stories together. Government IT fiascos are a routine news story: over the past year, we have had cost over-runs and delays in IT systems for courts, tax credits, criminal records and firearms. That the latest blunder involves GCHQ, which tells the rest of government how to run secure systems, is extra sauce.However, the reports did not ask whether government computer projects fail more often than those in the commercial sector, and if so, why.Both questions are important. IT fiascos cost money: the newspaper Computing recently estimated that &#163;1.5bn had been wasted over six years. There's another unquantifiable cost: to the public service's credibility and ability to modernise, especially through e-government. If civil servants and their contractors can't run a simple electronic database, why bother?Official thinking on whether government is uniquely incompetent seems to have changed over recent years. During most of the 1990s, the official line was to deny project failures wherever possible. But in 2000, a landmark report, Successful IT: Modernising Government in Action (usually known as the McCartney review after the minister then in charge) said: "Government IT projects have too often missed delivery dates, run over budget or failed to   fulfil requirements." Government and industry agreed to work together to resolve the issue.More recently, however, government officials charged with making projects run on time and budget have emphasised that the private sector has IT troubles, too.Earlier this year, Peter Gershon, chief executive of the office of government commerce, warned of "exorbitant claims" by IT suppliers who fail to deliver what they promise to government and commercial sector alike. His colleague, Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, talked at the same public event about "crap suppliers".Their source, apart from personal experience as computer customers, is a survey called Chaos, published annually by the Standish Group in the US. It consistently finds that less   than one third of all IT projects, in both government and industry, achieve what they set out in budget, timetable and functions.If government's record is indeed no worse than the private sector, this is a remarkable achievement. Both IT suppliers and government officials agree that public sector projects have to overcome special difficulties. These include:&#183;Poor project management. Audit reports consistently show that failed government IT projects had no one in charge. (In the 1990s, the national probation service information systems strategy had seven project managers in seven years.) The OGC is now trying to create a cadre of specialist project managers in the civil service.&#183;Tortuous procurement processes. An open public tender, advertised through the Official Journal of the European Communities takes months or years to complete. By the time the deal is signed, the system is often obsolete. Also, the process often ends with only a single bidder, which then has the customer over a barrel. Public bodies are not allowed to test the water as private firms do, by procuring a small system and then, if it works, scaling up. Public procurements tend to be "big bang", which increases the risk of failure.&#183;Political targets and multiple stakeholders. This is perhaps the most difficult of all. Most commercial IT systems have only one aim - to enhance a firm's bottom line. Government projects have to please politicians (who frequently change priorities), citizens and users.With these inbuilt obstacles, it is remarkable that any government IT projects work at all. But they do. One famous success is the NHS Direct call centre service.Neither is disaster irreversible: the Passport Agency, scene of a notorious fiasco in 1999, now runs rather well. The best local councils have been remarkably successful at e-government. At least one, Tameside in Glossop, already claims that 100% of its services are electronically available.Smallness may be one key to success. Fahri Zihni, president of the council IT managers' organisation SocITM, says that local government will never have big IT failures because it is close to its users. "We will never have mega disasters because as soon as something starts going wrong, something shouts."If anything, however, public sector IT contracts are getting bigger. The Inland Revenue and the NHS are both holding multibillion-pound IT procurements.Last week, the Inland Revenue an nounced a short list of two consortia in the bidding for a &#163;4bn project to run tax and national insurance IT over 10 years. To encourage competition, the government has paid bidders' costs to the tune of &#163;9m.Meanwhile, at the Department of Health, a team under Richard Granger, the highest paid civil servant on the government payroll, is vetting would-be suppliers for the &#163;2.3bn NHS National Programme for IT. Bidders have been told that they will have to demonstrate that their systems work before being paid, and post bonds of hundreds of millions of pounds to be forfeited in the event of failure.Whatever the truth about government as an IT customer and project manager, the time for excuses is over.&#183;Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ): New Accommodation Programmewww.nao.gov.uk.
Did you follow last week's string of computer company financial results? If you didn't care, that is a good sign. It was not always so.Until recently, many businesses had to be seriously concerned about the financial health of the companies whose IT products they chose. Some still are. For example, companies that use programs from JD Edwards, Peoplesoft and Oracle will be watching the current takeover battle to see what happens next.When a computer company gets taken over or goes bust, it is bound to create uncertainty about the future of its products. If it goes bust, the stuff you have paid so much for could suddenly acquire a negative value, if you are faced   with an expensive conversion to a different product. If someone else takes it over, it could become even more expensive, and/or head in a different direction from the one you planned.Historically, many product evaluations have been weighted to avoid this awful prospect, even if it meant paying more for an inferior product. And since bigger companies tend to be both richer and more risk-averse than small ones, this has always given them a natural propensity to buy from the biggest computer company of all. It was fear that gave rise to the stock phrase: "Nobody ever got fired for buying IBM."Today, PC compatibility has taken most of the risk out of buying hardware. You can still take chances on non-standard products, such as blade servers, but in   general, if one supplier goes bust, you can get a functional and compatible equivalent from hundreds of rivals.Windows is still proprietary, but it also represents little risk. First, Microsoft has $49 billion in readies, so no one thinks it will go bust. Second, even if it did, hundreds of companies would be only too delighted to take over what looks like a licence to print money. Third, the applications programming interface could always be reimplemented on a different operating system: Microsoft has already done it, and Wine is a long-running attempt to do it on X and Unix.Further, PC hardware also offers the reassurance that if rampaging aliens vaporised Windows, lots of alternative software will run on the same kit. There are, for example, numerous versions of Unix including BSD, and numerous Unix clones, including Linux. There are Windows' former competitors including DR Gem, IBM's OS/2, BeOS and CTOS. And if you still have mission-critical applications running on a Sinclair QL or Commodore 64, you can always run them on a PC emulator.But this does not mean that computers are no longer a threat to your financial health. There is still a huge risk involved in the part of the system that is the most expensive to create and the hardest to replace: your data.Schofield's First Law of Computing says: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out.This is especially important if your software supplier looks like going bust.Useful linksIBM archiveswww.ibm.com/ibm/historyWine Is Not an Emulatorwww.winehq.comAlternative operating systemshttp://dmoz.org/Computers/Software/Operating_SystemsXML/Open Office file formatshttp://xml.openoffice.orgwww.oasis-open.org/committees
What's the idea behind Defensive Thinking.com?The name was to encourage defensive thinking when people are working with information or computer systems. The human element is the most vulnerable, and if we could motivate and teach people how to think defensively, we'd create a better, more secure environment.Are more poachers becoming gamekeepers?They certainly are. Christopher Klaus, who foundedISS, the largest security company, had a background in hacking. A lot of people won't admit they   were hackers because they might scare off customers or compromise their public image. I'm not talking about the hacking that involves stealing credit cards. I'm talking about hacking for the knowledge and the challenge.Social engineering?I'm writing a second book, The Art of Intrusion, on social engineering, which is basically using manipulation or deception to influence a person to comply with a request - to release sensitive information or perform an action that creates a security hole, such as typing in commands, installing software or turning on a modem. The key to social engineering is influencing a person to do something that allows the hacker to gain access to information or your network.What security measures would you recommend?For the average home-user, anti-virus software is a must. A    personal firewall such asZone Alarmand running a program likeHFNetcheck, which is a free download for personal users. It checks your system to see if anything needs to be patched. I'd also recommend a program such asSpyCopto periodically check for any Spyware on your system. Choosing a hard-to-guess, but easy-to-remember password is important!Spam?I useSpam Arrestbecause of the amount of junk mail I get. Any legitimate person who wants to send me a message has to jump through hoops before they can be added to my opt-in list.Wi-Fi?I have it at home - it's convenient but risky. Anybody can get on to the network, as I didn't deploy it securely because my girlfriend has a Mac.    I rely on the secrecy of my location. The explosion of companies deploying wireless networks insecurely is creating vulnerabilities as they think it's limited to the office - then they have Johnny Hacker in the parking lot with an802.11 antennausing the network to send threatening emails to the president!First site you visited when your ban ended in January?My girlfriend'sweblog. Her diary of what I'm doing is so popular even the FBI visit it daily! I might set up a weblog.Visit:www.defensivethinking.comandwww.kevinmitnick.com.&#183;Kevin Mitnick's bookmarkswww.securityfocus.comhttp://packetstormsecurity.nlwww.woz.orgwww.securiteam.orghttp://packetstormsecurity.nlwww.woz.orgwww.securiteam.orgwww.google.comMitnick's book The Art of Deception is available fromwww.amazon.com
This government is often accused of being target mad. It seems to have targets for practically everything, particularly in health and education. Rule by target can, however, bring dangers, not least with practitioners being tempted to spend too much time massaging figures rather than improving the quality of service. But one area where it is vital to meet the target is in internet access. The government is committed to achieving universal access by 2005. In practice, it ain't going to happen (unless civil servants start redefining universal access to include having a library within a few miles).The latest figures released this month by National Statistics show that despite making welcome progress - 47% of households are now online compared with 25% three years ago - there is no way that anything close to 100% penetration will be achieved by 2005.This is because most of the people rich and eager enough to go online have already been converted. It will become increasingly heavy going to persuade the rest to come on board even if they could afford it.And there's the rub. Those people who could most benefit from the internet are the least likely to take the jump. One horrifying statistic says it all: in 2002-03, 86% of the richest people (ie the highest decile group) had internet access, while the poorest 10% had only 12%. Given the obvious advantages of being on the web - access to universal knowledge, email, cheaper shopping and so on - this can only widen the opportunity gap between rich and poor. The internet, hailed as a digital leveller a few years ago, is widening the gap it was supposed to narrow.Of course, to get the full benefits of web access you need high-speed access through broadband. During the year to May, there was a decline of 5.1% in new dial-up (ie slow) connections to the internet compared with growth of 179.5% for permanent "always-on" broadband connection, albeit from a much lower base. No figures are available, but you can be pretty certain that it is the rich, not the poor, who are leading the dash to broadband.What can be done? The government, to be fair, has put a lot of energy into expanding broadband, not least by pressuring BT to lower its wholesale prices and to make it widely available. What is lacking is   a change in the mindset of ministers to regard broadband access not as a career move for richer people but as a right - like getting tap water and electricity delivered to your home. The provision of water and other utility products has long since been privatised. It is time for the government to take an even more proactive role.There are plenty of ways of providing broadband - including satellite delivery (expensive now only because it is a minority sport), ADSL, wireless Lans (local area networks), optical fibres and some of the esoteric things BT's research section can do with existing copper wires. It is now more than 16 years since the debate about "broadband to the home" was started in earnest, yet only 16% of current subscriptions are for this method. Could do better.
PS2 to webSince June 11, UK owners of the PlayStation 2 have been able to connect their consoles to the internet to play online. But until now, the only "site" they could see was Sony's own. Now, thanks to an online hack by Martyn Brook, a young web designer from west Yorkshire, users can turn their PS2 into a web browser and visit almost any web page they like.Brook has found that it is possible to change the web address the PlayStation first looks for when it goes online. The method is a fairly simple six-step process: details are on his site at the address below. This is a well-produced online magazine dedicated to online games, and acts as an alternative homepage to the official Sony site. The site is packed full of news, reviews and tips on how to play MP3 music files on your PS2, and will be of interest to anyone into online gaming, not just devotees of PS2.www.brookfresh.co.ukFeeling lucky?Stuck where to go on the internet? Then direct your browser towards BananaSlug.com, a simple website designed to promote "serendipitous surfing: finding the unexpected in the 3,083,324,652 web pages indexed by Google." The site performs a regular Google search but also seeds it with another random word that creates an "accidental encounter". That accident throws up pages that may get overlooked in a regular search. You are given some control over the random words: you can, for example, seed your search with a word from Shakespeare or a list of jargon words.www.bananaslug.comThe virtual tourKevin Smokler describes himself as a "writer, speaker, maker of mischief and a passionate believer in the web's ability to connect readers, writers and good books". By day he is a book critic for the San Francisco Chronicle, but he has recently launched the Virtual Book Tour, an innovative way for small publishers to promote their books to a wider audience. The plan is simple. Authors tour websites, mostly highly active community weblogs, much as they would tour book shops. Tours last for two weeks with the author "stopping" at one site each weekday, 10 sites in all. Each site participates either by posting book excerpts, audio clips of the author reading, an interview with the author, or a review of the book.www.kevinsmokler.com/vbt.phpwww.sonewmedia.comAntigravityAt first it looks like an elaborate hoax: eight seconds of tiny video that claim to prove the existence of anti-gravity. A triangular frame wrapped in kitchen foil floats in the air with only a thin electric cable connecting it to the ground. The machine in the video is called the Lifter, and it works without moving parts, flies silently, uses only electrical energy, and is able to lift its own weight plus an additional payload. The cost of building a Lifter is about 90p. There is already a number of websites dedicated to the "lifter project" - a bunch of scientists intent on getting antigravity off the ground.Hundreds of them are building their own lifters and posting the details online. The quest for anti-gravity, the effect of reducing or cancelling a gravitational field, has been popular since the early 1960s. The scientific principles that allow the lifter to float have been around longer than that. Thomas Townsend Brown, an American physicist, discovered them in 1928.jlnlabs.imars.com/lifters/hexalifter/videos/hexalifter.rmwww.americanantigravity.com/about.htmljnaudin.free.frwww.soteria.com/brownOnline MatrixYou will soon be able to enter the world of the Matrix all on your own. Set after the third film, Matrix Revolutions (which will be in the cinemas on November 7), Warner Brothers has announced that Matrix Online will be a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game, similar to EverQuest and Star Wars Galaxies. The game will allow thousands of players to enter the Matrix universe and fight agents, perform gravity-defying leaps and movements in the film's famous "bullet time".www.thematrixonline.comhackthematrix.warnerbros.comNew &amp; notedPhotoblog this September 11www.aboutitall.com/septphotoblogPlay keyboard Sumowww.chthonic.f9.co.uk/sumoThe Propaganda Remix Projecthomepage.mac.com/leperous/PhotoAlbum1.htmlSix of the best:Holiday checklistCurrency converterwww.xe.comCheck the weatherweather.yahoo.comCheck the timewww.worldtimeserver.comCheck with othersthorntree.lonelyplanet.comLast minute travel and safety advicewww.fco.gov.ukUseful linkshttp://travel.guardian.co.uk/travelsites
GNU/Linux is getting seriously successful. Every month brings high-profile corporate converts to the free operating system's combination of low-cost power, flexibility, security and stability. Newcomers to the penguin appreciation club include Unilever, Oracle and Dell. Meanwhile, increasing numbers of manufacturers are adopting it for non-computer products: for example, at the beginning of July, eight leading consumer electronics (CE) companies - Hitachi, Matsushita, NEC, Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony and Toshiba - set up the CE Linux Forum to "promote broad usage of Linux for CE products".The US Department of Energy's next-generation supercomputer project Red Storm (capable of several hundred thousand billion computations per second) has joined IBM's Blue Gene (a million billion operations per second) in using GNU/ Linux as the core operating system. For those who need something cheaper - IBM's Blue Gene will cost around $100m - the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois has an alternative: a top-flight number cruncher built from a cluster of 65 Sony PlayStation2s running GNU/Linux.Perhaps more important in the long run are developments at the other end of the computing spectrum. For the first time, open source suppliers like SuSE and Ximian have brought out products aimed at the corporate desktop. The decision by the city of Munich to replace Windows by GNU/Linux on 14,000 computers was a propaganda blow to Microsoft. Similarly, the announcement by the Spanish regional government of Extremadura that it has put 80,000 computers running only open source into its schools is a significant straw in the wind.Success in the business and education markets also prepares the way for GNU/Linux's triumph in the home sector. The natural reluctance of high-street chains to take a chance on relatively unconventional offerings means the consumer market is likely to be Windows' last bastion. But once enough people have become familiar with the benefits of open source, the emerging market for end-user products will be too attractive for major outlets to ignore.Nor are the Europeans alone in moving away from proprietary systems: the advantages of open source are particularly compelling for developing countries unable to afford massive licensing fees for nationwide roll-outs of proprietary programs. As the president of India said   in May: "Open source code software will have to come and stay in a big way for the benefit of our billion people."Finally, two academics studying "software bug dynamics" have demonstrated that "for a given set of parameters, debugging in open source projects is always faster than in closed source projects." No wonder Steve Ballmer, Microsoft'schief executive, devoted much of a recent memo to his troops warning of the challenge from what the Seattle giant is now trying to stigmatise as "non-commercial software" - even though the term is manifestly inaccurate in the face of growing sales of GNU/Linux systems by leading companies such as IBM and HP.And yet, just when everything seemed to be going so well, GNU/Linux is facing its potentially most damaging attack, and from an unlikely quarter: a company that has done much to   help make GNU/Linux a viable business solution.Caldera was set up in 1994 to produce a business-oriented version of GNU/Linux, at that time very much a hacker's system. One important move was to acquire the rights to the Unix operating system from the company SCO in August 2000. GNU/ Linux was largely modelled on Unix, and so this seemed to ensure there would be no legal problems in terms of intellectual property issues - always a danger while Unix was owned by a company competing with the open source operating system.Despite its many contributions to the GNU/Linux world, Caldera never enjoyed the same kind of success there as Red Hat, for example. As a result, new management decided to take a different tack. Renaming the company as SCO in August 2002 signalled a new focus on the Unix side of the business. This culminated on March 7 in the filing of a lawsuit against IBM alleging "misappropriation of trade secrets, tortious interference, unfair competition and breach of contract", and requesting damages "no less than $1bn".What was particularly surprising given its pedigree was the way that Caldera/SCO brought GNU/Linux into the equation, alleging that "IBM made concentrated efforts to improp erly destroy the economic value of Unix, particularly Unix on Intel, to benefit IBM's new Linux services business." The formal complaint is even more explicitly anti-Linux: "Prior to IBM's involvement, Linux was the software equivalent of a bicycle. Unix was the software equivalent of a luxury car."Not content with belittling the developers of Linux, in May, SCO warned them and users that "Linux is an unauthorized derivative of Unix and that legal liability for the use of Linux may extend to commercial users". In July, SCO alleged that hundreds of files of misappropriated Unix source code and derivative Unix code have been contributed to Linux in a variety of ways", causing "customers to use a tainted product at SCO's expense". Its chief executive, Darl McBride, added ominously that "we expect SCO to be compensated", and offered GNU/Linux users a special licence to its UnixWare product.IBM and the Linux community have responded with relative equanimity. IBM has simply said it will defend itself "vigorously", while Linux hackers have crafted detailed rebuttals of SCO's charges where they are concrete enough to be discussed sensibly.One positive outcome may be the introduction of a little more rigour into the open source development   process. As Eric Raymond, the leading theoretician of the movement, says: "We might see a little more energy put into recording the origin of patches" - the new lines of code. But there are limits to what can be done. "The problem," he notes, "is that all the changes I can imagine would both (a) impose an unacceptably high amount of additional process overhead, and (b) not actually guarantee us protection from lawsuits."Caldera/SCO's extraordinary U-turn marks a key moment in the rise of GNU/Linux. It is interesting that Linus Torvalds, the creator of Linux, announced in June that he was taking leave of absence from the start-up company Transmeta, where he has worked for the last six years, to spend some time at the industry-funded Open Source Development Lab, "finally actually doing Linux as my main job", as he put it. Hitherto, Linux has remained spiritually close to the "hobby" he first announced in August 1991: work done alongside something else - first his studies at Helsinki University, then his Transmeta position. Now, it seems, even Linus recognises that it's time to get serious.&#183;Glyn Moody is the author of Rebel Code: Linux and the open source revolution.
"Swiss researchers released a paper on Tuesday outlining a way to speed the cracking of alphanumeric Windows passwords, reducing the time to break such codes to an average of 13.6 seconds from 1 minute 41 seconds. The method involves using large lookup tables to match encoded passwords to the original text entered by a user, thus speeding the calculations required to break the codes," reportsCNet. "Users can protect themselves against the attack by adding non-alphanumeric characters to a password. Including other symbols besides alphanumeric characters adds complexity to the process of breaking passwords and that means the cracker needs more time or more memory or both."
"For the fiscal year 2003, Handspring's total revenue was $147.3 million, down from $240.7 million, and it[s] full year loss was $131.1 million, or 91c per share, compared to a loss of $91.6 million, or 71c per share,"Reutersreports.Comment: As Reuters observes, this may be the last significant Handspring financial report because the company is being taken over by Palm. When Handspring launched the Visor range, it seemed to have a much bright future. It is sad to see it turning in financial losses not far short of its annual revenues, and turnover plunging from $49 million to a pitiful $14.5 million for the fourth quarter.
The American recording industry is showing that it means business in its attempt to quash internet piracy, with the first wave of subpoenas issued to uncover the identities of consumers swapping songs online.The Recording Industry Association of America has so far targeted 871 consumers offering songs on the Kazaa network, according to court filings in the US district court.Kazaa, a peer-to-peer service that allows users to share files for free, is the leading song swapping network. By May it had become the world's most in-demand software, with 230.3m downloads, and it has been adding new users at a rate of 13 million a month.The RIAA intends to sue potentially thousands of users for damages of up to $150,000 per copyright violation.The subpoenas have been sent to internet service providers, cable companies and universities. They list the internet protocol and email addresses of people that the RIAA suspects of offering copyright material free and ask the internet service provider or cable company to reveal their identities.The companies contacted include telecoms providers Pacific Bell and Verizon, and cable networks Time Warner Cable and Comcast.A spokesman for the RIAA said: "This shouldn't surprise anyone. We are doing exactly as we said we would - gathering evidence for the first lawsuits that we expect to file in late August or early September."Verizon is fighting the demand to give up names, although recent court rulings have backed the recording industry's efforts.The RIAA is reportedly continuing to issue subpoenas at a rate of 75 a day. The threat of legal action appears to have already had some effect. According to Nielsen NetRatings, traffic on Kazaa fell by 15% in the week ended July 6, compared with the previous week. Traffic on the Morpheus network was 15% down, while iMesh dropped 16%.The recording business has been devastated by online piracy. The music industry worldwide has shrunk from a $40bn business in 2000 to a $26bn industry in 2002.
In its latest quarter, Sun has made $12 million profit (down from $61 million) on revenues of $2.98 billion (down from $3.42 billion). This is its ninth straight quarterly decline in revenues, reportsReuters. Over the full year, Sun lost $2.3 billion on sales that fell 8.5% from $12.4 billion to $11.4 billion.The Mercury Newsputs the numbers in context.
The video games sector was sent reeling on Wall Street yesterday after the industry became the latest focus of inquiries into possible accounting irregularities.Several of the biggest companies in the business admitted late on Friday that they had become subject of a formal inquiry by the securities and exchange commission, the US financial watchdog. The investigation is understood to be focusing on how the publishers recorded revenues from game sales between the late 1990s and 2002. Shares in Acclaim Entertainment, the firm behind the Turok series, fell by more than 7% in early trade to 63 cents. THQ, which sells children's titles, including Spongebob SquarePants, were down by nearly 10% at $15.93 and Activision, maker of X-Men and Spider-Man titles, was over 9% lower at $11.30.The inquiry appears to have stemmed from an investigation into Take-Two Interactive Software, the games maker behind the controversial hit Grand Theft Auto. Last year the company restated seven quarters of earnings following an internal review of its books. In one instance, Take-Two was forced to rub out $15.4m (&#163;9.7m) in revenues it had booked from game sales to independent distributors, because the products were later returned to the makers.The broader inquiry is expected to focus on at what point in the distribution process the games publisher books a sale and whether reserves set up to cover returns of unsold product are used to smooth out revenues.
The number of internet users in China grew by 15% during the past six months to 68 million, the government has said.China has the world's second-biggest online population, but is far behind the United States, which has more than 165 million people online.In China, users are mostly young, male and single, according to the survey conducted twice a year by the China Internet Network Information Centre.China promotes internet use for business and education, although the communist government censors chat rooms and tries to block access to foreign sites run by dissidents, human rights groups and news organisations.The biggest single group online in China is people aged 18 to 24, making up 39% of the total, the agency said. It said 40% of users are women.Chinese web users spend an average of 13 hours online each week, 10 hours of which is spent playing games, the agency said.The number of websites in China grew to 474,000, a rise of 28%,
 with 250,000 registered using its ".cn" domain-name suffix.The Chinese internet agency's survey is the most widely watched set of figures on China's online use, although results can differ widely from surveys carried out by commercial and academic researchers.
Visit one of Yangon's two internet cafes and glance over a few shoulders, and you'll see people trying to surf their way to a better future beyond the stiff borders of their military-ruled homeland.In theory, anyone can get online in Burma, but this being one of Asia's poorest countries, access is a luxury few can afford.About one in 5,000 people has internet access, and even that is restricted by firewalls and other government-imposed limitations.It was a limited cyber-thaw, then, when Burma's isolationist regime, which controls all media and communications in the country, allowed the two cybercafes to open earlier this year.In one, a dusty warehouse-like space called Cyberworld, a recent   university graduate sat at one of the shop's 27 terminals looking for websites for a master's degree program in computers in the United States.He had a computer science degree from the university in this nation, though internet access was unavailable on campus.The student, who like many others interviewed spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had been able to use the internet in the past few years only through a private company's connection. Now he and others who can afford the cafes come to look for work opportunities or better schools. Others seek escape through video games.What you won't find - at least not openly - are people visiting anti-government websites. That can land a person in jail. The military, in power since 1962, arrested six army officers in 1999 for trying to access such a site, according to the Paris-based media freedom group Reporters Without Borders.Pornography, meanwhile, is taboo. And don't even think of trying to access a Hotmail account - the email service is blocked.   "Of countries worldwide, Burma and North Korea are together at the far end of the scale of internet repression," Shanthi Kalathil, author of the book "Open Networks, Closed Regimes," said in a telephone interview from Washington.Near the 48 terminals at Surf 'N Surf, the other internet cafe, the rules are posted in English: "We don't provide any pornography, free email, anti-government website, due to strictly prohibited by authority."Dissident websites, pornography sites and even some general news sites are all but impossible to access because of filtering software installed by the government on computers that link Burma with the outside world. While Western technologists have developed ways around such blocks, most of their efforts have focused on China.Burma's government blocks the free email services of Hotmail and Yahoo, forcing people to buy accounts from tightly controlled government providers, one of which is owned by the son of military intelligence chief Khin Nyunt, the junta's third-ranking leader.Regulations issued in 2000 forbid the posting of political writings on the internet. Also banned was anything "detrimental" to Burma or its "current policies and secret security affairs."One law on the books sets a punishment of up to 15 years in prison for possessing a modem without permission.The pornography barriers, at least, have proven permeable. At one hotel, it was possible to catch a glimpse of two employees at the email service centre hastily clicking to shut down spicy photos on a computer screen.Even the business centres at five-star hotels do not provide internet, only allowing guests to send and receive email through hotel accounts. The staff prints out all emails received, smilingly handing paper copies of private messages to guests, ostensibly as a service, but making visitors feel monitored."I heard a year ago they were checking email by email, but they are not doing that now," says Vincent Brossel of Reporters Without Borders, which recently issued a report on world internet freedom.Even with the two new internet cafes, the regime can hardly claim it's allowing public access to the internet.Most Burmese cannot get online either because they lack the required official permission to open private accounts or they simply can't afford it. The price of an hour at Cyberworld or Surf 'N Surf is US$1.50, an amount many in Burma can't earn in a full day.Brossel said the recent easing of restrictions was spurred by business pressures. Keeping the internet revolution in check has allowed the junta to maintain firm control, but it has also slowed economic development, he said."Investor countries want to see more openness," he said from Paris.Brossel said the recent thaw could be because of a struggle within the military, one that saw generals who seek more foreign dollars muscling out those who favour tighter political control.Meanwhile, the internet has been a powerful force for opposition groups outside Burma. They maintain websites to provide uncensored news and organize opponents of the military regime all over the world. Though most people in Burma can't access them, the sites raise awareness worldwide.In addition, many of the developments - rumours and fact - following the May 30 arrest of pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi circulated first on the internet.Kalathil, the author, said pressure from such opposition groups had led to some foreign investors pulling out of Burma."The transnational opposition movement has had a very tangible impact, and a lot of this has been from internet organizers," she said.
Millions of internet users could benefit from cheaper bills after telecommunications watchdog Oftel yesterday ordered BT to cut wholesale charges for its unmetered access service.The regulator demanded that BT reduce the price it charges other companies for the use of its lines. However, telecoms operator Energis, a big customer of BT's wholesale unmetered dial-up service, said it had not decided whether to pass on the benefit to customers. The ruling is expected to put a &#163;17m dent in BT's revenues.Oftel ordered BT to cut wholesale fees by 17% after a two-year investigation triggered by complaints from rivals Cable &amp; Wireless and Energis.The reductions, proposed in April, will be backdated to June 2002, when BT upgraded its network.Energis was considering yesterday whether to pass on the cuts to internet service providers, a move encouraged by Oftel. Energis provides the network for Freeserve, one of Britain's largest ISPs."We will be reviewing cost saving implications with our customers on an individual basis," the company said in a statement.Freeserve, with an estimated 4.7m narrowband and broadband customers, has warned that any savings will be minimal by the time they filter down to consumers. The ruling will not affect broadband customers but there are 4m narrowband users in the UK. Despite this, analysts expect the ISP and rivals including AOL to profit from a lower cost base.A spokesman for the Department of Trade and Industry yesterday endorsed lower access costs for users. "Anything that reduces the price for consumers and increases competition in the market is welcome," he said.C&amp;W was the first to accuse BT of inflating access prices, in May 2001, but has since retreated from the narrowband market to concentrate on broadband.Energis added its voice to the complaint, prompting Oftel's investigation. It concluded that BT was charging third-party operators such as Energis and C&amp;W for call management and call routing services, despite the fact that technological improvements made them redundant.David Edmonds, the regulator's director-general, gave a clear signal how he felt about passing on the discount."I hope that operators pass these savings on to their customers," he said in a statement. "The action taken today ensures that BT continues to recoup the cost of providing wholesale unmetered internet access, and that UK consumers continue to benefit from one of the most competitive dial-up internet markets in the world."Analysts believe the cuts would not greatly affect BT or other industry players, given that most companies are switching from dial-up internet access to broadband.
The power of search as a business was confirmed by last week's $1.6bn (&#163;1bn) purchase of the search engine Overture by Yahoo!. The deal has got the city types talking again about the potential of the dotcoms and heated up the competition among the biggest portals for the best search solutions. Even the relatively little-known UK-built search engine e-spotting.com was gobbled up last month for $163m by the American company FindWhat.com.Yahoo! was willing to pay the big bucks for Overture because it is one of the world's biggest paid-for search engines and occupies one of the few areas of the internet to have emerged as a real web business that the advertising world understands and is willing to back. Yahoo!'s acquisition is the most significant indication so far that the banks and the advertising community can put the disastrous days of over-valuations, unrealistic business models and zero profits behind them - the web might just be a good place to be once again.The impact on the UK internet industry of this deal is just as significant (if not more) as it is on the rest of the web world. And the kind of acquisition that Yahoo! has just completed is probably not the last."The real significance of this deal is the amount of merger and acquisition activity that's kicking off and the valuations that are being attached," says Andrew Walmsley, founding director of i-level, the biggest buyer of online media in the UK. "These are big valuations whereas, a year ago, nobody would spit at these companies."During the boom times, there was capital market growth based on expectations, but now the market demands real numbers, real business models and real income from the internet, and paid-for search is one of the areas that meets the criteria.Paid-for search - known as sponsored links in web speak - already accounts for 30% of the online ad market in the UK and could be as high as 35% by the end of the year. This compares with the entire UK online ad business, which is forecast by i-level to be on track for a 46% rise this year and reach an estimated &#163;300m. It means that online will still only be 2% of the total UK ad spend, but at least it's on the way up.Searching the web has been a fundamental part of the online communications revolution, and the earliest leaders in the field were exuberant young companies such as Yahoo!, whose big idea was to create a listings directory.However, as web fever grew the early search engines wanted to become portals, or destinations for internet users. The next phase was that the portals would add content and become "sticky" so customers would stay there for all kinds of revenue-generating reasons. Then the trend was subscription services inside the portal. But now the business seems to have come full circle with search engines coming back into vogue."One of the most popular things to do on the web is directories," says Paul Zwillenberg, associate director of OC&amp;C Strategy Consultants. "Just as TV guides are the highest circulation magazines for the television business, what's on the internet is one of the most popular surfing activities."Internet advertising is one of the only growth stories in the UK ad market, and paid-for search is growing like gangbusters," continues Zwillenberg. "While the portals are making progress in selling value-added services, advertising and access are still key components of revenue. So it's logical to focus on the fastest growing and highest margin part of your revenue streams."How ironic that Yahoo! has returned to its roots with its latest purchase, which has also further complicated the UK's search engine market. It's a sector that has been dominated by Google over the past few years. When consumers click on the Google site, they always enjoy a pure search experience uncluttered by offers of news or sports or all the other home-page content typical of the home page of AOL, MSN or Yahoo!.In the early days, the web was supposed to be a freewheeling information hub and those that tried to charge for search listings (notably Opentext in the mid-1990s) were criticised. The dream of the initial web advocates was an internet free of blatant commercialism. However, by the time Overture tried this idea again in 1998 (it launched as GoTo.com), the market accepted more easily the idea of listings that had been hoisted to the top of the search results (and highlighted as "sponsored links") by cash payments."Consumers are now in favour of the sponsored listing," says Walmsley. "The reason is that when you do a search, you expect the big brands to be at the top of the results and you're disappointed if they're not there. So if you search for 'home electricals', you expect Dixons to come up on page one."The Yahoo!/Overture deal - which comes only six months after Yahoo! bought another search engine, Inktomi, for $235m - has raised the question of what will happen to Google and the other search engines' businesses, especially in the UK. Some analysts say the pressure is on Google because Yahoo! has now acquired two big search companies in order to increase its search traffic and search revenue. However, other industry observers counter that the price paid for Overture is an expensive sign that Yahoo! is still paying catch-up in the search stakes."It's wrong to assume that Google is in trouble from this &#91;Yahoo!/Overture&#93; deal," says Danny Sullivan, the editor of online newsletter searchenginewatch.com. "It's going to make Yahoo! much more competitive, but Google very much still occupies the high ground."In the UK, Google leads the search-engine league table, according to Nielsen/NetRatings' figures, with 10.35 million unique users per month (latest figures are from April 2003). Yahoo! is second on about 6.5 million, with AskJeeves at 4.5 million and MSN at 4.04 million.But perhaps the bigger pressure is on the likes of AOL and MSN, neither of which has its own in-house search engine or paid-for listings provider. AOL UK has been happy up to now buying in the services of Google and Overtune, while MSN has been using both Overture and Inktomi to power its search business. Freeserve uses Overture. Now, of course, their biggest portal rival has snapped up two of those three companies.As the biggest UK portal by page-views, MSN is the company attracting most comment in the wake of Yahoo!'s latest moves. "I'm sure they're saying at MSN that they need to come up with an in-house solution or think about buying Google because it has the best search technology and it has a robust paid search engine as well," says Danny Sullivan of searchengine.com. "It's got to be all hands on deck at MSN."For its part, MSN says that Yahoo!'s acquisition of Overture has "no near-term impact on its search business" while AOL UK says it's "business as usual" and that its deal with Overture "should remain beneficial to both companies". Freeserve did not return calls.The cost of buying Google would also probably be exorbitant, as much as $2bn, according to analysts, and Google has no need to sell anyway because of its size and success. However, the UK-originated search engine AskJeeves could be a cheaper buy for someone adopting Yahoo!'s strategy of owning search companies.So will the consumer in the UK feel any effects of all this search engine consolidation? Well, the analysts say this is mostly a business-to-business deal. However, there might be a growing amount of extra advertising, like pop-ups, that have to be clicked off or through before you can get to your search results."This might happen," says Tom Ewing, European market analyst for Nielsen/NetRatings, but he adds a word of warning. "Given that the success of Google has been built on the speed and cleanness of the search for the consumer, an in-your-face strategy of pop-ups and extra advertising might be very risky."
France is saying goodbye to "email" and hello to "courriel" - the term that the linguistically sensitive French government is now using to refer to electronic mail in official documents.The culture ministry has announced a ban on the use of the word email in all government ministries, documents, publications or websites, in the latest step to stem an incursion of English words into the French lexicon.The ministry's general commission on terminology and neology insists internet surfers in France are broadly using the term courrier electronique (electronic mail) instead of email - a claim some industry experts dispute. Courriel is a fusion of the two words.The commission ruled: "Evocative, with a very French sound, the word 'courriel' is broadly used in the press and competes advantageously with the borrowed 'mail' in English."The move to ban "email" was announced last week after the decision was published in the official government register on June 20. Courriel is a term that has often been used in French-speaking Quebec, the commission said.The seven-year-old commission has links to the Acad&#233;mie Fran&#231;aise, the prestigious institution that has been one of the top opponents of the assimilation of English terms into the French language.However, the Acad&#233;mie has not enjoyed much success in outlawing other interlopers such as "le weekend" and "le shopping".Marie-Christine Levet, president of French internet service provider Club Internet, says "courriel" is not actively used."Email has sunk into our values," she said. "Protecting the language is normal, but &#91;the word&#93; email is so assimilated now that no one thinks of it as American. Courriel would just be a new word to launch."Club Internet is not changing the words it uses, she added.
Last online purchase?My wedding ring. I chose it online, although hopefully I won't be paying for it myself. I found it on this fantastic site:www.dotdotsim.com.The designer's name is Dot Sim. He does beautiful contemporary jewellery. I'll be getting married and wearing a piece of it in two weeks' time.Ever been in a chat room?No. I'd rather go to the pub to chat with people. Also, after that Room 101 episode I'm far too scared of bumping into Johnny Vegas.Most recent technological faux pas?My colleagues say I am a technological faux pas. I'm great on the internet but I rely on everyone else to help me out. Last week I dropped my mobile phone into a cup of tea and it stopped working. I think it rang in my hand and I dropped it like a biscuit.Main source of news on the web?The BBC site of course - that's great for local and world news. I think FT.com have got really good arts coverage now, so I read that. And on Fridays there is theartnewspaper.com: it has up-to-date news on the arts.Most useful website?Google and Yahoo are the ones I use the most often. I need multimap.com in my life because I'm always getting lost. Jumble.com for helping me do the Guardian crossword.Least useful website?I found one a few weeks ago called "I am bored". It was just a load of people talking about how bored they were. What's the point of that?Do you use a screensaver?No, we have a ban on them in case they introduce a virus onto the network. Got plenty of wallpaper, though, we get new artists coming in all the time so we use their work, and change it round every couple of days.Most irritating thing about the internet?Slow download times. Being in places with slow download times. Pop-ups you can't get rid of. Pop-ups you can get rid of.What type of online business is least likely to succeed?Any business with a badly designed site - that's just poor customer service. If your site isn't user-friendly your business will fail.Do you still bother with old media?Hand-written letters, I love those. I use Post-Its everywhere too, if that counts. And radio. John Peel on a Saturday morning, lying in bed. I hope I'll still be doing that when I'm married, although maybe I'll be busy knitting jumpers.&#183;Kirsty McDougall is a founding director of Blink Red, an online contemporary art galleryInterview by Will Pavia
Partnerships come in all shapes and sizes. Some are good: cheese and pickle, Posh and Becks, Tony Hart and Morph. Some are less good: John and Yoko, Bush and Blair, Sara Cox and my radio. Some are just ridiculous: David Gest and Liza Minnelli. This month a partnership was announced that would seem to fit into all three categories. A group of American scientists who are developing a system that could make the internet up to 6,000 times faster have been talking to Microsoft and Disney about developing possible applications for it.Normally my heart would soar at the idea of giant entertainment and technology companies taking an interest in the evolution of the internet but when I heard the news I couldn't help wondering what on earth Disney and Microsoft were playing at. Just think how many more movies, music tracks and copies of Microsoft Office you will be able to download if your web connection suddenly gets 6,000 times faster. About 5,999. And yet Bill and Mickey are keen to get on board?But after a bit of digging things started to make more sense. It turns out that the intellectual property giants want the internet to get faster so they can launch a whole range of fantastic video-on-demand services to put the web pirates out of business. After all, if you can watch your favourite films and TV programmes on the web whenever you like, why would you want to download illegal copies to your hard drive? Put your hand down, that was a rhetorical question.I'm not convinced that Fast TCP (as the system has been brilliantly named) will beat piracy but I am certain that super-high-speed internet access will revolutionise small screen entertainment. Since broadband landed in my house at the end of last year, I have barely switched on my proper television. I usually get home too late to watch news programmes when they are first broadcast so instead I watch the archived versions of Channel 4 News, Newsnight, Question Time et al on the web. My TV entertainment needs are largely catered for online too, thanks to Kazaa-d episodes of Curb Your Enthusiasm, The West Wing, 24, Spooks and video clips of penguins falling down holes. The only problem is that, even with my 1mb connection, the picture quality of streaming media is terrible and a broadcast quality episode of Spooks takes over three hours to download. And that's assuming the episode I'm looking for is even available online.But if the internet suddenly got 6,000 times faster, everything would be different. Before long there would be millions of people with lightning-fast connections hungry for content. The success of Apple's music download service suggests that these people might even be willing to pay a few pounds for the convenience of watching what they want, when they want. Programme makers and broadcasters would have a huge commercial incentive to invest in the technology and negotiate the rights required to develop large-scale video-on-demand services. New programmes could be piloted online before being moved to "proper" TV if they attracted enough viewers. Some programmes might even find themselves going "viral" as fans link to them from discussion boards and encouraged others to tune in.And there's more... by removing the need for people to use illegal download sites to find programmes, broadcasters would be able to seize back control of viewers, allowing them to insert perfectly targeted advertisements before, during and after programmes, based on each viewer's individual preferences. The broadcasters would get increased advertising revenue, pay-per-view sales and a much wider audience while viewers would get their own customised TV channel, with no repeats of Fawlty Towers (unless they want them). Everyone will be a winner. Except possibly TiVo, but it's had a good innings.One other group that would benefit from an internet TV revolution are independent programme makers. Comedian Jeremy Hardy complained recently that Jeremy Hardy vs The Israeli Army, the (brilliant) Leila Sansour documentary that he fronted, had not been picked up by any of the major broadcasters. Presumably the TV channels' hunger for reality TV doesn't stretch as far as real people getting shot at by real tanks. But with Fast TCP, Jeremy would not have to worry - he could just tell the big boys to get stuffed and webcast it himself to an appreciative audience of millions. I suspect it would not be too long before the BBC and Channel 4 were queuing up to add it to their own video-on-demand services.Success based on talent rather than scheduling; a sackload of revenue for broadcasters; massively increased choice for viewers? Oh brave new world of television! And if Microsoft and Disney put their financial muscle behind it, it might not be that far away. For once I wish them every possible success.&#183;Paul Carr is editor of The Friday Thing(www.thefridaything.co.uk).His new print publication, The London News Review(www.thelondonnewsreview.co.uk), launches next month.
Better late than never dept: there's an interesting e-mail debate onCNetbetween Ian Clarke, inventor of Freenet, and Matt Oppenheim, the RIAA's senior vice president of business and legal affairs, on "the race between law and technology".
BusinessWeek Online has a special report onDigital Homes-- what we used to call "home automation".
Violent video games are more educational than school, stimulating children to be more critical, constructive and reflective than conventional classroom teaching, says one of the world's leading educational experts.Children trying to escape a maze, find a hidden treasure or blast away an enemy with a high-powered rifle in a fantasy world make greater cognitive leaps than they do in the classroom, Professor James Paul Gee believes.'Better theories of learning are embedded in video games than many children in primary and secondary schools ever experience in the classroom,' said Gee, author of What Video Games Have To Teach Us About Learning And Literacy, to be published next week.'Violence is just a way of grabbing the child's attention. What's important is that the more violent the game, the more strategic modes of thinking the child has to develop to win - modes of thinking that fit better with today's hi-tech, global world than the learning they are taught in school.'The computer industry makes more money than the film industry, despite producing games that are long, hard and challenging, often taking 50 to 100 hours to win. Using games as diverse as Grand Theft Auto, Tomb Raider and Arcanum, Gee argues that, while the computer game industry motivates children by stretching them to the limit of their abilities, schools often alienate and bore students when they try to push them to make similar efforts.'Game designers could make them shorter and simpler, but they make them longer and more  challenging, and still people are prepared to learn the game and enjoy it,' said Gee. 'If schools want to engage their students in the same way as computer games, they need to drop their snobbish antipathy and begin learning from them instead.'Children gain deeper learning experiences playing video games, Gee believes, because they are being given knowledge they can use immediately. School learning requires them to sit passively and listen to facts or complete learning-orientated tasks.Gee identifies more than 36 different learning tools computer games require children to master to triumph in the fantasy world, such as learning the value of consistent effort and practice, while teaching them to read complex systems incorporating images, actions, symbols and artifacts. Players also develop fantasy characters, encouraging them to reflect on their real-life capacities.Simulation games, so-called 'God Games' such as SimCity, The Sims, Railroad Tycoon and Tropico, stimulate children to develop an interest in science.'I've seen seven-year-olds going to libraries to take out historical and mythological books way above their level after playing a games like In the Age Of Mythology, where different historical tribes fight each other,' said Gee. 'That's the sort of thing you don't hear about in this anti-computer game age.'
Violent video games are more educational than school, stimulating children to be more critical, constructive and reflective than conventional classroom teaching, says one of the world's leading educational experts.Children trying to escape a maze, find a hidden treasure or blast away an enemy with a high-powered rifle in a fantasy world make greater cognitive leaps than they do in the classroom, Professor James Paul Gee believes.'Better theories of learning are embedded in video games than many children in primary and secondary schools ever experience in the classroom,' said Gee, author of What Video Games Have To Teach Us About Learning And Literacy, to be published next week.'Violence is just a way of grabbing the child's attention. What's important is that the more violent the game, the more strategic modes of thinking the child has to develop to win - modes of thinking that fit better with today's hi-tech, global world than the learning they are taught in school.'The computer industry makes more money than the film industry, despite producing games that are long, hard and challenging, often taking 50 to 100 hours to win. Using games as diverse as  Grand Theft Auto, Tomb Raider and Arcanum, Gee argues that, while the computer game industry motivates children by stretching them to the limit of their abilities, schools often alienate and bore students when they try to push them to make similar efforts.'Game designers could make them shorter and simpler, but they make them longer and more challenging, and still people are prepared to learn the game and enjoy it,' said Gee. 'If schools want to engage their students in the same way as computer games, they need to drop their snobbish antipathy and begin learning from them instead.'Children gain deeper learning experiences playing video games, Gee believes, because they are being given knowledge they can use immediately. School learning requires them to sit passively and listen to facts or complete learning-orientated tasks.Gee identifies more than 36 different learning tools computer games require children to master to triumph in the fantasy world, such as learning the value of consistent effort and practice, while teaching them to read complex systems incorporating images, actions, symbols and artifacts. Players also develop fantasy characters, encouraging them to reflect on their real-life capacities.Simulation games, so-called 'God Games' such as  SimCity, The Sims, Railroad Tycoon and  Tropico, stimulate children to develop an interest in science.'I've seen seven-year-olds going to libraries to take out historical and mythological books way above their level after playing a games like In the Age Of Mythology, where different historical tribes fight each other,' said Gee. 'That's the sort of thing you don't hear about in this anti-computer game age.'
Maybe you noticed a brief mention of Intel's plans for a new wireless chip in this week's news pages. Ziff's Rupert Goodwins reckons "802.16 is to 802.11 what the M25 motorway is to the Basingstoke one way system. Designed to operate over a number of bands from 2GHz to 66GHz, 802.16 can work over 30 miles and pump data at speeds of up to 70Mbps." Morehere.
"The music industry has obtained at least 871 federal subpoenas in the past month to go after people who illegally trade music over the Internet," reportsMercury News. "The Recording Industry Association of America is seeking subpoenas, at a rate of 75 a day, to force Internet providers to release the names of customers suspected of downloading bootlegged songs online."
The city of Munich's move to Linux on desktop PCs, due to start at the end of next year, looks like being a long and painful process. According to a shortGartnerpaper, it won't mean all Munich's workers stop using Windows or Windows applications. Some apps will be moved from the desktop to servers, "Web enabled" and accessed via a browser while others will be run using emulators such as VMware. Anyone who has been through this kind of process knows that the staff are in for a miserable time. Of course, if you are going to make the long-term move to a different operating system, you have to start somewhere. However, if I was going to pick a city to be a "Linux champion," it wouldn't be run by IT people who still have staff using Windows 3.1.
You have to be very brave, or have money to burn, if you are thinking of launching a brand new console in today's games market. Florida-based developer Infinium Labs is doing just that with its new system, the Phantom.The company has started releasing new information on its product in preparation for a public unveiling at the Ultimate Gamers Expo in Los Angeles next month.During the Phantom's development, the company has been somewhat publicity-shy: hardly surprising during an era in which Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony dominate the headlines.The console has had such a low profile that many had dismissed it as "vapourware", meaning something that was rumoured but would never materialise in the shops.Described as an "always-on broadband device", the Phantom will work like a high-spec PC (but without removable media drives), and software will be downloaded via a broadband network connection.This will give publishers a more effective way to protect the copyright on their games, a factor that Infinium hopes will persuade many companies to add their titles to the Phantom's downloadable library.On its website, Infinium claims that the Phantom "will be the most robust gaming platform". It adds: "It will support PC games, interactive content, ported console games, and provide the consumer with advantages over the traditional personal computer or gaming console."However, while the Phantom joins Microsoft and Sony in seeking to establish a future that mixes the gaming and online worlds, Nintendo is still insisting that consumers are not ready for online gaming.The company will not be investing in any online titles for the GameCube, despite releasing a broadband adapter so that other developers can create games for the platform.George Harrison, the vice-president of Nintendo's US marketing wing, has been quoted on gamesindustry.biz as saying: "Right now, no one's paying for subscriptions. The real test comes when you have to start coughing up $15 (£10) a month."However, thousands of gamers worldwide who are paying monthly subscription fees to play games such as EverQuest, Anarchy Online and Dark Age of Camelot on PCs, as well as the success of console online games including Phantasy Star Online and Final Fantasy XI, suggest that if you create the right games, then the audiences will follow.Mr Harrison admitted that Nintendo is currently "considering" developing online titles for its next platform, currently dubbed the N5. For now, it seems content to sit back and watch as Sony and Microsoft continue to advance their online services across the world.Although the take-up of subscriptions on the consoles has been relatively slow, subscribers are estimated to number around 2 million. The stream of users has been steady, with Microsoft's Xbox Live service doing particularly well.So by the time Nintendo wheels out the N5, which is expected to arrive, at the earliest, at the end of 2004, it might be so far behind in the online stakes that it will not be worth them even joining the race.CompetitionIf you think you are a bit of a grand master, it's time to put yours skills to the test in Mindscape's new Kasparov Chess game for the PC.Endorsed by chess master Garry Kasparov, the game will allow you to play against 45 virtual opponents and compete online against other players. We have five copies to give away, and you can win one by emailing us at Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with your name, address and the answer to this question:What is Garry Kasparov's nationality?Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA, compiled by Chart-Track1) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Adios Interactive - £34.992) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.993) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.99
4) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.995) HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.996) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.997) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.998) Starsky &amp; Hutch (PS2, Xbox, PC) Empire Interactive - £37.999) The Sims EA (PC, PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £32.9910) James Bond 007: Nightfire (PS2, PC, GC, Xbox, GBA) - £20.99
Next time you are walking down the street and turn your head towards an unobtrusive grey camera - watch out. If the device is Nokia's new Observation Camera a picture of your face could be winging its way as an MMS (multimedia message service) to someone else's mobile phone.At first glance the camera, launched earlier this month in the UK, looks like any other CCTV camera. Yet pop in a Sim card and the camera's phone functionality is activated, enabling it to send images to other phones via MMS or to PCs using e-mail.Owners can phone the camera and listen to the sounds it picks up via its microphone, or control the device remotely, enabling them to send a text message and receive an image via MMS in return. It can also be pre-set to send images/text warnings if it detects movement or if the temperature exceeds pre-set limits.Nokia has come up with an imaginative list of potential uses for the camera. Planning to visit your favourite bar? You can find out via the camera who is buying the drinks. Want to find how much snow there is at the top of the mountain? You will be able to see by sending a text message to the camera.While those ideas sound great in theory, the camera will have one prime use - security. Almost everyone is eyeing up the security market, from BT with its home-monitoring system to network camera manufacturers such as Veo and Panasonic, whose products display constant images via a dedicated web page.There are also a small number of cameras that can be integrated into Wi-Fi systems so that if they sense an intruder they can e-mail the user.The leap forward for the Nokia product is that the mobile phone is the one device that is always accessible. Unlike an e-mail alert that may sit for hours unopened on a server somewhere, users will get their SMS or MMS within seconds. In theory, the snaps it takes might also come in handy in identifying a burglar after a crime has been committed.It is difficult to gauge the camera's likely effectiveness. The motion sensor seems fairly sophisticated, but I wouldn't bet against some users getting a load of MMSes of the local pigeon population. The images it takes are pretty good, too - you can specify their resolution to keep within the parameters of the size of message your network lets you send.There are a couple of key weaknesses. First, the camera is not exactly plug and play: users have to configure the camera either via SMS, or by using the PC, the route I chose. Even after following instructions to the letter, I couldn't get the camera to work without enlisting extra help. I suspect Nokia's technical centre is going to be fairly busy with this one.Second, while the camera costs £300, users need to budget an extra £35 a year. That's because the camera is classified as a CCTV device and owners have to register and pay in order to ensure compliance with the 1998 Data Protection Act.Overall, the camera is an impressive piece of kit. And while it has clear value as part of a security system I doubt that snooping on the local cat population and snapping would-be felons will be the limitations of its use. If ever there was a cool device in need of a killer application, it is this camera.
US violations of UK sovereignty are both more ubiquitous and far more widespread than David Leigh and Richard Norton-Taylor suggest in their excellent piece (We are now a client state, Comment, July 17).Every copy of Microsoft Windows, every copy of MS Office World and every Dell computer invoice carry demands, imposed on Microsoft and Dell by the US government, that the UK user or UK purchaser observes US criminal law (The US Export Control Act) here in the UK. Users are prohibited from taking their copies of the above to various countries disapproved of by the US and in some cases from taking software out of the UK.In relation to earlier violations of sovereignty using the same export law, Margaret Thatcher wrote to Paddy Ashdown on November 11 1988 saying: "You will no doubt recall that, in his letter of July 3 1985, Michael Havers (the attorney general) warned that, although US claims to extraterritorial jurisdiction are offensive, it is only realistic to recognise that we cannot in practice compel the US to stop making such claims and seeking to enforce them."If Maggie had to tolerate violations of UK sovereignty, what chance has Tony Blair got? To reinforce this, the MoD had to get US permission to move its two US-manufactured supercomputers from Bracknell to Exeter. Soon the MoD will have to get US licences to have officials enter its Whitehall offices.Kevin CahillExeter, Devon
"The Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard Law School is the new keeper of the specification for a popular Web log tool. The Berkman Center took over ownership of the Really Simple Syndication (RSS) 2.0 specification this week after UserLand, a company owned by RSS 2.0 author David Winer, transferred the copyright to the center," reportsCNet. Earlier this year, Berkman gave Winera fellowshipto help them get blogging.
Microsoft's sales grew by 11% to $8.07 billion in its fourth quarter, and it made a profit of $1.92 billion, after deducting $533 million in after-tax settlement charges (mainly the AOL lawsuit over Netscape). Over the full year, Microsoft's revenues grew by 13% to $32.19 billion, while profits increased from $7.83 billion to $9.99 billion after charges. (Operating income was $13.22 billion.)Reutershas the numbers in summary but they are all in thepress release. The balance sheet reveals that Microsoft's cash pile (total cash and short-term investments) grew from $38.7 billion to $49.0 billion.
The Culture Ministry has announced a ban on the use of 'e-mail' in all government ministries, documents, publications or Web sites, the latest step to stem an incursion of English words into the French lexicon," reportsAP. "The ministry's General Commission on Terminology and Neology insists Internet surfers in France are broadly using the term 'courrier electronique' (electronic mail) instead of e-mail — a claim some industry experts dispute. 'Courriel' is a fusion of the two words."So don't say e-mail, say courriel.
The announcement by AOL that it will not develop any new versions of the Netscape browser signals the death of the company that acted as a major catalyst for the dotcom boom.Netscape as a company is effectively finished. Its parent company, AOL Time Warner, insists the brand will continue to be an important part of its strategy, but actions louder than words.AOL has cut 50 jobs in the development division of its browser business and will not develop any new versions. The changes have left just a skeleton crew to manage the transition of Netscape's browser development work to a non-profit organisation called the Mozilla foundation.The writing was on the wall for Netscape when, last month, Microsoft paid $750m (£472m) to AOL - a pittance for Bill Gates - to settle outstanding litigation between the two companies arising from the long-standing browser wars.As part of the deal, Microsoft agreed to offer AOL its Internet Explorer as the default browser to subscribers to its online service for the next seven years. AOL was effectively ditching the company it had bought in 1998 for $4.2bn.The internet boom started in August 1995 when Netscape, the developer of the first fully-fledged browser, was floated on the US markets for the outrageous sum of $2.7bn. This was a mind-boggling amount when sales were only $16.6m in six months. Netscape lit the starting fuse for the bull market of the next 10 years, and both the US and the world economy are still recovering from the puncturing of that dotcom bubble.Netscape was the brainchild of Marc Andreessen, who developed the first ever, graphical web browser with Eric Bina, when they were students at the University of Illinois. Called Mosaic, the user-friendly browser allowed people to find their way around the web. It eventually became Mosaic Communications and then Netscape in 1994.Netscape was so successful - it quickly gained 80% of the browser market - that it set off alarm bells at Microsoft, the market leader in PC operating systems. Microsoft responded by exploiting its trump card, its 90%-plus monopoly of the PC operating system. It began offering, or "bundling", Explorer as part of the operating system.Microsoft's aggressive tactics laid the foundation for the massive anti-trust case brought against Bill Gates's company by the US government and several states. In a small, stuffy Washington DC courtroom, Netscape's blunt-talking chief executive, James Barksdale, provided some compelling testimony.He accused Microsoft of making an improper offer to split the browser market between them, and of threatening to "cut the oxygen" from Netscape should it persist in competing against Microsoft. Microsoft hit back by dismissing Netscape as a whinger and a feeble competitor.The US courts found that Microsoft's dominance, while not illegally acquired, was illegally maintained by methods such as strong-arming computer manufacturers to make Explorer the default browser on their computers. By 1998, Netscape was seeing its market share rapidly eroded by Microsoft, so AOL seemed like a white knight when it agreed to buy the troubled company as part of its own rivalry with Microsoft.But AOL failed to invest in Netscape to claw back the ground lost to Microsoft, which now enjoys a 90%-plus monopoly in browsers, on top of its stranglehold on operating systems. Even for those with an abiding affection for Netscape have to admit the superiority of Internet Explorer.The demise of Netscape underlines the difficulty of sustaining a product, no matter how good it may have been at the start. It also shows the enormous power of Microsoft. Money talks, and Microsoft had plenty available to throw at the problem. Bill Gates is the clear victor in the browser wars.&#183;Mark Tran is business editor of Guardian Unlimited
Daniel Blackburn, 26, works with three colleagues out of two rooms in a converted textile mill in Huddersfield. His company, Carbon Based Games, is just one of thousands of hopeful developers in Europe trying to cash in on what they believe will be the next big thing - an explosion in games played on mobile phones. A report published this month by W2Forum predicts that the mobile games and downloadable music market will grow from &euro;500m (&#163;360m) this year to more than &euro;1.9bn (&#163;1.4bn) in 2006.John Chasey, the managing director of iomo, one of the top three developers, says: "The market is growing at an incredible rate. In some areas it is doubling every month." Blackburn complains there are too many companies involved, all taking a cut along the line. The industry, he says, needs consolidation so companies like his can get quicker routes to market.This ought to be a developer's paradise. Unlike other consumer products, a mobile game can be made by two coders in a backroom in a couple of months at almost no cost apart from labour. It can then be posted on a website and downloaded by millions. A tiny firm ought to be able to go global overnight.That is the theory. In practice, developers have to attract customers to their sites and find a way of getting paid. Yet the explosive potential has already created a wild west of content aggregators, publishers, handset manufacturers, resellers, telecoms operators and others trying to get a slice of the action - and the revenues.Operators are still not publishing statistics, so no one knows the size of the market. Owen Bennallack, the editor of Develop, a journal for games   developers, recalls that at a recent mobile games convention in San Jose, hardly anyone knew of most of the games voted the best of the past six months. "People do not know what is going on out there," he says. "There is too much product and no visibility."W2Forum forecasts that the majority of games providers will be out of business in three to four years. Josh Dhaliwal, a co-author, says that good content alone cannot form the basis for a successful business model.There are three key elements to distribution, he says: creating visibility for the product, finding a proper payments system and delivering the game in a frictionless way.The mobile gaming explosion has been triggered by the increasing availability of mobile phones running Java, the software code used to make and play games. When users trade in their old phones, they usually get, whether they know it or not, aJava-enabled phone with an embedded game or two to get them hooked.A fierce battle is now raging for control of the mobile gaming space. Operators such as Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile, who have direct access to their customers and an available billing system, are likely to dominate the market.Vodafone Live! has shown the way. Instead of being the piggy in the middle and just providing the transmission mechanism, the operator has expanded its control forwards - by providing an easy-to-use payment system for downloaded games - and backwards - by fixing the specifications for the phone with the manufacturers. That includes branding the handset as a Vodafone product rather than that of the maker. Orange has done something similar with its SPV smart phone.This entails a loss of power and branding for the handset manufacturers. Most - including the world's leading manufacturer, Nokia - are loath to play second fiddle to the network operators.Keith Stuart, the editor of Mobile Gamer, has no doubt who will win: "Developers and publishers say they will, but it will be the network operators who will control the market because they have access to customers." Vodafone Live! already claims to have 1.5m customers, including more than 250,000 in the UK.Network operators generally prefer to deal with publishers and aggregators - the brokers between them and the developers - rather than answer the phone all day to backroom coders trying to sell them a different version of a familiar game.Some developers prefer this system. It leaves the problems of billing, marketing and interoperability between different phone systems to the middlemen even though the developers end   up with a revenue share of only 25% or less. Resellers - who sell to the consumer - will typically take 50% of the revenue, leaving the rest to be split between publisher and developer.Chasey says: "As a developer, we are approached by publishers with a brand they would like a mobile version of. We do the design and implementation but they have a distribution deal tied up. We also originate content and distribute it directly through a portal."But it is getting more difficult for backroom developers, he says, as handsets get more memory and colour. Development costs are increasing rapidly from &#163;10,000 to &#163;100,000. Once developers have a game, they can put it on a server but they still have to let people know it is there. Curiously, there are no big independent portals or cooperatives to provide a shop window for the smaller guys.The first phase of mobile gaming involved recycling the computer games of the 1980s and 90s - whose   simplicity lent themselves to easy conversion. The second stage, as the handsets get more sophisticated, is adapting console and PC games - from Doom to Tomb Raider - and spending money on licensing film and television titles to spearhead a brand-led expansion.There has been a dearth of mobile games specifically designed for mobiles. This could change when location-based services and photo-messaging become popular, and when Nokia's custom-built mobile gaming phone, Ngage, comes on stream later this year. But that doesn't alter the fact that mobile phones are still being designed as speaking instruments, because that is where the revenue comes from.Small, independent developers are being thrust aside by the land grab taking place among the big players. Some of the smaller ones in Scandinavia and the UK, who have been in the business for several years, are putting games operations   on hold until the business models make more sense. One, who wished to remain anonymous, said: "It is no longer worth developing games as a small company, because there is no one out there with a business model that works for independent developers. The phone companies don't offer development money to pay for games, and the revenue share model isn't feasible if an operator takes two or three years to launch a game - by then they may have changed their whole handset and marketing strategy."Brian Rodway, the managing director of Affinity Studios, told Develop that if a developer creates a game that someone else downloads for, say, &euro;2, and then plays for five hours, the developer gets nothing, which is hardly an incentive.Digital Bridges, one of the biggest independent wireless publishers in the UK, justifies the 50% revenue share that publishers take by the large investment they have to make in marketing and in overcoming the technical problems associated with different networks and varying screen sizes.Catherine Skinner, the director of Supedo, a small Hackney developer, detects an unwillingness among phone companies to take a long-term view. "The attitude seems to be: 'Well, we've spent so much on buying the 3G licences and building the infrastructure that we can't afford to invest in products up-front.'"Operators seem extremely unwilling to commission anything innovative. Instead of developing new kinds of entertainment, they're just slapping big brands from the box office or television on to the mobile. They're not used to the idea that you have to   invest in products to have a hit. For them, the issue is: can I get something free now?"Many small developers believe that if the mobile operators want to stand any chance of recouping their massive investments, they need to start developing their own content brands: products and services that catch people's imagination. Skinner adds: "Only then will they be able to build the same kind of hit-based merchandising and licensing operations as the film and console industries."What does the future hold? The industry must make it easy to pay for content and to download games to different phones to avoid the PR disaster of Wap. It must also decide whether it is targeting existing gamers or creating new games with a broader appeal.To reach a wider market, gaming must shed its blokeish image. Aleks Krotowski, a seasoned observer, told a recent Vodafone seminar, that women like online communities such as SimCity and games where they have a specific role to play. THQ Wireless claims that the teenage girl market for mobile gaming is already very profitable.It may make business sense at the moment to exploit existing console, PC and film brands by producing mobile versions. But if the result is to ignore the new generation of backroom operators trying to make games specifically for mobiles, then it could suffocate a nascent industry before it has cut its teeth. We may never know if there is the equivalent of another Doom - the game devised in a Texas garage that changed the face of PC games - out there, simply because it may never see the light of day.&#183;If you'd like to comment on this article, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The age of the cybercop patrolling children's chatrooms on the lookout for paedophile predators has arrived in the United States. British police, however, appear reluctant to accept the burden of such routine duties.The disappearance of a 12-year-old british girl has revived concerns about the safety of children using the internet and calls for improved policing of websites.Most specialist police units dealing with computer crime concentrate on financial fraud, hacking, viruses, pornography and paedophile rings.Fewer resources have been directed at the problem of preventing online "grooming" of vulnerable youngsters by paedophiles. The sheer volume of traffic discourages intervention even though grooming - the seduction of children over the internet with intent to obtain underage sex - will have become a criminal offence in Britain by the autumn."There are not scores of police officers sitting in front of terminals on a cyber-beat in the hope they might find something," said a spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers. "It has to be more specific and targeted. They are trying to track down the more organised elements of those who prey on children."A spokeswoman for the national crime squad admitted: "There's no police unit looking at grooming." And the Internet Watch Foundation, the organisation which combats the exploitation of child-abuse images online, said: "It's not in our remit."The FBI, by contrast, has mounted sting operations for the past seven or eight years, logging on to chatrooms used by children and young teenagers usually under the assumed identity of a 12-year-old girl."We have a programme to apprehend child predators who use the internet to entice children into sexual acts," explained an FBI officer in Washington."Some of it involves routine monitoring &#91;of chatrooms&#93;. There are certain rules the officers have to observe to make sure it's not entrapment. The predators make contact and if they arrange a meeting, officers arrest them. Some state police forces also conduct routine monitoring."American law enforcers believe such prosecutions act as a deterrent, scaring off paedophiles from using the internet.Some British chatrooms used by children employ trained adults to monitor exchanges. Others screen out adults, requiring authorising letters from schools before users are allowed to enter. Filters can also be fitted to block obscene language.The Metropolitan police's paedophile unit looks at chatrooms but does not reveal whether it is in response to tip-offs about suspects or to carry out routine patrolling of sites.Sting operations have been carried out in Britain but are relatively rare. Four years ago Kenneth Lockley, 28, of Derby, went online seeking an underage sexual encounter. The person who responded was a police officer and Lockley was jailed for 18 months.The problem for the police is one of resources and coordination of responsibilities between different specialist units. But the scale of the problem is growing: there have been 25 prosecutions in the past three years in Britain involving adults arranging to meet children over the internet then raping or sexually assaulting them."We are very much in favour of what they do in the US," said John Carr, internet adviser at the children's charity NCH, "particularly as the internet provides such technological advantages to the criminal. It would be &#91;a deterrent if&#93; every paedophile who went on the internet believed they were just as likely to meet a policeman as a 12-year-old girl."
A new report by the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire has set out the 'grooming' process used by paedophiles to befriend children over the internet with the intention of abusing them.1. FriendshipFlattering a child into talking in a private chatroom where they will be isolated. The child will often be asked for a non-sexual picture of themselves.2. Forming a relationshipAsking the child what problems they have to create the illusion of being their best friend.3. Risk assessmentAsking the child about the location of their computer and who else has access to it in order to assess the risk of being detected.4. ExclusivityBuilding up a sense of mutual love and trust with the child, suggesting that they can discuss "anything".5. Sex talkEngaging the child in explicit conversations and requesting sexually explicit pictures from them. At this stage the paedophile will usually try to arrange a meeting with the child.
Children are increasingly being targeted by "cyber-rapists" who coerce them into aggressive and abusive sexual encounters in internet chatrooms, an expert on online paedophilia warned today.Unlike other paedophiles who use the internet with the intention of meeting children offline, the cyber-rapist's aim is to engage in online sexual activity, according to Rachel O'Connell, a member of a Home Office taskforce developing legislation to tackle grooming - the befriending of children online with the aim of abusing them.This emerging type of sex offender engages in "hit and run" sexual exchanges with children and rarely targets the same child twice, setting the men apart from other online child abusers and hampering efforts to track them down, said Ms O'Connell, director of the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire.In a research paper on "cybersexploitation" published today, she said that cyber-rapists used aggressive commands when coercing children into rape fantasies.Ms O'Connell said: "The cyber-rapist wants to achieve sexual release online. Our research found they were rarely interested in arranging meetings with children offline, or scheduling another encounter with the same child online."In contrast to other paedophiles, they spend a lot less time cultivating the trust of children and have what could be termed a 'hit and run' mentality."They will often start by asking the child to them how they feel about a certain sex act being done to them. The abuser is looking for a negative reaction from the child as they find this exciting."In her report, A Typology of Child Cybersexplotation and Online Grooming Practices, which has been submitted to the Home Office, Ms O'Connell said this new type of online sexual abuse could require new legislation."From a legal point of view it may be difficult to prosecute someone for non-contact sexual abuse," she warned.The researcher, who spent five years investigating online paedophile activity, has recommended the creation of a national police tracking system to monitor and collate reports made to internet service providers by children about sexually abusive encounters online."This would enable us to see whether someone is a serial cyber-rapist," she said.Ms O'Connell added that more research was needed into the motivations of cyber-rapists."It's a new situation, but these men probably rationalise their behaviour as not serious because 'it's not real' - they're not physically abusing a child. Or they may also regard cyber-rape as cathartic," she said."From the research we've done so far, their psychological profiles are similar to other rapists: it's a power relationship."It may be that they can't get other adults to engage in rape fantasies so target children because they are more malleable."But we don't know whether they are a distinct group from other paedophiles or whether they may go on to try to arrange meetings with children."She said the impact of cyber-rape on children needs to be thoroughly assessed to enable internet service providers and child protection professionals to support victims.Ms O'Connell added: "At present it is only possible to estimate the psychological impact of these kinds of experiences on vulnerable children, but it seems reasonable to expect that they will have both short and long-term ill effects."
Usability guru Jakob Nielsen has stuck a few more knives into Adobe PDF as a Web format in the latestAlertboxcolumn. "For online reading, however, PDF is the monster from the Black Lagoon. It puts its clammy hands all over people with a cruel grip that doesn't let go."
Whatever the PayPal hoaxers are up to, they are expending a lot of effort doing it. If you haven't received a spoof email yet, it appears to come from PayPal, the internet payment company, and contains logos and copyright information to make it seem authentic. But it also comes with a form asking for your credit card details so PayPal can "detect inactive customers". And, of course, when you click Submit, your credit card details don't go to PayPal but to a website set up by the spoofster.It is a simple ruse - so simple you might imagine it would be a non-starter. But the mails have continued for several months, the latest just a few days ago, and they are on the increase. But is it a big problem and is anybody doing anything about it?Internet registration records show that one recent message sent responses to a server belonging to a Surrey-based ISP. Its technical director explains what happens. "The spammers put up a site that looks vaguely like PayPal and then send out a spam that contains a form. If the recipient bangs in his credit card details, our server picks them up and stores them in a file. Every so often the spammer checks that file for additions."After the sites are set up, they must start spamming within an hour. We take all the sites down as soon as we find them. Our average is about six hours and our record is to cut the site off within 90 minutes," he says.The technical department of an ISP is in a privileged position to witness the success of the scam, which can be described as frightening. "We sat there one Saturday afternoon and even though the server was sending out 404s &#91;ie. it had been shut down&#93;, a credit card number with its Pin arrived every two or three minutes," says the technical director.And that explains why the spammers are so persistent: their ruse is working. The ISP says that around 40 or 50 scam sites were set up at the beginning of June and were all reported to Surrey police.Detective Constable Tony Noble, from the computer crime unit at   Surrey police, confirms the police are working with the ISP to investigate the scam. But, he says, as police priorities go, this one is relatively low on the list. Noble identifies the major stumbling block. "We have yet to find somebody that has lost money."And herein lies the great mystery. The latest wave of mails, launched a few days ago, returned responses to a site registered to a non-existent company in Las Vegas. The site remained open for more than a day until PayPal shut it down. The technical director at the Surrey-based ISP estimated that this would still have resulted in up to 500 credit card details.It seems strange that so many card details are being collected, yet no one is reporting any financial loss. The fraud departments at Visa, Mastercard and Barclaycard have not identified significant problems, either.There are several reasons why. The spammer could be some kind of bizarre trophy gatherer, gaining a power trip from collecting personal information. Alternatively, savvy net users could be returning authentic-looking, but false, card details. That would be an element of poetic justice.But the sheer persistence of the spammer seems to indicate that there is more to it. One possibility is that victims are not admitting having given away their card details in case it invalidates their insurance policy.Barclaycard say this is possible but victims of such scams are normally reimbursed for losses, so customers would have no reason to stay quiet.But it is also possible that the motive is yet to surface. Professional fraudsters often wait months before using misappropriated cards, by which time the duped party will most likely have forgotten when they gave away details.In the meantime, PayPal is stepping up efforts to educate people. The UK's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit has also been alerted. The unit classifies the situation as an ongoing investigation, but adds that unless a fraud occurs, the process of collecting credit card numbers per se isn't a crime.If we are ever to find out who is behind the great PayPal scam, then someone, somewhere will first have to lose a lot of money.
EBay is an e-commerce success story - but it also highlights the problems of online trading, real and perceived. The actual number of fraudulent transactions on eBay is tiny, but the company recently unveiled more protection for users because of the damage the perception of fraud does to business.From autumn, US sellers with good reputations can offer buyers a $500 guarantee for items that don't arrive or aren't as described and, from next month, eBay will warn buyers accused of not paying after the first complaint. It has even hired Howard Schmidt, a former White House cybersecurity chief, as vice-president of security.Your site may never rival eBay but, however large or small your sales, you have to think about fraud along with other payment issues. If the credit card used turns out to be stolen, you can be liable for the "chargeback", which means footing the bill for the refund to the real cardholder. You must be able to collect the money reliably.The simplest and fastest way to start taking money online is to use a payment service such as PayPal, but it is not necessarily convenient. The maximum transaction may be as low   as &#163;100, and it can give the impression that your site is more of a hobby. Your customer also has to open an account with the service.Using a third-party payment service or an online clearing house is likely to cost you more than getting a merchant ID to accept credit card transactions (although costs are usually lower than the internet payment systems). There may be a setup fee and you'll probably have higher costs for each transaction than if you were processing the card yourself. Some payment providers such as Protx charge a flat monthly fee (&#163;20 for up to 1,000 transactions and then 10p for every further transaction), which chief executive Michael Alculumbre thinks is "often more suited to small businesses trying to get on their feet in the competitive online world".Your bank is liable to charge you for the credit card processing as well. And expect to wait for your money to come through: it is not uncommon to have to wait six to eight weeks.On the other hand, it's often faster and easier than applying for a merchant ID, which means the bank will check out your website and two years of accounts. If you don't have an online trading history, getting the ID may depend on how much you're   prepared to deposit as security.With a payment service, you should only need one account however many credit cards you want to accept. It's not just Visa and MasterCard: customers might want to pay by Switch, American Express, JCB, Diners, Laser, Electron or the German ELV system. You won't need to worry about accepting different currencies, either, although some providers charge extra for this.Some services, like WorldDirect from WorldPay, include the merchant account you need to accept payments, which you'd normally have to apply for separately through a bank. This can take much longer than arranging for a payment provider. You should allow plenty of time for setting up and testing any system. Some providers take up to a month, but   with the fastest third-party services, you can start accepting payments the same day. Your hosting provider will often work with a particular payment provider: 1&amp;1 Internet uses Protx and BT Openworld's Internet Trader Pack sets you up with WorldPay.If trading internationally, paying by credit card won't suit every country: customers in France and Germany are less likely to have credit cards they can use online, so you might need to accept direct debit, wire transfer or cheque. Fraud rates in some countries make it uneconomic to accept orders: Pat Fitzpatrick, of T-ShirtZoo, suggests that "you just don't supply to Indonesia, Malaysia, Turkey, Russia and six or seven more countries".Usually, cardholder-not-present transactions only require the card   number and expiry date: you can't check the signature. Not all clearing houses are set up to process the new security number on the back of credit cards (card verification value), which proves it is the original card (or that the fraudster has copied all the information by hand). If accepting credit cards directly, you may want to confirm the order over the phone or delay payment until the payment clears.Two new security schemes - Verified from Visa and MasterCard SecureCode - add an extra stage to online purchases, sending buyers to a screen where they verify their identity directly to the bank that issued their credit card, by password or Pin. This shifts the liability for fraudulent transactions to the bank and is far simpler for shoppers than the electronic wallet and digital signatures required for the cumbersome Set (secure electronic transactions). Home terminals, where you enter a Pin directly, are used in Scandinavia but, again, they're intrusive for the shopper. Visa wants all issuing banks to support Verified from Visa by 2005: Barclaycard and Royal Bank of Scotland have already signed up.You should also ask your online payment provider what other fraud checks they use to protect you: do they verify addresses, check against lists of stolen cards and keep a database of fraudulent orders? Some services offer insurance to protect you from losses: WorldPay will insure you for losses under &#163;250.You may pay more for a more secure service, but it could end up saving you money. Having a secure payment system not only protects you, it makes your customers feel more secure. Make it obvious you are encrypting their credit card details and sticking to the Department of Trade and Industry distance selling regulations, which guarantee a seven-day cooling off period and written confirmation of their order as well as protection from credit card fraud. Look at the Interactive Media in Retail Group code of practice for other ways to reassure visitors. You want to make sure your customers are happy to keep coming back.
The colour of the Incredible Hulk's trousers is not something that preoccupies most of us. However, last year, when Ang Lee, the director of The Hulk, suggested the monster might not wear purple ones in the film, he provoked outrage on specialist comic book websites.Regular visitors to online destinations such as SuperHeroHype and DarkHorizons don't like Hollywood studios messing around with their beloved superhero characters, and they made their views clearly known. When the film opens in the UK tomorrow, the Hulk will be kitted out in his traditional purple trousers. No one at Marvel will admit that specialist film websites are forcing Hollywood studios to make changes to the portrayal of comic book characters, but they do accept that their influence is now growing in a number of ways."Producers and directors at Marvel studios are aware of them. They do reference them from time to time," says a spokesperson for Marvel. "They are aware how much the fan base means to these characters and the films. There is an element of respect for these sites."One of the more influential specialist film sites is The OneRing, which is regarded as the fount of all knowledge for the Lord of the Rings films. The site claims to be receiving a staggering 20m web visits a month. However, it is not clear how many of those are unique visitors. When New Line Cinema discovered that Erica Challis, one of the site's editors, was taking photos on the set of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring in New Zealand, they sent a bailiff to her home and served her with a trespassing notice. Her experience was posted on the Tolkien site, fans rebelled and the film's director, Peter Jackson, subsequently invited Challis on to the set as an apology."Hollywood production companies have started to take notice of the fan base that can be created online," says Michael Regina, an editor of OneRing, who adds that the site now enjoys a very close relationship with the Hollywood team behind the Lord of the Rings films. "We have a good relationship with them. We're on first-name terms. We can email them and ask them questions. We have met Peter Jackson and all the crew."Regina says that the studios are becoming increasingly eager to keep online fans happy by releasing promotional footage early and giving   them snippets of information as the hype for releases builds.Harry Knowles, the influential editor of AintItCoolNews, says he can put reviews on his site, which are picked up and carried by nearly every paper in the US. He compares film websites to the life of an American folk hero. "The internet is the Paul Revere of news. It's the first place you hear what is going on and the rest of the world scrambles to find that out."Knowles is used to the Hollywood studios trying to woo him, but he is determined to "keep the site straight".In the late 1990s, Knowles accused Joel Schumacher, the director of Batman and Robin, of taking the film away from its dark comic origins. While the film did well at the box office, some commentators have   credited Knowles with being responsible for delaying the production of future Batman films.Knowles has already made it clear on his site that he likes The Hulk. But with its study of the workings of the sub-conscious, he sees it as more of an art house film than a traditional summer blockbuster.Here in the UK, Hollywood is taking no chances and The Hulk has been promoted online for about a year. "Film companies are taking the web more seriously than they did a couple of years ago," says Oliver Swanton, co-founder of Way To Blue, the online agency promoting The Hulk. He points out that online journalists were allocated about 50 tickets to the UK premiere. A couple of years ago, they would have probably been lucky to have got in."Online media is right up there alongside other media," he says. "The beauty of online is that you can see so much. You can play a Hulk game and see an interview. How attractive is that?"For certain key demographics, especially teenagers, Swanton argues that the influence of the web is crucial for promoting films, especially as it can bypass traditional film critics and influence film-goers before newspaper and magazine reviews appear.But not all web editors agree. Rob Andrews, the entertainment editor for the ISP Tiscali, remains sceptical about the influence UK websites can exert. Although he sometimes gives a film a zero rating on the site, he says his approach is quite different from the likes of US-based independent film fans. "Harry Knowles is prepared to rip a film to bits if he doesn't like it. We want to work with the companies a bit more. We're a big ISP."Andrews suggests that Hollywood deliberately picks rows with diehard comic book websites as PR ploys to generate advance attention for a film. "There is no story in saying that The Hulk is going to look exactly as he does in the comic books."Whatever the sceptics say, online destinations such as OneRing already enjoy superhero-like influence over Hollywood and more could follow suit as sequels to films are regularly churned out. OneRing has quickly grown from being a small Tolkien specialist site to a business generating enough advertising to throw Oscar parties that the director of Lord of The Rings feels he must attend.While it cannot afford to ignore such film sites as OneRing, which delivers big numbers, Hollywood is also spending time and money cultivating small specialist sites.If you type The Hulk into Google, you can quickly see how many sites the monster film has spawned. They are often packed with gossip, reviews, interviews and merchandise. But the key question Hollywood would like to know is whether any of them will persuade you to go to see the shirt-splitting monster this summer?Links for film fanswww.theonering.netwww.tiscali.co.ukwww.darkhorizons.comwww.aintitcoolnews.comwww.theonering.net
In its latest quarterly results, Apple made a profit of $19 million (down from $32 million) on a turnover of $1.55 billion (up from $1.43 billion), both numbers being better than analysts had predicted, reportsReuters. Sales of Macs fell from 808,000 to 771,000 (with sales of iMacs down by "about a quarter"), but sales of iPods jumped from 54,000 to an impressive 304,000.
CD killerWhat is the best way of disposing of old back-up CDs? They won't go through a paper shredder. I break them (inside a thick envelope or it's messy) and then bin the remains, but I still worry that my data could be read by someone who is really determined.Rex D LastJack Schofield replies:If you are being targeted by the CIA or a similar organisation, then yes, they could reconstruct a shattered disc and extract data from it, but it would not be a cheap option. A simpler and more secure method is to scour the CD's surfaces with sandpaper or a similar abrasive. However, for most normal purposes, it is enough to scratch the surfaces with a penknife, letter opener or other sharp object. Indeed, if you destroy sector 16 of the disc, then you probably don't need to bother about the other 333,000. According to How to Destroy a CD-R by Bob Starrett, published in Adaptec's WINCDR newsletter in March 2000, "sector 16 contains the disc's volume descriptor, and is necessary for any CD-Rom drive to be able to read the disc". This sector is "pretty close to the centre of the disc, within an eighth of an inch of the beginning of the writable area". You can find the article and other destructive suggestions atwww.roxio.com/en/support/discs/destroydiscs.Blog hereWhich blog software would you recommend?Derrick CameronJS:Blogger is the obvious place to start weblogging. It is free, the software is easy to use and the server seems fast enough. Also, now Google owns the company, reliability should improve. When you have a bit of experience and have developed some likes and dislikes, you may want to move to a more flexible system. For example, we startedOnlineblog at Blogger, upgraded to Blogger Pro, and we are now thinking aboutMovable Type.Incidentally, there are British alternatives to Blogger, such asBlog City, and there is a UK-based version of20six. Finally, AOL is planning to launch blogging software this year, but it will be called AOL Journals.Files doubledWhen I want to open a Microsoft Word document, I find that all my files are listed not only by their given name, but also preceded by ~$. Can I stop these appearing in the list of files?Derek RobinsonJS:When Word opens a document, it creates a separate copy, so it has both the original file and the one you have changed. The working copy has the same name but starts with ~$. Usually you cannot see files like this unless you open Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Optons|View and click the radio button marked Show hidden files and folders. A tilde at the start of the filename means it is a temporary file, and Word can create at least 10 different types of temporary file per document, depending on need. However, when you save and close a file, Word is supposed to delete the temporary files it no longer needs. (There may still be temporary files if you copied text to the clipboard or edited a file on a floppy disk.) Check that your original files contain all the data you need, restart your PC (without running Word), and if the temp files are still there, you can delete them.IE lockIs there any way to lock an IE browser window so it is not taken over by a new link? I know you can press Shift and open a new window but this is not always convenient.Frank HealyJS:I don't know of one. Does anyone?Backchat&#183;Windows XP was asking Alan Fletcher for a password and he had not set one. Nick James and Nial Joyce note that in that case, XP should let you in if you leave the password field blank and just press Enter. Dave Langstaff, David Martin and Dominic Beecher recommend visiting the site athttp://home.eunet.no/~pnordahl/ntpasswdfor a utility to reset the administrator password. Langstaff says: "I've used it on a Windows 2000 installation and it should work on XP as well."&#183;Brian Kelsey wanted a mouse substitute to help avoid RSI. Alison Wright says: "You can download software that does the clicking of the mouse for you. Two good ones areMousetool, which will click or double-click for you after the cursor is moved a given number of pixels, andRSIGuard, which not only 'autoclicks' but also includes an optional adjustable break timer. Given that short, regular breaks are key to RSI management, this is a godsend."&#183;Neal Cartwright has ventured into the long-running saga of converting read-only files from CD back to read/write format. He points out that changing the file attributes by typing  attrib -r *.* /s in the top directory is quick and costs nothing. But most people no longer turn to MS-DOS commands even though they still have a "command prompt" that includes DOS emulation.
"PC shipments rose by nearly 10% [to 33.2 million] in the April-to-June period compared with the same three months in 2002, according to research firm Gartner. Rival researcher IDC said Wednesday that shipments were slightly less robust, climbing by 7.6%," reportsCNet. "Worldwide, Dell's shipments increased by 28.9%, giving the company a 17.8% share of the market, according to IDC. In the United States, IDC said Dell's shipments surged by 25.6%, compared with 8.1% for the market as a whole, giving it a 31.5% share. HP also posted good results, as worldwide shipments increased by 13.3% compared with the same period a year ago, giving it a 16.2% share of the market, according to IDC."Comment: HP did well to grow its PC sales faster than the market, and according to HP it's only 500,000 machines behind per quarter. But it's hard to compete with Dell when it can grow sales by almost 30% in what is still basically a flat market. Also, the vast majority of Dell PCs still go into businesses, and I think life is going to get harder for HP/Compaq when Dell turns up the heat on the consumer market outside the US.
Virtual worlds have been around for about two decades: when I was at university, the first mainframe multi-user dungeons were being played. Over the years, graphical interfaces transformed the interaction between player and game and then, more importantly, networks transformed the interaction between players and each other.Simple text adventure games have evolved into fully fledged virtual worlds and people have developed virtual selves, generally known as avatars, which are more than just playing pieces in a game. The psychological link between people and their avatars may be an indicator of the future relationship between our physical and virtual identities in social, organisational and business "games".These virtual worlds have already crossed some sort of line we didn't know was there. In some of the largest worlds, a small number of avatars earn a living for their "owners". Avatars from Sony's massively multiplayer online game Everquest are sold on eBay for up to $700, and while Sony Online Entertainment says it opposes such selling, there's not much it can do about it.In a famous study, the economist Edward Castronova calculated that the GNP per capita of Norrath, the imaginary world in Everquest, is somewhere between Bulgaria and Russia. Incidentally, he has since discovered that the gender gap extends to Norrath: female avatars are bought and sold for, on average, 12-16% less than male avatars.This is about more than games. As increasing numbers of people go online, and more of the economy goes with them, virtual worlds will force the examination of some interesting questions. One easy way to focus such a debate is to look at property rights. Does Leadbelly Gutbucket, my alter ego in a Dungeons &amp; Dragons game, "own" his magic axe in the same sense that I "own" the computer on which I am typing these words?My bet is that he does, and some lawyers are saying the same thing. A recent working paper from the University of Pennsylvania Law School concludes that on the basis of economic accounts that demonstrate the real world value of the virtual world objects and the exchange mechanisms for trading them, virtual world property interests are indistinguishable from real world property interests.If the basis for prosperity is, as many people think, secure property rights enforced by the rule of law, then it is clear that some virtual worlds will experience economic growth higher than many third-world countries.Property rights are the first step on a ladder of law that will confer rights on avatars as well. Once avatars and cryptography come together - introducing authentication, digital signatures and so on - then the scene is set.Ultimately, we will stop distinguishing between a person's "real" identity and the identity of their avatars (and possessions). We will grow accustomed to the idea that a physical individual has a number of digital identities, and that Dave Birch, Consult Hyperion employee, is not the "same" as Dave Birch, the private citizen, or Leadbelly Gutbucket, mightiest of the Dwarven heroes of Ravensdoom Pass.&#183;If you'd like to comment on this article, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
One year on from the introduction of picture messaging comes the launch of a similar service that sends video.The new Nokia 3650 can record up to nine seconds of jerky video. Couple it to O2's new video messaging service and you can now email video and send it to other similarly enabled mobiles.You don't need an expensive 3G handset. The new service uses GPRS (so-called 2.5G). And once set up, sending video is no more complicated than sending pictures, it just takes a few seconds longer (and costs more). To play the tiny videos on your computer you must download a special media player.The 3650 itself is an attractive, lightweight handset, with an integrated camera and a large colour screen. It also sports a key set arranged in a dial, a bit like yesteryear's telephones.But the video is the best feature. I used to keep a photograph of my sweetheart in my wallet. Now I keep nine seconds of her in my mobile phone.
Internet users should be forced to file their tax returns online rather than on paper, according to a provocative study of e-government published today. The report, SmartGov, suggests compulsion as a solution to e-government's credibility problem.Although the British government is spending billions of pounds on making each one of its 500-odd "services" available electronically by the end of 2005, few people are using e-government. One reason, says Noah Curthoys, SmartGov's author, is a public perception that online public services don't work. There is also little incentive to change from doing business on paper.Curthoys' solution, for certain types of citizens, is compulsion. "If you have internet access at home, and are computer literate, why should the state subsidise you to use a more expensive, more time-consuming, paper-based tax return system? We should move towards a system in which certain groups become compelled to use online channels."The office of the e-envoy, which is running the e-government project, said it is not considering compulsion. "We see the internet as one channel choice; other channels will be kept open as long as people want them." Under current plans, the only people who will be forced to use e-government are civil servants when their jobs require it.In SmartGov, published by The Work Foundation, a leftish think-tank, Curthoys, a researcher at Brunel University, claims that e-government underpins the Blairite political philosophy, with its ambi tion for renewed public services. Electronic service will be the mechanism for changes comparable to those introduced by the governments of Clement Attlee and Margaret Thatcher.There is one small snag: the British public doesn't seem to be playing. "Voting with their feet, citizens have continued to interact with the state in traditional ways and resisted all but the most heavily promoted e-government initiatives," says the report. More than 99% of taxpayers still fill in paper returns.A study published for the government in November found that 11% of Britons had used an online government service, compared with 40% of Canadians.Unused services are bad for public relations. They also reduce the chance of saving money. Online services cut government's costs only when a significant number of people stop contacting government on paper.According to Curthoys, the main reason people don't go online is not because they are afraid of new technology but because they have no particular reason to change the way they deal with government. Economists call it the "status quo bias" or "citizen inertia": a tendency to opt for the familiar rather than the untried, even when the new choice appears better.A good example is online tax returns. Although theoretically more efficient, citizens see the benefits as   unproven promises: the barriers to going online are real.One solution is to promote e-government to the "obvious users", relatively wealthy, technology savvy citizens, rather than all comers. These would be targets for compulsion.Curthoys admits that forcing people to use one channel over another looks undemocratic. But he proposes two examples of acceptable compulsion. One would be to extend the deadline for electronic tax returns and increase the penalties for late submissions of paper forms. Another is congestion charging in London, which is effectively compelling motorists to pay online or through SMS as the only speedy and reliable channel.The report also highlights several tensions in the plan:&#183;People who need government services the most are generally least able to use electronic channels.&#183;Most services are run by local authorities, yet these are least equipped to set up e-services.&#183;E-government reduces confidence by exposing flaws in the process.&#183;E-government costs money up front; any savings take years to emerge (if at all).&#183;Publicised failures create a perception of an entire agenda failing to deliver.Despite these tensions, the report says there have been successes, and cites three examples where e-government is making a difference - Liverpool City council, North Wales police and the Office of Government Commerce.The Office of the e-envoy will also take comfort from new statistics suggesting that the e-government message is beginning to sink in. Last week, the office for national statistics reported that 47% of Britain's internet users had used the web to contact the government or other public body.However, Curthoys argues that apathy and scepticism are still rampant. "The public perception, buttressed by acres of critical media coverage, is that e-government has become a reflection of the problems of the state, rather than the solution_ In other words, it is becoming a political and financial drain."&#183;SmartGov: renewing electronic government for improved service delivery, by The Work Foundation.www.theworkfoundation.co.uk
Warcraft 3: The Frozen ThronePC, &#163;19.99 Blizzard &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Warcraft 3 was released last year, pleasantly surprising those who did not believe that developer Blizzard could repeat the phenomenal success of Warcraft 1 &amp; 2, Diablo or Starcraft.As it turned out, it was a triumph of good storytelling and careful playtesting - paving the way for an inevitable sequel and, in the meantime, this mission pack.The Frozen Throne weaves its way through four campaigns using each of the available races and heroes. The story is well constructed and told.Don't expect any dramatic surprises in gameplay, though. This is still basic real-time strategy fare: build villages, mine resources and overpower the enemy by any means possible. W3's big innovation was hero units with special magical powers and, naturally, they return in force, making for massive pyrotechnic battles over 26 well-designed levels.As with most mission packs, however, the faults of the original have not been addressed. The problem with hero units is that most of their powers have to be triggered manually, and doing this in the heat of battle with dozens of units rushing back and forth is nearly impossible. Your basic soldiers, meanwhile, remain poor tacticians. Despite this, the Frozen Throne is a quality add-on to a great game.Mike AnderieszGothic IIPC, &#163;29.99 Atari/Piranha Bytes, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Gothic II might sound like the type of game for young women in black spidery dresses with eyes like two crows crashed into a snow bank but, in fact, it is a good old role playing game in the finest tradition. Although it wasn't one of the big hitters, with rather ropey graphics, the original Gothic created a keen fan base because the storyline and gameplay were very strong.The Gothic II storyline picks up from a few weeks after the finish of the last game, when your character was certain to meet its end under a pile of rubble. But, thankfully, your mentor, Xardas, rescued you from certain death, only for you to wake up and find the world still in turmoil. You have to sort it out.The engine has been polished since the original game and the world is five times as big. That is one of the big plus points about Gothic II - like Morrowind and Arx Fatalis, it takes place in a huge world, full of rich scenery and detail.The developers have taken the risky decision of voicing a great deal of the dialogue, rather than bombarding players with reams of text. These are hit and miss, with some voices sounding spot-on and others sound ing as convincingly medieval as Ali G. If you can cope with that, then you will find that there are great adventures to be had in Gothic II.Rhianna PratchettLe Tour de France: Centenary EditionKonami, &#163;29.99 PlayStation 2,&#42;&#42;Perfect Ace: Pro Tournament TennisOxygen, &#163;29.99 PlayStation 2 &#42;Both Le Tour de France: Centenary Edition and Perfect Ace offer little incentive to stay indoors. The former is the more interesting and is based on the famous cycle race.Your challenge is to spend time training your rider before races. There is an interesting balance of button bashing and strategy needed to guide your cyclist around the courses, with pacing and placement more important than brute force. Featuring a wealth of stats and detailed info on racing routes, Le Tour will certainly interest bike geeks.Sadly, gamers will be less enthralled. Strategy aside, the controls are unforgiving, especially when going around corners. Your opponents, too, are mindless automatons, following the same preset routes. Cycling on a videogame just isn't fun.However, tennis can be. From Pong to Virtua Tennis 2, the simplicity of the sport has made it well suited to gaming. Unfortunately, Perfect Ace serves anything but. The lack of official tournaments and the below-par graphics could be excused if the game itself was any good, but this is tennis made ridiculously easy.Reaching and returning the ball involves little skill and there is hardly any scope for improving technique and trying new shots. Sure, the unchallenging gameplay is fine for a few minutes, but if you want to play a decent game of tennis, leave well alone.Like Tour de France, Perfect Ace is a mediocre summer sports game. Roll on the footy season.
