Bloggers may have sparked a media revolution by democratising journalism, but there are early signs that a new breed of website will take the idea further. Online independent media hubs are letting people collaborate in new ways - and the focus is mostly on multimedia work, rather than text.Blogs suffer from their individualistic nature, says Clemencia Rodriguez, associate professor in the department of communications at Oklahoma University and co-founder ofOurMedia, an academic group researching the growth of independent media outlets. "Ninety per cent of them will never find their audience, because information and communication has to do with being part of a collective."Independent media hubs complement blogs by marrying their ethos of grassroots production with internet collaboration. They can host creative work from thousands of members on a single website, making it easy for consumers to find what they want, and giving producers a community of like-minded people to share ideas and material with.Nowpublic.com, an independent media hub bringing together pictures and text, started off as a hobby, says its founder Michael Tippett. "The goal of the new system is to bring together independent bloggers with photographers, and people who are photoblogging, because they are often two very different groups," he says. The result is a collaborative site that enables people to write news articles and others to illustrate them with photographs taken at the scene, often with cameraphones.Another such hub,Wikinews.org, brings together multiple contributors to create news articles that can be surprisingly in-depth. Within hours of Ratzinger's appointment as the new Pope, a detailed biography of him was available as part of a larger new story on the site.Limited to text alone, such sites are an interesting form of social groupware. But as bandwidth and storage become cheaper, they are evolving into online production centres that can handle audiovisual information. The multimedia element plays a large part in moving things on from the blog world, says Jay Rosen, associate professor in the department of journalism at New York University."They are a lot more than blogs because these sites are mostly the fruit of media tools evolving into public hands and the barriers to entry lowering, and media production becoming something that former consumers can do," Rosen says.One site illustrating Rosen's point well isTransom.org, which trains people to make internet radio programmes. "We provide the tools to make your own stories and we bring in the best radio storytellers in the world for masterclasses," says founder Jay Allison. "Then we feature those stories on the site and try to get them placed on the radio." Transom.org acts can upload their audio work, read articles about radio production tools and use its forum to discuss technical issues.Ourmedia.org, which was set up in March by JD Lasica and Marc Canter, has an even wider remit, taking all types of audio, visual, and animated work. With 22,000 members, the site (not to be confused with Rodriguez's OurMedia academic group) is becoming a popular way to upload and distribute home-cooked content."There were a lot of amazing works that I was coming across ," says Lasica. "I thought to myself, why can't we put this on a single site somewhere on the web so that everyone can access this work?"Ourmedia.org's free membership allows you to upload any legal content and surf for other people's. The site uses apparently infinite storage space and bandwidth provided by the Internet Archive, a charity that stores donated audiovisual material. Each member gets a personal blog space, and Lasica will soon be introducing more collaborative features, including a social networking tool for independent media producers.Lasica hopes this communal approach will foster a base of evolving content. Members of the Ourmedia community assign rights to their work, in many cases explicitly allowing it to be remixed with other content to create new works - or, as some pundits have called it, "mashing".Mashing has created tensions between grassroots producers and large media companies. DJ Dangermouse's Grey Album - an unauthorised mash of the Beatles' White album and Jay Z's Black album - led to a cease and desist order from EMI, which owns the Beatles recordings.Such events have created a heated debate around what constitutes fair use of copyrighted material, but there is no clear definition of fair use, says Duncan Calow, partner in entertainment law companyDLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary, which numbers media giants Sony Pictures, Warner Brothers and MGM among its clients. The concept was designed to be flexible, left to the interpretation of the judge. "That's fine in an analogue world where it's less easy to mash stuff together," he says. "But it has become more difficult because it's easier to blend stuff together now."Independent hubs such as Ourmedia.org are solving the problem withCreative Commons, a licensing system designed as an alternative to analogue-world copyright laws. Creative Commons provides flexible, mash-friendly licensing terms for digital media, and the non-profit corporation behind it also operates a web site which, like Ourmedia.org, allows people to upload their own content and store it using the Internet Archive.Large media companies often take a litigious approach to the remixing problem but the rise of independent media hubs could force them to change tack, says Salman Momen, director of media technology at Capgemini. Momen was technical director for the BBC's Creative Archive project, launched in April, which pulls together its own content along with material from organisations such as Channel 4, the British Film Institute and the Open University. The Archive puts its own video material online and invites the public to remix and republish it.The Archive is an example of traditional media viewing its consumers in a new way. Brands tied to traditional models that clearly delineate between producers and consumers will need to change and include the audience as co-producers, warns Momen. "The people that consume media products do want to get involved, and that's where they have to move towards collaborative manufacturing," he says. "The creation of the content will have to involve the community."While large media companies will not be marginalised by such activities, they could eventually notice a growing base of independent content providing would-be consumer-producers with a viable alternative to traditionally copyrighted material. But such material is only useful if you can find it, and as the available content grows, aimless browsing will not be enough. Tagging the material with descriptive information (metadata) will be important, but the more diverse the material is, the more difficult defining standards for such metadata becomes.Two approaches are emerging. The first, used by sites such as the photo sharing hub Flickr (www.flickr.com), is to let people tag their own material with whatever keywords they like. Colloquially known as a "folksonomy", this leads to a chaotic set of descriptions, developed from the bottom up. The alternative is a taxonomy - a set of definitions imposed by the owners of an independent media hub. Think of it as a new media version of the Dewey decimal system.Ourmedia.org originally took the latter approach, and has published its taxonomy as a half-finished work on the understanding that it will be revised on an ongoing basis. "We're finally at a point where we will complement that with the folksonomies, and tagging will be a very important function on Ourmedia," Lasica says.But some form of structure for metadata is important because Lasica wants to build a "network of networks". By the end of the year, Our media.org will have begun a set of programming interfaces that will enable other independent media sites to share content with it, and that will require metadata schemas. Ourmedia's nearest cousin, the Creative Commons website, already has a free text search facility that finds online material matching certain licence conditions.How will these sites survive in the long term? Many, such as Ourmedia.org and Transom.org, are charities, but others, such as Nowpublic.com, are for-profit businesses. Online advertising is one option, but more innovative commercial models could emerge. At present, Nowpublic.com members can create assignments for their peers by posting news articles and waiting for others to add pictures. In future, Tippett hopes to see people on the site paying each other to cover stories.Meanwhile, Jay Allison's other project, the Public Radio Exchange (www.prx.org) enables more proficient radio producers to submit their shows to an online clearing house. Public radio broadcasters from across the world can then search the material and pay the producers via the non-profit website for any shows that they decide to use.Independent media hubs have much in common with other online publishing tools such as discussion forums and blogs, but they bring together the best of all worlds, providing a way to build communities who want to consume content and take a hand in producing it, too.LinksCreative Commonswww.creativecommons.orgDLA Piper Rudnick Gray Carywww.dlapiper.comJay Rosen's Blog, Pressthinkhttp://journalism.nyu.edu/pubzone/weblogs/pressthinkOurMediaNetwww.ourmedianet.org&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A Briton accused of carrying out "the biggest military computer hack of all time" appeared in a London court yesterday and vowed to resist attempts to extradite him for trial in the United States.US prosecutors have alleged that Gary McKinnon, 39, from Wood Green, north London, hacked into more than 90 American military computers. His supporters say the proceedings are politically motivated.Mr McKinnon believed the US government was hiding evidence that would prove the existence of UFOs and wanted to demonstrate the inadequacies of America's security systems. He was arrested under the Computer Misuse Act three years ago but was never charged in this country.The 20 counts he faced yesterday allege that he caused "unauthorised modifications", stole computer files, obtained secrets that might have been "directly or indirectly useful to an enemy" and interfered with maritime navigation equipment in New Jersey.The computers targeted in 2001 and 2002 - before and after al-Qaida's 9/11 attacks - belonged to the US army, navy and airforce, as well as the Defence Department and the space agency Nasa. Most of the offences carry prison terms of up to five years each.Known online as Solo, Mr McKinnon had, according to earlier US indictments, broken into several computers at the Pentagon as well as private networks run by six separate companies. He supposedly stole 950 passwords from one military system and prevented naval email traffic being routed across the internet for a month.By usurping privileges built into the systems and installing a remote control programme, he allegedly gained access to "almost every administrative function" on many of the computers he targeted.The US investigation was carried out with the aid of the UK's national hi-tech crime unit. Mr McKinnon was arrested on Tuesday evening, held overnight at Belgravia police station and delivered to Bow Street magistrates court yesterday morning.Wearing green combat trousers and a grey sweatshirt, he spoke only once when he refused to give his consent to the US extradition request.His counsel, Mohammed Khamisa, said he intended to contest the application "vigorously".Among bail conditions imposed by the court were requirements that Mr McKinnon should report to his local police station daily, not apply for a passport and not use any computer with access to the internet. Mr Khamisa succeeded in reducing his bail security from &#163;10,000 to &#163;5,000 which the family raised last night.Janet Boston, for the prosecution service, told the court: "Between February 2001 and March 2002, Mr McKinnon accessed without authority some 97 US government computers and installed an unauthorised programme called Remotely Anywhere which allowed him to control computers remotely."The fact that it had been implanted could not be detected. This caused damage and impaired the integrity of information ... The US military district of Washington became inoperable and the cost of repairing &#91;the shutdown&#93; was $700,000 &#91;around &#163;390,000&#93;." Among those in court was FBI official Ed Gibson, who said the case had been followed closely by the US authorities. "These &#91;hacking attacks&#93; occurred just before and after 9/11," he said. "It was poor timing. The military knew someone was getting access before the 9/11 attacks, but they didn't know who."After the hearing, his solicitor, Karen Todner, questioned why Mr McKinnon had not been tried in Britain under the Computer Misuse Act."This decision is being driven by the the US government," she said. "Of particular concern to Gary is the treatment of other British nationals within the US justice system which inspires little confidence. He believes he should be tried here by a British jury, not in the US. Had he been arrested, charged and convicted in 2002 he would probably have been out by now."Ms Todner said that he eventually could face a total of up to 70 years in a US jail.
British TV will air 176 reality shows this year. I'm sure this accurately reflects public demand, although I'm personally pretty sick of it. It's not even clear to me what is "real" about taking a group of ordinary people (ie dull people like me) or a group of celebrities (in the widest sense of the word) and putting them into an absurd, concocted set-up surrounded by film crews and microphones. Still, if people want reality TV, let them have it.As the Guardian's Sam Wollaston noted in his very funny review of Celebrity Love Island and The Farm, the good news is that ITV has a show called Celebrity Shark Bait coming later this summer.But what's so great about reality that we want to watch it on TV? It is not the only choice of world to observe. As I have noted before, there is an entire set of virtual worlds out there on the internet and they are growing at a fantastic rate. For many people, it will be easy to find one of those worlds (Everquest for some, Sims Online for others, Second Life for yet more) that is more interesting than Celebrity Love House Decorating Cook-Off Swap.It is time for unreality TV instead. Imagine a combination of BBC's Time Commanders and World of Warcraft or Lineage II, in which a massed army of 10,000 orcs is assaulting an elven city of 10,000 warriors. Military experts might be on hand to advise on strategy, while in 20,000 living rooms around the country, each of the players decides their next move in between fending off bolts of lightning from enemy wizards and jumping over a fast-flowing river.A national or international league might emerge, watched as avidly as any sport in the real world. George Leclere, senior vice president of the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, has said: "I believe that some day in the not-too-distant future, there will be TV shows based on these games that will be compelling enough to be watched concurrently by people who aren't playing. Pit 32,000 players in Paris against 32,000 in Los Angeles to vie for the victory of their city."Given the cinematic nature of games for the latest souped-up Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 (a trend that can only accelerate), that battle ought to be as spectacular as The Lord of the Rings - the only difference being that one of the archers hidden in the woods is your brother and you are actually rooting for the London Orcs against the Glasgow Paladins (and you have a fiver on them at Ladbrokes).Market researcher BMRB says that about 7m UK consumers, about 16% of the adult population, have paid to watch films on TV and 5m have also paid to watch sport. Meanwhile, around the world, 27m play in virtual worlds each week and global revenues, currently about &pound;2bn, are expected to reach &pound;10bn by 2009. Lineage II has more than 3m players, each paying about &pound;15 per month.The wonderful thing about the internet is connection: it is always going to be more fun to connect with other human beings than to be a bystander. After all, it's one thing to shout at the TV when some tedious celebrity is droning on, but quite another to log on and attack them in your very own spaceship.
Businesses are drowning in data; many generate terabytes of information every day. However, the problem isn't just information overload, where we are presented with so much information that we just can't cope. It is exactly the opposite: the problem of "information underload". Businesses are capturing so much data that it is increasingly difficult to extract any meaningful information from it.Information underload is a problem that can end up costing real money. In a recent court case, Morgan Stanley was fined $1.45bn (&pound;800m) after it was unable to prove it had handed over all the relevant emails requested by the court. And Sun's $4.1bn purchase of storage giant StorageTek shows how important, and valuable, storage and storage management are becoming to the next generation of IT architectures.Data recovery is now a huge problem, especially when information needs to be extracted quickly and accurately. Mark Donkersley, group managing director of records compliance specialists AXS-One, believes businesses need a "corporate instant replay" that has the ability to look at stored documents across an entire organisation, not just those related to a specific process or application.Developing an information management strategy is the key to avoiding costly problems. However, talk to any storage management consultant and you will hear a similar story: existing systems have been deployed inefficiently, and regulatory compliance is putting new demands on already complex procedures. The technology is often in place already, it is just a matter of using it effectively, starting with people and processes.Jason Rabbetts, UK managing director of storage consultancy Glasshouse, describes the ideal information management environment as "a private utility, where a business can determine which of a range of services is most appropriate".Hewlett-Packard's Reference Information Storage System (RISS) is designed to reduce the cost of retrieving records. By treating indexing and storage as a single appliance, RISS can index, encrypt and store records in a single operation. You don't even need the original application to view the data - an important feature when backward compatibility isn't always guaranteed because you may have upgraded (or even changed) your software several times during the time you need to retain the data.You don't have to be a big business to suffer from information underload. The problem isn't so much storing information as finding it. Several servers full of files and an ad-hoc intranet that has grown over several years can make tracking down vital pieces of information a chore - especially compared to finding information on a desktop PC that has been simplified by the many desktop search tools available. The familiar Google search interface is one possible solution, and the company has recently launched itsGoogle Minisearch appliance in Europe to tackle this problem.The Google Mini is designed to index up to 100,000 documents for less than &pound;2,000, which, for many, could be a cost-effective approach to search. Roberto Solimene, Google's enterprise sales director for Europe, describes Google Mini's search tools as a "quick interface to get the right information at the right time, with no need for additional hardware and software".It is an approach that has had much success. At a major investment bank, the Mini's big brother, the Google Search Appliance, increased intranet usage by a factor of 10.Google is also working to tie its desktop search tools into its family of search appliances, and it recently released an integrated search application to US customers. While the company's strength has been in indexing and managing unstructured data, the latest versions of the Google Search Appliance software allows it to search and index information held in content management systems, as well as relational databases, without having to scrape information from web-based user interfaces.Information management tools aren't only coming from software vendors. Storage hardware is starting to provide tools to help IT departments manage the data held on their disk and tape arrays. Network Appliance recently launched its V-series virtualisation controllers, which can manage arrays of storage hardware from different vendors. Businesses can then use one global namespace for all their data, making it easier to access and manage information. IT departments can set policies that route information to specific hardware, while helping reduce data duplication and supporting compliance retention requirements. Storage virtualisation can also improve hardware utilisation, with disk arrays no longer tied to specific applications.Dave Gingell, EMC's vice president of software marketing in Europe, says: "There's no point in putting content into a bucket if you can't get it out."EMCis therefore developing software to help with information management, such as its Document Content Intelligence Services (CIS). Unstructured data is examined, classified and then linked to business processes, before finally being categorised using a defined taxonomy. Files can then be moved to appropriate folders.If you are using virtualised storage, you could define rules based on CIS categorisation to store certain categories of information on high-end storage (eg fast hard drives), with others held on archive hardware (eg tape). Even Iomega is looking at how it can include search and content management tools with network attached storage (NAS) products and removable drives.Njini, a UK start-up, also offers tools to help manage unstructured data and to keep duplicate files to a minimum, by providing an object-oriented layer above any storage hardware. Njini's Information Asset Management tools analyse existing information storage, so you can see storage patterns alongside future growth. Analysing the storage at one business with large amounts of unstructured data showed they could save more than 40% on storage costs over three years.Once businesses see how much money they can save, it is relatively easy to get them to develop required storage rules and policies.One area where information management is becoming increasingly important is computer forensics. Firewalls, routers and servers generate vast amounts of data, which all need to be sifted through quickly in the event of a security breach. Incompatible log file formats means using complex forensic tools to extract the information needed to chart the path of an intrusion, and find out what systems have been compromised.Oracle's chief security officer, Mary Ann Davidson, is working with the US National Institute of Standards to define a standard log file format that will be "useful, practical and implementable", whileCheckpoint, a security specialist, has delivered a suite of tools to aggregate, manage and report on the log files generated by many different security devices. Checkpoint's Security Event Management tools convert log information to a common format as it is delivered, storing the resulting data in a single database.By using these tools, you get alerts of possible intrusions in real time, while business intelligence software can, at the same time, examine exactly how your network is being used.LinksInformation underloadNjinihttp://www.njini.comCheckpointwww.checkpoint.comEMC Documentumwww.documentum.comGoogle Miniwww.google.co.uk/enterprise/mini
Transport secretary Alistair Darling will today explain his plans for a national road-charging scheme in a speech to the Social Market Foundation. He has already said it would involve charging up to &pound;1.34 a mile for busy motorways at peak times, using satellite location technology.It may sound futuristic, but Germany opened a similar scheme for lorries on January 1: it was meant to start in August 2003, but the initial version failed, and integration work on what is the first system of its kind took much longer than expected. It covers about 7,500 miles (12,000 km) of major roads, relying mainly on the satellite-based global positioning system (GPS) operated by the US military.Users install an on-board unit (OBU), the size of a standard vehicle audio system, which tracks the lorry through GPS and reports its travels using a mobile telephone network. However,Toll Collect, the private-sector operator, has found that GPS is not accurate enough to say on which road a vehicle is where two roads run side by side.Toll Collect's OBUs cope with this inaccuracy through an internal electronic map, with each tolled route represented by a corridor dozens of yards wider than the road itself. With roads that are side by side, the OBU uses its record of the route taken so far to judge which is being used. Elevated roads present special problems, as GPS is not good at heights. "We have a lot of them in Berlin, as in London," says a spokesperson. For these, Toll Collect has installed roadside radio beacons.OBUs are not compulsory, although 430,000 had been fitted by the start of May, including 500 in British lorries. The alternative involves booking journeys in advance, with enforcement by fixed and mobile cameras. Toll Collect provides them free, although hauliers pay for installation and then receive an itemised monthly bill, detailing journeys and costs. These range from &euro;0.09 to &euro;0.14 per kilometre (10p to 15p per mile), depending on the number of axles and emission levels.The UK is working on an equivalent, the lorry road-use charging programme, which should be in place by the end of 2008. HM Revenue and Customs has short-listed seven suppliers, including T-Systems - part of Deutsche Telekom, co-owner of Toll Collect - IBM and Capita. A decision is expected by the end of this year.But the operator ofLondon's congestion charge, Transport for London (TfL), has rejected GPS because of its inaccuracy. Instead, TfL will next month start advanced trials of "tag-and-beacon" technology, where electronic vehicle tags on more than 100 vehicles will respond to radio signals from 20 roadside beacons around part of Southwark. If successful, TfL could introduce the technology across London from 2009.Initial tests last year found the beacons catch 99.8% of tagged vehicles passing, compared with 70% for each of the current number-plate reading enforcement cameras, with the system as a whole managing 90%. The much-improved reliability could allow charges based on a journey's route and time of day.Michele Dix, director of congestion charging for TfL, says London needs to adapt beacons to work from unobtrusive poles, rather than the overhead gantries used elsewhere: "We have to be careful as to what we put into the urban streetscape," she says.Tag-and-beacon is widely employed elsewhere, according to Rik Thomas, deputy editor of Local Transport Today magazine: Austria uses it nationally to charge lorries for motorway use, and it is used on toll roads in France, Italy and by theM6 toll motorway. Its drawback is that every entry point needs a beacon.The smallest tags are not much larger than a credit card, and are simply stuck to the windscreen. TfL has not ruled out offering a larger device with a built-in smartcard reader, requiring installation but allowing instant payment. In either case, charges could go through its Oystercard payment system.However, Darling sees tag-and-beacon technology as an urban stop-gap before satellite-based charging is introduced nationally. The accuracy of satellite positioning should be improved by the European-funded Galileo system: this should be available early next decade, and a UK-wide scheme is unlikely to start before then, although it is not clear if Galileo would solve other problems of GPS such as locators being confused by signals bouncing off tall city buildings.Could vehicle tracking data be used for other purposes, such as policing? "This kind of use of data is explicitly not allowed in German law," says Toll Collect's spokesperson. "Some police stations have asked if we can help find stolen lorries. We cannot do this." It keeps location data for about three months beyond producing the monthly bill, but only to settle queries.There is no such law in the UK, and TfL passes information to the police if they apply with appropriate legal authorisation. However, images taken by congestion charge cameras are deleted at midnight, except for those who have not paid. Tag-and-beacon could mean such data is kept for even shorter periods, as accounts would be debited immediately.LinksA beacon method for chargingObserver article on Darling's planshttp://observer.guardian.co.uk/uk_news/story/0,6903,1499780,00.htmlGerman lorry road-charging systemwww.toll-collect.deLondon's congestion chargewww.cclondon.comElectronic tags on M6 Toll motorwaywww.m6toll.co.uk/using/tags.aspLorry road-use charging programmecustoms.hmrc.gov.ukCommission for Integrated Transport (research on road charging)www.cfit.gov.uk/congestioncharging/
America Online is planning to launch a free web portal, a fundamental shift designed to ensure that the business has a future in the broadband world.AOL.com will launch later this month and pits the company against Yahoo!, Microsoft's MSN and Google's revamped personalised homepage.The site will offer a range of content including news, sports and weather, search, free email, photo management, city guides, radio, music and video clips. According to reports, its parent company, Time Warner, has invested up to $500m (&#163;273m) in developing the business over the past year.Time Warner is hoping the launch will reinvigorate the struggling America Online division. Launched as a dial-up internet service provider, AOL dominated the market and became so highly valued that it acquired Time Warner in 2000, a deal viewed with hindsight as a disaster for the conventional media company.Since then AOL's subscription base has rapidly shrunk as customers switch to high-speed services offered by cable and telecoms companies. In the past two years, its US subscriber base has fallen from 26 million to 22 million.The firm has seen a turnaround in advertising after several years of decline, increasing by 15% in 2004. But the rise trails others in the industry. Online advertising grew by 38% last year, according to the investment bank JP Morgan.AOL had $1bn in advertising sales last year. Yahoo! had revenues of $3.6bn, most of which came from ads. In its fourth quarter, Yahoo! earned $373m, up from $75m a year earlier.Jonathan Miller, AOL's chief executive, told the Wall Street Journal: "It's a strong market and we need to take share."The move could be seen by Wall Street as a last-ditch attempt to turn AOL around. Time Warner has dropped the AOL brand name from the company and the chief executive, Richard Parsons, has admitted the unit may be axed if its fortunes do not improve.
Last week was not a great time to unveil a new pan-European initiative. Announcing the European Information Society 2010 plan, even Viviane Reding, commissioner for information society and the media, admitted that her thoughts lay with the Dutch and French referendums.In Britain, where we have always been rather snooty about anything carrying the European "information society" label, we needed little excuse to ignore i2010 altogether.That would be a mistake. For a start, the programme is a source of funding for IT-based innovations in public services. This money will be all the more valuable as the British government's support winds down from the end of this year.More important, i2010 is in line with British ideas about tackling the digital divide and using e-government to create efficiencies in public services. The government has a good international reputation for taking these thing seriously - at least its reputation is better internationally than it is at home.i2010, billed as a comprehensive five-year strategy for the digital economy, contains the usual promises of policy liberalisation and increases in R&amp;D spending. It also sets out to create an "inclusive European information society" through citizen-centred e-government and by encouraging the digital have-nots to try new technologies.It recognises that the barriers are not just connection - though the programme includes a target for half of all European households to have at least 10 megabit per second broadband by 2010 - but motivation. These ambitions read remarkably like the UK digital strategy, which the prime minister announced in spring.This alignment between the e-ambitions of Britain and the rest of the EU is not new. i2010 is the latest stage in the "Lisbon agenda", agreed at the height of the dotcom boom in March 2000. One consequence of that agreement was Britain's decision to bring forward by three years the target date for putting all government services online. Although announced as a prime ministerial initiative, the 2005 target merely reflected the Europe-wide target set in the "e-Europe action plan". Britain even went along with the action plan's commitment to open source software, though with less enthusiasm than some continental countries.In the i2010 programme, the inspiration seems to be flowing the other way. It includes a new action plan on e-government, aimed not at putting services online (most already are) but in encouraging people to use them and "reaping benefits". These include greater efficiency through back-office restructuring, improving the quality of services and more cross-border services.Efficiency and quality are firmly on the British government's agenda. They will be joined by cross-border services, to support national security, health and social welfare. This week another priority for cross-border cooperation goes on the list: whatever technology is chosen for road-user charging, it cannot be implemented in isolation from the rest of Europe. The constitutional treaty may be dead, but the age of Europe-wide e-government is only beginning.Linkshttp://europa.eu.int/i2010
Britain's flagship government websitewww.direct.gov.ukis celebrating its first birthday with a new look and some new services. But there are no plans to shout about it, yet.Version 1.4 of the site, which appeared on the web last week, aims to present consistent and up-to-date information about any government function within five clicks. In several cases, the number of clicks has reduced noticeably from the previous version - it takes two clicks rather than four to answer the question "Do I need to fill in a tax return?" and to find out about car tax.The snag is that, for most people, paying that tax still involves a trip to the post office. Neither can the site provide the most obvious cross-government service - a one-stop notification of change of address.Despite these shortcomings, the Cabinet Office e-government unit, which runs the site, is proud of its creation, which it says is unique. Directgov is the UK's third stab at a central web presence. The first, government.direct, was little more than a directory of public websites. It was followed by the UK Online portal, which organised material around "life episodes", such as having a baby.Directgov goes a step beyond the portal. Instead of directing users to other sites, it set out to provide useful information at the first port of call. Content is provided by departments through a system of "franchises". Information about planning, for example, comes from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister through a franchise called "home and community".The philosophy of packing as much as possible on the central site is controversial. Some critics see it as evidence of control-freakery by central government. Others question whether, in the Google age, portals are necessary. Surveys show that search engines are by far the most common ways of finding government websites.However, Ian Watmore, the government's chief information officer, says that a "destination site" rather than a portal is good for consistency and easy availability. Hence the emphasis on reducing the number of clicks.According to his e-government unit, innovations in the new version include:&#183;A more relevant home page. Users are greeted by a changing banner of topical services - pride of place this week goes to the E111 European health insurance form, available in two clicks. (However, you still need to print it out and take it to the post office to be stamped.) The "meat" of the page is in 16 headings with subjects such as "motoring" or "money, tax and benefits". These reflect the franchises, which are invisible to users. Another panel, "popular now", lists the most sought-after services, ranging from "noisy neighbours" to "towing a caravan" to "tax credits". One obvious omission is a home-page postcode search, which would take users directly to local services.&#183;Four new franchises, bringing the total to 16. Information created in one franchise is now available directly from others, without the need to go back through the home page.&#183;More services will be available as "transactions" rather than just information. The big priority is car tax renewal, which has been delayed by the problems of getting insurance and MOT information connected up. Watmore says that all car owners will be able to renew their tax online "later this financial year".&#183;More accessibility. Directgov editors say they aim for a "red top" reading age of nine to 10. The new version aims for an AA disability access rating. The team is even considering a Directgov site for children, aimed at five to 11 year olds.The beauty of the brand name, Watmore says, is that it will outlive technological fashion. But the real measure of Directgov's success is the number of users it handles. After a year of "steady incremental climb", the site receives more than a million unique visitors a month. This is not huge - the Guardian manages more than eight times that - but Watmore says he is satisfied so far.He says is in no hurry to chase a larger audience. Most of the promotional effort - ads in trade papers and conference give-aways - aims to persuade local councils to link to the site. "We don't want to spend all our money on advertisements," Watmore says. "We'll only have one bite at that, and it's more important to get the site right first." The most likely timing for a big advertising campaign is in the second half of next year.One thing has not changed with the new version. Unlike most of its international rivals, Directgov shows no national symbols such as flags or patriotic colours, instead adopting a neutral trademark of orange arrows. The home page doesn't even spell out which government's services it goes "straight through" to. Web users are supposed to be intelligent enough to work that out for themselves.Links:www.direct.gov.uk
Mobile phonesFishing for youthVirgin Mobile is targeting young mobile phone buyers with a new handset brand it is calling Lobster. The Lobster 485, the first in the series, is due on sale this week. It is a small and light GPRS clamshell, weighing just 68g, which has been made for the network by manufacturer Bellware. The phone sports a 262k internal colour screen and a 65k colour external one, an integrated VGA camera and a calendar, calculator and clock alarm. It also has a dedicated button for users to access Virgin's Wap-based entertainment service, Bites. It retails for &pound;89.99.www.virginmobile.co.ukDigital music playersAs quick as a flashJapanese company NHJ has unveiled a pair of Flash memory-based digital music players that feature integrated Bluetooth. The &pound;74.99 256MB VP725B and the &pound;64.99 128MB VP712D can wirelessly transfer tracks to and from other Bluetooth NHJ players, and users can also switch to their Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones to pick up calls on the players without removing the headset. Unusually for Flash players, both models sport a 1.1in colour screen, giving owners the option of viewing JPeg images they have stored on the player. The devices are compatible with MP3, WMA (Windows Media Audio) and Ogg Vorbis music files, and feature voice recording facilities via a built-in microphone, and an FM radio.http://www.nhjapan.com/united_kingdom/index.htmlHardwareLooks sharpSharp is promising to bring the world's largest LCD TV to the UK early next year. The 65in LC-65GE1 AQUOS, which was unveiled last year and goes on sale in Japan in August, is a highly specified set with a High Definition TV (HDTV) resolution of 1920 x1080 pixels. The TV, which will be compatible with Sky's upcoming HDTV transmissions, also boasts the company's QS (Quick Shoot) technology, which apparently delivers smoother, more detailed images. Sharp hasn't announced the price just yet, but given the cost of other models in its range, the set will probably retail for between &pound;10,000 and &pound;12,000.www.sharp.co.ukHear and therePanasonic is ramping up its presence in the audio-visual (AV) market with the launch of a new amplifier, speaker system and DVD player. The SA-XR55, due to arrive in the stores shortly and retailing for &pound;300, is Panasonic's first AV amplifier that is compatible with 7.1 surround sound formats. It boasts a power output of 100 watts to each of the seven channels, and works with many home cinema formats, including Dolby Pro Logic IIx, Dolby Digital EX, DTS 96/24, DTS-ES, and DTS NEO:6. It also includes a feature for enhancing MP3 and WMA recordings, and is accompanied by a universal remote control. Panasonic has also debuted the SB-PF800 surround sound speaker system and the DVD-S49 top-end DVD player.www.panasonic.co.ukMusic playersRocks the cradleBritish company H&amp;B has unveiled a personal media player with a bit of a twist. The &pound;279 AV-612LCD comes with an Ethernet cradle that connects the player to a network, enabling users to stream video and audio to the device. The player also has a 3.5in LCD screen, a 20GB hard disk and support for MP3, WMA and Ogg audio, MPeg4 video and JPeg image files. It will play back movie files for about five hours before it needs recharging. It also comes with a remote control and a cigarette lighter car power adaptor, and is available fromwww.ebuyer.comwww.hb-direct.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Remember the 80s ghetto blasters that were so large you got muscle strain lugging them around? Well, here's Philips' take on the portable hi-fi for the noughties - the &pound;100 ShoqBox. Unlike systems of yore, the ShoqBox is tiny. That's because there's no CD or cassette player, just a radio and 256MB of storage for MP3 or Windows Media Audio (WMA) tunes.The ShoqBox comes with a lead that connects it to an iPod (which is finished, appropriately enough, in white) or any other portable audio device with a 3.5mm output. This lets you hear tunes from that player through its speakers while on the go. You don't need to fumble around for batteries either, as the ShoqBox has rechargeables that last about 10 hours. You can also plug it into the mains and use it as a radio alarm clock.The sound quality is fine, but a bit more storage and Mac compatibility (it is Windows only) would have been good. Nevertheless, it is well worth your &pound;100.www.philips.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Laid-back racerJuicedXbox, PlayStation 2, PC, &pound;39.99Juice Games/THQ, ****Few games have had as traumatic a conception as Juiced. It was due to be published by Acclaim, which went bust about a week before Juiced reached the shops. THQ has picked it up, and has plans to turn it into a franchise to rival Need For Speed and Midnight Club.It is generally similar: an arcade-style street-racer in which impressing your crew is all, and pimping your ride is almost as important as coming first. Perhaps Juiced's most impressive aspect is its approachability - it has a shallower learning curve than Midnight Club III: Dub Edition and Need For Speed Underground: Rivals. It is also more laid-back.You can, for example, pick races from a calendar (rather than driving round a city seeking rivals to challenge) or via your mobile phone (the game includes virtual versions of real mobiles).Juiced concentrates on four types of events: circuit races, point-to-points, sprints (which are drag races) and show-offs, in which you perform flash moves in front of sometimes appreciative but often derisory crowds. You can also challenge people you impress via your mobile phone.As you progress, you become part of a crew, another touch that makes Juiced feel more sociable than rival games. The cars are not particularly realistic, but they are fun to drive. Decent Xbox Live support is sure to prove popular, and this British-developed game is less daunting than and at least equal to brasher peers in all important aspects.Steve BoxerAn end to the grindGuild WarsPC, &pound;29.99ArenaNet/NCsoft, ****Once a gaming niche, MMORPGs (massively multiplayer online role playing games) have entered the mainstream. World of Warcraft may have shattered sales figures, but even that suffers from the same issues that afflict the genre. Repetition of simple tasks - kill so many monsters - leads to a "grind" as players aim to increase their character's level. And then there is the monthly fee to play.Guild Wars dispenses with both. There is little repetition and no fee after the game is bought. Also, the game is not actually "massively" multiplayer. Instead, you are restricted to small parties, questing together in a manner reminiscent of Sega's classic Phantasy Star Online. Each group - which can include computer-controlled members - plays in their own version of the world, so it is impossible to run into uninvited players. It also means the developers can deliver more sophisticated content. The other key area is challenging other players, with half the game dedicated to this gladiatorial-style action. Players choose a high-level character they can use for PvP (player vs player) combat. The options are vast, with numerous ways to develop your character.There are some rough edges to the game: it has a steep learning curve and it lacks the persistent world and sense of total immersion of World of Warcraft. But Guild Wars brings something different to online gaming and for that it should be applauded.Greg HowsonEvil camouflagedDestroy All HumansPC, &pound;34.99Pandemic/THQ, ****Given how often evil premises turn into intriguing games (Dungeon Keeper, Hitman, Evil Genius etc), it's surprising this theme hasn't been visited more often. Borrowing heavily from Tim Burton's Mars Attacks as well as B movie science fiction from Ed Wood onwards, the game turns into a cute and often amusing third-person arcade game.Split among 22 large but confining locations, the plot avoids pure pastiche by weaving in a secret CIA-type force called Majesco, whose methods are no less evil than yours.Most levels begin with your little green man sneaking around town gathering information, human DNA or subjects to interrogate. If you are spotted, the local inhabitants will panic, drawing police and army forces to the scene.Luckily, you have an armoury that gets larger every mission, from a basic probe to block-levelling ion charges and disintegrator rays. You can also camouflage yourself as an ordinary citizen, although this can expire without warning. Some levels also allow you to take off in your spaceship and level sections of the city from the air.All this makes Destroy All Humans a flawed but fun-loving game with a script crammed with in-jokes at the expense of 50s Americana.It's nice to see Pandemic back on form, too, although the apparent decision not to release this on PC (where it would surely be most appreciated) is crazy.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesXbox1.WWE Wrestlemania 212.Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith3.Forza Motorsport4.Area 515.Midnight Club 3: Dub EditionSource: Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) LtdSix of the best Harry Potter 6Half-Blood partieswww.potterparties.comLeaky's takewww.hpandthehalfbloodprince.orgWikipediahttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Potter_and_the_Half-Blood_PrinceBackground infowww.veritaserum.com/books/book6/The movie (eventually)www.imdb.com/title/tt0417741/Rowling debunks rumourswww.jkrowling.com/textonly/rumours.cfm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Audio to goWhat is the difference between podcasting and Shoutcast? Shoutcast allows anyone to freely download the Winamp player and the server to enable them to easily start up a "radio station" via the web. Plug-ins are also available so listeners can record streams live to MP3 files, so podcasting is not a new concept.Lee Nicklenwww.kayotix.comJack Schofield replies:Shoutcast works like live radio, so if you are not around, you miss the programme. Podcasting works like taping radio programmes and then listening to them on your Walkman on the way to work, except that the files are now digital (usually MP3s). It has nothing to do with Apple iPods - you can listen to MP3 files on almost any music player, most PDAs and many mobiles - but, as it happens, iPods are what many of the people who listen to podcasts use.However, real podcasting is actually much more convenient than the "taped radio" idea implies, because it also exploits the idea of RSS (Really Simple Syndication) news feeds. The idea is to subscribe to RSS 2.0 podcast feeds so that the audio files are delivered to your PC automatically. You can then have them synchronised to the portable player connected to your PC. That way you can just "grab &amp; go" when you set off for work. A small program such as iPodder (http://ipodder.org), started by former MTV video jockey Adam Curry, can be run on a Windows PC or Mac to transfer the MP3 files to the portable device. Doppler Radio (www.dopplerradio.net) is an alternative "podcast aggregator" for Windows.You can argue that there's nothing really new about all this, but the combination of three existing technologies - MP3 or video files, RSS feeds and portable players - has produced an innovative and interesting result. I'd recommend any multimedia outlet to experiment with podcasting. The BBC plans to podcast about 20 programs including the Today programme, the Reith lectures, Go Digital, Sportsweek and Fighting Talk. Seebbc.co.uk/pressoffice.Format that fitsSomeone sent me a PowerPoint presentation to edit and return as an email attachment. When it arrived it was just more than 7MB. It's now 13.8MB, and my email only supports up to 10MB attachments.Phil WilliamsonJS:Email was never designed to send such large attachments. The best idea would be to upload it to a short-term file-hosting service such as Rapidshare.de or Yousendit. You should compress it with a file archiver (my choice is WinRAR) and password-protect it. You may also find that WinRAR or another Zip-compatible program will compress the file enough to bring it under your 10MB mail limit. If not, you could squish it with PowerShrink 1.2 (www.powershrink.com). This is a commercial program but the evaluation version will shrink 20 files free of charge. PowerPoint allows multiple undos so you can go backwards and unedit your edits. If you delete large chunks, the ppt file will get larger and larger, with the deletions being stored in case you want to restore them.Blogging basicsMy wife of nearly 50 years recently died, and I find I am talking to myself. It occurs to me that I could burble to a weblog for the family to look at. Could you point me to a beginners' guide to blogging?Peter WoodJS:Blogging with Blogger (www.blogger.com) is so straightforward it hardly needs a guide. However, ldiot (Jonny)'s guide to starting a blog (www.blahonline.net/feature1.htm) and PC Stats' Beginners Guide (www.pcstats.com/articleview.cfm?articleID=1530) both contain useful advice. Online also has a special section on blogging atwww.guardian.co.uk/online/weblogs/. Bear in mind that anything you write on a public blog can be read by anybody. If you want to keep what you have written private, then choose a blogging site that allows access to be controlled, ie not Blogger. MSN Spaces and Yahoo 360 are better for this. Alternatively, you might try blogging about a hobby or popular topic, which should attract like-minded people you don't already know.Mixed messagesAfter downloading an update for SpyBot, I get an error message in German that starts with Xuron 55. Can you tell me what this means? How can I remove it?G BosleyJS:This is a known problem. See the third item athttp://forums.net-integration.net/index.php?showtopic=28120Backchat&#183;Reader Alan McMahon said he liked Novosoft's Handy Backup program. Mike Kenward, former editor of New Scientist, points out there are apparently two warring sites,www.handybackup.comandwww.handybackup.net. (The com site run by Novosoft Inc seems to be the correct one.) Either way, Mike tried Handy Backup, didn't like it, and now uses SyncBack (seehttp://www.2brightsparks.com/syncback/syncback-hub.html, bottom right).&#183;With regard to capturing copyright music, Huw Thomas points out that various systems can record DAB digital radio broadcasts. He says: "I understand that making a personal recording from radio is currently considered fair use."&#183;Please send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details.
Vodafone might be talking about it and O2 might be trialling it, but last week Orange finally gave 3G consumers what it hopes they really want from their mobile phone - live TV.The network took the wraps off the Orange TV service that beams nine channels directly to a user's handset, including ITN News, CNN, The Cartoon Network and a 24-hour live Big Brother channel. Subscribers get the service free for three months and then they must pay &pound;10 a month.So is TV on a mobile set to become one of 3G's killer applications? Orange thinks so. "TV is mass-market stuff that appeals to everyone," says Deborah Tonroe, head of commercial development at Orange, UK. "It will be the really early adopters that take it first but we are confident that everyone will want it."Next year, Orange plans to explore the digital terrestrial system DVB-H, offering sophisticated interactive services, which other networks are trialling. At the moment, however, the company sends TV signals as data streams to handsets - just like football and movie clips.So does it work? Well, kind of. The demo we were given on a Nokia 6680 handset was reasonably impressive. Even though the phone has a standard-sized screen, it was easy to be drawn into watching the images. Picture quality was fine, with acceptable levels of resolution and colour. In fact, it wasn't hugely different from standard streamed video.Sadly, though, even on fairly static footage, which should be easy to replicate, the image occasionally froze and needed to be refreshed - something that could get very irritating if it happens often.Orange TV has a few other drawbacks. There is a limit of 20 hours viewing per month - you must pay for any more -and streaming live TV hammers the battery. Orange claims you will be able to get up to three hours of viewing, but I'd be amazed if that were accurate.The service is also only available on a Nokia 6680 phone, though Orange says other phones will be added shortly, including 3G handsets that can be upgraded when users download the software.Finally, the channel choice isn't particularly compelling - unless you are a news junkie.So is TV-on-your-mobile the killer application for 3G services? Perhaps not yet, but when BBC, ITV and Sky's sports channels are available on a mobile screen, it really will be hard to say no.www.orange.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The battle over the EU's software patent directive heated up yesterday when a survey showed small and medium-sized firms, the alleged victims, accounting for a growing proportion of such patents in the past few years.MEPs vote on the legislation next week, with proponents of the free or open source software community claiming it will strangle small firms by allowing big players such as Microsoft to patent software themselves.The survey, for the Business Software Association, a body supported by Microsoft, found   more than 20% of all patents on computer-implemented inventions had been granted to small firms since 1998.Microsoft, meanwhile, said versions of its XP operating system without Media Player would be available in the UK in July, six months after an EU order that the group should distribute it to comply with the EU's anti-trust ruling.
Slider searchOne of the great banes of Google is that if you search for information about a tech product - a new digital camera, MiniDisc or MP3 player, perhaps - any useful results get buried in price comparison rubbish and fake search results from scam artists. Yahoo Labs may just have a solution. It's called Mindset, and claims to offer "intent driven search". The beta test page offers a slider that has Shopping at one end and Researching at the other. The results listings change dynamically as you move the slider across.http://mindset.research.yahoo.comArt of WarNo, not the Sun Tzu book, and not even the ancient strategy game. In this case, the Art of War is an exhibition at the National Archives site. It includes "propaganda artwork, films and original sketches and paintings from World War Two depicting the selfless courage of Victoria Cross (VC) and George Cross (GC) winners".http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/artwarhttp://classics.mit.edu/Tzu/artwar.htmlhttp://j.lahmy.tripod.com/aaow/subp01.htmGeobloggingYou should get out more. You should get out and take some snaps with a digital camera. That way you can contribute to the Geograph British Isles website, which is trying to collect a "geographically representative photograph" for every square kilometre of the British Isles. So far it has 12,154 snaps, so it is almost 4% of the way there. The Geobloggers are taking a different approach, which is to tag Flickr photos on Google Maps. So far, 10,707 have been tagged. This is another project from Rev Dan Catt.www.geograph.co.ukwww.geobloggers.comhttp://geobloggers.blogspot.comWalklinesLondoners often save time by nipping out of the tube and walking from one station to another on a different line. The trick is knowing which stations are close even though they look a long way apart on the diagrammatic tube map. Examples include the short hop from Warren Street to Euston Square, or the longer walk from Lancaster Gate to Paddington. You can check the possibilities on a tube map that includes 500m walklines between stations. One alternative is to use a geographically corrected version of the tube map, like the one on Kordy's site.http://rodcorp.typepad.com/rodcorp/images/tube_walklines_final_lm.gifhttp://rodcorp.typepad.com/rodcorp/2003/10/london_tube_map.htmlhttp://www.kordy.dircon.co.uk/misc/alt-map.gifFormula one fansThe Federation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the non-profit governing body of motor sport, wants to know what formula one fans think about the sport. For the first time, it's inviting them to fill in an online survey, which includes their opinions and their TV viewing habits.www.fia-amd-survey2005.comPaper chaseAmerica's Library of Congress and National Endowment of the Humanities are trying to create a searchable database of all US newspapers published between 1836 and 1922, including digitised versions of "select historic pages". The National Digital Newspaper Program (NDNP) is expected to take about 20 years.www.loc.gov/ndnp/www.loc.gov/preserv/News talkThe Spokesman-Review, a newspaper in Spokane, Washington, is trying something new. It has invited five readers to write a blog about the paper. The blog is called News is a Conversation, and typically includes reader-bloggers raising points (not always criticisms) and members of staff answering them. The newspaper says the blog is "part of our effort to increase transparency in journalism". However, if you really want to read local news such as Boy hurt in canoe crash, you have to sign up at $7 a month.http://www.spokesmanreview.com/blogs/conversation/Check it outAllcheckin, yet another travel search engine, has been launched into the UK market. It isn't a travel agency, but enables you to find cheap and/or convenient flights, and usually provides a range of links to sites that will take your booking. It also covers hotels and car hire. However, I suspect it will find it hard to take off, given that there are established rivals such as Expedia, eBookers and Cheapflights.co.uk.www.allcheckin.com
Apple co-founder Steve Jobs dropped a bombshell in his keynote speech opening this week's Worldwide Developer Conference in San Francisco. "Yes, it's true," said Jobs, confirming the rumours. "We are transitioning from PowerPC to Intel processors."Jobs said Apple will start shipping Intel-based Macs next year, and will complete the transition by the end of 2007. This represents a significant U-turn for Apple, which has attacked Intel in its advertising. Jobs has even run side-by-side demos to show that Macs with IBM PowerPC chips were faster than PCs with Intel processors.Mac software is incompatible with Pentium chips and will need to be rewritten or recompiled to run on Intel-based machines. However, during his speech, Jobs demonstrated a program called Rosetta, which will do the recompilation while programs are running. This is said to run old Mac applications "fast enough".In the future, software developers will be expected to produce two versions of their programs: one for PowerPC- and one for Intel-based Macs. Jobs said Apple would support both architectures for a long time.None the less, there is a risk that the announcement will have a "chilling effect" on Mac sales. Some users will be put off buying PowerPC-based Macs believing they could become obsolete within a few months.Intel will be the third incompatible processor used in Macs since 1984. Originally, Apple used the Motorola 68000 range and in the 1990s, it moved to the IBM PowerPC line.The switch is another step in a long line of changes, whereby the company has modified the Mac's design to follow PC industry standards. SCSI disks, NuBus expansion slots, ADB (Apple Desktop Bus) connectors and other features have been abandoned for Serial ATA disks, Intel PCI expansion slots, USB ports and so on. Using the same parts has enabled Apple to benefit from the huge economies of scale and wide choice of suppliers generated by the Wintel market.The move has also been facilitated by the change from the now obsolete Mac OS, last seen in Mac OS 9, to a version of BSD Unix known as NextStep, which already ran on Intel processors.In 1996, Apple bought NextStep for $427m from Next and used it to create Mac OS X. The Intel version has been maintained ever since. Jobs said: "Every release of OS X has been compiled for PowerPC and Intel ... just in case."Apple is now offering Intel-based Macs to its software developers as part of a $999 transition kit.The switch may also lead to some new types of Mac, as Intel Pentium M chips, used in the Centrino chip set, could be used to make "thin and light" notebooks and tablet PCs.An Apple spokesman said the company would not sell or support Microsoft Windows on Intel-based Macs, but it would not install hardware to prevent Windows from running. Also, it would not enable Mac OS X to run on any non-Apple PCs.Whether hackers can find a way around this remains to be seen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Has the word-processor made the writing process easier?The computer has certainly made everything easier as it's far more fluid and you can move things around. You're more interested in taking a chapter and turning it inside out than you would be with a typewriter. Everybody was worried 25 years ago that kids weren't learning how to write and nobody was communicating any more - then the internet and email started. Now everyone's worried that blogs will drive newspapers out of business, but it's not going to happen.So Dan Gillmor's idea that "we are the media" isn't quite the case yet?The net does one thing great for people like me: it used to be that if I wrote a good hard story for the New Yorker magazine and the New York Times didn't pick it up then we all felt bad. Now the internet is so vibrant that everything's on it on blogs, logs or websites. The blogs are still very undisciplined though and they can be very vicious.No chance of a Seymour Hersh blog then?If I were smart I'd do it but I don't really care. I know a lot of journalists have put up a web page or blog but that's a bit too involved for me. I'm the type of person that when my screen blanks out, I immediately start screaming and dial my youngest son. It's a generational thing. I keep saving my work but I don't want to know anything about the soul of the machine. I just bought a new Dell computer with broadband so I could jump around the net more - I was happy with a 56k modem but everybody laughed at me.Has journalism's role changed in the internet age?There's tremendous disappointment with the American coverage of the war so when I give talks I tell people to get online and check out your paper, the Telegraph or Der Spiegel - Al-Jazeera has an English page now too (http://english.aljazeera.net). I gave a talk to the Poynter Foundation (www.poynter.org) recently, who are a bunch of progressive thinkers trying to work out where to go with the kind of journalism I do, which is expensive, time-consuming and there's worry about sources and diminishing market.Has the net made it harder to cover up stories such as Abu Ghraib?The Bush administration is amazingly competent at doing it. In England, with all the leaks that get out, they're running into big problems, but in America the administration is brutal in dealing with dissent. The big impact of the net is that there's an astonishing amount of information to be accessed by people who know their way. For me, the net is all about information flow, and in the long run it's going to mean better information.How important is an online presence to the New Yorker?I don't know for sure but I think it's a big deal for them. I know when I have a good story going they get about half a million hits a day. They were slow getting into the online business as they only did it about four years ago.Visit:www.newyorker.comandhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seymour Hersh's favouriteswww.juancole.comwww.dell.comwww.gateway.comhttp://service.spiegel.de/cache/internationalwww.independent.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Line printerBrother and Kyocera, the Japanese printer manufacturers, are raising the inkjet stakes with colour printers producing 150 colour pages per minute. Brother demonstrated the technology at Expo 2005 in Aichi, Japan. Current printers move print heads across the paper, but in Brother's prototype, each head is replaced by a fixed piezo-electric array of nozzles that spans the width of the page. The paper moves over the heads and a full width is printed before the paper is advanced to complete another width. Brother uses six colour arrays to produce high fidelity photographic images and hopes to have the technology on sale by 2008.http://www.brother.com/brother_En/e-topics/inkjet/inkjet.pdfThinkPadThe first ThinkPad to emerge since IBM sold its PC division to China's Lenovo is also the company's first Tablet PC. Although this Microsoft-backed form factor has failed to catch on, Lenovo claims this is because of the compromise between weight and functionality. The ThinkPad X41 Tablet is a convertible with its own keyboard when set up as a conventional notebook. When the screen is swivelled round it becomes a pen-operated "slate", similar to Toshiba's Port&eacute;g&eacute; M200 and P3500. Lenovo claims models like these were too heavy, but at 1.6kg, the X41T is only 0.25kg lighter than the P3500, though it does seem to offer better battery life.pc.ibm.comGoing DeutscheGermany is expected to be the first European country to issue biometric passports that include radio frequency identification (RFID) chips. The passports will be issued from November, and will store a digitised image of the holder. Starting in March 2007, the passport's contents will be upgraded to include left and right index fingerprint information. Security fears are being addressed by ensuring the RFID chip can only be read when the passport is open. A security number derived from the chip's contents will also have to be calculated by the access device.Council textAshford Borough Council is enabling citizens to access its services by sending text messages on their mobiles. The short message service (SMS) receiver is linked through Mitel's Multimedia Contact Centre to convert SMS text messages to email. This is routed to the relevant department, and the instant reply, composed as an email, is converted back into SMS format. The social housing division will be the first to use the service to provide access to housing availability lists. This will be extended to reporting of street lighting faults or abandoned vehicles, and to request details of council services.https://secure.ashford.gov.uk/cgi-bin/emailAlerts/index.cfmRobot realityDouglas Adams featured cleaning robots in the adventure game based on The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Twenty years later, these machines have become a reality at Expo 2005 in Aichi, Japan. When the crowds have dispersed at the end of each day, an army of floor-cleaning robots patrols the site to spruce up the pathways and collect rubbish. Garbage collection robots empty the bins, and security robots check for fires and intruders. The security bots and specialised guide robots also help visitors find their way around the colossal exhibition site.http://www-1.expo2005.or.jp/en/robot/robot_project_01.htmlViral cocktailComputer Associates is warning of a sophisticated malware attack. The Glieder worm is actually three virus programs aimed at turning PCs into "zombies" (hi-jacked computers that can be linked to launch spam emails or denial of service attacks). A version of the Bagle worm downloads the Fantibag Trojan, to prevent infected systems from updating anti-virus programs and Microsoft Windows Updates. Then the Mitglieder Trojan is loaded to disable the anti-virus software and firewall before opening a back door for hackers. Even when anti-virus software blocks Glieder, the Bagle loader just needs to be modified slightly to keep the infections going, warns CA.http://www3.ca.com/securityadvisor/virusinfo/virus.aspx?id=43213Flexible fiendAt the Citrix iForum in Edinburgh this week, Citrix revealed research showing that 90% of senior IT executives see flexible working as a data security risk. The survey, by Coleman Parkes Research, took 100 executives at random from FTSE 1000-listed companies in the UK. The solution, according to one-third of the sample, is to limit the effectiveness of remote working and maximise security.
Sun Microsystems is spending about half its cash pile buying Storage Technology - better known as StorageTek - for $4.1bn. And according to Scott McNealy, Sun's chairman and chief executive, there are more takeovers to come. In a conference call last week, he said: "This acquisition is part of an ongoing strategy to respond to customers seeking to rationalise their datacenter purchases."Sun was founded in 1982 as a Unix workstation supplier, got big in servers, and has more recently been expanding its software portfolio. It has also been selling storage, since this is often part of a package when you sell a server and software. While Sun declines to break out the numbers, much of that storage has been sourced from StorageTek.McNealy's idea is to make Sun even more of a one-stop shop, and when he talks of customers rationalising their purchases, he means buying more from Sun. The industry giants, IBM and Hewlett-Packard, take a similar line, but Sun is a minnow, with only $11bn in annual sales, and it is still losing money.StorageTek is also a bit of a minnow compared to its successful rival, EMC, which has annual revenues of $8.6bn and a market capitalisation of $34.3bn. Sun couldn't possibly afford to buy it. For comparison, StorageTek has annual revenues of $2.2bn and a market cap of $3.9bn.StorageTek has also had a somewhat mixed career. It was founded in 1969 by ex-IBM staff, in the days when IBM controlled the computer business, and became well known for its tape drives. It survived bankruptcy in 1984, and although it is profitable now, it doesn't have the dynamism of EMC, nor the sort of hot new technologies being developed by startups.And storage is becoming a hot area. New US regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley are requiring companies to archive more data and keep it safer. This should add to storage requirements that are already increasing because of the growth in the number of computer users, and the growth of average file sizes.According to VentureOne, quoted in the Wall Street Journal, venture capitalists have poured nearly $5.8bn into 142 storage-hardware companies since 1999. A lot of bright guys are planning to eat StorageTek's lunch. Being taken over by Sun must seem like a much better idea.It could be a good deal for Sun, too. It gets a large, storage-oriented sales force, even more storage-oriented consultants, lots of blue-chip customers, and a subsidiary that makes a profit. Sun may also make a bundle by selling off StorageTek's headquarters for redevelopment.But some of the other companies who currently resell StorageTek equipment may reconsider their position, such as Hewlett-Packard. And the deal doesn't provide a counter to EMC's deal with Dell, which is starting to ship cheap Dell/EMC storage systems in impressive numbers.There is also the risk that Sun will botch the integration of the two companies. Sun's earlier $2.2bn purchase of Cobalt, which sold attractive Linux server appliances, is a good illustration of how not to do it.
Google gripesHow about giving links to Yahoo or other portal services in the same article as highlighting Google (Portal Combat, June 2)? There are very few services it offers that are less advanced on the other portals, but your reporting makes it seem like Google has invented everything. Don't get as bad aswww.theregister.co.ukwhen it comes to promoting Google over everything else.Benjamin HartLondonAnswers backGreat article on Google. Why not do a follow-up article on Google Answers? This segment was barely mentioned and it is such a useful service.Barbara CannonArizona, USTorrent of supportBlaming BitTorrent for copyright infringement is like blaming sharp knifes for stabbing people (May the source be with you, June 2) - maybe carving knifes should be made illegal? Copyright infringement is not, and should not be called, piracy. No money or physical product changes hands, and there is no proof that a sale is lost. I know many people who use BitTorrent as a means of finding something worth spending a lot of money on.One of the benefits of peer-to-peer (P2P) systems such as BitTorrent is it eliminates the middleman, which is what the Motion Picture Association of America, the Recording Industry Association of America and the British Phonographic Industry actually are. This is why such organisations are so against BitTorrent: they can see the end is near and are doing anything to prolong their existence.Hopefully, content creators will embrace P2P as a cheap means of distribution, and price their product accordingly. Think of how much more money they will get if they don't have to pay the middleman.Steven LowryIslandmagee, LarneFor old timer's sakeI'm pleased to see the over-50s jumping on your patronising nonsense on computer use by the wrinklies (Feedback, passim). I am 69 and first worked with computers in 1965; I began programming in 1967 and gained a degree in systems analysis aged 46. Before retiring, I helped design several thesaurus-based information retrieval systems. Please consider those of us who helped design the machines and systems of today, many long dead. After all, the first programmable computer was operated by Lord Byron, not too long after the Battle of Trafalgar. So stop believing only teenagers can think and toddlers make computers work.Ralph GeeNot the only one"Danny Hillis invented parallel computing in the 1980s" (Talk time, June 2) - well, he invented one kind of parallel computing, but before then there were vector processors, and the work of Seymour Cray, among others.Mike WhittakerStapleton, ShropshireWorst-laid plansThe remark that tough negotiations have been needed to get BT to redesign the spine to "fail to local mode" (Public Domain, June 2) suggests the NHS procurement has a long way to go before it can be held up as a model. A requirement such as this is a fundamental system-level matter that should have been defined early in the feasibility stages.It sounds as though we will eventually hear that the NHS development has fallen into the traditional government procurement trap, where continual changes lead to long delays and cost increases. It is also strange to read that the identity card system could not be let as regional subcontracts in the NHS manner, because it is a national matter. The NHS development is also national, I hope, and the requirement in both cases is for commonality of interfaces and function, not for identical code.John HallStoke Bishop, BristolReality checkVictor Keegan is quite right about reality taking a long time to catch up with the hype (Second Sight, June 2). Unfortunately, as well as giving some useful feedback, his article has two flaws. First, the publicly available GPS satellite tracking technology will never be able to locate users to within a metre because of atmospheric noise - 10 metres is more realistic. Second, he has fallen for the "forget-me-not panties" Contagious Media projecthttp://forgetmenotpanties.contagiousmedia.org. Devices in underwear to monitor infidelities are not real - the story was designed to fool the media, and it succeeded here.Cliff RandellBristolPicture imperfect"It seems not too many Linux hackers are developing large-scale national security systems on their kitchen tables" (Jack Schofield column, June 2). Exactly what misinformed picture of development using the Linux operating system would Mr Schofield like to convey to Guardian readers? Does he actually have any informed opinion or analysis to convey to readers, or is he simply justifying a nice trip to Geneva? Ridiculous.Sarah Ewen
When taxi driver Ashley Gibbins called the helpline of NTL hoping to have broadband installed, he was told, that all its operators were busy right now, but if he cared to hold the line his call would be dealt with as soon as possible.So Mr Gibbins held. And held. Then held some more. Eventually, after an hour, Mr Gibbins decided he had had enough. He put the phone down and decided to wreak revenge.By chance, Mr Gibbins discovered he could alter NTL's recorded message, and after he'd tinkered with it people seeking help were met with something altogether more blunt."Hello, you are through to NTL customer services," they were told. "We don't give a fuck about you, basically, and we are not going to handle any of your complaints. Just fuck off and leave us alone. Get a life."NTL did not see the funny side and called in the police. Magistrates in Teesside, however, may have had similar experience on corporate helplines themselves.Mr Gibbins, 26, from Redcar, Cleveland, was acquitted at Teesside magistrates' court on Tuesday of an offence under the Communications Act 2003 of making a grossly offensive message.The magistrates decided Mr Cleveland's rant was merely offensive, and did not make the "grossly offensive" standard required for prosecution.A spokeswoman for Cleveland Crown Prosecution Service said Mr Gibbins admitted he had left the message but denied it was grossly offensive."He did accept that he was responsible. The main question was whether the message was deemed to be offensive or grossly offensive."The judiciary heard all the issues before them and they decided in this particular instance that it was not grossly offensive," said the spokeswoman.NTL's media centre put the Guardian on hold, suggested we try another number and then declined to comment.
It used to be setting the video recorder that baffled parents but came as second nature to their offspring; today it's downloading music from the internet. But charities and record labels around the world yesterday launched a campaign to make it clear to parents that their ignorance would be no defence in court if their children were found sharing illegal files.The children's internet charity Childnet will distribute hundreds of thousands of leaflets in record shops, supermarkets, schools and libraries in at least eight languages and 19 countries worldwide in an effort to warn parents of the dangers of illegal filesharing.Childnet said that during its work with more than 190 schools around the UK, it typically emerged that more than half the class were using peer-to-peer networks such as Kazaa to share pirated tracks.
On the long way home now from Cheltenham where the public had the chance to ask "Do Video Games Make People Violent?" of a panel made up of me, Caledonian University's Judy Richards and Nottingham Trent's Mark Griffiths. While we gamer geeks tend to debate this question regularly, arguably because of a subconscious need to defend ourselves and our pastime against the knee-jerk responses of "everyone else", we forget how genuinely scared people are of these things.That's the thing that really struck me. One games industry insider (who left before he could tell me where he worked and the kinds of games he makes) seemed particularly terrified about the future of realistic graphics.The audience that attended wasn't full of pitchfork-waving Daily Mail readers. They were people concerned about this "media monster" they'd heard was sweeping across living rooms, poised to take the nation's souls and turn us all into murdering devil worshippers. What they asked was laced with genuine fear: "Is my son addicted if he plays games more than four hours per week?" "Can we stop our kids from certain doom if they play over-18 games at a less-concerned parent's house?" They wanted to know about "gateway" games ("Is there any research that suggests that playing a less-violent game will make kids want more violent games in the future?"), whether enacting something on the screen would turn players into people capable of enacting these things in real life, what it was that was wrong with society which pushed people to seek "selfhood" in electronic forms rather than through interpersonal interaction. There was no significant debate. This was a Q&amp;A.TWe forget, immersed in our (usually one-sided) arguments, that they only know what they hear from the people who shout loudest.The other thing that emerged (primarily from what Griffiths said) was the apparent lack of games research which tackles violence issues head on. Where are the longitudinal studies? Where are the cross-cultural studies? Where is the evidence that takes games out of the "severely deranged" list and plops it back in with the rest of the entertainment formats where it belongs?After a good hour of trying to make ourselves as clear as possible, I think we managed to persuade some of them to consider both sides of the argument. One guy even said that games needed to get more good press. Well duh.By engaging in discussions which embrace the issues rather than becoming angry, dismissive and defensive off the bat, we might convince some people to give the games we hold so dear less rubbish next time around.
Tomb Raider, Resident Evil, Super Mario Bros - films based on videogames are usually rubbish. That hasn't stopped Microsoft though. The company have got a script for a movie based on Halo and have been settingtough terms and conditionsto any film studio interested in taking the project on. $10 million advance; creative control; $75 million marketing budgets - it's obvious Microsoft are confident in this. I'm not though. Can anyone honestly say they play Halo for the plot? Do thousands compete online every day because they appreciate the intricate back-story surrounding Master Chief? Of course not. I want to shoot the Covenant, not find out their heritage. Sure,reading the booksmay help you appreciate more of Halo 2's overly-complex plot, but honestly, do we really need a Halo film?
I've been meaning to post something on this for ages, but as I'm into casual gaming today it seems as good a time as any. THQ Wireless is bringing Top Trumps to mobile phones. The company is currently creating three packs based around its MotoGP, Star Wars and South Park licenses, and you'll be able to play against up to four CPU or human opponents. Apparently it'll also be possible to trade cards with other users via Bluetooth or a dedicated website. I'm not sure how this'll work though - for example, if you trade Han Solo for aDucati 999, surely you won't be able to play your Star Wars Top Trumps properly anymore, as the Italian superbike barely featured in George Lucas' series. If at all.Come to think of it, I've not read about this anywhere else which leads me to believe I have been the victim of an elaborate ruse by THQ's PR department. Theyhavesent me some early screenshots, though, which I'm not allowed to print. However, I can tell you that, in a fight between Chewbacca and a Tie-Fighter, Chewie would win on Age, but the Imperial space craft would be the easy victor in Technology.I don't know when these games are coming out.
"Podcasting is the latest in on-the-go, on-demand technology bringing the people of California closer in touch with their Governor. With podcasting, you can listen to the Governor's radio programs whenever and wherever you choose," saysCalifornia.It's official: podcasting is no longer cool.
I've been enjoying an argument that's broken out in the States between bloggers and writers for mainstream videogame sites such as Gamespot and Gamespy. It all started with a post entitledThe best review money can buy, which appeared on the blog,Tea Leaves. It was a passionate and well-argued rant against the untrustworthiness and narrow vision of the big American game sites, and very quickly writers from those sites responded angrily, to which the bloggers responded self-righteously, and, well, you can guess the rest  an ill-tempered but highly amusing flame war erupted.One specific instalment in the exchange particularly caught my eye  a post on Tea Leaves entitledFalloutwhere the author defends the site's standpoint, pointing out a range of independent releases that have been ignored by mainstream internet games sites  the list referred to, "Everett Kaser's superblogic games".I stopped here, because I had absolutely no idea who Everett Kaser was, or what was so special about his logic games. I've been to the site, and am now slightly better informed, but it made me think about the nature of casual, mainstream and hardcore gaming.Logic quizzes would certainly be dumped in the casual category by most of us, but how have casual gamers found this site? Indeed, how do they discover any of the other casual gaming ghettos on the web  many of which boast millions of regular users? A couple of days ago I was sent a press release about a mobile phone conversion of the online gameSlingo, which apparently, "combines the fun of Bingo and the thrill of Slots." The text continues:The Web version of Slingo has more than 2 billion recorded games and 3 million registered users creating an incredibly dedicated player base that's constantly looking for more fun and competition. In 2004 Slingo.com was rated the stickiest Web site on the Internet by Nielsen NetRatings, with Web surfers spending an average of four hours on the site per month. Kayak will deliver 24x7 mobile accessibility by connecting wireless Slingo-2-Go players with each other and to the avid Slingo.com community allowing fans to kick-off Slingo excitement anytime, anyplace.Three million people have surfed their way to this bizarre casual gaming phenomenon. They weren't guided there by a major highstreet videogame chain store. They weren't sent there by a games magazine. They just found it. The same, then, must go for the thousands of other multiplayer word game, puzzle, and mini-sports sim sites lurking around out there. And with the exception of big hitters like EA'sPogomost of these sites and the games that run on them are produced and maintained by independent developers. Surely supporting these comparative financial minnows is more hardcore than buying the latest Rockstar murder 'em up?Traditional hardcore gamers need only pop along to Game to get their latest fix. Either that or they can head over to an importer likeLik-Sangand take their fill of Japanese 2D shooters. Casual gamers must trawl the web for reliable shareware sites or friendly communities of like-minded chess fans. There are very few magazines addressing their needs, no one is interested. Nowthatis hardcore.Take mobile gaming. Only a dedicated and discerning casual player could differentiate between the 242 different solitaire titles currently available. I certainly can't. And while casual mobile gamers are criticized for their conservative tastes (Pac-Man and Trivial Pursuit are the Java download chart's answer to Dark Side of the Moon and Brothers in Arms for sheer unshiftability), they are among the tiny minority of people who have actually figured out how to download stuff onto their phones.Casual gaming will soon get its own dedicatedconferencewith speakers from throughout the industry  including lots of companies I've never heard of, but I bet many casual gamers have. Not many magazines will cover the event. It will barely register on the radar of those mammoth games sites. That's casual gaming  stigmatised, unconventional, comparatively inaccessible. Like I say, the new hardcore.UpdateAs you can see from the comments section, a couple of casual gamers havecriticisedme for my mainstream gamer ignorance. It's true, I did make the basic assumption thateveryoneimmediately changes their homepage from AOL or Yahoo as soon as humanly possible - both these companies provide decent casual gaming services. Also, Kayvaan provided a big bunch of casual gaming sites, and I've put those below as links so you can have a look round.Big Fish GamesAOLYahooArcade TownReal ArcadeShockwaveBoonty GamesIWinZylomMSN ZonePlayfirstPlayaholicsPopcapAlawarVisit now - don't let yourself become as ignorant me!
"Transitive Technologies confirmed Tuesday that it is providing Apple with technology that allows old Macintosh software programs to run on computers based on Intel rather than IBM chips. Transitive's technology will be part of software called Rosetta, which will work for current Macintosh OS X programs that run on PowerPC systems but not for older programs that run on OS 8 and OS 9 software, according to Apple," reports theMercury News."Transitive's technology is the result of years of effort. In 2000, Transitive was formed by researchers at the University of Manchester in England. They had developed a way to do "binary translation" at high speeds. Transitive has raised $24 million to date."Comment:This piece makes two useful points: (1) No, your old Mac OS 8/9 software won't run via Rosetta; and (2) TT reckons it gets "roughly 70% to 80% of the speed at which it ran on the original computer" by using about 25% more memory.That should be good news for Crucial, particularly since Apple usually makes a point of fitting only half the memory its computers actually need.
"America Online on Monday launched AIM Mail, the ISP's venture into free Web-based e-mail that it hopes can compete with the likes of Microsoft's Hotmail, Yahoo Mail, and Google's Gmail. AIM Mail, which is available to any AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) user, is being delivered via the new v. 5.9 of AOL's AIM client," reportsTechWeb News."AOL will roll out AIM Mail across its AIM user base this week, the Dulles, Va.-based ISP said. When AIM users log on to the instant messaging network, they'll be given a chance to activate a e-mail account using their AIM username."Comment:Younger readers may not remember this, but AOL used to dominate online services, and many Americans confused its proprietary system with the Internet. Indeed, AOL became so powerful (admittedly by cooking the books just a bit) that it was able to take over the mighty CNN/Time/Warner Brothers media empire. Its doings were on newspaper front pages. Today, however, it can launch a 2GB Web-mail service without most people even noticing... and very few caring.
Unemployed teenagers are being offered 170 iPods to take part in a course aimed at helping them to find work.But Bournemouth and Poole College, in Dorset, denied the offer was a bribe: "I see it as an incentive," said a spokeswoman.The college said that handing out the personal digital music players to 16 to 18-year olds completing the Step Up For Summer course was an attempt  to reach teenagers who were neither in work or education and who tended to shun courses.In addition, students on the 14-week course will get paid 50 a week for one day a week of work, 100 cash when they finish the course, a further 100 payment if they enrol on a further full-time course at the college, free lunch vouchers and free travel if they live more than three miles away.Nick Seaton, the chairman of the Campaign for Real Education, said the course, which is funded by the government's Learning and Skills Council, was sending teenagers the wrong message. "The people who are organising the course must feel the youngsters don't really want to go, otherwise they wouldn't feel it was necessary to offer them iPods. To me they are offering them a bribe," he said."It seems like a waste of taxpayers' money and an abuse of taxpayers' money. If they are offered courses they should value them enough to attend of their own free will - it's for their benefit. It's giving the wrong message about the value of education," added Mr Seaton.The course is aimed at teenagers preparing for a gap year, getting ready for the workplace, or to boost them ahead of a college course starting this September. The free iPod is subject to completion of the course, which offers team-building activities such as outdoor pursuits and extreme sports, life skills such as how to budget money, CV writing, travelling tips, first aid, visits to galleries and museums, one day a week of work, and community projects.The teenagers can also get practical experience in various industries such as catering, construction, hair and beauty, childcare or painting and decorating.A spokeswoman for the college said there were around 700 Neets (the term used by the government to describe youngsters who are "not in education, employment or training) in Dorset. She said there was a maximum of 100 places on the course and the college expected to recruit between 30 and 70 students.The spokeswoman added: "They are not the sort of student who would come in to do a course anyway. We have students who are academically gifted and motivated to learn who are already enrolled but this particular group are hard to reach."They don't perceive themselves as wanting to engage in learning or training so I see it as an incentive to get them back in to learning. They do have to be treated differently. I personally do not see it as a bribe. I see it as an incentive."The college has had 30 applications so far since it started advertising the course last Monday.
"The Chinese authorities have ordered all weblogs and websites in the country to register with the government or face closure in Beijing's latest attempt to control online dissent. Commercial publishers and advertisers could be fined up to 1m yuan (66,000) for failing to register, according to documents on the Chinese information industry ministry's website," reportsAP."Private bloggers or websites must register the complete identity of the person responsible for the site, and the ministry -- which has set a June 30 deadline for compliance -- said 74% of all sites had already registered."
I'm speaking today as part of a panel at theCheltenham Science Festival. The topic is "Do Video Games Make You Violent?" On the grill with me are Dr. Mark Griffiths from Nottingham Trent University, a leader in research into this area, and Judy Richards, an educational computer game researcher. It's sponsored by The Daily Telegraph and should provide some, er, stimulating viewing.I've come across a two excellent arguments on this subject across the blogosphere and thought I'd share.First up is Richard Bartle's throught-provoking recent post on Terra Nova.Contradictions(1)highlights some of the double standards games professionals express in this debate.Second is this greathead-to-headfrom 1up.com between anti-games spokesperson Jack Thompson and games proponent Henry Jenkins.The event is sold out already, but for those interested parties who don't have tickets, I'll post up the results on the train on the way back home.
Telecommunications watchdog Ofcom came under fire yesterday after announcing plans to extend its existing regime governing how much mobile phone companies can charge for accepting calls from rival networks or fixed-line operators.The Telecommunications Users' Association said it was disappointed the regulator was not planning to force 2G mobile phone companies into further cuts in so-called termination charges."This is an area where there is no real competition because you can't choose which networks to call and which not to call. I think they should be encouraged to bring their prices down," TUA chairman Bill Mieran said.Four years ago Ofcom's predecessor Oftel's attempts to cap termination charges resulted in an unsuccessful challenge by mobile operators and last summer Ofcom imposed direct controls on transmission charges to run until the end of March next year.Yesterday Ofcom said it was seeking to extend the price controls for a further 12 months. The regulator said that it had decided not to opt for a longer extension because it was hoping the industry would solve the issue. "We want to work with the industry to come up with a non-regulatory way of protecting consumers," an Ofcom spokesman said.
(If you don't play World of Warcraft, it may be better to ignore this post) Tired of lag in the busier areas of World of Warcraft? Bored of rogues sneaking up and ganking for fun? Well things may get a little better tomorrow as Battlegroundsfinally launches. These PvP-enabled areas will see players battle it out to achieve victory, honor points, and rewards. Hopefully this will mean the big-guns fight it out amongst themselves, leaving those of us still levelling - 39 and counting - free to enjoy the delights of Azeroth without excessive hassle.
Microsoft is muscling into the wireless email market that until now has been dominated by the maker of the BlackBerry, Canadian firm Research In Motion.Microsoft yesterday said it would give away free software upgrades to enable corporate users of its systems easy access to their email on mobile phones. RIM shares, listed in Toronto, fell more than 2% to C$98.05 in midday trade.The upgrade, what Microsoft calls "direct push technology", will bounce emails to a users' mobile phone as soon as the messages arrive on a company's server. Until now, they had to dial up the server to access any mail.RIM has built a commanding lead in the wireless email market. The company now has over three million subscribers worldwide. It said in April that it expected to add another 500,000 in the current quarter. The BlackBerry was recently launched in India, Brazil, Poland and South Africa, among other countries.The investment bank Lehman Brothers has forecast that BlackBerry will have 5.3 million subscribers by the end of the year and 9.2 million by the end of 2006.RIM has introduced web-based software that means the BlackBerry no longer needs to be connected to a corporate server, opening up the market to email-addicted consumers.Analysts, though, have long anticipated that the competition would intensify.Microsoft is aiming to undercut its upstart rival. The upgrade of company servers, available from the fourth quarter, will be free of charge. Firms that want to use the RIM service have to pay for a separate server to be installed.The upgrades will affect around 130 million people using the Microsoft servers, potentially causing the market for wireless email to explode. It also does away with the need to buy separate handheld email devices.Microsoft is doubtless hoping that the service will drive mobile phone makers towards using its software in their handsets. The emails can be bounced to mobile phones that have Microsoft software installed, now only a small percentage of the market. But Microsoft is not forcing users to buy mobile phones using its software. The company has licensed the email technology to all the major handset manufacturers."We heard from our customers that they want a simple and easy way to give their employees access to mobile messaging," said Suzan DelBene, responsible for marketing mobile devices at Microsoft. "The thing that has been the complicating factor until now is expensive middleware. We offer it as an upgrade. It's free."
"Mozilla's current browsers, including the popular stand-alone Firefox, are susceptible ... to a seven-year-old vulnerability that could let attackers spoof Web sites, a security company said Monday," reportsTechWeb News."According to Danish security firm Secunia, Mozilla 1.7.x and Firefox 1.x are vulnerable to a frame injection flaw that first surfaced in 1998. Hackers could exploit the bug to insert their own content into the view of a legitimate site, to, for instance, pose as the log-in frame, then collect usernames and passwords to online bank accounts."Comment:How many holey bug-fixed versions of Firefox have we had to download in the past three months? I've lost count.... ;-)
Thousands of secondary school pupils are the victims of a new wave of bullying by camera phone, research by the children's charity NCH revealed today.Its poll of 11- to 19-year-olds found one in 10 have felt threatened or embarrassed by pictures taken using mobile phones .They can be bullied even in their own homes when the perpetrators use their phones at any time of day or night to transmit the images - and threats to send them to other people.The most extreme example of the dangers came to light in Dublin when a girl in school uniform allowed her boyfriend to take an intimate picture of her on his camera phone.John Carr, new technology adviser to NCH, said the boy texted the image to two friends, who passed it on to others. "Within two hours police reckoned 10,000 phones received the picture. It was not intended as bullying, but the distress to the girl was immense."The survey, commissioned by NCH and Tesco Mobile from pollsters BMRB, asked 770 young people whether they had been bullied or threatened by anyone using emails, internet chatrooms or texts.One in five said they had, with 14% experiencing bullying by text message, 5% in internet chatrooms and 4% via email. The figures were slightly lower than an NCH poll in 2002, which first identified the extent of bullying by text, prompting the former education secretary Estelle Morris to alert teachers to the dangers.A new question about bullying by camera phone found the practice has grown rapidly since the technology became widely available about two years ago.One in 10 young people reported being photographed by a mobile phone camera in a way which made them feel uncomfortable, embarrassed or threatened.Of those, 17% said they believed the image had been sent to someone else.This suggested that 68,000 children may already have experienced the indignity of having an embarrassing picture broadcast, with more fearing that it might be.NCH said almost 4 million young people in the UK owned a camera-enabled handset and this number was set to double by 2007.Mr Carr said examples of the menace in Britain included children photographed in school changing rooms or in other embarrassing circumstances. There was also a craze for "happy slapping", in which groups of teenagers with camera phones video their friends attacking unsuspecting children or passersby.The practice became a craze on the UK garage music scene before catching on in school playgrounds in London last year, from where it spread nationwide.The research found 26% of those bullied by mobile phone did not know who was doing it.Mr Carr said: "For a child or teenager being bullied by mobile phone, it can be terrifying and feel like there is no escape."NCH and Tesco Mobile are launching a website -stoptextbully.com- to give advice and support to young people affected by bullying.Tesco Mobile has launched a text-back service. Mobile users text the word BULLY to 60000 to receive advice on how to get support.It said all proceeds from the service would be donated to NCH to tackle bullying by mobile phone.
Workers in warehouses across Britain are being "electronically tagged" by being asked to wear small computers to cut costs and increase the efficient delivery of goods and food to supermarkets, a report revealed yesterday.New US satellite- and radio-based computer technology is turning some workplaces into "battery farms" and creating conditions similar to "prison surveillance", according to a report from Michael Blakemore, professor of geography at Durham University.The technology, introduced six months ago, is spreading rapidly, with up to 10,000 employees using it to supply household names such as Tesco, Sainsbury's, Asda, Boots and Marks &amp; Spencer.Now trade unionists want safeguards to be introduced to protect worker privacy.Under the system workers are asked to wear computers on their wrists, arms and fingers, and in some cases to put on a vest containing a computer which instructs them where to go to collect goods from warehouse shelves.The system also allows su permarkets direct access to the individual's computer so orders can be beamed from the store. The computer can also check on whether workers are taking unauthorised breaks and work out the shortest time a worker needs to complete a job.Academics are worried that the system could make Britain the most surveyed society in the world. The country already has the largest number of street security cameras.Martin Dodge, a researcher at the centre for advanced spatial analysis at University College London, said: "These de vices mark the total 'disappearance of disappearance' where the employee is unable to do anything without the machine knowing or monitoring."In his report for the GMB union, Prof Blakemore said the new technology was raising a host of ethical issues, with the danger that the computer was taking over the human rather than humans using computers.There is also concern that the new technology might create new industrial injuries because of the need for workers to make repetitive move ments with their arms and wrists, similar to repetitive strain injuries caused by overusing computers.But the companies say the system makes the delivery of food more efficient, cuts out waste, reduces theft and can reorder goods more quickly.One firm, Peacock Retail Group, claims workers like the system. The company, which has a modern centre in Nantgarw, south Wales, where employees have 28 wearable computers and six mounted on trucks, says the system has a positive impact on team morale. "Everybody likes the wearables because they are comfortable and easy to use. The result is the team finds it easier to do the job," it says on the company website.A spokeswoman for Tesco last night insisted that the company was not using the technology to monitor the staff and said it was making employees' work easier and reducing the need for paper.But at the GMB's annual conference in Newcastle yesterday one of the union's national officers, Paul Campbell, said: "We are having reports of people walking out of jobs after a few days' work, in some cases just a few hours. They are all saying that they don't like the job because they have no input. They just followed a computer's instructions."Paul Kenny, acting general secretary, said: "The GMB is no Luddite organisation but we will not stand idly by to see our members reduced to automatons. The use of this technology needs to be redesigned to be an aid to the worker rather than making the worker its slave."The supermarkets that rely on just-in-time shelf-filling rather than holding buffer stocks are incredibly prof itable companies. They can well afford to operate a humanised supply team."Other monitoring devices are being developed in the US, including ones that can check on the productivity of secretaries by measuring the number of key strokes on their word processors; satellite technology is also being developed to monitor productivity in manufacturing jobs.Two London firms are considering using satellites to direct sandwich board holders, making sure they are not shirking and moving them to areas with more people.
Looking for a decent mobile game to see you through those commuter traffic jams next week? You won't get much better than the fantastic turn-based strategy sequel, Ancient Empires II, from UK developer Macrospace (now owned by US publisherGlu). The official release date is monday, but the review version has been driving me mad for the last few days. Based in the fantasy realm of Thorin, you control two royal brothers as they seek to save their kingdom from an evil shadow demon. What this translates into is eight levels of Advance Wars-style tactical battle, pitting your modest range of units (soldiers, archers, catapults, poisonous wolves) against the enemy's vast forces. It's a far cry from Space Invader clones and quiz titles... Thank the lord...What really marks this game out from its decent predecessor is the vastly improved AI. These dense little fights are hugely challenging with enemy units ruthlessly ganging up on your battered little stragglers. All the usual turn-based strategy game balancing acts - between building powerful units, or a greater number of weaker ones, between trying to win the resource war (the more buildings your soliders occupy the more gold you have to buy more troops), or just going all out to attack your foe - they're all here. There isn't quite the variety or the sheer scope of Advance Wars, but this is amobile phone game. And there's a skirmish mode where you can get together with a mate and take on two other pals or the computer in a series of quick hit battles.This is just great Java game programming. Ambitious but realistic in design, simple interface, cute visuals, three save game units so you can cut off at any point. It might just change your mind about mobile gaming. It might. Just.
It's not just Blur who thoughtModern Life is Rubbish. Shigeru Miyamoto - creator of Mario and Zelda - is a bit peeved too. Modern games, hesaid last week, are too long. "Of course, there are games, such as 'Halo' or 'Grand Theft Auto,' that are big and expansive. But if you're not interested in spending that time with them, you're not going to play." He has a point especially when it comes to handheld games. And there is no doubt that the ten or so hours of something like Ico is a perfect length. But I'm slightly concerned here. By all means design fantastic games that match inspiration with brevity, but don't underestimate the appeal of an epic. Zelda: Ocarina of Time is seen as a seminal classic partly because of this - Wind Waker, which suffered from a cynical time-sink towards the end of the game, is not. Shorter, and more focussed, titles are welcome, but a great game is a great game whatever the length.
During my visit to Lionhead last week Peter Molyneux and Ron Millar took time out to show me the latest build of Black &amp; White 2. I also found out a little of what the company has planned for its ambitious God Game series  including three more instalments. They really don't do things by halves around hereBut first, Black &amp; White 2. As in the 2001 original, you take on the role of a powerful god, watching over a tribe of deferential but independently-minded people. Through ten increasingly challenging levels your job is to subjugate all other tribes of the world  either by crushing them in battle, or by building such a beautiful civilisation that everyone else wants to become a part of it. So in a way, this is two games in one  a Sim City-style urban construction game, and a warmongering RTS  players can chose to follow one path, or swap between them at will. Whatever they go for, controls are kept minimal and intuitive, employing just the mouse and the left and right buttons. There are also no onscreen menus. Everything can be achieved by grabbing stuff and putting it somewhere else, or throwing it at the enemy, or at your own people if you're feeling evil.The cities you build (by gathering wood and ore in sufficient amounts) are impressively varied and intricately detailed  right down to the mosaics at the bottom of the bath house pool. At one point Peter zooms the camera right into the grass, and you can see ants wandering around. And, of course the creature  a sort of giant animal manifestation of your power  is back, this time even more intelligent (apparently he'll be in next year's Guinness Book of Records as the most complex AI character in a videogame)Anyway, you can check out many more of the detailshere,but what really interested me about the game was the way in which design duties seem to have been divided between Peter Molyneux who's guiding the city creation side of things and Ron Millar (once of Blizzard and co-creator of classics like Warcraft and Starcraft) who is overseeing the RTS element. Apparently when the two met they spent the first ten minutes complimenting each other's previous games and then the subsequent hours picking holes in everything they didn't like. Which sounds very much like the basis of a strong working relationship. What's clear is that neither has been willing to compromise their strand of Black &amp; White 2  these are, they say, two well formed genres, co-existing in a multifaceted environment.Its also intriguing to see how contemporary politics have either consciously or unconsciously found their way into the game design. For example, if you chose to start a war you must build army units, and these aren't just conjured out of nowhere as in other RTS titles  tribesmen need to be recruited from civilian roles within the city. This has practical ramifications  less workers tilling the land means less food, and fewer shoppers wandering the streets (your cities can boast shops, taverns, markets, etc) presumably takes its toll on the local economy. There's also an emotional hit, the fear the rest of the villagers feel when the men are away fighting. You can't help but feel the influence of a certain conflict in the Middle East.Another thing  if you start throwing your weight around, demolishing enemy towns, the chances are you'll start getting refugees turning up, camping outside your city walls looking for asylum. Allow too many in without the facilities to care for them, and they end up sleeping on the streets, affecting the mood of the whole town. Wonderwherethey gotthatidea fromAs for the future of the series, well, Peter Molyneux was pretty candid about his plans for an epic story cycle. Here's what he told me:In Black and White II, you've increased the element of miracles  i.e. special powers like fireballs, floods, etc. Is that an attempt to increase the religious angle in the game?Well, yes, there is a plan with Black &amp; White. This plan goes from Black &amp; White 1 to Black &amp; White 5. The idea with the first game was that world had no concept of gods, while in B&amp;W2 the world knows about gods now and expects certain things from them - it is about making you as a player feel godly, and feel like you have this great power at your disposal. And when you play the game there are certain moments you'll think to yourself, "Well, I've read about that in some religious text", whether that's Hindu, Christianity, anywhere, and that's no surprise because every culture's view of gods is that they are hugely powerful. But here are no explicit references to any specific religions.So you mentioned B&amp;W5  do you have a Star Wars-esque through line in mind?Absolutely. For Black &amp; White and for Fable. Youhaveto have that. Black &amp; White will end up in the modern day, in today's world. And I would say, to give you a hint, probably B&amp;W2, maybe B&amp;W3, we're getting to the top of the curve in terms of the god's power. Then it goes down the other side, because you as a god get less powerful. Then it's more about proving yourself, than just being this omnipotent 'I can do anything' god.So you have to cope with people's apathy?Yes, the people will say "well, you can throw a rock, but we can fire it a thousand times further with this cannon. You have a fireball miracle, well, so what, we have a nuclear bomb!"How will the creature's role adapt?To give you a clue, I think the creatures are going to, be somewhere else after BW2, they're going to move into another realm. I don't know if you will have creatures as such. This is Black &amp; White 3 so I don't want to give too much away, but there'll be a more human form to the creatures if you see what I mean.A lot of people couldn't marry the god game element with the creature element in B&amp;WYeah, I know. That's why we want to let the creature have a place of its own, and not be a part of you being a god anymore. It started off because, as a god, you could use your power to inspire something, to grow something, so the creature became a star. In fact, the creatures in B&amp;W2 are not as huge as they once were for that very reason  they got so enormous they were just out of proportion. They're now much more like the demons or deities from certain religions, certain Eastern religions  like Kali in Hinduism, for example.That's how I always read it  that every God needs a manifestation of his power on earthYes, that's how they were designed. And originally, they were going to be human but the problem was that, as humans, you would have expected them to talk and that was a big problem. In B&amp;W2 the creatures are either your pet or they're like a robot that will follow your commands. It's the difference between an attack dog and a puppy dogBlack &amp; White 2 is set for release on PC this autumn.
Apple Computer announced yesterday that it was dumping the IBM-manufactured chips used in its Macintosh products and switching instead to Intel, a move which analysts said could result in cheaper, faster machines.Steve Jobs, the Apple chief executive, said the company would move all of its flagship Macintosh computers to Intel processors by the end of 2007.Intel is the main supplier of chips used in personal computers that run on the Microsoft Windows operating system.Analysts said that switching to Intel might eventually enable Apple to cut its prices by between 10% and 20%, an important move for a company that has been regarded by many as too expensive. Using Intel chips could also make Mac products more powerful, thinner and cooler.The switch though is not without risks, as Apple software developers are forced to rewrite programs to work with the new processors."It could cost hundreds of millions of dollars of re-engineering," said analyst Brian Gammage at research group Gartner. "It's not easy work. It's deep work at the base of the software kernel."Mr Jobs, at an annual conference for developers in San Francisco, said: "Our goal is to provide our customers with the best personal computers in the world, and looking ahead Intel has the strongest processor road map by far."Apple has been reinvigorated by the worldwide success of the iPod, its stylish, handheld digital music player.Analysts have suggested that the success of the iPod has created a "halo" effect for Apple, and could help lift sales of the company's more traditional business. That theory appeared to be proven in the first quarter when Mac sales increased by 43%, four times as fast as the industry. But it still holds only 2.3% of the personal computer market.In January, the company launched the Mac Mini, a stripped-down version of the Macintosh for less than $500 in an attempt to broaden Apple's appeal. It comes without a monitor, keyboard or mouse.Although the shift is a blow to IBM, the loss will be more than offset by the recent announcement that its chips will be used in the next-generation of video game consoles produced by Microsoft and Sony.
"Mark your calendars. Today is the day that Apple Computer killed the Mac as we've known it," proclaimsForbes. It says:With the confirmation of the change, Apple is embarking on a transition that could well hurt its computer sales between now and 2007, frustrate software developers and ultimately drive loyal customers away from the platform.Forbes continues:"Every time Apple tries to make a transition like this, many people simply decide it's not worth the effort to try and keep up," says Nathan Brookwood, analyst with Insight64, Saratoga, Calif. "The companies behind the PC platform have paid a lot of attention to stability and backward compatibility than Apple has."More immediately, by announcing a transition that is going to take place during 2006 and into 2007, Apple can't help but hurt its computer sales during the transition period.And so on....Comment:This is clearly a bit of a rush job on Forbes's part. No doubt the second version will correct the lacunae.
According toBloomberg: "The shift would help Jobs court laptop buyers, a market that's growing more than three times faster than desktop PCs." It also quotes the man responsible for the Mac II and, later, founder of Be and its dual-processor BeBox:"The main motivation is more and better processor choices," said Jean-Louis Gassee, who oversaw Apple's products and research and development efforts from 1981 to 1990. He's now a venture capitalist at Allegis Capital in Palo Alto, California.Using Intel chips may enable Apple to make "smaller, lighter laptops" and "more macho higher-performance laptops" than possible with IBM and Motorola's chip business, spun off as Freescale Semiconductor Inc, Gassee said. That's because the processors create less heat and require less cooling, making it easier to build the slimmer styles consumers prefer.Comment:This is a pretty obvious point, but there are no thin-and-light Mac notebooks like the IBM ThinkPad X41, or the various pioneering Tablet PCs, and even smaller devices powered by Intel's Centrino chip set. On the other hand, this is not the type of notebook PC most people buy....
"Apple previewed a version of its critically acclaimed operating system, Mac OS X Tiger, running on an Intel-based Mac to the over 3,800 developers attending CEO Steve Jobs' keynote address. Apple also announced the availability of a Developer Transition Kit, consisting of an Intel-based Mac development system along with preview versions of Apple's software, which will allow developers to prepare versions of their applications which will run on both PowerPC and Intel-based Macs," says an Apple press release,hereorhere at Apple."Our goal is to provide our customers with the best personal computers in the world, and looking ahead Intel has the strongest processor roadmap by far," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "It's been ten years since our transition to the PowerPC, and we think Intel's technology will help us create the best personal computers for the next ten years."And later....The Developer Transition Kit is available starting today for $999 to all Apple Developer Connection Select and Premier members. Further information for Apple Developer Connection members is available at developer.apple.com. Intel plans to provide industry leading development tools support for Apple later this year, including the Intel C/C++ Compiler for Apple, Intel Fortran Compiler for Apple, Intel Math Kernel Libraries for Apple and Intel Integrated Performance Primitives for Apple.
"Apple Computer Inc said it will shift to using Intel Corp microprocessors in its Macintosh computers, severing its long relationship with International Business Machines Corp., which had supplied chips to Apple," reportsReuters."Apple said it would move all of its flagship Macintosh computers to Intel processors by the end of 2007."
Apple Computer today confirmed widespread rumours that it will switch to Intel microprocessors in its Macintosh computers, ending its long-standing reliance on IBM chips.Apple said it would move all of its flagship Macintosh computers onto the Intel chips by the end of 2007.The company will be joining all other PC makers in using chips built around the x86 microarchitecture, while dropping the PowerPC-based microprocessors from IBM and Freescale Semiconductor Inc.Details emerged today as Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, addressed a conference for software developers.The move could potentially end complaints that Macs are too expensive, slower and suffer from a lack of programmes compared with Windows-based systems, but it is also a major gamble for Apple.For one, it means that all programmes now built for PowerPC-based Macs will have to either be rewritten or run through an emulator to work on Intel-based Macs. And anyone with a Mac today might not be able to run software built for the computers after the switch.Apple has made similar moves in the past, and each time its market share shrunk, said Nathan Brookwood, an analyst at the research firm Insight 64.In the mid-1980s, the Mac captured up to 10% of the overall PC market, he said. But when Apple switched from the Motorola 68000 processors, the Mac's share dropped to below 5%. When the Mac's operating system changed to OS X, it fell to below 3%."I have a lot of trouble understanding why they would do it," Mr Brookwood said. "Unless there's something magical, I would have to believe it's not a good move. My concern is that every time Apple makes an architecture shift, many of its customers and development partners say enough is enough."Prior to the speech, News.com reported that Apple would begin the transition to Intel with its lower-end computers, such as the Mac Mini, in mid-2006 and higher-end models a year later.Apple's break with IBM stemmed from Mr Jobs' wish that IBM make a larger variety of the PowerPC processors used in Macintosh systems. IBM baulked because of concerns over the profitability of a low-volume business, News.com reported.By wrestling Apple's business from IBM, Intel would tighten its dominance of the PC processor business. The company holds more than an 80% share of the market.Although IBM suffers a setback with the loss of Apple, the company could reap a financial windfall from deals with Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony to put microprocessors it is producing into next generation video-game consoles. A new microprocessor that IBM developed with Sony and Toshiba, code-named Cell and planned for Sony's next PlayStation console, is being touted as capable of delivering 10 times the performance of today's PC processors.
Today, Microsoft finally revealed the "push" email features that link Microsoft Exchange email servers (very common in businesses) with mobile devices running Windows Mobile 5 -- an announcement we expected when WM5 was announced.Information Weekreports:The company said at the Microsoft TechEd 2005 conference in Orlando that its Messaging and Security Feature Pack for the forthcoming Windows Mobile 5.0 update will include what it calls "direct push technology." That technology will connect mobile devices directly with Exchange server without additional server software, the company said in a statement.Support will include the direct transfer of all information managed by Exchange Server, according the company. In addition, users will be able to remotely look up contact information stored on Exchange Server, Microsoft said in a statement. That will enable third-party software vendors to create applications that access that information, according to Microsoft.The basic idea is that you don't need special server software and you don't need a special handheld device -- as long as you have the latest Microsoft software at both ends, of course.
There is a curious unanimity about the idea that Apple is finally going to adopt Intel processors, with the usually-reliable Wall Street Journal in the lead.Sure, we don't know, officially, but put it this way: there is nobody in the media world who would not talk to Apple boss Steve Jobs if he could be bothered to pick up the phone, and Jobs has now had a month to say the story was rubbish. He has failed to do so.According to today'sWSJ(online version, paid subscribers only):Apple, of Cupertino, Calif., has begun briefing some partners about plans to begin shifting its Macintosh computer line next year to Intel chips, according to industry executives and people familiar with the briefings. Apple has said it expects to announce the move today, these people said.Further, says the Journal:Apple recently briefed IBM and other major software partners on its plans, according to people familiar with those briefings. On the other hand, some Apple watchers said that, given Mr Jobs's mercurial reputation, they won't be sure a change will happen until a formal announcement.All the companies involved are saying the same thing,No comment, while the staff who might be expected to know are not going public because they'd expect to lose their jobs. So again, what's interesting is not the lack of confirmation, but the complete lack of any sort of denial.Even theThink Secretsite, which is being sued by Apple for publishing this sort of information, remains strangely silent.We should know in a couple of hours, when Jobs takes the stage to keynote (sic) Apple'sWorldwide Developer Conference 2005, which opens today in San Francisco.What's rather odd is the timing. Microsoft is putting 3.2GHz triple-core PowerPC chips -- faster than the most expensive Mac -- into its cheap Xbox 360 games console, and you'd have thought this would reduce production costs for the Apple versions. There's also the overhyped Sony/IBM Cell processor, which is claimed to be dramatically faster than anything available in the PC world. Meanwhile, Intel has given up on the megahertz speed race, having signally failed to push the Pentium 4 above 4GHz.In the past, Apple has suffered from selling machines with slow chips at high prices, but the IBM v Intel story looks better for IBM now than it has for a decade. If you are going to switch, why switch now, Steve? We want to know.
One of the standard stories in the Mac press, and on Mac-oriented Web sites, is the one about how Apple is increasing, or is about to increase, its market share. A graph in today's Wall Street Journal, with the articleApple Is Poised to Shift To Intel as Chip Supplier, shows the reality, based on research from IDC:It's interesting to see the dramatic decline that followed the launch of Windows 95 and its R2 release, when Apple's turnover almost halved -- and the relative come-back engineered by the returning Steve Jobs.
