Audio-sharing site Soundcloud has redesigned, adding better search, recommendation and sharingIf the future of the internet is mobile, things are looking very good for Soundcloud, the Berlin-based sound-sharing site. Known as the "YouTube of audio", mobile will soon be the dominant platform for Soundcloud, said founder and chief executive Alex Ljung."It's not a battle between video and audio, or audio and text - they are good for different things," said Ljung. "But sound is easier to create and to listen to in parallel while doing something else. Sound doesn't need a screen."Soundcloud, which has just announced that its tracks are now shared, listened to or uploaded by 180 million users every month – equivalent to 8% of the internet population – rolled out its latest version, called 'Next', beyond beta on Tuesday.New features accessible to all users include improved recommendation, search and discovery, and automatic "follows" for bands and artists that users like on sites they connect, like Facebook. Sounds are also easier to share, with real-time comments and notifications between friends.Soundcloud claims that 10 hours of audio is now uploaded every minute – with Ljung insisting that Soundcloud will eventually host more content than YouTube.Launched in October 2008, Soundcloud has attracted some high-profile VC investors including former analyst Mary Meeker, the former Joost chief executive Mike Volpi, and Fred Wilson, the venture capitalist who is also anavid bloggerand Soundcloud user. Following three rounds of VC funding, Soundcloud now has offices in Berlin, London, Bulgaria and San Francisco.Soundcloud has always had a strong music fanbase. TheDeftoneshave a solid following on the site with some tracks notching up half a million plays, whileSnoop Doggexperiments by uploading ideas or parts of tracks and inviting users to remix them.News and politics is a recent growth area, said Ljung, withtheBBC,Mayor Bloombergandthe White House, whojoined last month, all publishing through the site.
Tuesday! Things appear to be working better than Monday!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMobile Web overtakes desktops in China as over 50% of new Internet users come from rural areas &gt;&gt; The Next WebMobile phones have become the most common way for Chinese citizens to connect to the Internet, meaning the mobile web has surpassed desktops. This is largely thanks to rural areas, which are driving over 50% of new Internet users in the country.The latest numbers come from a report issued by the state-linked China Internet Network Information Centre (CINIC) and cited byOn Device Research.Photo by lukew &gt;&gt; InstagramSome guy using a Surface in a Starbucks. Hang on..Apple - Think Twice &gt;&gt; The n Bells:I purchased a few months ago a Retina MacBook Pro. When it arrived, I was happy and smug, as only an Apple-geek with the shiniest kit in town can be.However, through day-to-day use I noticed strange lines appearing on the screen. First, when the unlock-screen presented itself, it seems to have a slight transparency to the desktop.Once I noticed it, it seemed to get worse, though this might be because I knew about it &amp; saw it more often, or because it did actually get worse. Either way I was getting less and less happy with my new shiny thing. I would work on a document, flick to working on some photos &amp; there would be not-so-mysterious lines appear 'over' the images.It wasn't long before I did some searches and found out that this was in fact something known as ghosting - a problem occurring with some of the retina MBPs.Half of all the screens are made by LG; half by Samsung. The LG ones have the problems, the commenters say. (They also offer a simple Terminal script to find out which screen a "retina" laptop has.)The new opengov data poster child ? &gt;&gt; edparsons.comYou may not like the symbology used in this map.. but you can't deny that the "Interactive map of England's green belt" published by the Telegraph Newspaper yesterday is an another important milestone in the opening up of Government Geodata.It is important for a number of reasons..Firstly it liberates data that was previously difficult/expensive to obtain from the Department for Communities and Local Government both displaying it on a Google Map, but also making it available for download as a shape file for use by others - Kudos !Secondly and rather parochial I accept, it is an example of data that was based on Ordnance Survey mapping published on the web.. not exactly case law but a good precedent supporting the view that a feature must exist as an object in the original OS data for it to be derived !Thirdly and I would argue of most importance is that this data is really useful.. it is timely as it helps to inform the current debate around the planning system, and it is of real interest to citizens who can easily view areas protected by the planning system close to their homes !Seems that there is healthy competition in data journalism!Parsons is geospatial technologist at Google in the UK... and former CTO at Ordnance Survey.Lenovo takes on Apple, Samsung &gt;&gt; WSJ.comLenovo says its smartphone business is unprofitable, without disclosing the loss. But its market share in China, where the company sells most of its phones, soared to 15% in the third quarter from 1.7% a year earlier. That placed Lenovo second only to Samsung, with 16.7%, and well ahead of Apple, with 6.9%, according to Gartner. The research firm predicts that Lenovo will become the No. 1 smartphone vendor in China this year.Lenovo Chief Executive Yang Yuanqing said recently that the company hasn't been able to generate a profit in smartphones in part because of its investment in marketing and sales. He expects the business to become profitable in China in two to three quarters, he said...Still, some analysts are skeptical about whether Lenovo can be successful world-wide."The strategy of initially seeking a large market share in terms of volume, and then trying to increase margins later, rarely works," said Nicolas Baratte, CLSA's head of technology research for the Asian-Pacific region. Price competition keeps margins thin, he said.Dramatic. (Subscription required.)Here comes the first real alternative to iPhone and Android &gt;&gt; QuartzJolla cannot possibly take on Google and Apple head-to-head, and it doesn't plan to. Rather, the company, which is rapidly becoming a Finnish-Chinese hybrid with headquarters in both Helsinki and Hong Kong, and an R&amp;D operation in a yet-to-be-named location in mainland China, plans to nurture and grow an entirely new mobile "ecosystem" -- meaning the phones, the operating system that runs on them, and the apps that run on that. And it plans to do it in China because that is the one market producing first-time buyers of smartphones fast enough to give such a scheme a chance.In order to get its operating system and, eventually, Jolla-branded phones, in front of enough Chinese, the company haspartnered with the largest mobile chain retailer in the country, D.Phone. Not only will D.Phone sell Sailfish-powered phones through its 2,100 outlets; it is also part of the Sailfish Alliance, a group of software and hardware companies that will all be able to add standards and code to the open-source OS.One less iPhone purchased: day one with the Nexus 4 &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogJohn Battelle's Search BlogHe likes it, though in terms of wanting to plug it into his computer he still seems to be living in the past. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)FTC nominee Joshua Wright to skip Google cases &gt;&gt; Politico.comWright, a professor at George Mason University, has never been paid directly by Google. But he has faced scrutiny because some of his academic research has been funded indirectly by the search company, and the nominee previously has defended the company against the FTC's ongoing antitrust probe.To allay those concerns, Wright told the Senate Commerce Committee staff that he's not going to take part in agency enforcement decisions -- antitrust or otherwise -- regarding Google for two years, two sources confirmed to POLITICO on Friday.Android performance case study: Falcon Pro &gt;&gt; Curious CreatureRomain Guy is a software engineer at Google:My goal in this article is to show you how you can track down and fix performance issues in an application, even if you don't have its source code. All you need is a copy of the latest Android 4.2 SDK - the new ADT bundle makes setup a breeze. I would highly recommend you download the application to apply the techniques described here on your own. Falcon Pro is unfortunately - for you - a paid application and I will therefore provide links to various files you can download to follow my analysis.Simply but effectively told.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Tumblr, the micro-blogging platform that hosts more than 83 million blogs, was hit by a cyber worm that filled up user dashboards with an infectious post by a trolling group.A group called the Gay Nigger Association of America, which says it is engaged in an "anti-blogging" campaign, took responsibility for the attack on Monday. The cyber worm infected major Tumblr accounts including those of USA Today, The Verge and Entertainment Weekly.Just before 1:30pm ET, a Tumblr statement said: "Tumblr engineers have resolved the issue of the viral post attack that affected a few thousand Tumblr blogs earlier today."The Tumblr page of Entertainment Weekly, after the attentions of the GNAA. Photograph: ScreenshotThe infected post began with "Dearest 'Tumblr' users" and continued into a passionate rant against the platform and what it called its "emo" users. The post read: "This is in response to the seemingly pandemic growth and world-wide propagation of the most fucking worthless, contrived, bourgeoisie, self-congratulating and decadent bullshit the internet ever had the fortune of facilitating."Tumblr advised anyone who has viewed the post to immediately log out of all browsers that may be using Tumblr, and said it was working with its engineers to "remedy the situation as swiftly as possible".A GNAA spokesman, Leon Kaiser, said in an email:This was just another part of our "anti-blogging" campaign. GNAA's stance on blogging in general has always been a negative one: in short, blogging is lowering journalistic standards to the point where the number of friends a murderer has on Facebook has become news.Tumblr is a blogging website whose employees we have found, time and time again, to put the safety of their users second to their revenue. Instead of hiring competent, dedicated staff, they hire part-time programmers who can't even defend against the most basic of security issues, such as XSS. I mean, for chrissake, they don't even throttle (or the threshold is ridiculously high) the number of posts per minute a user is allowed to make! Blogging services everywhere need to step up and hire people who know what they're doing.In 2007, the GNAAhacked the Obama campaign's social networkand created a parody site that claimed Jewish people were behind 9/11,which CNN erroneously reported as real.GNAA recently convinced several media outletsthat people were organizing looting on Twitter during hurricane Sandy with the hashtag #Sandylootcrew. In November, the group launched an attack on male My Little Pony fans with a "War on Bronies".A GNAA spokesperson told Gawker's Adrian Chenthat the War on Bronies was part of their greater War on Blogs. The spokesperson also said that no Tumblr accounts were compromised by the worm, which "was purely a spam thing", and claimed to have contacted Tumblr several weeks ago about the security gap that allowed the GNAA to launch the attack. The spokesperson said the group had not heard back from the site.
At a time of considerable uncertainty for the global economy, some good news! "The average annual pay for 'app' developers has shot up 27% in just the last 12 months to an average of £70,000 per annum."If warning bells are sounding in your brain as you read those words, your caution may be justified. The quote comes from a press release from a company calledReThink Recruitment, whose business certainly won't be hurt by thousands of app developers comparing that figure to their current salaries, and looking for a new job.Keep that caveat firmly in mind, then, but if ReThink knows its market, its views may still be valuable."The app economy is serious business. Whilst there are plenty of stories of independent developers becoming millionaires in a very short space of time, there are also a growing number of app development consultancies who are becoming big and significant employers," says director Michael Bennett."These consultancies are increasingly prepared to pay very high salaries for app developers with the right kind of skills."There's certainly truth in the idea that great app developers command great salaries in 2012, although the buzz/hype around apps at the moment – delete according to where you stand on the apps-scepticism scale – also means there are plenty of not-so-great app developers (and development consultancies) seeing themselves as worth top-dollar too.Apps sometimes feels worryingly like the web design industry in 2000/2001 in that sense: salaries climbing fast for developers, lots of trendy agencies to work for and no shortage of recruitment firms saying how marvellous it all was. 2001 being the year when things went south for a lot of those agencies, developers and recruitment firms.ReThink's salary survey claims that £70k average salary for an app developer is now outstripping the £60k for a "traditional web developer", although web developers are still ahead when it comes to contract day rates (£375 to £350).Bennett thinks consumer businesses "now take traditional web development skills – such as familiarity with HTML5 or basic web platforms – for granted in their in-house web-teams… Not having app development skills will hold web developers back in the job market and will hurt their pay prospects."A responsive future?This is an area that's constantly shifting, though. You might argue that an increasing amount of apps are basically HTML5 with a native wrapper anyway: there's still demand for those "basic" web development skills.You might also argue that experience with responsive web design is going to be much more valuable for employers in 2013, and furthermore that what's needed are skills developing for people's behaviour on different devices, rather than just apps.Something good from ReThink's survey: a reminder that "for every Angry Birds, there are hundreds of other apps that are designed and launched that sink without a trace". Which the company sees as a spur for developers to – and I'm paraphrasing here – get a proper job."Although some developers have become millionaires almost overnight, app developers will find working for companies on a contract or permanent basis is potentially more lucrative," says Bennett. "Working on a contract basis could also help budding independent developers subsidise their own personal app projects."The "sink without a trace" point can't be hammered home enough. In June 2012, Canalysconducted some researchinto the apps industry's long tail. Senior analyst Tim Shepherd didn't sugar-coat the findings:"We estimate that up to two-thirds of the apps in leading consumer app store catalogues receive fewer than 1,000 downloads in their first year, and a significant proportion of those get none at all," says Shepherd.US technology site GigaOmpublished the resultsof its own survey of app developers in September 2012, finding that more than half were making less than $500 a month from their apps, while a third of developers of purely ad-supported apps were making less than $100 a month.That survey backs up Bennett's suggestion of spare-time apps development, though: it found that 75% of respondents either had a main job and developed apps in their spare time, or only spent part of their main job making apps.A bright future... for someAnyway, late 2012 is a good time to be a talented app developer, whether you're one of those hobbyists, or working for a startup, agency or corporation. But as in any boom time, it's probably a good idea to think hard about what's coming next: for your employer and the wider industry.An article on technology blog The Kernel this morninglooked to stir up some debateabout whether there are too many startups in London, zeroing in on the relative scarcity of the highest-quality developers – people who'd justify bigger salaries than that £70k average figure in the ReThink survey."But real coding genius of the type possessed by the troops who get most of the work done in technology businesses is thinner on the ground. What talent there is finds itself spread thinly across dozens and even hundreds of start-ups, most of which are – how does one put it delicately? – going nowhere."2013 is already shaping up as a shakeout year for the apps industry. Startups whose apps haven't become popular (or whose business models haven't worked) willstruggle to raise new funding rounds, while app development agencies who've disappointed too many clients will downsize or close their doors. A fair few developers will lose their jobs.And, like that web-design bust back in 2001, the meaningful companies with real business models will prosper, the skilled app developers will gravitate towards them – or towards in-house development at traditional companies – and £70k+ salaries will be a mark of individual skills and value rather than a sign of an overheating market.
The Lego games, which seek to rebuild colossi of contemporary family cinema franchises in miniature bricks, have rather less to do with the plastic stuff from which they take their name than appearances suggest. The physical toy is a creative material that allows us to build from the imagination in near limitless ways. From a relatively small palette of interconnecting bricks – which click together with all the reassurance of a lipstick lid - one can fashion everything from a lopsided hot-rod to a lumpy dog to the Taj Mahal. Therein lies its simple wonder and universal appeal.Traveller's Tales' games, by contrast, are entirely prescribed. You squeeze a button and the loose collection of bricks at your character's feet assembles itself in a magical micro-hurricane into a bridge or a ladder or whatever object is needed to facilitate minifigure Harry Potter, Luke Skywalker or Indiana Jones's pre-laid story. There is no capacity for personalisation; a player may only affect the rate at which they move towards the conclusion. If Minecraft is the true freeform construction game, offering players a world of blocks to heave into a world of shapes, the orthodox Lego games have us closely following an instruction manual. Piece by piece we reveal the predestined finished article, meticulously prepared for us by the game's designers.While these releases may fail to encapsulate the physical toy's primary appeal then, their formula has been apocalyptically successful, as evidenced by the value of the various IPs Travellers' Tales that has been called upon to work alongside. But the developer could hardly be accused of creative laziness within the parameters it has set for itself. The basics of the recipe remain consistent – each cinematic plotline split into 18 sequential stages; the characters divided into "types", each with their own set of exclusive abilities which must be called upon to overcome obstacles; the post-completion secret hunting – but the structure is ever-changing.Lego Lord of the Rings presents the most dramatic overhaul yet, retaining the 18-stage structure, but granting players the run of Middle Earth in between these climactic chapters. It's not quite Lego Skyrim, but these hills and valleys are filled with nooks and secrets, valuable bricks hidden behind waterfalls and deep inside yawning caves, the land seasoned with eager minifigs waiting to send you off on fetch quests. It's this expanse of hub that gives Lego Lord of the Rings a rare sense of scale and place, one articulated by a map that, more than in Tolkien's prose or Jackson's film, allows one to understand exactly how Shire links to Mordor in geographical terms.The 18 missions chart Frodo and Samwise Gamgee's epic journey, from Hobbiton to Rivendell, Isengard to Minas Tirith, all the way to the Black Gate. For the first time audio is lifted from the most recent trilogy of movies, with the minifigs speaking, rather than silent acting. Some of the previous games' Reduced Shakespeare Company-esque levity is lost in the decision, but the developer plays the on-screen action off against the actors with wit and style and, besides, it would be perhaps too tricky to communicate the twists of this plot in silent movie form.You take a clutch of characters from the Fellowship into each mission, switching between them as and when you require each one's unique skill. For example, Gimli is the only character that can smash through cracked boulders, while fleet-of-foot elf Legolas is needed to fire arrows into targets in order to create arrow walkways. There is, more than in any previous Lego title, a great deal of switching between characters and, at times returning to wring every last secret from a stage can feel like busy work. Another first for a Lego game are lost objects in these stages, dropped by the citizens of Middle Earth who will offer you a bonus for each you return to them. With three of the these in each stage there is a huge number of fetch quests to complete and, without a clear task list of where to deliver each item to, delivering the objects son becomes tiring.Instead of hidden Gold Bricks, Lego Lord of the Rings is filled with Mithril Bricks, which must be scavenged from both stages and Middle Earth. Far from a meaningless token, these bricks act as a raw material that can be delivered to the blacksmith in Bree, who, when you've found the relevant "recipe" will create sought after Mithril items for your characters to wear or weild, improving their abilities or dress sense. Finally, new characters may be purchased for play as you encounter them about Middle Earth, expanding both your roster and your clutch of abilities as you work to catch 'em all.Traveller's Tales works considerable acrobatic feats within the Lego games template with Tolkien's work – which proves ideal source material for another game of this sort, with the requisite range of characters, tasks and, crucially, mystical world. The more ambitious surrounding artifice may alienate much younger players, while the lack of quest lists with which to track your progress will frustrate older, more seasoned virtual adventurers. This is a less focused game than the most recent Lego Harry Potter game, then, thoughtfully assembled but ultimately failing to rule them all.
The UK is to develop a new emergency response unit to help give individuals and companies instant advice when their computer systems and networks come under sustained attack.The proposal is one of several announced by the Cabinet Office, at a time when the government says threats from cyberspace need to be giventier-one priority.The Ministry of Defence is also planning to develop a "cyber reserve" of specialists from the private sector to give the military backup in an area in which it is short of experts.However, experts said the government was still spending too much money developing sophisticated "top-end" cyber knowhow rather than informing members of the public about how to make their computers less vulnerable to attack. In 2010, The coalition pledged £650m to develop new cyber systems over four years, but less than £400,000 is to be spent on theGet Safe Onlineproject, which offers basic advice about computer security.Iain Lobban, the director of the eavesdropping and electronic spy centre GCHQ, in Cheltenham, has said 80% of attacks could be thwarted if individuals took more care."You could take £1m out of the budget of GCHQ and they wouldn't notice," said Professor Peter Sommer. "That kind of money would have a transforming effect. While much of the government's work is well thought out, they still underestimate the extent to which some breaches are the fault of humans and not the result of external cyber criminals and spies."They also underplay the need to educate consumers and small businesses, both to protect themselves and to stop their machines being taken over as part ofbotnets, which then attack others.  Out of the total cybersecurity budget, less the £400,000 goes to the main public information service, GetSafeOnline. That is less than 0.1%."The Cabinet Office minister, Francis Maude, set out some of the government's plans in awritten ministerial statementto mark the first anniversary of thenational cyber security strategy.He said progress was being made but quoted from a survey that suggested more than 93% of large corporations, and 76% of small firms had suffered a cyber security breach in the last year.A national reporting centre for fraud and internet crime calledAction Fraudhad received 46,000 reports from the public in the last 12 months, he said.Using some of the experiences gained from protecting the Olympics from cyber-attacks, Maude said the government intended to create a UK national computer emergency response team.No details about where this will be, or how it will work, were given in the statement."These are still being worked out," said a Whitehall source. "It will develop on some of the work that has already been under taken and will give organisations and individuals a chance to share important information."Maude set out the ideas after government officials warned the UK's critical infrastructure – including gas, power and water utilities – had come undercyber-attack from "hostile foreign states".However, the secrecy surrounding many of the cyber-attacks on government and industry means very few examples are ever given. This has raised concerns that the threat is being exaggerated.The government hopes to encourage more companies to come forward rather than to  pass laws to force them to acknowledge problems.
The cloud-based file storage and sharing service Dropbox is opening its first international office in Dublin, and plans to hire between 30 and 40 people by the end of 2013, the company says.The hirings will be added to the 240 people in its San Francisco headquarters, but will principally focus on sales and customer support rather than engineering development.Having seen rapid growth – and turned down anoffer for the company from Steve Jobs in 2009– Dropbox is now looking to accelerate its dramatic growth, which has seen it reach 100 million users worldwide, with more than one new user joining each second.The fast-growing startup, founded in 2007, joins a number of other US companies including Google, Twitter, Facebook, Apple, Salesforce.com and LinkedIn by choosing Dublin for its non-US headquarters.Mitra Lohrasbpour, head of business development at Dropbox, said that the low-tax regime in place in Ireland was not the principal factor for the choice of venue. "We took a look at cities in Europe with strong technical people - Dublin had a passionate pool of talent. There are many cities were technical company can be successful, but Dublin had a strong user base and they also had multilingual skills that weren't available elsewhere … There are other considerations, such as the timezone, as they had to coordinate with the headquarters in San Francisco, and the expansibility of the office."She declined to say how important tax considerations had been in the choice of venue. But with the company already cashflow-positive - and hence profitable on an operational basis.Dropbox is broadly split in terms of users around the world, with one-third of the 100m in Europe, one-third in Asia, and one-third in the rest of the world, including the US. People in 95% of the Fortune 500 richest companies are said to use it.The Dublin office will provide sales support for the company's "Business" offering, an extension of its paid-for product, as well as user support for technical problems. Lohrasbpour emphasised that staff in the US who carry out that function are engineers: "it's very technical - we try to solve hard problems at Dropbox."Lohrasbpour said Dropbox's mission is to "simplify users' lives by allowing all their data to sit in one place, and make it easy to do with that data what they want." With competition growing from big companies, including Google, Microsoft and Apple, and peers such as YouSendIt, she said that the company's focus is "all on the end user".[Corrected "Eire" to "Ireland".]• This article was amended on 21 May 2013 because the original referred to Mitra Lohrasbpour as "he". This has been corrected.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)PC (1)Wii U (1)32 (–)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (28)13 (–)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (32)Wii (6)VITA (6)104 (–)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (2)25 (–)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (41)PC (4)Wii U (3)56 (–)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (8)Wii U (3)PS3 (1)97 (–)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (33)Wii (31)PS3 (22)DS (5)28 (–)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)49 (–)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (15)710 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (41)VITA (15)PC (1)511 (–)Nintendo Land(7+)Wii U (100)112 (–)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)PC (4)813 (–)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (88)PSP (12)514 (–)New Super Mario Bros. U(3+)Wii U (100)115 (–)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)516 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (68)3DS (32)617 (–)Zombi U(18+)Wii U (100)118 (–)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (54)619 (–)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)15UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
"It's just another Manic Monday," claimed diminutive Bangles singer Susanna Hoffs in the band's 1986 hit song. Well, I betshenever had a national newspaper content management system lock her out for three hours! Don't worry though, everything is back on track. You can talk about games again now.
It has saved lives and ruined marriages, created a whole new dialect and made billions in profits for phone companies. But as the humble text message celebrates its 20th birthday, some wonder how much longer it will survive in a world of smartphones and all-you-can-eat data.The number of SMS – short message service – messages being sent has rocketed year after year but there are signs it has peaked in a number of countries, including Spain, the Netherlands, Finland, Hong Kong and Australia. A new generation of users who might once have used texts now use data services such as WhatsApp and BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) for free."There's a lot of these services out there – I've counted 25 which have a total of 2.5bn reported accounts, though many of those will be duplicates," said Benedict Evans, telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis. "There are probably 10 which have more than 100 million users – and BBM isn't among them; that's only got 60 million."The first text message was sent on 3 December 1992, when the 22-year-old British engineer Neil Papworth used his computer to wish a "Merry Christmas" to Richard Jarvis, of Vodafone, on his Orbitel 901 mobile phone. Papworth didn't get a reply because there was no way to send a text from a phone in those days. That had to wait for Nokia's first mobile phone in 1993.The first text messages were free and could only be sent between people on the same network, but in 1994 Vodafone – then one of only two mobile networks in the UK – launched a share price alert system. The arrival in 1995 of the Tegic (aka T9) system, which created "predictive" texting based on the letters you had typed, meant texting could take off.Commercial services soon followed, and though they started life as a free service – because operators hadn't figured out how to charge for them – it was quickly realised there was money to be made from texting as the number rose dramatically. By February 2001 the UK was sending one billion texts a month, which at the standard 10p-a-text charge meant the business was raking in about £100m a month.The amount of data in a text message is tiny, at just 128 bytes. Charged at the same price per byte, a 650MB music CD would cost more than £60,000.In the same year texting became key to people's lives – literally, for 14 British tourists stranded in the Lombok Strait off Bali who weresaved after one sent a message to her boyfriend in England, and for a climber who wasrescued with the help of a text from a mountain rescue team."Text language" emerged quickly because of the 160-character constraint of the keypad – and because to begin with it was time-consuming to enter words on a numerical keypad. Abbreviations such as "l8r", "gr8" and "b4" soon had befuddled adults complaining that kids had lost the ability to spell correctly.By 2003 exam markers had grown concerned about text language being used in answers; a 13-year-old girl wrote an essay in text shorthand, which said in part: "My smmr hols wr CWOT. B4, we used 2go2 NY 2C my bro, his GF &amp; thr 3 :- kids FTF. ILNY, it's a gr8 plc." (Or in longhand: "My summer holidays were a complete waste of time. Before, we used to go to New York to see my brother, his girlfriend and their three (!) kids face to face. I love New York, it's a great place.")Now, though, it's texting rather than the English language that is under threat. The rise of smartphones and data services means the price of sending data has collapsed, and that has led to free services that can send data even when you can't get a phone signal to send a text.In January the Finnish mobile network Sonera reported that the number of texts sent on Christmas Eve 2011 was 8.5m, down from 10.9m the previous year. In Hong Kong, Christmas messaging dropped by 14%.But that doesn't mean messaging will go away, or that mobile operators are suddenly going to go bust. Texting has brought in more than $500bn and is still forecast to coin them $1tn over the next seven years as people use it for mobile banking in Africa and India, for charitable giving and for political donations.Evans said operators would adjust their pricing models even as texting declined. "They're going to start charging more money for more data. Transmitting 500 megabytes of data costs them more than transmitting 500 minutes of voice. So they'll readjust their prices."But equally, he said, the idea of the short message between devices was here to stay. "Twitter was imagined as a text message service, that's why each tweet has to be so short. The mechanism by which it's delivered will change, but people will still find it convenient to send short messages to each other."Timeline1992First text message sent1995T9 system invented, making texting quicker2001Text volume passes 1bn a month in the UK2001Text messaging is used to help organise protests that topple President Joseph Estrada in the Philippines2002A service called Text2TV from a Devon-based company says it will let you send texts to your TV and reply via your remote. It doesn't take off2003David Beckham sends a series of steamy text messages to his personal assistant Rebecca Loos; they are later published, and nearly end his marriage2004Tony Blair takes part in a live text chat2005The Eurovision song contest includes SMS votes, creating the biggest ever "televoting"2008Nielsen reports that the average US mobile user sends and receives more texts per month than phone calls – 357 v 2042009WhatsApp, a free text-like service that lets people send messages for free over data connections, is founded2011Number of texts sent at Christmas falls year-on-year in Finland, Hong Kong, Spain and the Netherlands2012Ofcom reports that text messages are the most-used method for daily communication with family and friends – 58% of UK adults do so at least once a day2012Rebekah Brooks reveals that David Cameron sent her texts signed "LOL" because he thought it meant "lots of love"; its usual meaning is "laughing out loud"
Two thousand delegates from 193 countries are meeting for theWorld Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT) in Dubai this weekto negotiate a treaty on telecoms regulation that has not been updated since 1988 - before the internet was in mainstream use.Up for negotiation at WCIT are the International Telecommunications Regulations, or ITRs, which cover everything from improving internet access for the elderly and disabled, to enabling access for the 4.6bn people in the world with no access at all, improving cybersecurity and, most controversially, discussing the "sender pays" economic model of delivering web content.Amid all the hyperbole and acres of coverage about the future of the free internet, the treaty is the latest round of along-fought battlebetween the internet lobby and the telecommunications companies.The west, including the corporate world and open internet advocates, claim the "sender pays" model would benefit larger corporations, but penalise individuals and less wealthy businesses who can't afford the bills.On the other side of the argument, mobile operators represented at WCIT by the European Telecommunications Network Operators' Association (ETNO) argue that developing countries have to establish and fund broadband networks that then enable western internet companies to reach new markets at no expense to themselves - in effect free riding on the infrastructure which costs money to install and run.Attention has swirled around political tensions that will also be played out at the WCIT, with Russia and China explicit in their desire to wrest control of the internet away from the US, and other proposals to change regulation in a way that critics say could infringe privacy and free speech. But developing countries, who have struggled to gain a voice in this debate, feel the ITU is one of very few organisations where their voices can be heard, and they too want a say in the future of the internet.Google, along with Cisco, Microsoft, Comcast and AT&amp;T, has been part of a well-funded campaign coordinated through lawyer, former US ambassador and former US government IT policy co-ordinator David Gross. A powerful lobbying force, Google has played a shrewd hand, using its policy specialists and tech-celebrity executives.Vint Cerf, one of the "fathers of the internet" who is now "chief internet evangelist" at Google, has been campaigning against the ITU almost full-time for months, offering a seemingly inarguable combination of the economically and democratically essential open internet, and his winning putdowns.A lengthy comment piece in theNew York Timesproclaimed: "The decisions taken in Dubai in December have the potential to put government handcuffs on the Net."The New York Postwas rather less measured, quoting Cerf in a piece that began: "If delegates have their way at next week's World Conference on International Telecommunications in Dubai, the man in charge of the Web will be a Soviet-trained apparatchik from Cold War days."Even Cerf himself appeared to lose his composure last week when he toldReuters: "These persistent attempts are just evidence that this breed of dinosaurs, with their pea-sized brains, hasn't figured out that they are dead yet, because the signal hasn't travelled up their long necks."Back at the ITU, the small staff team has seemed increasingly bewildered and put on the back foot by the ferocious onslaught of press coverage against them.The ITU responded to criticism about its lack of openness by publishing WCIT material on its site, including invitingpublic commentson the changes to the ITRs; only 29 were received in three months. With no small irony, ITU has even paid for Google ads next to searches for 'WCIT', hoping to redress the information balance slightly. It also claims that journalists have repeatedly published inaccurate statements about ITU without contacting it for comment, and that publications have refused to publish corrections.The ITU describes itself as an administrative body that does not make regulations, but organises negotiation of the ITRs. Individual countries are then obliged to legislate for after the process of negotiation and voting on each of the proposed changes to regulations, which number around 1,000.Speaking ahead of WCIT, ITU secretary general Dr Hamadoun Touré said: "It is important to remember that when you talk of internet freedom, most people in the world cannot even access the internet. The internet is the rich world's privilege and ITU wants to change that."It is our global objective to assure that every citizen is connected no matter what their circumstance, and we need to reach a consensus no matter what the ideological view on member."Touré alsocondemned the Syrian regime's decision to cut off international phone and internet access to the country, pointing out that it is part of the ITU constitution that members should "protect people's right to communicate and access critical communications infrastructure".The ITU has tried to play down the apparent battle with Google, pointing out that the internet search giant is not a member of the ITU, though ETNO is.Four Google representatives, including telecom policy counselAparna Sridhar, will attend WCIT as part of a100-strong US delegation. Cerf will not."We will challenge Google again to bring their points to the table," said Toure. "In 1988 [the last WCIT] there was the same friction between East and West, and they managed to get over it."We've had 147 years of brokering agreements between member states. We have survived two world wars and 70 years of cold war, and if member states had not come together and make agreements, there would be no satellites in orbit, no spectrum allocated, no radio or television - and no internet."ITU's secret weapon is counsellorRichard Hill, a former Orange and HP executive and statistician with an encyclopaedic knowledge of the telecomms industry. "ETNO has made no bones about what it is looking for - remuneration for the additional value they believe they can provide," he said. "But from friction comes light, and we believe discussion will be useful in formulating solutions that will be in the interests of all parties, and will lead to further expansion of the internet."
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe statisticians at Fox News use classic and novel graphical techniques to lead with data &gt;&gt; Simply StatisticsJeff Leek:when flipping through the graphs I thought it was interesting to highlight some of the techniques they use to persuade. Some are clearly classics from the literature, but some are (as far as I can tell) newly developed graphical "persuasion" techniques.Where by "persuasion" he actually means "lying" (and the headline's word "lead" should actually be "lie".)Taiwan market: Asustek set to sell 150,000 units of PadFone 2 in the next six months &gt;&gt; DigitimesAsustek Computer has achieved total sales of 25,000-30,000 units of its PadFone 2 in Taiwan since the device's launch I October, and with a white version to be released soon, the company expects total shipments in Taiwan over the next six months to reach 150,000 units, according to company vice president Benson Lin.Steve Ballmer might call those numbers "modest".China market: iPad occupies over 71% of 3Q12 tablet sales, says Analysys &gt;&gt; DigitimesThere were 2.6m tablets sold in the China market during the third quarter of 2012, increasing by 11.1% on quarter and by 62.5% on year, and the iPad series had the largest market share of 71.42%, according to Analysys International.For business-use tablet models alone, Eben had the largest market share of 41.07%, followed by Samsung Electronics with 19.66%, Asustek Computer with 9.17%, ViewSonic with 4.37% and Lenovo with 3.89%, Analysys indicated.Eben?In a blow to Android, judge says Moto patents can't get injunctions | Ars TechnicaThe fact that the bench trial over pricing was held at all wasn't a good sign for Motorola, and this new ruling is an additional blow against it.The problem for Motorola is that it can't show it deserves anything more than monetary damages. An injunction is a powerful remedy, and in order to get it, a company has to prove it's been harmed in a way that a money award can't compensate for. But in this case, money is enough, US District Judge James Robart ruled."Because Microsoft will pay royalties under any license agreement from the time of infringement within the statute of limitations, this license agreement will constitute Motorola's remedy for Microsoft's use of Motorola's H.264 standard essential patent portfolio to include the Motorola Asserted Patents. Accordingly, Motorola cannot demonstrate that it has been irreparably harmed."Robart went further than just dealing with the patents in his case. His order, he specified, applies "for Motorola's entire H.264 standard essential patent portfolio," including certain European patents at issue in a German action.Big loss for Motorola Mobility (MMI), and thus for its owner Google whose whole rationale for buying MMI was to get its patents to fight back with. Without injunctions, the patents make MMI a low-earning rentier.Breaking: John captured? &gt;&gt; Who is McAfee?Friday 1: December:We have received an unconfirmed report that John McAfee has been captured at the border of Belize and Mexico.Windows 8 Sales: Good, Bad, or Ugly? &gt;&gt; Windows SupersitePaul Thurrott:I'm surprised no one else has questioned why launch-month license sales of Windows 8 weren't higher than 40 million units. That figure is double the normal sales rate for Windows--remember, Windows 7 sold about 20 million licenses a month for three years straight--but, looked at another way, it's only double the normal sales rate of Windows. How is it not more than double? Windows 8 is the least expensive version of Windows that Microsoft has ever sold, and the company is practically giving it away via upgrade programs for Windows 7 PC buyers (with a $15 upgrade) and a web-based upgrader for Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 that costs just $40. Even the retail version of Windows 8 Pro, at $70, is significantly less expensive than the retail version of its closest predecessor, Windows 7 Professional, which cost $200, normally, though during a special promotion for that OS, it was briefly $100. So the cheapest Windows 7 Pro upgrade, back then, was $60 more expensive than the cheapest you can get today. Why haven't more people upgraded?The new Microsoft's biggest rival turns out to be its old self.Evan Buys A Microsoft Surface &gt;&gt; Evan's blogMy original sales rep takes the items over to the register, pulls out a tired old scanner gun and zaps my two items.  The Microsoft laptop acting as the register immediately crashes.  She looks up at me and says "Sorry my computer crashed.  Just give me a second to reboot."Ouch.FTC should proceed with case against Google &gt;&gt; Huffington PostJamie Court:When you stare down a $220 billion corporation, it's hard not to blink. But ifthe Federal Trade Commission doesn't deliver on its ultimatum to Googlethat it settle its antitrust problems soon for real relief or face prosecution, then consumers will never get the open and unfettered online and mobile access to information they deserve. While the government's battle with Microsoft in the 1990s was about whether the dominant software company could bundle software and an Internet browser,the antitrust case against Googleis about whether one company should have so much control over online information that it can steer us any where it chooses for its own profit.Court is president ofConsumer Watchdog, an independent US body whichmakes its money from legal cases it claims on behalf of consumers.Dangerous implications of politicizing antitrust law: Google critics hit new lows &gt;&gt; Disruptive Competition ProjectDaniel O'Connor:With metered data and limited bandwidth, consumers are disinclined to click links and browse other websites to get their answers. This is also why Google's competitors have assured investors that search engines aredecreasing in importanceas mobile users navigate to their services directly through mobile apps. If Google's search can't respond to a search for "Chinese Restaurants in Union Square" with a map of Chinese restaurants in Union Square and their respective ratings, the company stands to lose those eyeballs to competitors like Yelp. In fact,it already is.Let's move on.The DisCO (as it calls itself) seems to be peopled by denizens of theCCIA, which is funded by a number of big computer companies, including Microsoft and Google - though not Apple.King of Samsung: a chairman's reign of cunning and corruption &gt;&gt; The VergeWhile Lee Kun-hee once implored his workers to "change everything but your wife and kids," that change may not go far enough for Samsung. The traditional chaebol model has helped the company become one of the most successful in the world, but its conservative values are unlikely to help it become a major force for innovation. Lee Kun-hee's controversial time in charge has undeniably brought the company success -- for Samsung to become a truly loved brand, however, it must start looking to a new generation of leadership that prioritizes design and originality over ruthless competition.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hostile foreign states have used cyberwarfare to attack and map the networks that are part of the country's critical national infrastructure, the government has admitted.Though officials refused to say what had been hit, the systems that provide the UK with its gas, water, and electricity supplies are all likely to have been targeted, raising the stakes in the battle to stop foreign powers, criminals and hackers from stealing information that could lead to services being disrupted or brought to a standstill.The admission comes ahead of an announcement on Monday by the Cabinet Office minister, Francis Maude, of new measures to protect people and companies from a daily bombardment of cyberscams and attempts to steal the nation's trade secrets.Speaking before the launch, Maude warned the threat was still not appreciated or understood."The UK as a whole needs to become more cyber-savvy," he said. "IT has become endemic to how we live and yet today most of us still do not understand what is behind the screen."The government set aside £650m in the 2010 strategic defence review to bolster the country's cyberdefences but Whitehall departments and leading firms have been loth to admit in public when they have been attacked and what has been taken.Government officials insisted "billions of pounds" of intellectual property have been stolen from UK businesses in the last year, but offered no examples.However, this is the first time they have admitted that firms providing "the essential services upon which daily life depends" have also been subjected to attacks from abroad.Asked whether parts of the UK's critical infrastructure had been mapped, a senior government official said: "Yes. The owners of national infrastructure in this country are being supported and have been supported by theCentre for the Protection of National Infrastructurefor many years in cyber and information security but also in physical security."We understand that there is a threat from hostile foreign states and others to attack it. It would be absolutely in keeping with that – we have seen attempts by hostile foreign states through cyberspace as well."The official added: "Of course there are attacks against critical national infrastructure and I am not going to say whether they were or weren't successful. Clearly, we spend an awful lot of our time helping and advising members to protect the network."Earlier this year the Guardian revealedthe US was also worried about foreign powers mapping America's infrastructure, and the Pentagon has been more explicit about who has been doing this "reconnaissance" work - China and Russia. British officials will not be drawn on who is responsible for attacks on UK systems.They said that the Ministry of Defence computer networks were attacked on a daily basis.Monday's announcement marks the first anniversary of the launch of the UK'sCyber Security Strategywith the government insisting the threat is growing, not diminishing."We are still worried about the things and the people we were worried about a year ago," said another senior official. "There is still a worry about a determined attack on the national digital infrastructure. But at the same time, we are worried about cybercrime and intellectual property and trade secrets. That not a potential risk, it's a reality and it's happening right now."Cybercrime becomes ever more common. Almost industrial-scale attack on companies' intellectual property and trade secrets continues today and is a major, major cause for concern. Are we seeing more of what is going on, or is more happening? I fear that it is the latter. There is more and more of this stuff going on all the time and it's not just that we are seeing more."This is a real problem and it is costing us billions right now."Officials also defended the comparatively small amount spent so far to boost police investigations into cybercriminals.Of the £650m given for cybersecurity, only £30m has been used for front-end law enforcement.Scotland Yard's e-crime unithas tripled in staff numbers in recent years, and money has also been set aside for the Serious and Organised Crime Agency.They will both be morphed into a new cybercrime unit within theNational Crime Agency, officials said."We will be spending more on that area," the official added. "The police would be the first to say that prevention is better than cure. If we can get consumers and businesses to protect themselves better, then they don't get taken to the cleaners by scams, then everyone is a winner."
Last November, Andrew Mason, former music student turned internet wunderkind, was celebrating. Groupon, the daily deals site he founded and at that point "the fastest-growing company ever", had just raised $700m and was being valued at $13bn. It was the biggest technology flotation since Google.Mason had even been given the ultimate Google seal of approval, having recently turned down a $6bn offer from the search giant.A year on, he is fighting to keep his job as the company's share price falls to levels not even Groupon's cost-conscious customers seem to find attractive. Even by the flash and burn standards of the internet, it's a remarkable collapse.Groupon's board met last week to discuss Mason's future. The company has lost more than $10bn in value over the last year. Sales are slowing, staff leaving. Independent directors and fellow founders are reportedly at loggerheads, pushing for Mason to go.Even Mason admits the board is right to be pondering his future. "Here's a news flash: our stock is down about 80%. It would be weird if the board wasn't discussing whether I'm the right guy to do the job," he said at aconference held by news site Business Insider last week. Clearly Mason still thinks he is the right guy:he survived last week's board meeting, helped in part by shares that give him 10 times the votes of his peers. But the odds on his long-term survival are getting longer.How did it all go so wrong? Groupon has suffered its fair share of self-inflicted wounds: there was an accounting scandal just after the flotation that spooked investors and its overly ambitious international expansion plans have backfired. But for Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Forrester Research, the collapse was more fundamental and inevitable than that.Mulpuru was an early critic of Groupon. "This IPO game isn't about finding value, it's about finding a greater fool who actually believes the valuation is true. Trust me, you will be the fool,"she wrote in a blogpostbefore the share sale. Needless to say, she's not too surprised that things have gone so horribly wrong. "Anybody who looked at this objectively could see where it was heading," she says.Groupon's enormous growth was fuelled by massive marketing spending and media hype, she says. "It was like a Fourth of July fireworks display: it all went off at once. It's very difficult to sustain that."Academic research seems to suggest it's not just shareholders who are getting burned. Dr V Kumar, executive director of the centre for excellence in brand and customer management at Georgia State University, and his colleague Bharath Rajan studied the impact of daily deal offers on three small local businesses: a restaurant that normally earned $2,500 in net profit per month; a car wash service that normally earned $6,000 per month; and a beauty salon/spa that normally earned $6,600 per month.The researchers tracked the businesses for a year and the results,published in MIT Sloan Management Review, were damning. In the first month, the restaurant lost more than $7,000, the car wash service lost $6,300 and the spa lost $11,760.Daily deal sites argue that such losses are to be expected and that they will be made up by repeat business from the new customers brought in by the coupon. But this wasn't the case, according to Kumar's report. Every new customer visiting the restaurant with the coupon resulted in a $14 decline in profits. For the car wash, the decline was $17 and for the beauty salon $39.Based on their analysis, it would take the car wash service and restaurant 15&nbsp;and 18 months respectively to recover from the profit shortfall following the coupon launch. For the beauty salon and spa it would take 98 months, or eight years, they wrote.Kumar says that, as they are currently structured, daily deals don't work for small businesses. "The expectation is that they will make up the money. That doesn't happen. The retailers are attracting price-sensitive customers who are always looking for a deal. If there isn't a deal on offer, they move&nbsp;on."Groupon isn't alone in its problems. Its biggest rival, LivingSocial, sacked close to 10% of its staff last week and Amazon, its largest shareholder, has written off $169m related to its stake, almost as much as it paid for it. Other stars of recent technology flotations, including Zynga and Facebook, have also seen share prices crash.The company isn't going anywhere: it has over $1bn in cash and makes a profit. But, says Alan Patrick, co-founder of tech consultancy Broadsight, it's pretty clear to everyone now that Groupon is not the new Google. The company was the first to float in the new wave of social media firms and attracted an outlandish valuation as a result, says Patrick, "but really it never was a social media company. It's a coupon business, which is a perfectly respectable business – but not one worth $13bn."He adds: "Real-world coupon businesses are not high-value businesses. Putting Groupon online doesn't make it one. It has to source deals, sell the benefits, write copy for coupons etc, for huge numbers of small-player deal providers."Facebook employs just over 3,000 people. Groupon has more than 11,000. When the company was growing at 1,400% year-on-year and Mason was being hailed as the new tech star, people were happy to ignore this now obvious fact. Last quarter Groupon's revenues rose at a more pedestrian 32% and its shares hit new lows.For shareholders, rumours that Mason was out was the best news they had heard in a while. The share price rally soon faded when it emerged the coupon king was staying put.At least the company now knows what would attract new buyers: the best coupon Groupon could offer now is Mason's pink slip.
Nintendo's new console is a peculiar beast. It marks the company's first real foray into modern gaming, with high-definition output, online multiplayer and social networking. Like its forebear, the Wii U aims to revolutionise ways to play, with its unique controller boasting an integrated touchscreen. The overall design is sleek and fetching, particularly the black Premium model. It's inviting, appealing; a new look for an old friend.It's also stubborn – Nintendo doing things Nintendo's way, all others be damned. Both the touchscreen Gamepad and the conventional Pro Controller avoid industry-standard layout, with the right thumbstick above input buttons rather than below. A subtle change, but one contrary to gamers' physical memory. The console also suffers a pitifully small amount of storage – 8GB or 32GB depending on model – which seems madness in an era of digital distribution. External storage can be used but will anyone but the most devoted fans want to bother?The Wii U also proved to be a nightmare to set up. What you get out of the box is essentially an unfinished product, requiring an online update to activate the majority of its features. Lacking ethernet connectivity, it demands a Wi-Fi network – fine, until it refused to recognise the router. After much frustration, manually setting an IP address and entering Google's Public DNS (8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 – in case of similar problems) did the trick, allowing the update to download. A staggeringly complex roadblock for likely the vast majority of customers.However, update completed, the Wii&nbsp;U sings. Miiverse provides quirky ways to interact with friends, in a warmer and more inviting manner than Xbox or PS3's social services. It's more of a media hub than pure games console, with the Gamepad doubling as a hybrid remote control and second screen. Built-in Netflix, LoveFilm and YouTube apps embrace the digital era for film in a way the tiny hard drive paradoxically prevents it from doing for games. More importantly, the launch line-up is remarkably strong, with a mix of titles that will appeal to Nintendo's mainstream audience and the "core gamer" the company aims to win back.The Wii U is not a perfect console – sluggish navigation is a problem needing a solution, and soon – but it's an improvement on its predecessor. Control frustrations should fade as familiarity grows and hardware issues will hopefully prove to be teething troubles. If Nintendo can iron out the wrinkles, there's no reason it can't be another massive success.
Once upon a time, the term "existentialism" had connotations of seedy French intellectuals groping impressionable young women in Parisian cafes&nbsp;while spouting nonsense about the paramountcy of individual experience. But that was then and this is now, when&nbsp;it has come to have a less solipsistic interpretation. As in "existential threats", that is, threats to the existence of our species brought about by our mastery of technology.We've lived with one such threat – that of nuclear annihilation – since the mid 1940s and though the prospect of that particular nightmare has receded somewhat, it hasn't been eliminated. During the postwar era, however, a combination of economic development and astonishing progress in some areas of science and technology has not only opened up remarkable opportunities for society, but also laid the foundations for a new set of existential threats.Global warming (or "Gaia's revenge", as James Lovelock calls it), is the one most often discussed. After all, the planet doesn't really need us and global warming may give it a way of demonstrating that. But now a pair of leading scholars and a wealthy software entrepreneur are arguing that there are other threats that we should be worrying – and thinking – about.The academics areMartin Rees, ex-president of the Royal Society and astronomer royal, andHuw Price, occupant of the Bertrand Russell chair of philosophy at Cambridge. The geek isJaan Tallinn, co-founder of Skype, the internet telephony company now owned by Microsoft.Together, they have set up theCambridge Project for Existential Risk. Its aim is to try to assess dangers that may arise from progress in artificial intelligence (AI), developments in biotechnology and artificial life, nanotechnology and from possible extreme effects of anthropogenic climate change.Most of this stuff is above my pay grade, but I am interested in AI. The line of thinking that leads to the conclusion that it could, one day, post an existential threat can be crudely summarised thus: computers are getting more powerful at a near-exponential rate, so one day we will get&nbsp;to the point where they will achieve&nbsp;human-level artificial intelligence. As IJ Good, a former colleague of Alan Turing and the first writer to contemplate the implications of that possibility,put it, such machines&nbsp;"could design even better machines; there would then unquestionably be an 'intelligence explosion' and the intelligence of man would be left far behind. Thus the first ultra-intelligent machine is the last invention that man need ever make". The only remaining question would then be whether these clever machines would be interested in keeping humans as pets.Good's paper, Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine, was published in 1965 and spawned a fevered debate in science fiction, pop neuroscience and computing circles that has gone on ever since. The term "the singularity" was coined in 1993 by Vernor Vinge, a sci-fi writer, to describe the moment when humans cease to be the smartest things on the planet, and popularised by the inventor and futurist Ray Kurzweil in his bookThe Singularity is Near.For much of that time, I paid little attention to the debate. The field of AI has been through several cycles of overblown speculation followed by empirical letdowns, and although there have been great advances in robotics, nothing remotely threatening human cognition seemed to be on the horizon. True, Moore's law – the one that says that computing power doubles every two years – continued to hold, but mere processing speed wasn't&nbsp;the same thing as intelligence. And there were some things that humans do well that machines would struggle with.Or so I thought. Then Google launched its autonomous vehicle (aka self-driving car) project. By loading a perfectly ordinary Toyota Prius with $250,000-worth of sensors and computing equipment, the company created a vehicle that can safely navigate even the more congested road conditions. So far, these cars have logged something like half-a-million accident-free miles, which implies that robotic cars are actually far safer than ones driven by humans.For me, the implication of the Google car is not necessarily that Kurzweil's "singularity" is near, but that our assumptions about the potential of computers – and, therefore,&nbsp;artificial intelligence – urgently need revising. We need to think seriously about this stuff, along the lines demonstrated by the philosopherDavid Chalmersin a terrific paper, or by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee in their book,Race Against the Machine.And we need academic institutions to tool up for the job. Which is why the initiative by Messrs Rees, Price and Tallinn is so welcome. And why French philosophers need not apply.
Price £19,745MPG 78.5Top speed 118mphDespite the fact that doomsayers delight in filling our heads with morbid premonitions of lethal epidemics, environmental catastrophes and meteorite strikes, the odds are that our final undoing will be far more mundane. Today the four horsemen of the apocalypse are Heart Disease, Cancer, Stroke and RTA (road traffic accident). Unless you happen to be aVolvodriver, in which case you only need to worry about the first three horses.The Swedish car builder can't do anything about your genetics or your diet, but the corporation's ambitious target, according to Thomas Broberg, its chief safety officer, is that by 2020: "Nobody will ever die or be seriously injured in a&nbsp;new Volvo." In an accident, he should have added. Even Volvo can't stop you having a heart attack at the wheel.It's an amazing claim, but the remarkable thing is that Volvo is well on its way to "death-proofing" its cars. Take the strikingly sleek Volvo V40. The car is a class act when it comes to safety exams – it received the top rating of five stars in itsEuro NCAPcollision tests, and its overall result is the best ever recorded for adult protection. It is, officially, the safest car on the road.But here's the irony. As I&nbsp;read through its mind-bogglingly comprehensive list of active and passive safety systems, I began to feel&nbsp;a growing sense of panic. A sort of paranoic unease. If driving really is&nbsp;this hazardous, should we be driving at all?Swallowing hard, I strapped myself in and bravely went for a drive (come on, Martin, you can do it), deciding to trust my life to Volvo's armoury of whiplash protectors, airbags, rollover cage, inflatable curtains, pre-crash preparation systems, laser-based city safety braking units, auto brakes, pedestrian detection systems, lane-keeping aides, rear cross-traffic detectors, intelligent cruise control and blindspot warning features. Rather than sitting in a car I felt as if I&nbsp;was at the centre of a Roman infantry "tortoise" bristling with spears and interlocking shields.And it all worked. I survived.But it's not just the driver that Volvo cares about. The V40 also boasts the world's first pedestrian airbag. Veer into someone and a pyrotechnic charge blows the bonnet's hinges, which then raises it to deflect them from the windscreen while simultaneously activating an airbag to cushion their impact with the engine.The V40 is the first Volvo to be produced sinceFordsold the marque to the Chinese carmakerGeely. It's a great-looking vehicle: broad, low-slung and curvaceous, with attractive deep creases at the front and sculpted headlamps. The rear seats are a little cramped and the boot is not massive, yet the interior still feels light and uncluttered. It may be a Chinese car but it still has that Skandi feel to it. There is a real sense that you have joined the premium sector – where else can you change the colour of the digital dashboard to suit your mood?Enginewise there's a decent selection, from a parsimonious  1.6- litre turbodiesel which does a&nbsp;wallet-sedating 78mpg up to a range of zesty&nbsp;5-cylinder petrol units which drink a little more and party a little harder. But all of them promise to get you home in one piece.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one placeAre you blue-light aware?GEM Motoring Assist, the road safety organisation and breakdown cover company, has produced a YouTube video calledBlue Light Awarewhich provides road-users with vital information to help an emergency service driver on a blue light run. Based on Highway Code advice, the video specifically addresses situations that can cause confusion or panic for motorists.The five-minute video features emergency service representatives and road safety professionals talking through scenarios and explaining how motorists should deal with them. The aim of the video is to ensure that blue light drivers, on their way to attend emergency situations, can get there as safely and quickly as possible, with the help of fully informed motorists.Watch the video – it'll help you to get into the right place at the right time – and will help the emergency services face as few hazards as possible.Dangerous roads for cyclistsAnd while we are thinking of danger on the roads, be sure to watchThe War on Britain's Roads,which is on BBC One at 9pm on Wednesday 5 December. It combines footage captured by cyclists through helmet-mounted cameras, with interviews from cyclists, drivers and those affected by incidents on our roads. Viewers are parachuted into the middle of the battle that is raging between two-wheeled road users and their four-wheeled counterparts. As 34m vehicles and 13m bikes all try to share the same crowded space, The War on Britain's Roads provides a dramatic and unique insight into the unfolding tension and conflict. The film presents both sides of the story, retelling dramatic incidents from both the cyclists' and drivers' points of view. Let's hope it teaches us all to treat fellow road-users with more respect.
Long ago, back before Twitter, way before Facebook, in a time when people still lifted a receiver to make a call and telephone boxes graced streets where people didn't lock their doors, Neil Papworth, a software programmer from Reading, sent an early festive greeting to a mate."Since mobile phones didn't yet have keyboards, I typed the message out on a PC. It read 'Merry Christmas' and I sent it to Richard Jarvis of Vodafone, who was enjoying his office Christmas party at the time," said Papworth.On 3 December 1992, he had sent the world's first text message.Text messaging turns 20 tomorrow. More than 8 trillion were sent last year. Around 15 million leave our mobile screens every minute. There is now text poetry, text adverts and text prayers (dad@hvn, 4giv r sins) and an entire generation that's SMS savvy. Last week saw the first major act of the text watchdog, the Information Commissioner's Office,in fining two men £440,000 over spam texts.Aged 22, Papworth was part of a team developing a Short Messaging Service Centre at Vodafone's site in Newbury, Berkshire. The idea was to use text as an in-company paging service: "We thought SMS was a clever way for a company's staff to send simple messages to one another. I do get a kick out of being called a 'legend', once a year" he said, "even if at the time the achievement was nothing remarkable , I was just doing my job. It's been quite amazing to watch SMS grow from a simple way for secretaries to page their managers to all these innovative applications that rely on text messaging – voting on reality shows, tracking vehicles or packages and telling you when a plane has landed."It took seven years from Papworth's festive greeting for texting to take off, let alone spawn that whole new style of linguistics from LOL to L8TR and other trunc8ed spellings and acronyms that have become universally understood. UK mobile phone companies believed people wouldn't want to type in a message when they could simply speak. But in 1999 rival networks started to allow customers to swap SMS while also introducing pay-as-you-go – allowing everyone access to communication technology.SMS took off. According to a survey by mobile communication firm Acision, it is still the most popular way to message despite competition from email and social networking messaging services with 92% of smartphone users still preferring to text.They found 18-25 year olds send the most texts – on average 133  messages per week – almost double any other age group. Men communicate via text more than women, but send shorter messages indicating they see it as a functional way to correspond, according to Acision's research.Women are more likely to send long messages and talk about relationship issues via text – although perhaps not as guilty as men of dumping partners by text. Almost three quarters said they would be lost without text.The act of typing and sending a brief, electronic message between two or more mobile phones or fixed or portable devices over a phone network is now one of the major means of communication in the world. Texting is the second most common use for a phone – the first being checking the time.In July this year, Ofcom's Communications Market Report found the average Briton sends 50 texts a week, more than double the figure of four years ago. Although we are dwarfed by Filipinos who text an average of 27 messages each day.Ofcom found that text messaging had overtaken speaking on a mobile phone and face-to-face contact as the most-used method of daily communication between friends and family. More than half (58%) of UK adults use text messages at least once a day.James Thickett, Ofcom's director of research, said: "Over the past year there have been some major shifts in the way we communicate with each other. By far the most popular means of communication on a day-to-day basis is by text."He said the volume of landline calls has been falling for some time but now calls on mobiles are also declining. "Texting is seen as a traditional means of communication these days but it is still continuing to grow," he said."Our research reveals that in just a few short years, new technology has fundamentally changed the way that we communicate."Talking face to face or on the phone are no longer the most common ways for us to interact with each other."New forms of communication are emerging which don't require us to talk to each other – especially among younger age groups."The advent of text-speak had many worried that it would create problems with reading, writing and spelling in schoolchildren.But this year a team of scientists at Coventry University found that children who are fluent at text messaging have better literacy skills than youngsters who do not use mobile phones. In the first study of its kind, researchers found that rather than damaging their use of English, texting improved phonetic abilities. The 10-year study, funded by the British Academy, examined the effect of using text messages on eight to 12-year-olds. Psychologist  Clare Wood, who led the study, is  confident text-speak helps, rather than hinders, development of children's reading and writing skills.She said: "We began studying in this area initially to see if there was any evidence of association between text abbreviation use and literacy skills at all, after such a negative portrayal of the activity was being accepted without empirical evidence anywhere."We found that not only was the association strong, but that text use was actually driving the development of phonological awareness and reading skills in children."It was different for adults who found it more problematic because we have a more consolidated idea of what the written word should look like, so text-speak throws us as adults, but for children, it's a bit like being raised bilingual. They get that it's about place and genre."But texting has also brought some new social ills – cyber bullying, its use in stalking or "sexting" (sending sexually explicit messages), car accidents caused by texting of both drivers and pedestrians and of course the shaming practice of drunk texting.Messaging also allowed criminals to communicate more freely but the police have been catching up with the technology. Now police often use silent messages, or "stealth SMS" which do not show up on the display but allows data to be created that help them locate or track a person.Such tactics were used by investigators in the hunt for Soham child killer Ian Huntley. In Germany in 2010, nearly half a million "silent SMS" were sent by the federal police, customs, and the secret service.Texting has even created a sporting event – theGuinness Book of World Recordsrecords the fastest text message as written by Sonja Kristiansen of Norway who took 37.28 seconds to thumb: "The razor-toothed piranhas of the genera Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus are the most ferocious freshwater fish in the world. In reality, they seldom attack a human."In 2005, the record was held by a 24-year-old Scot, Craig Crosbie, who completed the same message in 48 seconds.Vodafone's TeleNotes service, as it began back in 1992, the preserve of geeks and a tool for telephone engineers, has in just 20 short years, become the way we talk. From his new home in Canada, where he works as a software architect for Tekelec, Papworth yesterday sent theObservera message: "IMHO, SMS is still the GR8ST :-)"
Wii U's brisk first-weekend release schedule includesZombiU, the gritty, relentlessly dark game of survival and living death in destroyed London andNew Super Mario Bros U, bringing HD beauty to bear on Nintendo's mascot, with an emphasis on madcap co-op play for up to five players.Also out for Wii U areAssassin's Creed III, Batman: Arkham City, Armoured Edition, Call Of Duty: Black Ops II, FIFA 13, Skylanders Giants, Darksiders II, Mass Effect 3 Special Editionand most of this year's blockbusters, fleetingly reworked to include a sop to the touch screen.Owners of traditional consoles will have to make do withRise Of The Guardians: The Video Game(Xbox, PS3, Wii, DS, 3DS, Wii U), based on the 3D Christmas film that shares its name andZone Of The Enders HD Collection(Xbox, PS3), which comes with a demo of the ludicrously titledMetal Gear Rising: Revengeance.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe original Wii came bundled with the iconic Wii Sports. To get Nintendo Land you'll need to opt for the Wii U Premium Pack (it's also available separately) and while it may not wield the same future shock as Wii Sports, it does the job of introducing you and up to four friends to the variety of things Wii U can do. Its mini-games include Yoshi's Fruit Cart, where Mario's little green dinosaur follows a line drawn on the touch screen to eat fruit and avoid obstacles on TV; and Donkey Kong's Crash Course, a vertical maze that you negotiate by tilting the controller, pressing buttons and blowing on the mic. Multiplayer games include Pikmin Adventure, in which the player with the gamepad leads while everyone else controls a tiny Pikmin each, and Metroid Blast. But there are low points: flicking throwing stars in Takamuru's Ninja Castle is an activity that does not stay interesting for long.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPlaying like a sort of gun-toting, Africa-centric Assassin's Creed, Far Cry 3 has you playing Jason Brody, whose adventure sports holiday is rudely interrupted when he and his buddies are kidnapped by demented villain Vaas. Adapting to the situation, he falls in with a local faction that's at war with Vaas and his sinister boss, and promptly takes off into the jungle in search of his pals. Naturally there are numerous distractions between you and rescuing everybody – the fictitious Rook Island is replete with visceral joys. One minute you'll be taking out a gang of pirates, the next a shooting challenge, then skinning wild beasts to craft new equipment, before scaling a precarious radio tower, revealing a portion of the map and extra missions. The beautifully crafted landscape, littered with ruins, insane expats and gambling opportunities, underpins your seamless traversal from desperate scrabble for survival to a kind of informally attired tropical superhero from whom no baddie is safe.
My cycle ride to work (I'm very enlightened, not to mention physically almost perfect, for a&nbsp;famous motoring journalist) takes me past what must be a posh private school for young children. A prep school, possibly. If I time my journey badly and (try to) pass during morning drop-off, the entire road is blocked. With Range Rovers, Land Rover Discoveries, BMW X5s, Porsche Cayennes (ugh, the worst), Lexi, etc. You know, SUVs, Chelsea tractors, whatever you want to call them.There's generally one horrid, uniformed child in the back and a&nbsp;glamorous woman at the wheel (this is not a sexist diatribe, they are nearly all women because Mr has already been at his City desk for hours). She's furious, because there's no space big enough for her massive truck, and she's hemmed in by others front and back. The street comes to a standstill, clogged by too much money and metal and rage. I&nbsp;hate them – the children, the mothers and, most of all, their cars.Now I've got one. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's not mine," I find myself saying. A lot. Actually, this one is less hateful. It's a hybrid, with two electric motors to complement the 3.5-litre V6 petrol engine. Give it some welly and they all work together, to produce a fair amount of oomph (a&nbsp;technical term that takes into account horsepower and torque). Tread delicately at low speeds and it will glide around under electric power alone, provided the batteries have enough juice (apols, more jargon, but sometimes it's unavoidable). Fuel consumption and CO2emissions are genuinely impressive, comparable to much much smaller cars.But that doesn't stop it from being too big (and they call it a mid-size SUV!). Too big for my road, for London, for the supermarket car park. Too big for the narrow streets of the seaside town we visit at the weekend (which is chock-a-block with them. Lots of weekending wankers like me from London).Actually, I think I am turning into one of them, if I wasn't one already. I'm beginning to look down on little people in their little cars. And to see the point of this one, certainly on the motorway. There's loads of space, it's comfortable, refined, quiet, the stereo is brilliant, sounds like we've got the chorus of the Hebrew slaves in here with us (they'd probably fit). I don't like the square joy-stick mouse control for the dashboard screen, and the satnav is totally incomprehensible (the manual is 456&nbsp;pages – yes, that's just the satnav manual!). But who cares where we are. Now, out of my way, little people, shoo. I'm a wanker. I'm prep school mum. And I hate myself.Lexus RX 450hPriceFrom £43,665Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.8&nbsp;secondsCombined fuel consumption44.8mpgCO2emissions145g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating3/10
One of the digital world's closest friendships is over – Facebook and Zynga, the games developer whose creations were launched on the social networking site, have severed their ties.Zynga's shares fell more than 6% on Friday, the latest in a series of blows for the creator of FarmVille. Recently it announced the closure of its Boston studio and a drop in revenues.Zynga no longer has to use Facebook as its primary third-party platform for social games, and players on Zynga.com no longer have to log in via Facebook. Facebook is relieved of its obligation to use promotions to help meet traffic targets at Zynga, the games company said in a stock market filing.Zynga's Mafia Wars offers players the chance to collaborate with friends to "expand your empire", and a 2010 cross-referral deal with Facebook helped the social networking pioneers to do just that. Zynga games became an overnight hit thanks to Facebook, and helped to draw in users and revenues.The relationship was important for Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, who credited Zynga's Mark Pincus with showing him how to cope with the distraction of floating the company and to "power through and get to where he wants to go".In recent quarters, fees from Zynga, named after a bulldog owned by Pincus, contributed 15% of Facebook's total revenues, while Zynga generated about 80% of its revenue on Facebook.In an effort to reduce mutual dependence, the companies have announced in regulatory filings that their 2010 deal is being unpicked, so that from 31 March Zynga will be on a level playing field with other games developers targeting Facebook's 1&nbsp;billion members.The news, announced after the US market closed on Thursday night, sent Zynga shares down to close 6% lower in New York on Friday, while Facebook shares ended up 2.5% at $28.Last month, Zynga said it would close its Boston studio and consider pulling the plug on studios in Britain and Japan to reduce costs. In July, Zynga executives told analysts the company's revenue had plummeted in the second quarter as Facebook tweaked its algorithms, sending fewer gamers to Zynga titles.The changes appeared to be helping drive more traffic to Zynga competitors such as Electronic Arts and KixEye, according to PJ McNealy, chief executive of Digital World Research."Zynga's favoured nation status is gone but it seems like it's been slipping away for a while now," McNealy told Reuters."There was plenty of speculation Zynga was getting referrals within the Facebook community that other gaming companies weren't getting which helped drive web traffic to Zynga games."The new terms mean Facebook is no longer barred from developing its own games, though it has not announced plans to build a games platform.
The antitrust regulators for Europe and the US, Joaquín Almunia and Jonathan Leibowitz, will meet on Monday for a discussion that could be crucial for Google's future as they deliberate on whether to settle with the technology company or take it to court over its dominance of internet search.Both the European Commission and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have been investigating Google for more than 18 months as they try to decide what action to take over its apparent monopoly in search and search-related advertising on opposite sides of the Atlantic.Almunia and Leibowitz are understood to be close to separate decisions on what action to take – though some think the EC is ready to be more aggressive than the FTC, which has come under political pressure in the US to go easy on what rivals to Google say are market distortions.If both regulators act against it, Google would almost certainly be forced to yield to demands to modify how it shows search results so that it does not favour its own services over rivals'.The FTC confirmed that Leibowitz is in Europe but declined to give any details of his meetings or agenda.Google has been criticised by competitors, including Microsoft, over its use of its dominance in search to push its own services such as Google Shopping over competing services in search results. Google has said that it is responding to user demand, and that rivals are just a click away.In October Google suggested to Almunia that it could label its in-house search results, such as maps, stock prices and videos, to make clear that it had chosen them. But the EC appears not to have accepted that.A key difference between the two regulators is the scale of Google's position in their relative markets. In Europe, Google gets about 90% of search queries; in the US, it is 65%.Almunia has made a number of speeches since the summer criticising Google for slow movement in negotiations that opened in July, after the EC published a list of four areas where it felt Google's dominance could amount to an abuse of monopoly. Besides search results, they include the use of other sites' content in short search results, portability of advertising campaigns, and rivals' ability to advertise alongside Google on outside pages.In September Almuniawarned Google publiclythat "in the absence of satisfactory proposals [from Google] in the short term, I will be obliged to continue with our formal proceedings."That could mean a move to court proceedings which might end with Google being fined up to 10% of its worldwide revenues, which for 2011 would amount to €2.9bn (£2.3bn).The FTC, though, has looked less certain. FTC staff recommended to the five commissioners led by Leibowitz that the agency should act against Google, and force some sort of change in its representation of search. The commissioners have to decide by a majority what action to take. In recent days sources from the FTC have suggested that it will reach a settlement with Google that would effectively bind it to specific behaviour.The FTC has previously reached settlements with Google over privacy, following the calamitous launch of its Buzz network – which let other people see users' contacts – and then when Google worked around privacy protections on Apple's Safari browser to plant cookies on web users' systems against their wishes. A fine of $25m for the latter was recently upheld by a judge in the US, though consumer advocates had been saying it should be higher. Google had accepted the fine but did not concede that it had broken the law.
Apple's latest iPhone will make its debut in China in December after receiving the final nod from the country's regulators. China is Apple's second-biggest market and the lack of a new model had eroded its share of smartphone sales in the country.The long wait for the iPhone 5, which was released in the US in September, caused Apple's Chinese market share to halve to 10% in the second quarter as consumers switched brands or patiently waited for the arrival of the latest model.Many users on Sina Weibo, China's most popular microblogging website, welcomed the imminent advent of the latest iPhone. "I'm all ready! The iPhone 5 is coming!" said one.The chairman of China Unicom, the country's second-largest mobile carrier, said in November that the company expected to start selling the iPhone 5 this year. It aims for a big increase in 3G users to 100 million by the end of the year, from 67 million after the first nine months.The telecom regulatory authority, under China's ministry of industry and information technology, showed two iPhone 5 models on its website that received approval.The two are the A1429, which runs on China Unicom's network, and the A1442, which runs on China Telecom's network.
The Italian police have launched a new investigation into the tax affairs of the internet giant Google, which the Rome government said this week had failed to declare revenue totalling more than €240m (£195m).In answer to a parliamentary question, the finance ministry said Google had also failed to pay almost €100m in VAT.But a spokesperson for the company said it "respects the tax rules of the countries in which it operates", adding that "until now, we have not received any request to pay additional taxes in Italy".At the centre of the probe is Google's European base in Dublin and complex arrangements whereby its earnings, royalties and profits are shuttled between Ireland, Bermuda and the Netherlands.The US Internal Revenue Service has given those arrangements its blessing, but they are coming under ever-greater scrutiny in Europe.Tax authorities in Britain and France are already looking into Google's affairs and those of other big internet players. On 13 November Amazon said it would fight a €252m French demand for back taxes, interest and penalties. The demand was submitted in connection with "the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions". Amazon minimises its tax bill in Europe by funnelling its sales through Luxembourg.In the same way as in other European countries, Google's Italian subsidiary declares as its earnings the payments it receives for its services to the group's headquarters in California and a subsidiary in Ireland. According to Radiocor, an Italian news agency owned by the financial daily Il Sole-24 Ore, Google Italia's 2011 earnings were €3.6m from the US and €40.4m from Dublin.Its advertising revenues, however, go to Google Ireland Ltd. According to a report in the Irish Times, part is then sent as royalties to a Dutch subsidiary, which in turn passes most of it to a holding company in Bermuda where there is no corporation tax. As the money goes via the Netherlands, another EU country, no withholding tax is due to the Irish authorities. The arrangement is known to tax experts as a "double Irish-Dutch sandwich".Google nevertheless pays tax in both European jurisdictions, as it does in Italy. According to Radiocor its 2011 tax bill was €1.8m. The latest investigation only concerns earnings in the period from 2002 to 2006. These have already been the subject of an inquiry, carried out in 2007.The company said: "It is normal for a company to be subject to tax inspections and we have been working with the Italian authorities for some time."With the non-party government of Mario Monti spearheading a drive to eliminate Italy's budget deficit, officials have stepped up their efforts to boost tax revenues from companies and individuals alike.Google has also been targeted in Australia where the government has announced new draft tax laws designed to clamp down on big companies that use offshore vehicles to avoid higher local taxes.
Nintendo's greatest asset is Shigeru Miyamoto's library of glorious franchises, but while Nintendo Land turns the whole lot into amuse-bouches, the only classic Nintendo character with his own Wii U launch vehicle is Mario, in New Super Mario Bros U. Which is more than a little disappointing for Nintendo-heads since, good though the modern reimagining of the classic side-scroller is, it makes more sense as a franchise on the 3DS than Nintendo's fixed consoles.Nintendo surely chose to give New Super Mario Bros the Wii U treatment because it could do so more easily and more quickly than it could with any of its other franchises. That said, New Super Mario Bros U impresses technically. All the levels are new, and are fantastically well designed. Difficulty levels swiftly reach the realms of fiendishness. There are many new details, like a freezing power-up which encases enemies in blocks of ice that Mario can pick up and throw, or the occasional presence of BabyYoshi, who can be picked up, inflated and used like a hot-air balloon. Or giant piranha plants that need to be hit three times with fireballs, rather than just once. And you can win power-ups and apply them before the start of a level. Also, even though it's just an old-fashioned side-scroller, the jump to HD does give the graphics a surprisingly attractive sheen.There's one truly innovative, Wii U-specific element: the multiplayer. This allows up to five people – four on Wii Remotes and one on the GamePad – to play together, and the person with the GamePad helps out the others by tapping the screen to create temporary blocks, tapping enemies to distract them and tapping otherwise unreachable power-ups. It's frenetic and anarchic, but hardly the stuff that will convince you to buy a Wii U. Come on, Mr Miyamoto: let's have a proper Mario game for the Wii U. And a Zelda, and a Metroid, and a Pikmin, and a Donkey Kong and so on...
The Wii may have brought gaming to non-gamers, but the WiiU differs by not having any such focused agenda, and no WiiU launch game hammers that message home more emphatically than ZombiU. It's 18-rated, truly scary and surely the most compelling WiiU title in the shops so far.Incredibly, given that it was exclusively designed for a Nintendo console, ZombiU is in many ways reminiscent of Dark Souls, that most rigorous of RPGs. As in Dark Souls, you will die – a lot. It takes place in London, devastated by a zombie outbreak. You wake up in a safe-house, instructed remotely by a character calling himself the Prepper.Armed with a cricket bat (shades of Shaun Of The Dead, there) and  a pistol with six bullets, you make increasingly dangerous forays into the world outside, initially stocking up on weapons, ammo and handy objects like health-packs and planks of wood (for barricading doors). The WiiU Gamepad can be used as a scanner, which lets you look around rooms in search of hidden objects, virtual reality-style, and in its default state it shows a map and your inventory.ZombiUEven ZombiU's inventory system is unusually rigorous. Your items are carried in a backpack, and when you open it, your character on the TV screen will squat down and rummage inside it. But if a zombie approaches while you're fiddling around, it will attack. The zombies are fast and varied – zombified riot police, for example are harder to put down due to their helmets, and there are spitters, electrified and exploding zombies, which must be taken out from a distance. And if you're bitten and join the ranks of the infected, you will respawn as a new survivor, back at the safe-house. Your next task will be to find and kill your previous character, in order to regain all the items you'd collected.Exploration in search of items is paramount, as is the touch screen access to your inventory, since you have to use considerable ingenuity in order to survive. It's just about possible to take out two bog-standard zombies with your cricket bat, but encounter three or more, and you will be swamped – so you have to take them out with Molotov cocktails, grenades, mines and the like. As you progress, you find increasingly powerful weapons, including an AK-47 and a shotgun. These can be upgraded using workbenches, but rigour still applies – the shotgun, for example, will not take more than two cartridges at a time.ZombiuStory-wise, ZombiU is surprisingly compelling, if a tad preposterous. Once you reach Buckingham Palace, you encounter the Royal doctor, working on a cure for the zombie virus. He upgrades your scanner and gives you a syringe of virucide, which despatches zombies in one shot, and can be refilled from their corpses. You have to collect reference books for him, and later, you hook up with the Ravens of Dee, a sort of resistance movement.There's a mad multiplayer mode, in which one person uses the gamepad to send zombies after another using the classic controller or a Wiimote/Nunchuk combination, for whom the gameplay is that of a first-person shooter.ZombiU, though, isn't perfect. Its graphics barely scratch the surface of the WiiU's capabilities, although it manages to make a virtue of that, since much of the game takes place in chillingly dark places, and your torch periodically runs out of juice. Load times are also rather lengthy, and there's more conspicuous reusing of level-design elements than there really ought to be.But if you buy a WiiU, you'll simply need to get a copy of ZombiU. It's a true survival-horror game, channelling the heart-in-mouth claustrophobia of early Resident Evils and Alone In The Dark, and adding Dark Souls' refusal to compromise as the icing on top. Play it in a darkened room, and you'll remember what gaming is all about.
Welcome to our weekly roundup of brand new iPhone and iPad apps released in the last seven days, from cars, productivity apps and crafty shopping through to photography, theatre and uber-violent cartoon cats and mice.As ever, games aren't included, because they have their own separate weekly post covering all platforms.This week's roundupincluded iOS games like Jet Set Radio, BattleFriends at Sea, Arcane Legends and Word Derby.What about Android apps? They have their own weekly roundup, and you canfind the latest one here. November's Windows Phone roundup will follow early next week. In the meantime, here's this week's selection of new iOS releases:Top Gear Magazine: Aston Martin One-77 Special (Free)This one-off digital magazine from the Top Gear team focuses on Aston Martin's new supercar (a snip at £1.2m). Expect lots of photos, videos and information on the car's design and inner workings, as well as "a blast of its mighty 7.3-litre V12" engine. And since it's free, you'll save a few quid towards the car itself...iPadFantastical (£1.49)Lots of buzz this week around Flexibits' Fantastical, which is a smarter, whizzier version of the default iOS calendar app. That includes voice dictation, a "DayTicker" view of your daily schedule, lists of events pulled down from Facebook, and support for iCloud, Google Calendar and Exchange. If you switched to Sparrow from the iOS Mail app, this may be your next move.iPhoneEtsy (Free)Already available on iPhone, crafts website Etsy now has a fully iPad-optimised version of its app. It works for both buyers and sellers, browsing the 11m-strong catalogue and buying for the former, and listing new items and following orders for the latter.iPadFxCamera (Free)Photography app FxCamera has been hugely popular on Android, with more than 20m downloads. It's now made the leap to iPhone, and looks to have the features to take on the established competition there. There's a range of effects, the ability to record voice messages to accompany images posted to Facebook, and other social features.iPhoneWinnie the Pooh Wonder and Wander (Free)Disney's latest iOS app for Winnie the Pooh and friends looks lovely, with a characterful visual style, and lots of playful interactivity for children to enjoy. It's less a book and more a wander around Hundred Acre Wood, tapping and swiping the scenery and characters, with additional colouring sections.iPhone / iPadMinecraft Reality (£1.49)This is most definitely a niche, but a rather marvellous one. It's an augmented reality app for people who play Minecraft, helping them project their blocky creations into the real world. And here's the thing that is getting geeks (yes, me) excited: the ability to save Minecraft worlds to real-world locations, for other people to find and explore.iPhone / iPadPlayed in Britain: Modern Theatre in 100 Plays, 1945-2010 (Free)This is the latest iPad app from the Victoria &amp; Albert (V&amp;A) Museum in London, drawing on its collection of theatrical photographs. It's a guide to 100 post-war plays in Britain – you may have guessed this already from the title – with the photos complemented by text extracts, reviews from the Guardian and Telegraph, essays and audio interviews from experts, and video commentary from Guardian critic Michael Billington. [Disclosure: I spotted this go live on the App Store, nobody at Guardian HQ has been leaning on me to cover the app].iPadGrazia UK Magazine (Free)Women's magazine Grazia has launched an official iPad app for its UK edition, offering weekly digital issues for £1.99 a pop, or a choice of longer subscriptions. The key feature, though, is that the articles are also shoppable: you can tap on items to browse, buy or share with friends.iPadKORG iPolysix (£10.49)What's the secret to bucking the downward pricing pressure on the App Store? Lots of knobs! No, not that kind – Apple wouldn't allow it – the electronic music instrument kind. KORG has published several apps based on its famous instruments, with iPolysix being the latest. It's an analog polyphonic synthesizer based on the real-world Polysix, with a new step sequencer and all manner of kno... controls to twiddle.iPadTom and Jerry: Stickers with Sounds (£0.69)Hot on the heels of similar apps for Batman and Superman, this children's app is the work of Night &amp; Day Studios. Kids choose characters and items from a carousel at the bottom of the screen, slap them onto scenery from the famous Tom and Jerry cartoons, then save/share the results. And if Tom and Jerry aren't your bag, there's aLooney Tunes versionout this week too.iPadUberSocial Pro for iPhone (£2.99)UberSocial made its name as one of the better unofficial Twitter apps, and despite ructions aroundhow third-party apps are being restricted by Twitter, its publisher UberMedia has released a new Pro version for iPhone. It has a slick design, more rich media, and some power features still lacking from Twitter's own iPhone app.iPhoneToca Tailor Fairy Tales (Free)Toca Tailor is excellent: a recently released children's app that gets children making virtual clothes, including using the camera to capture patterns from the real world. This is a new, completely separate free version with a fairytale theme, designed to give kids and parents a taste of the main app.iPhone / iPadRobots for iPad (£2.99)Talking of parents, this is exactly the kind of app that people will buy "for the children" while really intending to spend a few hours browsing it themselves. Released by the Institute of Electrical &amp; Electronic Engineers, it's a comprehensive guide to robots from around the world with 360-degree photos, tech specs, videos and other information.iPad500px (Free)Already available on iPad, 500px has just made its iPhone debut on the App Store. It's a photo-sharing service but with more of a focus on creatives and photographers than the likes of Instagram (although that attracts plenty of creatives too). So it's more about browsing lots of amazing photos and sharing them with friends, than snapping your lunch.iPhoneGeorge R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire (Free)Who's what? Well, this is an official companion app for the books by author Martin that have been turned into an obscure TV show called Game of Thrones. Yes, that one. Released by Random House, this app has more than 540 character profiles, 380 place profiles and interactive maps – great for figuring out who's who and where they are when reading or watching.iPhone / iPadFodor's City Guides - Expert Travel Advice (Free)More Random House here, in the form of Fodor's City Guides, which have been turned into an attractive iPhone app. It covers destinations including New York, London, Paris, Rome and San Francisco, with listings for hotels, restaurants, bars, clubs and tourist hotspots, and data drawn from Expedia, OpenTable and other sites.iPhone / iPadYplan – London (Free)Anyone who's been covering the apps space for a while is probably suffering from social/location fatigue, but Yplan does look interesting. Focusing on the capital only for now, it offers daily lists of interesting events with buttons to book tickets, integration with Apple's Passbook, and referral features to earn money when friends spend.iPhoneExpect More! (Free)Bauer Media's More! magazine is the latest publication to experiment with augmented reality technology. In this case it's an Aurasma-powered app designed to be used with the current issue of the glossy magazine, offering videos and other content when pointed at the pages.iPhone / iPadSqueebles Maths Bingo (£0.69)Making a good educational app for children can be a fine line between information and entertainment – a lot of attempts end up dry and boring. Squeebles Maths Bingo walks that line well though, with a storyline blending bingo and ice cream, and maths exercises for kids that lead to sweet-snack creation.iPhone / iPadSpun: City News (Free)Spun is an interesting new spin on the city-guides genre: "a constantly updated urban guide, insider tip sheet, and local news jacked on steroids". So rather than a pure tourism guide, it's as much for locals, as well as people who've emigrated elsewhere but want to keep in touch with hometown goings-on. Covered so far are New York, Boston, Washington DC, Philadelphia, Miami, Chicago, Austin, Portland, Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles.iPhoneWhen I Grow Up (£1.49)It's another storming week for new children's apps, including this from Spanish developer Sanoen Publishing. Aimed at early readers, it focuses on the jobs they might want to do when they grow up, with vocab in six languages, and a range of reading modes depending on the child's age and skills. The illustrations are full of character, too, so it's not dry.iPadGarmin BlueChart Mobile (Free)This is a more serious affair: a marine navigation and mapping app from Garmin, which can be used to plan and view routes, read reviews of locations and hazards on the high seas from other sailors, and transfer data to Garmin's separate chartplotter device.iPhone / iPadRounds Video Chat Hangout Network (Free)This popped up in last week's Android roundup, but it's since been officially launched for iPhone too. It's a free video-chat app that ties in Facebook to connect to friends. Besides basic video chat there are photo-sharing features and the ability to watch YouTube videos or listen to music with those contacts.iPhonePerch – For Your Home (Free)Perch is another app focused on video chat, although it does it with a twist requiring an extra iOS device. The idea: "By mounting an iPod, iPhone or iPad in your home, you can easily send video messages and record memorable moments as they happen." Which basically means wandering up to the device and talking to record a message.iPhoneThe Whole Truth About Santa Claus (£1.99)One last festive children's app for you this week, from French developer La Souris Qui Raconte. This one's "not recommended for younger children who still believe in Santa Claus", mind, due to its myth-scotching storyline about Santa really being a bloke called Fred who gets his mates to help deliver presents. Quirky, colourful and great fun.iPadReferenceME (£0.69)This is a very nifty app from British startup T &amp; Biscuits, aimed at students and academics. The idea: scan book barcodes to create automatic citations and bibliographies when working on essays, with a choice of several referencing styles (Harvard, Chicago, Oxford etc) to suit even the most demanding lecturer.iPhoneTurntable DJ Deck (£3.99)There is no shortage of nifty DJing apps on iPad, with djay the current reigning steel-wheels champion in this household. Turntable DJ Deck is talking the right talk though, billing itself as "the first professional DJ deck for iPad" with a range of pro features.iPadiYoga – Premium (£1.99)Taking an iPad onto the yoga mat may sound like a strange idea, but iYoga may convince you otherwise. It's a guide to more than 190 poses, with a motion-captured person showing you how to get each one right. Poses can be strung together into routines, and it plays nice with Apple TV to project everything onto a bigger screen if required.iPadMovellas Poetry (Free)This is an offshoot from mobile writing site Movellas, gathering some of the poetry written by its community. That means more poems, haikus and sonnets than you can shake a stick at, with the ability to post feedback, save them to favourites lists, and get notified when a preferred poet has new verse available.iPhoneSongSheet (£4.99)Finally, and on a vaguely-related note, SongSmith is an iPad app for songwriters to "compose, organise, perform and share your songs". That includes a composition editor for writing, the ability to create and edit setlists for gigs, and lots of customisation and drag'n'drop features.iPadThat's our selection this week, but what about you? What iOS apps have you been using and enjoying, or what do you think of the ones above? Make your recommendations in the comments.
My 16-year-old wants a netbook/mini-laptop for his sixth form schoolwork, and it needs to be fast enough to handle Word documents in Microsoft Office. He already has a laptop, but it's too bulky and too heavy to take to school. The price is a concern but I really want him to be happy with it.SarahI thought this would be easy because I'd seen the Samsung 305U mini-laptop being sold off for around £300. It has now been discontinued, but you could try to pick one up by searching for Samsung 305U or even NP305U1A-A01UK.Netbooks are limited by their screen resolution (1024 x 600 pixels), which is below the specification needed for Microsoft Windows 8. Other drawbacks include having only 1GB of memory, and running Windows 7 Starter. The Samsung 305U is about the same size as a netbook, having an 11.6in screen and weighing 1.21kg. However, it has better graphics, better screen resolution (1366 x 768 pixels), much more memory (4GB), and a much better operating system (64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium).The drawback with the Samsung 305U and similar cheap mini-laptops is that they usually have an AMD Fusion E-450 processor. This is much slower than a low-end laptop chip such as the Intel Pentium B830, though still a bit faster than the sort of Intel Atom you would get in a netbook. Still, the E-450 can certainly run Microsoft Word.The Lenovo IdeaPad S205 is an excellent alternative to the Samsung 305U and has an almost identical specification for £309 fromLaptops Direct.In some mini-laptops, such as the Lenovo IdeaPad S206, the E-450 has been replaced by AMD's E2-1800. This looks like the same chip with the clock speed bumped up from 1.65GHz to 1.70GHz, which makes no practical difference.The next step up would be something like an Asus X401A, which is also available for around £300. This gets you a much faster processor such as the Intel Pentium B980 (avoid the Pentium B830 version, which is much slower), and the choice of Windows 7 or Windows 8. However, the X401A has a 14in screen and weighs 1.85kg, so it's bigger, heavier and much less portable than mini-laptops like the Samsung 305U and IdeaPad S205.Note: After shopping around, Sarah bought her son an 11.6in HP Pavilion dm1-4341sa mini-laptop with an E2-1800 processor and Windows 7 for £279. HP's current price is£329with Windows 8 installed.Needed for Windows 8Windows 8 says: "Required Video Card 1366 x 768 screen resolution, DirectX 9 graphics processor with WDDM driver." Does this mean that those of us who use a monitor that can cope at best with 1280 x 1024 (and perhaps just the Intel 82954G Express Chipset Display Adapter) will not be able to use Windows 8 at all, or only in a limited way?BobWindows 8 runs both traditional Windows desktop applications and a new type of app using the Start Screen interface formerly known as Metro. These Metro-style apps are secure and sandboxed, they are written to a new applications programming interface (API) called WinRT, and usually, they can only be downloaded from the Windows Store. Only these apps have screen restrictions, as Microsoft explained at great length back in March in a blog post,Scaling to different screens.In brief, the minimum resolution required to run Windows Store apps is 1024 x 768 pixels, and the optimum resolution for apps is 1366 x 768. The extra screen width is required to "snap" two Metro-style apps together and run them side by side. An old laptop with a 1280 x 1024 screen should therefore be able to run Metro-style apps in Windows 8, according to Microsoft's graph, but you will lose the "snap" feature.Some people have managed to run Metro-style Windows 8 apps on less capable systems such as netbooks by editing the registry to change the value of the Display1_DownScalingSupported key from 0 to 1. An article atInternet Techiesexplains how to do it.Either way, you should download theWindows 8 Upgrade Assistantand see what it says about your PC. Although old graphics chipsets can be a problem, there is a Windows 8 driver (version 8.15.10.2697) for the Intel 82954G.Portable passwordsI keep sensitive passwords, account numbers, pin numbers etc on a small USB drive, which is inserted only when needed and promptly removed. The USB drive is encrypted – I use Folder Lock – with access through a master password known only to me. Is this as safe as it gets, or is there a big flaw in my system somewhere?Name withheldThis is a popular approach for people who have a lot of passwords to remember and who travel around, and I can't see any significant problem with it. Many people also use a password management program, such asKeePass Portable(which is open source and free) on a USB thumb drive. An alternative isLastPass, which stores your password database online. Since it's pretty easy to lose a USB drive, and they sometimes fail, it's important to have a backup copy of your encrypted password file. However, I assume you installed Folder Lock on a Windows PC and then used Protect USB to create the portable version, so perhaps you have a copy on your desktop PC.If you have plenty of spare space on your USB stick, think about adding SysInternals' Process Explorer, MalwareBytes Anti-Malware, Recuva or a similar undelete/file recovery program, and perhaps a portable version of the Google Chrome browser fromPortableApps.com. This kind of portable toolkit can be invaluable when something goes wrong.
Welcome to the weekly roundup of brand new Android apps released in the last seven days. A busy week too, with apps spanning shopping, cooking, email, glossy magazines and Dr Seuss.As ever, games aren't included in this post, because they have a separate multi-platform roundup. The latestcan be found here, and includes Android games like Jet Set Radio, Chaos Rings Omega, BattleFriends at Sea, Hamilton's Adventure THD and Hyperwave.New iOS apps have their own roundup post whichcan be found here. In the meantime, here's this week's Android selection:Fab (Free)Shopping site Fab specialises in beautifully-designed products, and launched its local UK site earlier in the year. Now it has launched a brand new Android app here, providing a fully-shoppable catalogue, the ability to log in using Facebook, and a feed for news and discounts. The company says nearly half its members buy from their phones, so it'll be hoping for a strong response.Foodster (£1.25)Billing itself as "a chef's best assistant in the kitchen", this is a cookery app drawing more than 10k recipes from food blogs, with a tablet-friendly design, synchronised shopping lists across devices, and the ability to suggest a dish based on whatever ingredients you have in the cupboards.Xbox SmartGlass (Free)I wrote about Microsoft's Xbox SmartGlass app a few weeks ago when it came out for Android smartphones, but it's now available for Google-powered tablets too. As before, it functions as a remote control for the Xbox 360 console, including its music and video features, but also as a touchscreen keyboard, and with potential to act as a second screen for games too.Outlook.com (Free)Okay, it says "Best" in the title, but this weekly post is as much about notable new apps. Which is a polite way of pointing out that Microsoft's Outlook.com email app has received something of a critical pasting from users since its debut earlier this week, with hundreds of one-star reviews. Proceed with caution, then, but it may appeal to users of Outlook.com. Also, Microsoft may want to nip in and correct the "Oulook.com" typo in its Google Play listing...Expect More! (Free)Bauer Media's More! magazine is the latest publication to experiment with augmented reality technology. In this case it's an Aurasma-powered app designed to be used with the current issue of the glossy magazine, offering videos and other content when pointed at the pages.EA Daily Deals (Free)Games publisher Electronic Arts has been running a Daily Deals website for a while now, offering discounts on its mobile games. Now the idea has been turned into an Android widget promising to recommend new deals on its Android catalogue in the run-up to Christmas and beyond.How Lucky You Are - Dr. Seuss (£2.52)There's an increasing number of Dr Seuss book-apps available on Android thanks to the efforts of Oceanhouse Media, which is working its way through the catalogue rhyme-by-rhyme. This latest app is aimed at 3-9 year-olds, with voice narration and early-reading features, in a tale designed to remind kids that things could be a lot worse.Smile – The Internet Bank (Free)Mobile banking is getting plenty of publicity in 2012, with Smile the latest bank to join the Google Play store with an app. In this case, it enables customers to check their balances for current accounts and linked savings accounts, while also checking recent transactions and signing up for text alerts.UpTo - Calendar Redefined (Free)We're already seeing smartphone operating systems integrating with social network calendars – witness Facebook in Apple's iOS 6 Calendar, for example. UpTo is a new app doing a similar thing: pulling down data from Facebook and Twitter on events, but also other public streams for sporting matches, gigs and so on.Squeebles Maths Bingo (£0.69)Making a good educational app for children can be a fine line between information and entertainment – a lot of attempts end up dry and boring. Squeebles Maths Bingo walks that line well though, with a storyline blending bingo and ice cream, and maths exercises for kids that lead to sweet-snack creation.ReferenceME (£0.69)This is a very nifty app from British startup T &amp; Biscuits, aimed at students and academics. The idea: scan book barcodes to create automatic citations and bibliographies when working on essays, with a choice of several referencing styles (Harvard, Chicago, Oxford etc) to suit even the most demanding lecturer.Color Blindness Test (Free)This app from EnChroma is designed to help people self-diagnose colour blindness, including helping them figure out what kind they are – for example, Deutans or Protans. Insert obligatory caveat of going to a professional for the final diagnosis, but this may be a good starting point if you're concerned.Aviva Drive (Free)This app is the work of British insurance provider Aviva, which wants people to use it to track (and share with the company, naturally) their driving style: "from your braking, accelerating to your cornering". After 200 miles, it gives a score from 0 to 10, which Aviva then uses to calculate any insurance discount that may be due. It's getting mixed reviews on the Google Play store, though.Fuze (Free)On the desktop, Fuze blends video conferencing, content-sharing (e.g. presentations and documents) and other collaborative tools. Its new Android smartphone app takes the idea mobile, working over 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi and including audio conferencing, chat and presentational features.Adblock Plus (Free)As a plugin for the Chrome and Firefox desktop browsers, Adblock Plus has been very popular. Now it's available on Android too, promising that it "blocks all online advertising when browsing, and when using your favorite apps like Angry Birds". Although without jumping on a soapbox, the rationale behind downloading a free, ad-funded app or game then blocking those ads feels a bit churlish.gottaTxt (Free)At a time when text messaging is under increased pressure from a new breed of messaging apps like WhatsApp and Kik Messenger, gottaTxt has launched on Google Play promising "texting that's as smart as you are". Which includes geotagging texts, blacklisting annoying texters, and auto-responding to texts when you're offline.Personal Capital Investing (Free)This is an app for US Android users for tracking investment accounts and transactions, as well as monitoring income and spending, sending payments by taking photographs of cheques, and other personal finance features.Angola Today (Free)As the name implies, this is an app focusing on Angola, bringing the English-language Angola Today website to Android devices. Expect maps, travel advice, images, analysis of the country's society and economy, and a historical timeline.Chordify – Chord Progression (Free)Chordify is a music app for generating chord progressions when playing piano or guitar – power chords included – helping people who are learning to play these instruments string some nice sounds together. Popular natural major and minor progressions are included.SeatSync (Free)Finally, another US-focused app that aims to help people buy and sell tickets for sports events, with baseball, basketball and American football all covered. The idea is to directly connect fans who have tickets to sell / want to buy tickets, with ratings to (they hope) head off any scammers.That's our choice, but what have you been using on your Android device? Make your recommendations or give feedback on the picks above by posting a comment.
When a blogger in the US tweeted the question,"Why are there so few lady game creators?"earlier this week, he probably didn't expect what would happen next. Hundreds of female game developers responded to his message, most detailing their own encounters with entrenched industry sexism. A hashtag, #1reasonwhy, was set up and debate has raged ever since.The fact is, women are hugely unrepresented in games development. In 2006, female staff made up a mere 12% of the UK games industry workforce; recent figures from 2009/10 suggest the number may have fallen to just 6%. Women are better represented in some areas of the industry, in marketing, PR and other support services, but not in the actual design and production of new games.And there is definite concern. Dr Jo Twist is the CEO of trade bodyUKIE, which represents British games developers and publishers. Before taking on the role, she looked after games for Channel 4 Education, dealing with studios throughout the country on a range of groundbreaking projects. Now, she's worried about the impact of this unbalanced gender split, especially as women now make up around 46% of gamers in the country."The next data comes out in 2013 and if we see another fall off, we are in trouble creatively and as a digital economy," she says. "If we are to satisfy the growing diversity of the UK population who play games, then we need diverse creators with different stories to tell, different perspectives to bring to creative products to appeal to a diverse game playing audience".So what is the problem? Why aren't more women entering what is one of the major creative sectors of the 21st century? "The reasons are multiple and are not confined to the games industry," says Twist. "Casual prejudice - sexism, racism, homophobia - exists all over the place. We need to make casual prejudice unacceptable. We need to upturn stereotypes around coding and our industry starting at schools. We need to create more flexible ways of working across all our industries.We are facing an economic imperative: it is a responsibility for all of us if we want to ensure our economic success for the long term. We must make sure we are using that half the available UK workforce which happen to be women".I wondered though, if this is an issue that goes right back through the education system. University computer sciences courses are dominated by men, and A-Level computing subjects are the same. In January, pioneering computer scientist Professor Dame Wendy Hallwarnedthat girls were shunning technology and computer subjects because they were perceived as being for 'geeks', and that the old school IT courses, which concentrated on word processing and spreadsheets, made them feel like secretaries"."Last year there was a shocking 241 women who took A Level computer science nationwide: this is not acceptable," says Twist. "We need to give women and people of all backgrounds the confidence and backing to become role models, to have the confidence to tell their stories to younger versions of themselves. These fantastic women exist. Kids need role models - we all do - and we need to ensure we are providing support all through their careers".A key barrier here is that a vast majority of renowned game developers are men. We constantly hear about the likes of Shigeru Miyamoto, Peter Molyneux and John Carmack, but not nearly as much about female designers. Perhaps part of the process of encouraging more women into games may well involve telling children about, say, Amy Hennig, the designer of the Uncharted series or Kim Swift who co-designed Portal, or Robin Hunickie, the producer of Journey, or the veteran RPG designer Brenda Brathwaite."Mentors are extremely valuable whoever you are," says Twist. "Our fast changing and incredibly exciting, innovative and creative industry needs to support educators to keep up with change, to help them understand how to inspire kids into coding and art, and into the games industry: signing up to theVideo Games Ambassadors schemeis one way of doing our bit to inspire change, to support educators, inspire a new generation, to tell them that there are people just like them who are making it in the industry. We are hiring a talent development coordinator in the new year to make sure that is done. They will be tackling this problem head on".How computing is taught is also important. In January, education secretary Michael Govecommittedto replacing the outdated and increasingly irrelevant ICT curriculum with a more practical computer science programme. Throughout the country, certain schools are already teaching coding at primary level, with user-friendly packages such as MIT'sScratchandMicrosoft Koduemployed to introduce children to the fundaments of programming. Maybe when the idea of coding becomes habitual, we'll lose the stigma of it being 'just for geeks'."It will help if educators are given the right support, confidence, CPD, and resources to teach coding in ways that excite their class," agrees Twist. "There's no silver bullet to solve this problem, but our talent development coordinator will make it their mission to make this happen."All kids love games, but we need them to be the masters and mistresses of their digital futures by coding the very things they love playing. This is how our great industry started and it's the only way to ensure its future. We have already talked to Maria Miller, the Culture and Equalities Secretary of State about this imperative, as well as Shadow Minister Chi Onuwara, as this is a critical economic issue, not just a moral one. We hope to host a roundtable to devise a plan of action in the New Year".Meanwhile, Twist argues that developers themselves need to be thinking about how to diversify their development teams. "The Twitter conversation has opened up a safe space for people to tell their stories: we need to make sure we are doing that in our own workplaces," she says. "And we need to shine a spotlight on the fantastic women who are already superstars of our industry."When I was commissioning games at C4, it wasn't hard to make sure I was always questioning the gender, sexuality and ethnicity of characters to make sure our diverse audience saw themselves reflected in the games they played. Broadcasters already have a great model in theCreative Diversity Network: we could do the same to ensure that people are at least encouraged to think about how they are recruiting".
Broadband speeds in rural areas are less than half those in the UK's towns and cities, while Omagh in Northern Ireland is the worst connected area for basic broadband coverage, according to analysis of official data by the Labour party.In large parts of the UK and Northern Ireland, 25% of premises with an internet connection are in the digital slow lane, receiving less than 2 Megabits per second (Mbps), according to the analysis. Even for those with broadband, the digital divide between town and country is stark: average speeds in rural areas are 5.9Mbps, compared to 14.6Mbps in urban areas."The government is failing farmers and small businesses who are unable to perform even simple tasks like pay VAT or respond to customer queries," said shadow culture minister Helen Goodman. "These communities need regeneration and growth, and to have that they need broadband."The government has made a "universal service commitment" that by 2015 every household should have access to 2Mbps, the minimum speed for a service to qualify as true broadband under the definition used by telecoms regulator Ofcom.Despite a pioneering £48m project to deliver superfast broadband to 95% of premises in Northern Ireland, and 18% of potential customers choosing to take up the service, rural areas are still poorly connected.In Omagh, 27.4% of homes with an internet connection either cannot or choose not to get above 2Mbps. Fermanagh, Dungannon and Cookstown in Northern Ireland all have slow service in more than 25% of premises, while Ceredigion in Wales is the worst served area in Britain with 24.9% of premises cut off from fixed line broadband.Labour's statistics are drawn only from homes with some sort of internet connection. A total of 29% of UK premises are either cut off, or choose not to be online. In the UK as a whole, 10% of premises are paying for less than 2Mbps, although Ofcom believes this could be reduced to 2% if more customers take up fibre and change equipment in the home.The best connected cities are Edinburgh, Bristol, Bournemouth and Kingston upon Hull, where the local telephone monopoly Kcom has been rolling out fibre to the home.They are among only seven areas identified using boundaries drawn up by Ofcom where the number of homes with less than 2Mbps is below 5%. The others are West Dunbartonshire, North East Lincolnshire and Southend-on-Sea.The numbers arehighlighted in an interactive mapcommissioned by Labour shadow culture, media and sport team, and produced by the House of Commons Library using data published in Ofcom's latestinfrastructure reportearlier this month.The European Commission has recently approved a £530m spending commitment by the government to bring superfast broadband to 90% of the UK and 2Mbps to the final 10%, with much of the money channelled via the Broadband Development UK scheme.European member states have also signed up to a 2020 commitment to supply every home with a minimum of 30Mbps, with over half having signed up for 100Mbps.A government spokesman said: "This government believes it is essential that the whole country shares in the benefits of high-speed internet access, which is why we are investing more than half a billion pounds in rural broadband and have pledged to have the best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015."
Windows 8 hasn't delivered any "pop" to US consumer sales of PCs in its first month, with sales falling by 21% compared to the same period in 2011,according to NPD Group, which monitors US retail sales.Laptop sales fell by 24%, while desktop sales fell by 9%, said NPD, continuing a trend in the US where PC sales have been dropping through the year compared to 2011.The report comes days after the chief financial officer of Asus, one of the world's five biggest PC makers,said that"demand for Windows 8 is not that good right now", after its executives had expressed doubts about how the new OS might be received by consumers.Of further concern for Microsoft, NPD found that consumer sales of Windows 8 tablets were "almost nonexistent", representing less than 1% of Windows 8 device sales through the channels it monitors. But Stephen Baker, NPD's vice president of industry analysis, said there was one bright spot: sales of Windows 8 laptops with touchscreens made up 6% of sales.NPD's report comes just after sources among component makerssay that Microsoft has halved orders for its Surface RT device, which uses an ARM rather than Intel chip and runs a special version of Windows 8.A comparison with the same period in 2009, when Windows 7 was also just four weeks old, showed far greater penetration of the new OS: then, 83% of Windows devices sold had the newest version. This year, the figure is 58%.That implies that PC vendors and retailers this year still had substantial amounts of inventory with Windows 7 even when Windows 8 was launched – and that this backlog has to be cleared before Windows 8 sales could start in earnest.Microsoft is said to have halved orders for components for its Surface RT tablet. Photograph: Lucas Jackson/ReutersThat would tally with separate findings from Net Applications, which said that a month after Windows 8's release itconstituted about 1% of PC use, compared to 3.6% for Windows 7after the same period in 2009.Consumers buy about half of all PC sales in the US, but demand has flattened with the rise of tablets such as Apple's iPad; that has had the effect of diverting consumer spending to other products, and lengthening the life cycle for PCs. Windows 7 came out before the iPad's announcement in January 2010.The weakness in PC sales was amplified by a slow "back to school" period in September and October, said Baker. That's usually a period of strong sales of Windows PCs as secondary students and schools prepare for a fresh academic year, and first-time university students choose computers - very frequently laptops.But that went slowly, leaving Windows 7 devices with wholesalers and retailers: "The bad back to school period left a lot of inventory in the channel, which had a real impact on the initial sell-through rates for Windows 8," said Baker.Microsoft's new head of its Windows division, Tami Reller,told analysts earlier this week that 40 million Windows 8 licences had been sold in its first month. That compared to an estimated 60m in the first two months of Windows 7, as calculated by Reuters.However Reller didn't provide a breakdown between sales to PC OEMs loading it onto as-yet unsold machines, corporate licences, and consumers buying online or packaged upgrades to  Windows 7. The majority are likely to have been to PC OEMs. Enterprise buyers can buy "downgrade rights" which let them purchase a Windows 8 licence but implement Windows 7 on the actual machine.Baker noted that Windows 8 touchscreen laptops with an average price of $867 (£540), accounting for 6% of Windows 8 laptop sales, had helped "re-establish a premium segment to the Windows consumer notebook market."
TheNintendo Wii U consoleis launched today, ushering in a new era of gaming. Although it's not much more powerful than the Xbox 360 and PS3, it does offer an intriguing tablet-style controller with its own display – a concept inspired by the whole 'second screen' phenomenon (we're all tapping away on our laptops and smartphones while watching TV these days, apparently).Anyway, if you suddenly fancy one and haven't pre-ordered, how do you ensure you get the best deal? The Basic Pack, which comes with console, Game Pad and leads, is £250, while the Premium Pack adds a copy of Nintendo Land and some other accessories for £300. Can you do better than that?"If you don't mind possibly a couple of extra days wait, the best price for a Wii U Premium Pack is £270.48 from Amazon.fr," says Lewie Procter, founder of the websiteSavygamer, which seeks out the best deals on games and hardware. "You can use your UK Amazon account, and even though it has to ship from France, some SavyGamer users that preordered from here got their's the day before launch, so Amazon's shipping seems to be pretty fast".As for the Basic Pack, the best price at the moment is£247.85 from Shopto: "so you might as well go for a bundle with a game fromZavvi for £249.99," says Procter. "Although Shopto have probably got the quickest, most reliable shipping in the business, whereas Zavvi are known for being pretty slow".And you'll be wanting some more games, of course. "The Hut are doing NewSuper Mario Bros U for £35.96with coupon 'MAR10'," says Procter. "Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 is £41.99at Amazon; andZombiU is £39.85at SimplyGames;Nintendo Land is £38.75at TheGameCollection. Please not that ALL these prices are subject to change: "This stuff can be pretty fluid, especially around console launches," says Procter.High street dealsWe're checking these right now, but currently Game stores are offering a deal where you can buy one of the selected Wii U games (including Sports Connection, Just Dance 4, Darksiders II and Epic Mickey 2) for £20 when you purchase the Wii U console.Meanwhile, HMV has a range of console and software bundles. You can get the Wii U Basic Pack with Sonic &amp; Allstars Racing Transformed plus one of Disneys Epic Mickey 2, Sports Connection or Rabbids Land for £314.99. Alternatively, they're doing the Premium Pack with Sonic &amp; Allstars Racing Transformed plus one of New Super Mario Bros U Zombi U or Batman Arkham City for £369.99. That's pretty good, as you get Nintendo Land in the Premium bundle anyway.HMV also has the limited edition Black Wii U Zombi U Premium Pack (which comes with ZombiU rather than Nintendo Land and an extra 'Pro' controller) with Sonic &amp; Allstars Racing Transformed plus one of New Super Mario Bros U, Sports Connection or Batman Arkham City for £399.99.If you spot any other offers, do let us know in the comments section and we'll update.
Hurray, it's Friday! Are you going to buy a Wii U?
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGreeks turn to the forests for fuel as winter nears &gt;&gt; The GuardianOutside the filter bubble...Nationwide, suicides have soared, with the public order minister, Nikos Dendias, saying last week that 3,100 people had taken their own lives since the onset of the crisis in a country that in 2009 had the lowest suicide rate in the EU.Last week, Greece heard that malaria, officially eliminated 40 years ago, had also made a comeback with cases being noted in eastern Attica and the Peloponnese. News of the outbreak came on the day Greek sports, already a dying art, took another blow with the Hellenic Olympic committee unexpectedly announcing the closure in the capital of the pool used by elite swimmers because authorities can no longer afford heating oil. Insolvency has rocked schools and hospitals, where staff complain they not only do not have the money to heat classrooms and wards but even to purchase painkillers for children and patients.Hey Marissa Mayer - We don't want you anyway &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comMarissa Mayer apparently doesn't care for BlackBerry. This was evident back in September when she announced that Yahoo! employees had to kick their BlackBerry to the curb and opt for an iPhone 5, Lumia 920 or Galaxy S3 instead. Mayer took another jab at RIM during an interview with Fortune last night, inferring that a BlackBerry isn't even considered a smartphone."One of the really important things for Yahoo's strategy moving forward is mobile," she said. "So it was really important that our engineers, our salespeople, really everyone throughout our whole organization really understand Android, iPhones, and, you know, Windows 8 and really get a sense of what's happening there and how to create an amazing experience... so we decided we wanted to get everyone upgraded to smartphones."BURN. As you might imagine, Crackberry's readers aren't delighted at being dissed in this way.Shame Projection &gt;&gt; Bitsplitting.org"Shame projection" being the process of blaming someone else for something you feel ashamed about - like motorists who yell at people they nearly ran over:Most folks who pirate media are feeling some of those same terrified, ashamed, regretful, and grateful feelings that the motorist felt upon almost killing me. In the case Marco cites, the projection outlet is on the companies for not making the media available.This kind of projection seems to have a delightful efficiency. When the media companies do make the media available, the blame will be on their pricing it too high. When the price is right, it's the media format that's wrong. If the media format is right, then the DRM is too odious. If DRM is absent, then the authors are making too much money, anyway. If the authors aren't making much, you're only pirating to try it out. Once you've tried it and like it, you'll pay for it when you get your next paycheck. You wouldn't have to pirate at all if your boss wasn't such a cheapskate and paid you better...The Lord of the Rings saga lies hidden deep in your Mac &gt;&gt; The RegisterAs Hobbitmania continues to build in anticipation of the worldwide release of Peter Jackson's The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, OS X users can slake their thirst for Tolkien lore by firing up their Mac's Terminal app, typing  cat /usr/share/calendar/calendar.lotr  at the prompt, and hitting Return.They'll then be treated to a lovely Unix easter egg: a Lord of the Rings timeline.Eliza's in there somewhere as well.How technology is changing the movie theatre business &gt;&gt; IHS iSuppliAlong with the shift in film format, the increasing use of digital cinema equipment has resulted in plunging demand for 35mm prints. At its peak, film distribution used approximately 13bn feet of film a year -- equivalent to a trip to the moon and back five times. That amount began to decline sharply in 2010, and the industry this year will use closer to 4 or 5bn feet for distribution purposes.Also contributing to declining demand for 35mm prints is the rising cost of silver, a key material for film processing. The price of silver has climbed from a stable $5 an ounce for almost two decades to around $25 an ounce in 2012, even hitting a high of $50 at one point.Who will solve wearable computing's "jetpack" problem? &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewSergey Brin used Google Glassto take a zillion photos while driving.A famous fashion designerused them to make a short film. Thad Starner used themto look up answers to questions from a technology journalist from this magazine(and also get invisible tips from his PR handler at Google).You know what would be much more instructive? Giving the glasses to 50 regular folks (a Fedex delivery guy, an office worker, a college student, a stay-at-home mom, a traffic cop, a sales rep, a barista) for a week and seeing how - or if -theyfit the technology into their daily lives. They're the ones who will have to be convinced that wearable computing makes sense. And none of them need a jetpack."Kinetic Rain" Changi Airport Singapore &gt;&gt; VimeoThe sort of thing you might miss your flight watching.Nexus 4 vs. iPhone 5: How (not) to manage a supply chain &gt;&gt; Fortune TechApple's iPhone 5 overcame some initial production hiccups and as of Thursday, according to Piper Jaffrey's Gene Munster, had "finally reached a point where consumers can walk into an Apple Store and walk out with a phone."The other - made for Google by LG Electronics as a showcase for Android 4.2 (a.k.a. Jelly Bean) - has become an object lesson in how not to stage a roll-out in advance of the holidays.Then again, either Google or LG will learn valuable lessons from this. But which one?Video: Global mobile outlook by Horace Dediu, Asymco &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukVideo of his speech at the Guardian Mobile Summit 2012 a couple of weeks ago. Wonderful data presentation (using an app called Perspective) and key questions to ponder.The cost of selling Galaxies &gt;&gt; asymcoThe chart above shows comparable ad spending from a cohort of technology companies as well as Coca Cola and Samsung Electronics.It might be surprising to note that Samsung spends considerably more than Apple and Microsoft. But it also spends more than Coca Cola, a company whose primary cost of sales is advertising.Though the post doesn't mention this, Samsung probably spent somewhere north of $1bn on its Olympics sponsorship this year. Even so, when you look at its "marketing expenses", they total more than $8bn in each of the previous two years - and perhaps $11bn this year. Apple spends around $1bn on marketing by the same comparator.Nokia suing Android device makers over patent on sorting text messages (SMS) by conversation &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThe patent-in-suit, EP0982959 on a "mobile telephone user interface for short messages", is also among the32 patents Nokia is asserting against HTC. Due to scheduling conflicts, the first hearing in the HTC litigation will take place in January, with the trials in both cases being scheduled for the same day (May 29, 2013). What's at issue here is the Android messaging app, and potentially also any custom or third-party apps that device makers may ship with their Android devices.Oh look, you can all start hating on Nokia now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Nintendo has always played by its own rules. In the last console generation it chose to go up against the sleek sexy Playstation 2 with the GameCube, a console that looked like a lego brick with a giant handle. And then in 2006, the era of high-definition visuals and multi-core processors, it launched the Wii, which offered blocky graphics but a brilliant motion controller that could be anything from a tennis racket to a broadsword. It has sold almost 100m units worldwide.TheWii U is altogether a more difficult proposition. Its key feature is the GamePad, a controller that looks like an iPad with half a joystick stuck to either end. It has its own touchscreen display which means you can view important information on it such as maps or team formations, but you can also use it to play the whole game if someone else wants to watch the TV. Much more fun, though, is using the device in multiplayer games; you can have five people in one room playing the same thing, except the one with the GamePad gets a different experience, perhaps providing challenges for the others. Confused? I'm not surprised – and there lies the conundrum for Nintendo. You can tell your gran how to play Wii Sports in a couple of seconds but try explaining the concept of asymmetric multiplayer and it's a very different matter.The thing is, when you do start playing titles such as Nintendo Land (a giant theme park filled with daft mini-games) or the horror adventure ZombiU, or the latest Mario adventure New Super Mario Brothers U, it's enormous fun, especially with friends. There are more than 20 other games on the launch line-up with all the big brands including Batman: Arkham City, Assassin's Creed III and Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 covered – fans can also look forward to new versions of Wii Fit, Zelda and Pikmin, plus an intriguing range of indie titles such as Cloudberry Kingdom. And Wii U promises to offer much more, from video-on-demand services such as Netflix to its own social network. While the online entertainment offerings were quite haphazard on Wii, Nintendo is keen to dip its whole foot into the 21st century this time round.But a lot of industry pundits are asking the same question: what happens when the next PlayStation and Xbox machines are announced next year? Will the quirky charm of Wii U be enough to keep consumers and developers onboard or will we all be seduced by the expected giganti-power of these state-of-the-art machines? It didn't matter with Wii, but this time I'm not as sure. Wii U is another wonderfully quirky product, and after a few days of use, I'm thoroughly enjoying it. But I'm not sure what the industry will make of it. Everyone loves the fact that Nintendo plays by its own rules – it's just that, this time, not everyone is going to understand them.
Groupon boss Andrew Mason appears to have survived a fractious board meeting at the troubled daily deal website. But insiders said unhappy board members are still keen to oust the company's once feted founder.Directors at the online discounter met to discuss Mason's future at a board meeting in Chicago on Thursday.Mason, chief executive of the online daily deal firm once billed as the fastest growing company ever, said ahead of the meeting that it would be "weird" for the company not to question his leadership after the collapse in Groupon's share price.The discussion at Groupon's regularly scheduled meeting comes amid reports of discontent between Mason and co-founders Eric Lefkofsky and Brad Keywell.According to venture capital sources Lefkofsky backed Mason at the meeting. All three founders have "super-voting" shares that carry 10 times the votes of ordinary shares making it all but impossible to dismiss Mason as long as he has the support of his fellow founders."We hear the meeting was very contentious. The independent directors want him out. He's in over his head. But basically you can't fire this guy without his own permission," said Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of the analyst PrivCo.Paul Taaffe, company spokesman, said in a statement: "The board and the management team are focused on the performance of the company and they are all working together with heads down to achieve Groupon's objectives."Mason, 32, founded Groupon in his twenties and built it into a web phenomenon that, according to Forbes magazine, was the fastest ever to record $1bn in sales.Google offered $6bn for Groupon in 2010 but that was rejected in favour of an initial public offering (IPO). The share sale, in November 2011, was the largest tech IPO since Google and valued the the company at $13bn.Since then, Groupon's decline has been dramatic, and it is now valued at less than $3bn. Shares that sold at $20 at the IPO have sunk as low as $2.60, although the share price rallied to over $4.40 on reports that Mason's days are numbered.The reports about Mason's future first surfaced on the tech blog All Things D.Speaking about the reports at a conference held by the business news website Business Insider on Wednesday, Mason said: "Here's a news flash: our stock is down about 80%, it would be weird if the board wasn't discussing whether I'm the right guy to do the job. It's their chief responsibility to ask that question."If I ever thought I wasn't the right guy for the job, I'd be the first person to fire myself."The company has been hit by accounting irregularities, departures of senior staff and slowing sales, especially overseas. Recently the firm has diversified into new areas like Groupon Goods, which sells discounted items like heart rate monitors and yoghurt makers. Growth in that business has been good and Mason said this week was making $500m in revenues one year after its launch. But analysts point out that Groupon Goods has very small margins.Groupon posted a loss of $2.98m in the third quarter and its shares hit new lows as it announced slowing revenue growth amid weakness in its European business."We have a North American business that's growing … that's really the model for what Groupon can be," Mason said Wednesday. "Because of our strategy to grow quickly [in Europe] and capture market share, we didn't invest in technology like we did in North America. We're paying for that now. We now have the playbook, it's the playbook for North America."Mason's woes come amid signs of a major slump in the daily deal business model. LivingSocial, Groupon's chief rival, is reportedly preparing to lay off 9% of its staff. The firm is part-owned by Amazon, which invested $175m in the company in 2010. That investment was virtually wiped out last month when Amazon reported a third-quarter net loss of $274m; $169m of those losses were driven by an impairment charge from its stake in LivingSocial.
Arbor Networks has been able to pinpoint - rather easily - the point at whichSyria's government cut off its internet connection with the outside world.The graphic shows how at the amount of traffic flowing through its connections dropped from around 3 gigabits per second at 11.40 EST to 1Gbps, and then to zero within the hour.Arbor Networks shows how internet traffic to Syria stoppedRenesys, another internet monitoring company,said in a blog postthat "all 84 of Syria's IP address blocks have become unreachable, effectively removing the country from the internet."Renesys, monitoring BGP, shows a dramatic drop in internet connectivity from SyriaOn its blog, Arbor Networks notesthat the graph does not represent the total amount of traffic flowing in and out of Syria: "this is simply a snapshot taken from the vantage point of 246 network operators around the world. As you can see traffic drops to virtually nothing earlier on today."It suggests that the apparent drop to 1Gbps may be due to variability caused by hourly reporting schedules from companies participating in its Atlas system.The blocks would have been put in place by the Syrian Telecommunications Establishment, which is controlled by the government there.For the Syrian government, the internet has become a thorn in its side as activists seeking to overthrow President Assad have repeatedly uploaded videos to YouTube showing atrocities being carried out on behalf of the government, and used internet telephony products such as Skype to testify about attacks by government forces on rebel positions and civilians. Foreign reporters have also used internet connections to send back reports, though some have been able to use satellite internet connections, which are unaffected by the latest blockage.Renesys points out that some Syrian webservers have survived the outage - but that they are located "offshore", and include a number which were used to target Syrian activists withmalware targeted Skypein May.The Egyptian government of Hosni Mubarak cut the country's internet connection with the rest of the world in January 2011 when the levels of protest were growing in the country. The outage lasted a week, but did not prevent the ousting of Mubarak.
Microsoft's Surface tablet, an important part of the software multinational's attempt to bring Windows into the portable computing age, is suffering from lacklustre sales, according to a report citing manufacturing sources.Orders from the supply chain are said to have been halved, from an estimated 4m units, which Microsoft expected to sell by the end of the year, to 2m units, said Taiwan'sDigiTimeswebsite.Asus, Samsung and Dell are also experiencing "weak" sales of Windows&nbsp;8 tablets, sources said. On Wednesday, Asus's chief finance officer, David Chang, revealed that "demand for Windows 8 is not that good right now".Backed by a multimillion-dollar ad campaign, Surface was designed in-house by Microsoft as a showcase for Windows 8, the latest version of its  best-selling software redesigned for the touch screen.Microsoft declined to comment on Surface. The company said this week it has sold 40m Windows 8 licences since the launch, outstripping sales of Windows 7.
Directors at the troubled online discounter Groupon were due to discuss the future of its founder, Andrew Mason, at a board meeting in Chicago on Thursday.Mason, chief executive of the online daily deal firm once billed as the fastest growing company ever, said ahead of the meeting that it would be "weird" for the company not to question his leadership after the collapse in Groupon's share price.The discussion at Groupon's regularly scheduled meeting comes amid reports of discontent between Mason and co-founders Eric Lefkofsky and Brad Keywell.Mason, 32, founded Groupon in his twenties and built it into a web phenomenon that, according to Forbes magazine, was the fastest ever to record $1bn in sales.Google offered $6bn for Groupon in 2010 but that was rejected in favour of an initial public offering (IPO). The share sale, in November 2011, was the largest tech IPO since Google and valued the the company at $13bn. Since then, Groupon's decline has been dramatic, and it is now valued at less than $3bn. Shares that sold at $20 at the IPO have sunk as low as $2.60, although the share price rallied to over $4.40 on reports that Mason's days are numbered.The reports about Mason's future first surfaced on the tech blog All Things D. Speaking about the reports at a conference held by the business news website Business Insider on Wednesday, Mason said: "Here's a news flash: our stock is down about 80%, it would be weird if the board wasn't discussing whether I'm the right guy to do the job. It's their chief responsibility to ask that question."If I ever thought I wasn't the right guy for the job, I'd be the first person to fire myself."The company has been hit by accounting irregularities, departures of senior staff and slowing sales, especially overseas. Recently the firm has diversified into new areas like Groupon Goods, which sells discounted items like heart rate monitors and yoghurt makers. Growth in that business has been good and Mason said this week was making $500m in revenues one year after its launch. But analysts point out that Groupon Goods has very small margins.Groupon posted a loss of $2.98m in the third quarter and its shares hit new lows as it announced slowing revenue growth amid weakness in its European business. "We have a North American business that's growing … that's really the model for what Groupon can be," Mason said Wednesday. "Because of our strategy to grow quickly [in Europe] and capture market share, we didn't invest in technology like we did in North America. We're paying for that now. We now have the playbook, it's the playbook for North America."Mason's woes come amid signs of a major slump in the daily deal business model. LivingSocial, Groupon's chief rival, is reportedly preparing to lay off 9% of its staff. The firm is part-owned by Amazon, which invested $175m in the company in 2010. That investment was virtually wiped out last month when Amazon reported a third-quarter net loss of $274m; $169m of those losses were driven by an impairment charge from its stake in LivingSocial.
Six years after the Wii console took living rooms by storm, Nintendo is trying to capture the same success withits new Wii U, is to released in the UK overnight on Thursday.But the intervening period has seen a dramatic rise in competition from smartphones and tablets which sell millions around the world every week, and threaten consoles' business model.HMV is to open its flagship Oxford Street store in London for a special midnight launch, treating fans to game demos and goody bags as they queued in the cold to get their hands on the Wii U. The key attraction is the GamePad controller, featuring a camera, motion-detectors and a touch-sensitive display that can show game elements such as maps or inventories, but can also be used to hide information from other players in the same room.The original Wii revolutionised the idea of gaming, letting people play games such as golf, tennis or bowling by mimicking the real-life movements rather than pressing buttons. For Nintendo, which announced its first ever annual losses in 2011 – despite making a profit on every one of the 97m Wiis it has sold, and having the lead in the handheld console market with its DS and 3DS models – the success of the Wii U will be intimately tied to its future.But industry figures suggest the new console is less intuitive than its predecessor."The machine is actually quite hard to understand – or perhaps, to see the point of," said Oli Welsh, deputy editor of Eurogamer. "The tablet controller works in so many different ways: as an additional screen, as a multiplayer device, as a remote display, as a motion-controlled 'window' on the game world. All of these are interesting, but not necessarily compelling reasons to pick one up. It's definitely a much harder sell for a mass market than the Wii's motion controller was."Even Shelly Pearce, Nintendo UK's marketing director, admitted  "it's a complicated device to explain in words."So far consumers seem to be reacting positively: the launch in the US on 18 November saw the initial allocation of 400,000 units sell out in a week. But some complained about having to download a huge software update before they could start playing. Others had problems with its Wi-Fi connection for online gaming.Pearce said: "We've been watching what's been going on in the US. They're pretty much sold out at retailers, and we have done well on pre-orders here too. We know there are already people queuing outside HMV on Oxford Street. I think we're in a good place."The challenge for Nintendo will be building on strong early interest. The company plans to shift 5.5m units by March 2013, in line with initial sales for the console's predecessor. But at £250 for the basic package and £300 for the premium bundle, the Wii U is expensive; the original Wii now sells for around £100.The problem is magnified because since the Wii's debut, gaming has shifted on to handheld devices, particularly Apple's iPhone and iPad along with dozens of models from manufacturers using Google's Android software. This has created a market of almost 1bn devices on which games costing around £1, or are free, dominate – compared with £40 for many console games.That has seen names such as Finland's Rovio and its Angry Birds game, and more recently atebit's Letterpress, become hugely popular games. Traditional games developers writing for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Wii – which together have sold a total of about 233m devices – have struggled to remain profitable outside a few hit games such as the Call Of Duty, Grand Theft Auto and Halo series.Pearce acknowledged the market has changed, but said: "It's been seven years since Wii launched and the market is ready for a new home console. Yes, the environment is different in terms of competition, but this is always the case when a new generation launches."But Nintendo won't have the new home console market to itself for long. Both Sony and Microsoft are expected to announce new consoles next year, with a new Xbox rumoured for Christmas 2013.For high street game retailers in the UK, already under pressure owing to the combined pressures of the downturn, rents and a shift in gaming to downloadable games, the advent of a new console can only help. "The High Street is struggling and entertainment and games retailers have diversified to a ridiculous degree," said Matt Martin, editor of news site GamesIndustry.Biz. "HMV sells sweets and cans of pop, [the specialist retail chain] Game sells books. They're fighting for scraps. A new console launch could bring people back into stores to get the hands-on experience – something you can't get online."But, Martin added: "The danger is that people sample it in Game and then go to Amazon to order it for £10 cheaper."
Welcome to our weekly roundup of the best new games for smartphones and tablets, from console classics and casual multiplayer games through to driving, zombies and, er, zombie bowling.As ever, all these games were released in the last seven days. Prices are included, but bear in mind where a game is marked as Free, it's highly likely to be using in-app purchases. Actually, a lot of the paid games are also using IAP nowadays too.One note: no Windows Phone games. I may be missing something, but usually there's at least one new Xbox-integrating Windows Phone game a week, but one's been elusive this week. Hopefully that'll change next week though.On with this week's selection:Jet Set Radio (£2.99)Oh, I miss the Dreamcast – a console ahead of its time with its online features, and with some cracking games that deserved a wider audience than they got. Something that's been rectified since the Dreamcast's demise with ports to various platforms. Now marvellous musical-skating spray-'em-up Jet Set Radio has appeared on iOS and Android, as you zoom around Tokyo leaving graffiti in your wake. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadChaos Rings Omega (£8.99)Or Chaos Rings Ω if you want the official title on the Google Play store. This is from Square Enix, a conversion of its iOS roleplaying game, where you're taking part in a "fight to the death" tournament, battling a succession of fantasy foes. The £8.99 price is certainly bold for Android, although in the week since the game's release, it's yet to pass 500 sales.AndroidBattleFriends at Sea (Free)Moving on from more-hardcore games, how about someone giving Battleships the 'With Friends' multiplayer treatment? No, not Zynga: developer Tequila Mobile is the company responsible here, with asynchronous watery ship-battles against Facebook friends, complete with neat graphics and the ability to play across different devices.Android / iPhone / AndroidArcane Legends (Free)This online co-operative RPG ("with pets") has been very popular on Android, with more than 1m downloads and over 20k five-star ratings. Now it's available on iOS too. It sees you taking control of a hero, teaming up with other players and battling a succession of foes, while unlocking new skills and finding animals to help out. There's a solo mode too, if you're feeling unsocial.iPhone / iPadHamilton's Adventure THD (£2.59)Fatshark's new game is a port of an existing PC/console title, where you explore 22 levels of puzzle-action challenges with adventurer Hamilton and his pet bird Sasha. The idea being that you use both characters to work your way through the traps and enemies. It works on Tegra 3-powered devices only for now, and has anadditional Expansion versionwith more chapters.AndroidContract Killer Zombies 2 (Free)Glu's freemium Contract Killer games have been very popular, so why not add zombies into the mix? That's the pitch here: you control a heroine called Evelyn who's trying to solve an undead outbreak while clearing out "the Savehaven Research Center". Any resemblance to the Resident Evil games is... Well, it's presumably entirely intentional.iPhone / iPadHyperwave (£0.69)Released for iOS a few weeks ago, sci-fi shooter Hyperwave is now also on Android devices, aiming to blend the old (Space Invaders) with the new (Geometry Wars, Super Crossfire) in its genre. That means waves of enemies to shoot, power-ups to collect, and LOTS of neon.AndroidWord Derby (£0.69)A number of developers are currently trying to push the word-game genre forward on mobile devices, with the success of Letterpress proving that innovation can be rewarded in downloads. Word Derby is a new release from Chillingo that takes a quirky approach: virtual horse races powered by making words to score points. Up to four players can compete in each match.iPhone / iPadZen Shapes: The Way of the Brush (£0.69)For word games, also read puzzle games, with the app stores still a fertile spawning ground for new spins on matching and sorting games. Zen Shapes takes calligraphy as its inspiration, as you take virtual scraps of paper and turn them into shapes against the clock. It's one of the most moreish games this week.iPhone / iPadChop Chop Ninja World (Free)With more than 7m downloads so far, Gamerizon's Chop Chop games have quite a fanbase. Now the company is bumping up its ambitions with an "epic social platformer" where you play a ninja kicking (and chopping) his way across a series of levels, while connecting with friends who are building their own kingdoms.iPhone / iPadThe Bowling Dead (Free)Yup: zombie bowling. Or, to give you the pitch: "In a world overrun by an undead horde, one man stands in the way of complete annihilation of the human race. One man... and his balls." It sounds ridiculous, but might just work as you bowl your way through more than 40 levels unlocking new balls as you go.iPhone / iPadVectrex (Free)This one's getting gamers of a certain age hot under the collar: an iOS port of the Vectrex games console from the early 1980s, including games like Blitz, Scramble and Pole Position, with more to come via in-app purchase. The app is designed to resemble the original console, and it also plays nice with the retro iCade accessory.iPhone / iPadFashion Inc. by Stardoll (Free)Almost the polar opposite in likely-demographic terms from Vectrex, Fashion Inc. is a game offshoot from virtual world Stardoll, where you have to run your own fashion house, designing, making and selling posh clobber, with a connection back to the main Stardoll world to collect exclusive items.iPhone / iPadFlashout 3D (£1.49)This game's influences are fairly clear: futuristic flying vehicles with wings whizzing round twisty tracks to an electronica soundtrack, anyone? That'd be Wipeout. Expect eye-blasting visuals, lots of weapons and upgrades, and the obligatory pulse-racing music.iPhone / iPadWombi Detective (£1.49)Something for the youngest iOS users here: a game from Swedish developer Wombi Apps with a suitably hard-boiled detective trying to solve a robbery by interrogating witnesses and hunting for clues. Atmospheric film noir-esque music accompanies the action, which is tuned for children as young as four to have fun with.iPhone / iPadCrazy Fairies Beta (Free)As the title implies, this is a chance to get in early on an interesting new game, but there may be some rough edges. It's the work of Spicy Horse, the new venture from developer veteran American McGee, taking the form of a "multiplayer turn-based artillery game" (think Worms) with a fairytale setting. It looks imaginative and intriguing in equal measures.AndroidDropple. (Free)Developer Foundation Mobile won plaudits for its Lumi game on iOS, but now it's returned with an accessible action game that sees you tilting your device to navigate through more than 170 levels, avoiding traps and collecting golden droplets to boost your score. It has the makings of a word-of-mouth hit.iPhone / iPadMission: An Investigatore Steffani Mystery (£5.99)Immersive mystery game or marketing campaign for a music album? Both, actually. This is the work of Somethin' Else, which made innovative audio games Papa Sangre and The Nightjar. This project is for Universal Music though, showing off songs from the latest album by classical artist Cecilia Bartoli. Those tracks provide the background, but the game sees you solving a novella-length mystery as a 17th-century diplomat.iPadSailboat Championship (£1.59)Yes, a niche, but a very good-looking one, and with Team GB being not-half-bad at sailing, there may well be a decent audience out there for this sailboat racing game, which has been out on iOS for a little while now too. It sees you racing against a host of other boats, trying not to get distracted by the spangly water effects.AndroidGovernor of Poker 2 (£2.49)Poker games are pretty popular on iOS, and this sequel looks like it has plenty of character to build on the 3m downloads of its predecessor. The twist here is that there's a story wrapped around the poker matches, as you try to "take over Texas" with your winnings, travelling from city to city. No online multiplayer element, but there is Game Center integration to compare your achievements against friends.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations in the comments, or give your thoughts on the games above.Standfirst updated on 29 November 2012 to remove reference to Street Fighter X Tekken Gauntlet, which was on the longlist for this week's roundup but didn't make the final cut.
Friday sees the first major home console launch since 2006 and the beginning of the next generation in games hardware. But since its announcement at E3 in 2011, confusion and uncertainty has surrounded Nintendo's intriguing Wii U.Is it the latest slab of innovative offbeat brilliancefrom a company that specialises in confounding expectations, or a desperate bid to keep hold of the Wii's fading casual market?One thing is for sure – the queues have already begun to form outside HMV's Oxford Street store where the machine will see its UK launch (Game will also be opening195 of its storesat midnight too). And although not entirely problem-free, the US roll-out earlier this month saw 400,000 units snapped up within a week. Nintendo wants to shift 5.5 million by the end of March 2013. Who will bet against them?For now, here's our in-depth guide to the Wii U, covering everything from the machine itself to the GamePad controller and the launch titles. The future of gaming, whatever it holds, may well begin here.The bundlesThe Wii U will be available in three different bundle packages in the UK. The Basic bundle, retailing at around £250, comes with the console and a GamePad (both with their own power adaptors), as well as an HDMI cable and 8GB of flash memory. The Premium pack has all that plus a copy of Nintendo Land, 32GB of flash memory, a Wii U stand, a GamePad stand, a GamePad 'cradle' and a Wii sensor bar. A limited edition ZombiU pack comes with all of the Premium Pack contents but swaps Nintendo Land for, yes, ZombiU and adds a Pro controller. Both the Premium Pack and the ZombiU pack retail at around £300.Nintendo has lots more information on all the packageshere.The hardwareThe Wii U itself, is a sleek rectangular box, similar in dimensions to the Wii. It offers an HDMI port (outputting in 1080p, 1080i and 720p) and an AV multiout, which can handle standard definition for ye olde worlde CRT televisions. There's also a port for a Wii motion sensor array, as well as four USB ports, two in the rear and two beneath a flap on the front of the console, which also houses the SD card slot. Unlike the Wii, the Wii U can't be placed vertically without a stand (which comes free with the Premium bundle, but is missing for Budget purchasers).This is an unassuming, minimalist piece of kit, very muchintended to be hiddenfrom view amid your living room entertainment set-up – a good thing in the case of the Premium version, which is very susceptible to finger prints thanks to its glossy black styling.The ControllerThe star of the show, of course, is the GamePad, a tablet-style game controller, with its own 6.2in touch-sensitive widescreen display, speakers, microphone and front-facing camera.The front array also includes two analogue sticks, a traditional d-pad, and the four usual A, B, X and Y buttons, as well as Start and Select. In addition, there are left and right bumper and trigger buttons on the front edge; there's even a TV button which turns your GamePad into a universal remote control (after a little bit of reasonably painless calibration). It's all really comfortable, well-sized and well-positioned, and the analogue buttons move smoothly – they can also be clicked down for an extra button input. The controller comes with its own power cable, but the rechargeable battery will give you around 3-5 hours of untethered use.It's a strange beast, though, operating somewhere between a tablet PC and a game controller. At 500g it's lighter than a standard iPad and the contoured base makes it very comfortable to hold, but it's much more chunky and plastic then a tablet – and of course, it can't operate independently of the Wii U, so you won't be taking it on the bus. The screen isn't multitouch sensitive so you can forget about pinch controls, and sometimes it takes a good firm prod to get it to read inputs. However, the 854x480 pixel display is nice and crisp, and interplay between the pad and the console is very good:Ubisoft has saidthat latency is as little as 1/60 of a second.Designed by ST Microelectronics and the PNI Sensor Corporation, the built in motion sensors (including accelerometer and gyroscope) are some of the most sensitive around;according to Gamasutra, the geomagnetic sensor has a 15 times higher resolution than similar technologies found in smartphones, so expect very precise detection of your movements in all directions.The big question is, well, what's the GamePad for? Nintendo is going to have to provide a really good answer, and it's not going to be as easy as 'look, you can play tennis by using the controller as a racquet!'.At a very basic level the GamePad provides a second screen for game stats or maps. So if you're playing a role-playing game like Zelda you won't have to keep swapping out to an inventory, you can just look down and select spells or weapons from your mini-display. For a football game, you could have your team formation and tactics on the GamePad screen so that you don't have to pause to make changes. Furthermore, it's likely that later titles will allow two GamePads to be used simultaneously; consequently, during two-player sports sims, you could make strategic alterations on your personal screen rather than on the TV so your opponent can't see your cunning plans. This is something the Madden NFL series of American football sims has needed for twenty years.The GamePad display can also be used as a secondary, motion-sensitive means of viewing the game world. In ZombiU for example it becomes a scanner, through which you get an enhanced version of the environment showing up any interesting objects or possible exits. With some titles (Batman Arkham City, for example), it's also possible to switch the whole game from the main TV display to the GamePad screen - perfect for when someone else comes into the lounge wanting to watch television. Now you're both happy.More interesting though is the concept of asymmetrical multiplayer gaming. Many Wii U titles feature two-to-four player modes in which a lone participant gets the GamePad and all the other people in the room have regular Wii Remote controllers. This opens up an array of possibilities. In Nintendo Land, for example, there's a game named Luigi's Ghost Mansion where four players using Wii Remotes have to elude a ghost, controlled by another player using the GamePad. The thing is, the ghost is not visible on the TV display, it's only shown on the GamePad, so the other players have to work together; when the spook is near one of them, their controller starts to vibrate so eventually the team is able to triangulate its position and 'kill' it with their flash lights. Meanwhile, the ghost has to sneak up and touch each player before the time runs out. It's simple, but it leads to a really intriguing group dynamic with lots of emergent strategies.My favourite examples so far, though are in the forthcomingGame &amp; Wariotitle. This includes a mini-game called Fruit, which shows a crowded street scene on the TV. Here, the player with the GamePad controls one inhabitant of this virtual town and must surreptitiously steal a number of juicy apples, while the other gamers have to guess which of the onscreen characters is controlled by their friend. Like Luigi's Ghost Mansion, it's genuinely challenging and entertaining, and provides a local multiplayer experience that would be impossible elsewhere.There's another intriguing feature: the GamePad contains a Broadcom NFC (near field communication) controller. This technology allows devices to communicate with each other when placed in close proximity and is most commonly used in security keycards and contactless payment systems. In this case, it will mean that compatible items such as action figures could be placed on the GamePad display to interact with the onscreen action. It's very similar to the system used in Activision's hugely successful Skylanders games and figures, and Ubisofthas experimented with the techin a prototype Wii U version of its popular Rayman series. It's easy to imagine a range of Mario figures which could store game stats and save data and open up new areas of the latest Nintendo titles.The technologyUnlike the other console manufacturers, Nintendo rarely makes a big deal of its console architecture – the philosophy is, it's not about the tech, it's about the games. We know that the Wii U is based around a custom IBM Power-based multi-core processor and a AMD Radeon HD graphics processing unit, but detailed specs are unclear, although there have been excellent 'teardowns' of the hardware byifixitandAnandTech.Whatever the details, there are already questions about whether this set up is powerful enough. Oles Shishkovtsov, the chief technical officer at developer 4A gamestold Now Gamer, "[The] Wii U has a horrible, slow CPU". Reacting to this comment on Twitter, EA DICE game designer Gustav Hallingcommentedthat a slow CPU, "will shorten its life a lot when new gen starts".Nintendo of America chief Reggie Fils-Aime has responded to these accusations stating: ""In the end, our competitors need to react to what we're doing in the marketplace and need to figure out what their innovation will be," Fils-Aimetold CNET. "It's likely that faster processors and pretty pictures won't be enough to motivate consumers. They need to react to what we've done and we need to continue innovating with the Wii U and we will."However, he has alsoclaimedthat, "If you do a side-by-side comparison you would see that third-party games like Call of Duty look dramatically better on our system."So exactly where does the console stand in terms of sheer grunt? We asked Rich Leadbetter, a technical analyst for Eurogamer's Digital Foundry. He told us:"Initial indications suggest that, yes, the Wii U CPU is significantly less capable than the Xbox 360's. It appears to have been designed with efficiency and cost in mind - it's about half the physical size of the 360 CPU, so cheaper to produce, closing the performance gap to a certain extent with a more efficient design. But it is clearly not as powerful and so struggles with some games. Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 is the most extreme example we've seen to date, where in worst case scenarios, in-game frame-rates can be halved compared to the exact same action being rendered on Xbox 360. This is somewhat at odds with comments from Reggie Fils-Aime"The problem for games developers working across all platforms is fairly straightforward – they're used to working to specific strengths and weaknesses on each console. The Wii U introduces new strengths – more memory and a more capable graphics core – but has weaknesses you'd not expect on a system released seven years after the debut of the 360."None of this will apply to games designed exclusively with the Wii U hardware in mind. Here, developers can play to the strengths of the architecture and get the most out of the system. We're already seeing some beautiful work from Nintendo itself just on the launch titles, and some of the third party exclusives are looking very nice too. However, game development budgets these days are huge and the best bet publishers have for making a profit is to release across multiple platforms – for a modern console to be lagging behind seven-year-old hardware already on certain titles is a genuine concern."We also spoke to several several developers, all of whom asked to remain anonymous. They all mentioned the very decent GPU and the comparatively generous 2GB of video RAM, which is four times the amount available in the original Xbox 360 (but likely to be half of what we get in the next-gen PlayStation and Xbox). However, they also had concerns about the under-powered CPU, some even questioning whether it will have the capacity to drive two GamePads simultaneously. Certainly, it seems, the unit will struggle with elements such as AI and physics when developers seek to port over Xbox 360 or PS3 titles.None of this was a problem with the Wii, where dedicated titles like Wii Sports drove demand, and where the unique motion controller took the focus away from graphics. But the GamePad's USPisits second display; it is – in a somewhat different sense – a concept driven by visuals. Nintendo will need to sell a lot of consoles in order to show third-party publishers that it's worth their while wrestling with this new hardware – especially as we're about to find out what Sony and Microsoft have planned.Wii fans with big game collections can rest easy though: Nintendo has said that the new system is backwards compatible with most Wii titles, as well as all Wii controllers.The gamesHere is a complete list of UK launch titles:Nintendo LandNew Super Mario Bros. UFunky BarnCall of Duty: Black Ops IISkylanders GiantsTransformers PrimeDisney Epic Mickey 2Fifa 13Mass Effect 3 Special EditionBen 10: OmniverseTank Tank TankFamily Party: 30 Great Games Obstacle ArcadeTekken Tag Tournament 2 Wii U EditionSonic &amp; All-Stars Racing TransformedWarriors Orochi 3 HyperDarksiders 2Assassin's Creed IIIJust Dance 4Sports ConnectionRabbids  LandYour Shape: Fitness Evolved 2013ZombiUBatman: Arkham City Armoured EditionGame Party ChampionsThere are three key titles in the line up.Nintendo Landis a lovely collection of mini-games showcasing the abilities of the GamePad, all within a charming theme park setting.New Super Mario Bros Uis a sort of HD re-imagining of the similarly named Wii title, boasting beautiful side-scrolling action and some neat co-op functionality courtesy of the GamePad screen. Then there'sZombiUa tense, often truly terrifying survival horror game from Ubisoft, which is about as un-Nintendo as you're going to get on a Nintendo launch day.Later, we can look forward to the aforementioned Game &amp; Wario as well as new Zelda, Wii Fit and Pikmin titles. We're also excited about surreal puzzler The Wonderful 101 and Bayonetta 2, both fromPlatinum Games.But here's a really important addition. In September, Nintendo announced that Wii U would support theUnity3D engine, a multi-platform games technology used by thousands of small and independent studios. The manufacturer will be able to utilise Unity in its own games or make it available to third-party developers, and will also be working with the engine's creators to include Wii U compatibility into the Unity SDK. Potentially, this means Wii U is now a target platform for indie developers who wouldn't be able to afford dedicated console development kits.At the same time, Nintendo seems to be making it very easy for indies to submit games to the Wii U version of its digital gaming portal, eShop. This service works like Xbox Live Arcade, Steam or the Apple App Store, allowing consumers to download titles directly to their machines.Apparently, developers are able to set their own prices for games, and later, they won't be charged for creating updates for those titles.Nintendo hasn't been a hugely pro-active supporter of independent development in the past, but no doubt inspired by the success of grass roots projects like Minecraft, Fez and Spelunky is now making more of an effort to engage with the community. This has already resulted in neat independent titles likeTrine 2: Director's CutandCloudberry Kingdom, and may lead to some truly unique, idiosyncratic titles – the sorts of things Wii U will need if it is to compete against other next-gen machines next year.The entertainment stuffAlthough Wii eventually offered an array of video-on-demand and digital TV services, the console never had as robust an entertainment offering as Xbox 360 or PS3. Nintendo is seeking to address that with Wii U. From day one in the UK, gamers will be able to access YouTube, Netflix and Lovefilm, and the company says it is working on deals with digital content providers to boost its video-on-demand offerings. It's likely we'll also see support for streaming TV offerings like iPlayer and 4OD.Furthermore, Nintendo is also rolling out its Nintendo TVii service in the US next month and through Europe next year. There's a video trailer here:This is a sort of socially connected viewing service which allows you to search all your VOD and streaming services as well as compatible TV channels for your favourite shows and movies. You can then create playlists and share these with your friends, as well as checking out what family members and pals have been watching.Finally, Nintendo is also introducing its new Miiverse social network feature which will allow users to meet and chat via a colourful online environment. each game will have its own community where fans will be able to swap tips or ask for help. It's all heavily moderated to ensure everything remains family-friendly. Eurogamer has a good previewhere.What the industry thinks"The competitive landscape has altered dramatically from 2006, when the original Wii was launched. While the Wii was a great seller for three or four years, its lifecycle has been cut short due to a failure in providing ongoing user engagement. Third-party support for the Wii has not materialised in the later stages of the cycle and Nintendo lags behind the competition in terms of its connected content offering. For the Wii U, the company has been busy putting together a strategy to combat these weaknesses. Third-party support appears more developed at launch, the support of Unity suggests potential for the future and the company has made strides to improve its connected user experience. Nintendo has the building blocks to compete, so it now comes down to execution."Piers Harding-Rolls, senior principle analyst, IHS Screen Digest"After almost two years of confused messaging and half-hearted press conferences the Wii U is finally here - but it's no closer to defining an identity. At launch the console has three really solid exclusives in New Super Mario Bros. U, Nintendo Land and ZombiU, each satisfying a different audience and crucially, none really worth buying a £300 console for."On day one Nintendo's machine offers a strong line-up of multi-platform games, an intriguing online social network and a control mechanism with plenty of potential – but it might take a while before the console truly carves out its niche."Andy Robinson, Editor,CVG(which has its own Wii U guidehere)"There's some good stuff in the launch line-up and interesting prospects in the near future, but nothing as yet that will sell the machine the way Wii Sports did for the Wii. Even the most exciting features in the world are nothing without a must-have game to put them in context."On top of that, Nintendo has a couple of specific and thorny issues to overcome with Wii U. One is keeping third-party game publishers on board. Publishers need to be able to make their games for multiple consoles and PC to be profitable, and Nintendo's spent a lot of time reassuring them (and gamers) that the Wii U's HD graphics and more traditional controls will be compatible with the games they make. But with a new Xbox due as early as this time next year and a PlayStation surely not far behind, it only has a window of a year or two - because those machines will likely be considerably more powerful than Wii U is. The technological arms race will move on and Nintendo will once again be left behind without the games that the competition has. This hurt the Wii in the long term, and it would be an even worse fate for Wii U which doesn't have such a clear selling point."Oli Welsh, deputy editor,Eurogamer"Having been playing the Wii U and its launch lineup for the last week, I feel more positive about it than I did in the run up to launch. New Super Mario Bros and Nintendoland are both solid crowd pleasers that will go down well with families this Christmas, while meatier, hardcore titles such as Mass Effect 3 and Call of Duty: Black Ops II are just as good on Wii U as they are on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. The Wii U is far from what I would call a day-one purchase, but it's off to a strong start, and as long as Nintendo get Mario Kart or a new Wii Sports released soon, it should build momentum ahead of the launch of other consoles at the end of next year."Guy Cocker, editor,GameSpot UK"Something that shouldn't be underestimated is the Wii made it easy to understand video games again. No complicated button controls, you just swung the Wiimote and your man on screen hit a ball with a tennis racquet. The Wii U complicates things again. There's two screens you need to be aware of, some games can be played just on the tablet itself, some can't. There's control sticks and buttons, you need the Wii mote and nunchuck still and there's a proper games controller as well. That could be too overwhelming for consumers who have come to understand that with a tablet like the iPad, you just prod the screen and cool things happen."Matt Martin, editor,GamesIndustry.Biz"I'm hugely excited about the Wii U. In fact, as I speak to you I'm sitting by my window in my underwear, waiting for the delivery van. Nintendo launches always feel like Christmas, and I think it's because Nintendo remembers that games machines should be toys first and foremost. Blue skies and WOO HOO! Not Netflix and Ad Banners."Robert Florence, games columnist, broadcasterHands-on eventsNintendo is touring the country with demo units so that gamers can try the hardware themselves. Here are the dates:The Gadget Show Live @ Christmas, Excel, London: 30 November – 2 DecemberWestfield, London: 6 – 9 DecemberThe Centre, Milton Keynes: 13 – 16 DecemberArndale, Manchester: 3 – 6 January
Hello there Thursday.
