Dean Kamen, best known for the Segway transporter, showedvideos of robot armsat the D (All Things Digital) conference. The DARPA-funded prosthetic arm is called Luke, after Skywalker in Star Wars, and is targeted at soldiers.TheWired blogsreport includes a more comprehensive video (below) from IEEE Spectrum Online.
According toreports, Sebastian Gajek and Xuan Chen and Jorg Schwenk, a professor and chairman of Network and Data Security at the Horst Gortz Institute for IT Security at Ruhr University in Bochum, Germany, "have shown it is possible to intercept the authentication token fromCardSpace", which is part of the security system in Windows Vista (and in XP, via .Net 3.0). "A hacker could then use the token to access or send sensitive information to the original website."However, the claim requires more than one simultaneous action, which makes the claimed procedure sound not much of a threat.Microsoft's Kim Cameron -- the man mainly responsible for CardSpace --points outthat to make it work, users have to "reconfigure their computers and point to an evil DNS site they have constructed. Once we help them out with this, they attempt to exploit the fact that poisoned DNS allows a rogue site and a legitimate site to appear to have the same internet "domain name" (eg www.goodsite.com) ."However, the potential problems of DNS are well understood. Computers protect themselves from attacks of this kind by using cryptographic certificates that guarantee a given site REALLY DOES legitimately own a DNS name. Use of certificates prevents the kind of attack proposed by the students. . But this is no problem as far as the students are concerned. They simply ask us to TURN OFF this defense as well. In other words, we have to assist them by poisoning all of the safeguards that have been put in place to thwart their attack.There's more, of course, but if you can make it work, does the attack sound like a useful approach? Sure, you can break into a house by asking someone to undo all the bolts and then persuading them to pass you the key. However, dozens of neighbours have left their back doors unlocked....And as Cameron politely points out, the students (and, one assumes, their professor) don't seem to have sufficient clue about computer security. He writes:One of the most important observations that must be made is that security isn't binary - there is no simple dichotomy between vulnerable and not-vulnerable. Security derives from concentric circles of defense that act cumulatively and in such a way as to reinforce one another. The title of the students' report misses this essential point. We need to design our systems in light of the fact that any system is breachable. That's what we've attempted to do with CardSpace. And that's why there is an entire array of defenses which act together to provide a substantial and practical barrier against the kind of attack the students have attempted to achieve.True, but still, the weakest link in any security system is usually the one between the seat and the keyboard.....
HazePS3Haze depicts a future war between the drug-enhanced troopers of the shadowy Mantel corporation and the freedom fighters they're trying to exterminate. Starting as one of Mantel's goons, using the battle drug Nectar to help you hunt down terrorists, you quickly get used to its fleeting ability to highlight hidden enemies. You also get used to a fair few glitches, from team-mates insanely repeating the same slogan over and over again to some fairly spectacular postmortem corpse twitching. Fortunately, none of these affect the pleasure of the game's eloquently paced first-person run and gun action, which positively clips along between objectives. Without wanting to spoil any of its witty and highly coherent plot, you'll also experience life as a plucky rebel, without access to Nectar, facing off against a well equipped and organised foe. Haze is fun, very addictive and British-made: what are you waiting for?&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;49.99Boom BloxNintendo WiiBoom Blox is Steven Spielberg's maiden attempt at developing a video game, and the first pleasant surprise is that it isn't based on a film. In it, you hurl invisible balls using a flick of your wrist and the Wii remote to knock down precariously stacked towers of blocks, or defend them against a slowly encroaching foe. Bomb blocks blow up, chemical blocks can be knocked into counterparts for even bigger explosions, while other blocks vanish on contact with the ball, giving you a range of approaches. It feels great to play, the cubic animals look and sound hilarious and the whole thing is vastly entertaining, even for non gamers.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;39.99Iron ManNintendo DS, PC, PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360, Nintendo WiiA blockbuster film arrives, closely followed by a video game that appears on every conceivable platform. As anyone that likes games will know, this is a very bad sign. Stepping into the metallic britches of Tony Stark here, you walk and fly around dressed as Iron Man, unleashing ballistic death on those silly enough to hang around nearby, which includes people on foot, in tanks and in helicopters. While the weapons make you a potent force on the battlefield, the spell is broken when you find that ordinary cars are Iron Man-proof. Twitchy controls, objectives that turn into grindingly repetitive chores and a difficulty level that veers directly from zero challenge to impossible halfway through the game - it's terrible.&#183;Sega, &pound;29.99-&pound;44.99 (PS3 version reviewed)
I travel regularly and have a lot of US DVDs. On my old computer I ran a couple of programs that let me play discs from any region, but my new laptop won't let me. What can I do?The Region Playback Control used in DVD players is truly infuriating. Movie studios claim it prevents piracy, but really it just hurts those of us who like to import our favourite movies. In the old days, we were called fans; these days, it seems, we're criminals. Older drives use the first version of the software, RPC1: this means you can use a program to trick them. Newer disc drives use RPC2, however, which is harder to break. Some drives can be 'upgraded' (check onrpc1.orgfor more details), but if yours can't, then you may be stuck. Your best bet may be to buy a cheap, older external DVD drive and rip movies to your laptop that way. Yes, it's crappy: blame the manufacturers and film studios.I'm looking for a powerful CD/radio ghetto blaster with a bit of oomph - something like the JVC RVNB10, which has been discontinued.The answer may be closer than you think: try the next model up, the conveniently-named JVC RVNB20. It costs around &pound;200 from high street retailers such as Comet.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Funny word, "smart". Smart bombs. Smart pills. Smarty pants. Smartarse. The verb-form is interesting as well. I make these points in a rather defensive way, I suppose, anticipating that the three smartphones sitting in front of me will almost certainly be smarter than me. I'm also the world's worst person to be testing new mobiles or PDAs, not just because of their confounded smartness, but because I live in a valley in the shadow of a hill under a rather enormous area of unpopulated upland, where there isn't so much as a squeak of signal. Several years ago, when I signed a contract with my service provider, the man in the shop tapped my postcode into his laptop, studied his colour-coded map of West Yorkshire and assured me that the signal in my neighbourhood was "lush". So, thinking that I'm about to spend most of the next few days wrestling with instruction manuals and sitting in the car in a layby on Saddleworth Moor waiting for a flicker of reception, it's with a forlorn heart that I begin to assemble and charge these new gizmos.The BlackBerry Pearl 8120 (from free on contract, Carphone Warehouse,carphonewarehouse.com) is a lovely thing. It seems proper. It has weight and structure. Contains metal. Not just made, but built, like a Corgi car. I've never used a BlackBerry; I know that important people like them, and their spouses don't. And almost instantly I can understand the seduction. Once a nice lady called Claire at gadgets HQ has told me how to register, I power up and, hey presto, all my emails are ready and waiting in the in-box. I don't even have to lean out of the skylight to get a signal. It's also interesting that after a few hours I'm pretty conversant with the operating system, even though I haven't once consulted the online guide. I particularly like the trackball. It's like a miniature roll-on antiperspirant. Every time I use it, I expect my thumb to become lightly moistened and deodorised. The one thing I can't get to grips with, though, is the wave-shaped qwerty keyboard. Through laziness rather than loyalty, I've been a Nokia user pretty much from the outset, and I've got used to the layout. So it's probably a case of old dogs and new tricks, because even after a couple of days I still haven't been able to reprogramme my fingers. On one occasion it takes me more than a minute to find the letter J. But I do like the BlackBerry. Already it's my pet. My precious. "Can I keep it, please, Claire?" I say. "Of course not," she says. I guess she's got my best interests at heart.I've never got on with the Palm Centro (&pound;199,eurostore.palm.com). I had a Palm Tungsten personal organiser once, and had to learn Egyptian hieroglyphics (or that's how it felt) before I could input data, and the battery used to run down even when it was turned off. If I strayed too far from the National Grid I couldn't tell you what I was doing next Tuesday. Things have moved on since then, but I still struggle with this make of device. The keyboard is clear but very small, and I seem to be missing some essential portion of my thumbnail to press the letters (how about supplying the telephone number of a local manicurist with each unit?). Using the stylus is like eating a pomegranate with a needle and, to be honest, if I'd wanted to write, I'd have bought a pen and paper. And while it may seem mundane to bang on about the basic features of these gadgets, immediacy is everything, because their higher functions are beyond question. They're all equally excellent, give or take.The same holds true for the HTC Touch Cruise, by far the most futuristic looking of the three (&pound;374.99 sim free, or free on contract from several operators;amazon.com). It's black, comes in a black box and slips into a black velvet bag. It could be the culminating moment in the concluding episode of Lost. "Cruise" refers to navigational rather than nefarious activities here, with TomTom installed on its home page. So, treating it according to its looks, I download the voice of Darth Vader on to the satnav and set off over the hill in search of a signal. Towards the dark side.&#183;Stephen Fry will return in July.
Confronted by an all-new Daihatsu Materia, the interested observer finds all manner of relevant questions crowding his or her mind, with varying degrees of urgency, not least, "What in the name of sweet Mary and the baby Jesus is that?"Well, it's a small, MPV-style hatchback, seating five, is the simple answer, though that only begins to hint at an explanation for this courageous Japanese design amalgamation, an adventure in styling that surely makes the Materia the most brazenly unusual car to hit British roads since the SsangYong Rhodius. Which is going some, because the Rhodius (unfairly voted the UK's Ugliest Car, 2006) looks like a bungalow that has been hit by a prop plane.The Materia, on the other hand... Well, help me out here. I'm getting hints of Chinese-built dishwasher and Depression-era America, with a distinct top note of Russian space programme and a strong aftertaste of Wacky Races. Remember the Ant Hill Mob? Didn't they drive something like this? Something like the middle third of it, anyway.That low, wraparound back end, though - that would be the boot off a Chrysler PT Cruiser, wouldn't it? The gristle-chewing front end, on the other hand, is pure Hummer. Especially taken in tandem with the tinted rear windows. Rappers are going to love this car - retired ones, who've left rapping behind and gone on to lead innocent family lives involving school runs near Winnersh.This column thoroughly approves of Daihatsu. It may almost be this column's favourite marque. How can you not love a company that produces the Copen - a tiny sports car that sports an electric roof and looks like something that may have been used to smuggle defectors past the Berlin Wall and costs not much more than you pay for the Gold programme at the car wash?Daihatsu is (like Bugatti, in a way) a rare example of a modern car maker that exists almost purely to produce mad cars. Not mad in some self-conscious, wilfully quirky way - just mad. But unlike a Bugatti, a Daihatsu won't cost you &pound;850,000. Indeed, try to spend that in a Daihatsu dealership and you end up owning the entire UK operation. (I'm guessing here.)The Materia is a classic car in the noble Daihatsu tradition. It has an achingly meaningless name, yes, but it has an engine that goes, relatively comfy seats and a proper gear stick - a three feet-tall stem, coming out of the floor, with a ball on the top. Seeking third from fifth was like playing crazy golf, albeit without the windmill and laughing clown's head.And you can't argue with the build quality. I slammed the driver's door a couple of times and nothing fell off. Not one thing. I wouldn't have complained if something had dropped off. At these prices, I was grateful to have a door to slam.I bet it's safe, too. Safe-ish, anyway. Certainly, in any collision with a squirrel, the squirrel is going to come off worse. I can almost guarantee that. Unless, perhaps, the squirrel shunts you from behind. But that's not going to happen, is it?And here's something else: almost nobody is going to buy this car. They won't have the nerve. They'll opt for one of the 570 or so other, perfectly conventional and slightly more expensive cars in this area of the market. Which means you get a bargain and a fashion statement all in one. Result.Daihatsu MateriaPrice£10,495Top speed106mphAcceleration0-60 in 10.8 secondsAverage consumption39.2mpgCO2 emissions169g/kmEco rating7/10Bound forBerkshireIn a wordWild
What nuggets you find digging around inside packages released by companies. In the case of Apple, it's about the only useful way you'll find out what it's up to, because asking people won't.To begin at the beginning: once, Apple had a free web service called iTools. Yeah, crummy name. It offered free storage and email and found that loads of people used it (including for warez..) and so in 2002 itchanged its name, to .Mac, and made it paid-for. About 90% of the users abandoned it, which was OK for Apple - they were paying, and there were fewer of them.But .Mac has been a sore on Apple's face for ages - it's only just moved to having 1GB of email storage, and it just doesn't have that... zing. Sure, you can sync contacts across computers, and upload to a personal web site.. but it's so, um, 1998.Now comes news that deep inside Apple's packages on its newly-released updated to OSX (10.5.3)the name of ".Mac" has disappeared. Or at least, it's not hard-coded. Instead there's a placeholder which fills in the name .Mac. Until, perhaps, Steve Jobs announces a new name at the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in just over a week's time. The neat thing being that it'll only work if you've got 10.5.3 installed. Way to make people upgrade to the very latest version of the operating system, Steve! (Note to Microsoft: yeah, you're doing it with DirectX10 in Vista vs XP, but really, you could have done better.)And what will it be called? Speculation is already coalescing around something like "Mobile me", because that could include iPhones. AsJohn Gruber points out, "iMobile" just doesn't sound right. (That whole "i-word" thing is starting to feel tired anyway.)So, that's the plan: get rid of the echos of Microsoft's .Net; move towards something where Apple is getting some edge, and make it sound new and sexy.If it manages to make it into a really worthwhile service then that would be good too...
TuesdayPixeljam interview: part oneAnd the winner is... Wikigame Puzzle Design CompetitionGTA actor in royalty stormWednesdayWomen in Games conference submission deadlineRock Band price cut?Videogames are popularPixeljam interview: part twoThursdayGames for Health researchers to receive more than $2m in fundingErase a bear todayIs single player gaming over?FridayUltimate fighting game vs comic book face-offDesign a game: Hide and Seekbeyond Good and Evil teaser
Dell does tough: Latitude XFR D630Dell's latestquarterly financial resultsbeat Wall Street expectations, leading to a brief surge in the share price (the shorts got socked), but expectations were pretty low. Dell's first quarter revenues grew by 9% to $16 billion, while profits just edged ahead by 4% to $784 million. The company said:Product shipments in the quarter increased 22%, with servers growing three times the industry rate at 21%. Storage revenue increased 15% and enhanced services revenue was up 13%. Notebook unit growth, a Dell strategic priority, rose sharply at 43% and 1.2 times the industry growth rate. Consumer units grew at more than two times the industry rate and the company increased its global share by 1.2 points to 8.8% during the quarter.Much of the turnaround came from shedding 7,000 staff over the past year, though Dell also "added about 2,700 employees through acquisitions". It also benefited from the weak dollar.Dell says it did well in India and China, "with revenue increases of 52% and 30%, and unit shipment growth of 68% and 43%".Getting into retail outlets (13,000 now) helped notebook sales. Dell says:"Notebook units grew 43% year-over-year with revenue growth of 22%. In the quarter, Dell released its first fully ruggedized laptop, the Latitude XFR D630. In Global Consumer, notebook units increased 78% and made up 60% of the product mix."One assumes that the revenue growth is much lower than the unit growth in notebooks not just because of falling prices, but because retail sales are likely to be less profitable. (There's a dealer margin.)Still, the company does seem to have turned the corner following Michael Dell'sreturn to the helmon January 31, 2007.Whether Dell will ever resume its former stunning growth path is another matter. The world has changed since then.
Unleash the monsterThis is what happens when you put a mobile phone (minus its battery) in a microwave oven and turn on the power. And no, we don't advise trying this at home.OK, who let the R2 unit in?Robots, robots, robots. Of course, the occasional human being also attended the Maker Faire in California. One question, though, just why would anybody need a robot giraffe?Making a differenceCalifornians can now enjoy Great British technology: they've bought a Difference Engine, designed by Charles Babbage in the 18th century.Got a favourite games or technology video? Tell us all about it in the comments ...
Apple's ability to program Windows is a bit of a joke, and its Safari browser probably isn't enhancing the company's reputation. It delivered Safari 3 (beta) for Windows with the silly claim that it was secure ("Now you can enjoy worry-free web browsing on any computer. Apple engineers designed Safari to be secure from day one") and it wascracked within two hours.(Amusingly, some of the same flaws were in the production version ofSafari on OS X, but until the Windows version appeared, nobody could be bothered to find them.)A more recent problem, theSafari Carpet Bomb, has been tackled at ZD Net, withApple under pressure to fix Safari 'carpet bomb' flawandWhy Apple must fix Safari 'carpet bombing' flaw immediately.The problem is that a malware web site can "litter the user's Desktop (Windows) or Downloads directory (~/Downloads/ in OS X) with executables masquerading as legitimate icons". ZD Net says:Arbitrary desktop write is a serious security vulnerability. It's not a mere irritant, as Apple contends. This is a security flaw that needs to be fixed immediately instead of an enhancement request to come in a future upgrade.ZD Net's/Kaspersky's Ryan Naraine therefore concludes:Meanwhile, if you use Safari on Windows, I have one piece of advice: Don't.Apple deserved and got a lot of credit for the speed with which it fixed Safari 3 bugs (released June 11,patched June 14). It also earned credit for changing its deceptive attempt to install new copies of Safari on Windows as an"update".So we know Apple listens and that it can respond quickly. But it would be nicer if we didn't have to shout at it first.
Dammit, meant to post this a couple of days ago, but as we have quite a few fans of the original game reading the blog, here it is, just in case you missed it. Yes, Ubisoft has announced a sequel to cult favourite Beyond Good and Evil. This 'teaser' won't tell you much about the game, but it's quite amusing. And, heck, it's just good to know that the series has been exhumed.
Acer is one of the biggest notebook PC suppliers, and has a history of subnotebooks with its (formerly TI) TravelMate series, so it has been expected to compete in the mini-notebook space where the Asus Eee PC has been successful. And it has naturally been expected to show something at Computex in Taiwan next week, since that's where Acer is based.....In this case, theUMPC Portalappears to have got the scoop with photos of the Acer Aspire One that someone posted in its forum.Apparently it has a 1.6GHz Atom processor and runs Windows XP SP3 on an 8.9 inch screen with a resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels, according to ycweng, posting inJapaneseChinese* onMobile 01. (The view of someone who can actually read Chinese may vary. Anyone?)Quanta is the most likely manufacturer. Quanta also makes Apple and Dell notebooks.* Thanks, DoireDoire!
You'll recall that a fortnight ago Microsoft releasedFive Misunderstood Features in Windows Vista, a document that seemed - though it was never explicitly stated - to be aimed at those pesky enterprise managers who weren't wrapping their arms around the new OS and humming happily.Well, we all had a bit of a laugh. So Microsoft, perhaps wounded, yanked it from its servers.And nowit's come back. Revised. Sharper. Cleaner.But what's really changed? Unfortunately they're both PDFs, so it's not easy to compare them directly. Steven Poole hasdone a good job. I've been busy withopendiff(the picture is a sample page comparing the differences), and found a few interesting things too. There's small changes - lots of capitalisation (so "standard user" in the previous version becomes "Standard User", which suggest the proofreading wasn't so hot first time).The most significant change comes on p5, where the phrase in the earlier version - "A complaint often lodged at Windows Vista is that it seems to run a bit slower than Windows XP. We'll get to that in a minute, but Windows Vista is doing a lot more than any previous operating system." - is missingcompletely.And where the previous one said "Windows Search does require that the processor continually index file locations so they can be quickly retrieved at will." it now says "Search does require that the system index file locations so they can be quickly retrieved at will, though the approach taken by Windows Vista should not interfere with system performance while in use."As Poole points out, that "should not" is genius. Well, it shouldn't interfere. Yeah, but it does. But, Microsoft says, itshouldn't. Both right. Move on.First version: "Indexing for near instantaneous search results for desktop files, even embedded in email messages, is a resource-intensive task— requiring the PC to continually scan the hard drive for changes. On Windows Vista, the search engine is set up as a service rather than an application. As a service, Windows Search takes a bit more time to accommodate these one-off events, but there is far less impact on available computing resources. "That's gone, apart from the "service instead of an application" bit. Instead we have an addendum to the following paragraph, saying "With Windows Vista, the indexing function doesn't crawl the disk constantly. Instead, after indexing the content for the first time, it waits for changes in the file system and then only indexes the updated files. Beyond that, indexing goes idle when a user or the system opens a document or performs a task, so the actual impact on performance is minimal."So I'm confused. Is it resource-intensive, like it used to be, or not?And further on, noting that "Applications written with undocumented APIs may fail at runtime," the writer originally added: "However, in this case time has been healing most wounds".Yeah, well, strike that one. Vista, wounds? Don't eventhinkabout it.And there's more that Vista is doing: where before it was "indexing for near instantaneous search results for desktop files, even embedded in email messages", now it's doing this: "for example, indexing for near instantaneous search results for desktop files, even those embedded in e-mail messages; preventing malware with Windows Defender; and dynamically delivering rich content to the desktop with Windows Sidebar."Niceiceto find they've discovered something more.Overall, what do we find? No new revelations about Vista, but still that nagging feeling that Microsoft is uncomfortable with the way that people react to it. And that's surely the real problem here.Still, it's always entertaining to see large organisations revising their spin in public.Update Fri 2230:viaTim Anderson via a comment on Steven Poole's post, acommentfromBrandon Paddockof Microsoft:Those changes were made because the original article was written without the involvement of the engineering teams and so it contained a great deal of inaccuracy.He also adds (to Poole - hey, come on Brandon, come over and tell us too):Search does NOT have a noticeable impact on Windows Vista's performance characteristics.Search does NOT "continuously" scan your hard disk, and consumes NO CPU time or other resources except when processing notifications of item changes.I'm rather confused about why you [Poole] seem to prefer the technically inaccurate version, versus the accurate version of the document. It seems this is because the truth does not match up with your [Poole's] pre-conceived notions about Windows. That seems awfully childish, though.Over here, we're wondering how a technically inaccurate version of a document could be published on a part of the site that calls itself "Springboard series" which is "The On-ramp for IT pros". Someone's bound to explain it.(Note: I've corrected the more obvious errors in this post. I guess that makes me and Microsoft level, except it has slightly more money.)
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
This year'sHide and Seek Festival, happening in London at the end of next month, combines all my favourite things about games - play, interactivity, performance, cleverness, technology, participation. And yes, blowing things up. It's a redux oflast year's eventwhich was held in conjunction with the BFI, and featured a whole host of location-based gaming events including the first-person 'shooter'Cruel 2 B Kind(in which the ammo are compliments and collateral damage leaves the victims buoyant rather than dead).While the Festival isn't starting until the 26th June, if you happen to be near the Hayward Gallery in Londontoday, you can get on-site inspiration for a game design competition. The winning entry will be played alongside the 'Psycho Buildings' event. Design Entries are due by midnight on 6 June. If yours is the winner, you'll get a cool £1000 commission to develop it. From the release:In collaboration with The Hayward gallery, Hide and Seek are inviting interested designers, artists, architects and game-players to develop ideas for a game that can run within the Hayward's Psycho Buildings exhibition during the Hide and Seek Festival (26 - 29 June). Hide and Seek and the Hayward will then commission one idea with a £1000 budget, which will allow the winning team to develop their idea with the full support of both institutions.Those that want to enter can get inspiration for their game by coming along to the Sandpit #5 event on 30 May. The evening will be full of games that can be played both inside among the Psycho Buildings exhibition and on the outdoor terraces surrounding; incorporating everything from freeze games to treasure hunts, and giving game-players the chance to participate in the the newly devised The Lost Sport of Olympia, set to make its debut at the June 26 - 29 festival.If you'd like to join the competition, headhereand submit your ideas. The Sandpit event is purely for inspiration, so if you're not able to come along in person, you can still contribute:How to Participate1. Have an idea for a game. This can be anything: a board game on a vast scale, a videogame made real, a game version of a psychological experiment, a playful workshop, a collaborative art piece.2. Turn your idea into a plan for a game that you can run at the Psycho Buildings exhibition at the Hayward gallery on 29 June, and which visitors will be able to play in a self-guided fashion for the rest of the exhibition's run. The game should be suitable for families, and for the environment it's in. We recommend that you come along to the Psycho Buildings Sandpit at 7pm on 30 May, and get an idea of the exhibition itself and the way games work within it.3. Write up your game idea and email it to holly@hideandseekfest.co.uk by midnight Friday 6 June, one week after the Sandpit.More from Hide and Seek curator Alex Fleetwood next week.
Okay, not a very cerebral one this week. I mentioned yesterday that I recently visited Midway Newcastle to take a look at the surprisingly good driving shooter, Wheelman. While I was there we talked a little about forthcoming cross-over beat-'em-up,Mortal Kombat vs DC, which was surely inspired by Marvel vs Capcom. It's in development right now at Midway Chicago, and I was trying to find out if the game would include MK's infamous fatalities. Imagine, for example, ripping Robin's head off. Believe me, when I saw Chris O' Donnell in Batman Forever the thought was never far from my mind.Anyway, I stupidly signed an NDA so can't tell you what they said, but it did start me thinking about further fighting game/comic book crossovers. Which would be you like to see and why?Here are mine...Watchmen vs Fatal FuryTerry Bogard vs Rorschach! Mai Shiranui vs Sally Jupiter! Does this cheapen and demean Alan Moore's singular apocalyptic vision? You bet! Fight!Marvel 1602 vs Soul CaliburNeil Gaiman's Elizabethan re-imagining of the Marvel universe meets Namco's feisty pirate clan. "Doctor Stephen Strange, allow me to introduce Voldo... Fight!"Death Note vs Rival SchoolsVaguely related inter-school punch-up. I'm sort of running out of ideas already. Fight!
What's your favourite piece of technology?Our amazing glass-crushing machine at Wahaca.How has it improved your life?It means we can recycle the vast amount of bottles we use every day and compact them neatly in-house. It makes recycling them really easy and much cheaper.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Lots and lots of empty tequila bottles!What additional features would you add if you could?Well, if it could recycle plastic as well it would be really clever. Plastic is apparently much better for the environment than glass as it can transport goods much more effectively using a fraction of the weight, but it is very hard to recycle.  It would be amazing to add a plastic recycling section to it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I hope not. Unless people stop transporting wine and water in glass and use plastics instead.What's the one tip that you would give to people who don't own handy a glass-crushing machine?Get one! But make sure you have space for all the storage bins.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?It depends what you're talking about and who I'm talking to …What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?An Apple MacBook that was stolen from the restaurant when we first opened. So I'm now using a cheap PC laptop, but hope to go back to an Apple one day.PC or Mac?PC, though I have to say I am slowly being pulled towards the Apple and not only because it's my favourite fruit. Design is more and more important to me the older I get.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I currently have an album of Mexican tunes that a friend at AudioSushi made for me. I just love it ... it's particularly good with all this sunny weather.Will robots rule the world?Is this before or after the human race self-combusts?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A sound system that runs through every room in our new house, most of all in the kitchen.Thomasina Miers is head chef and co-owner of Mexican restaurantWahacain Covent Garden, London. She was crownedBBC MasterChefin 2005.
In aninterview with Eurogamerex-Sony head of development and now Infogrames president, Phil Harrison, has predicted the death of the single-player game:Alone in the Dark is a beautifully crafted single-player adventure game. I don't think the industry is going to make many more of those. I just don't think consumers want to be playing games that don't have some kind of network connectivity to them, or some kind of community embedded in them, or some kind of extension available through downloadable content.He says something similar inan interview with Gamasutratoo. What do you think? We've sort of covered this before - back in March I mentioned myapprehensions regarding a possible massively-multiplayer GTA. At the same time, I know that every time I load up CoD 4 intending to play through a few single player missions, I end up on the online mode for several hours. I went to see Midway's Wheelman last week, and it looks incredibly impressive, but I was surprised when they told me it's single-player only. Notdisappointed, just surprised. Because it is, as Harrison suggests, going against the accepted orthodoxy of game design in our hyper-connected culture.I think, though, that there is a disparity between consumer demand for multiplayer and consumeruseof multiplayer. Online modes can be a sort of interactive equivalent of DVD special features - the perceived value is many more times more important than the practical benefit.Think about Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Final Fantasy and, yes, GTA - the experiences provided by these games are fundamentally different to those sought through online multiplayer. They are controlled, choreographed narrative journeys - even co-op doesn't really work.It is still possible, amid the chaos of permanent social connection, to sit down alone and lose yourself in a book. It always will be. Playing co-op Resi would be like reading The Stand with someone trying to look at the book over your shoulder.And, lest we forget, Phil Harrison was the man who tried to claim rumble wasa last generation feature. It just happens that Atari is edging toward a casual social gaming model, just like Sony just happened to be effectively barred from employing rumble due to a legal wrangle with patent-holder,Immersion. Nine times out of ten, prophesy is agenda.
When was the last time you played a game with really cute bears in it? Wait, don't answer that, just take a look atBear Eraser, a great Bejeweled-esque browser game from Japanese developer,Charapal, filled with kawaii-tastic critters. Here are some instructions courtesy ofIndiegames.com:Bear Eraser is a matching game where tiles are only removed when the same pieces are adjacent to one another. Each tile has a number that will be deducted from the figure shown at the bottom left of the screen when they are clicked on.Clear enough tiles to advance one level and regain ten points of health. The game ends when this counter is reduced to zero. An orange gear icon with the number three written on it will appear occasionally, and can be used to click on three tiles consecutively without any penalties.It's a simplified block-sorting dynamic, but very compelling, and the visuals are lovely.
Earlier this week, I posted the YouTube version of Weezer'sPork and Beansmeme-themed pop video, though it didn't arouse much comment. However, it has been a hit. According toWired's Underwire:Since its Friday upload, "Pork and Beans" has amassed an impressive 3.5 million views on YouTube -- and that was even before its televised debut on MTV, which happened late Tuesday.It's now over 4 million, and it's the most viewed video of the week.Wired.com talked to the video's director, Mathew Cullen. It appears that they got all the memes together to shoot the video: it wasn't just CGI lip-synching or whatever. He says:It was very surreal. Everyone was talking about the effect that YouTube has had on their life and the differences between celebrity and web celebrity. I witnessed very intelligent conversations about what their place is in the fold, and pop culture entertainment, and what the rippling effects of what they've done and what their future holds.... They were all really fascinated with each other.The video is on YouTube on theWeezer channel, and there is "bonus content" to come. There's some already....
Back inJanuary, Asus revealed that it planned to release further products in the Eee PC family, including the E-DT (desktop PC), E-TV and E-Monitor (an all-in-one PC). Now IDG News reports on aSneak Peekof the desktop system. It says:The new desktop, dubbed Eee Box, is a white mini-PC about the size of a hardback book and will come with either a Linux or Windows XP OS. . Eee Box will come in a range of configurations, including a choice of hard drives from 80G bytes to 250G bytes in size, and allow users to surf the Internet wirelessly via 802.11n Wi-Fi.Again, there should be more news on Tuesday afterComputexopens in Taipei.
CNet UK has had a brief look at the newMSI Windnotebook, which they reckon is good -- "So good, in fact, that it could take the throne from the Asus Eee PC as the best mini laptop on the planet." The site says:The Wind will initially go on sale with a 10-inch, 1,024 x 600-pixel screen. This, it has to be said, is very, very good, since it doesn't use that awful reflective coating we saw on theHP 2133 Mini-Note. MSI also plans to ship a version of the Wind that uses an 8.9-inch display. They'll both use the same chassis, so expect the smaller version to have a large, unsightly bezel around the screen. . The Wind will ship in both Windows XP and SUSE Linux guises, with the XP version costing £329. Pricing on the Linux model isn't yet confirmed, but it'll be significantly cheaper, obviously.The Wind has a slightly larger screen than the 8.9-incher on the Asus Eee PC900, which Ireviewed in today's Technofile... but Asus also has a 10.1 inch screen version on the way. (They all seem to have the same resolution.) The Wind's battery life may also be better than the Asus, and then there's the keyboard. CNet says:Thekeyboarddoesn't seem quite as good as the one on the HP 2133 Mini-Note, but it's miles, miles better than the one on the Eee PC 900. MSI says it's pretty much the same keyboard used on its larger laptops -- and that's no bad thing.The keyboard is the my main problem with the Asus mini-notebooks, but of course, if you don't write and can't touch-type then it may not be a problem.Also see:Dell may offer a mini-notebook Inspiron
Google showed off the latest prototype of Android, its mobile phone platform. The last time I saw anything about Android, the hardware definitely lookedjust out of the lab. At CES earlier this year, Vincent Nguyen at Android Community said that the search giant asked people to "keep an open mindand instead concentrate on the OS' potential". Vincent says that the new prototype could easily be mistaken for a production model. Here's one of the videos Vincent captured at the demostration:Is Google's answer to the iPhonea little too close to the iPhone? It definitely shares a lot with the iPhone asCharlie Sorrel at Wiredpointed out including "Glass and chrome, a touch screen, a Webkit based browser, multiple desktops switched by sliding a finger across the screen and a four-icon dock for favorites."In some ways, this reminds me of tech after the original iMac launched; everything turned Bondi blue for a while. Now, every handset company now seems to be developing touch interfaces that bear an eerie resemblance to the iPhone. Will the iPhone feel all that distinctive by the end of the year?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Androidtechnorati tags end
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
News Corp's boss finally appeared at the D (All Things Digital) conference, possibly because he now owns it. He also owns its parent company, Dow Jones, which owns The Wall Street Journal and wsj.com. The D6 Highlights section hasa summary of the chat, plus a 6-minute video. There's also a better summary atBarron's, which Murdoch also owns.A big chunk of the talk is of particular interest to Wall Street Journal journalists, but Murdoch did opine on the Microsoft-Yahoo deal. Barron's says:On the Microsoft/Yahoo situation: I'm mystified. I can't understand the whole thing. Jerry Yang is a friend, but unfortunately, he only owns 5%. Someone offers a price which the vast majority of holders said give me quick. He managed to hold them off. He said it would take another few bucks -- basically another $8 billion. Microsoft decided to back off. That also mystifies you? "Absolutely." . What happens there now? I think they are going to find some other way. There is a deal ready for them to sign with Google. There is a real regulatory risk for everyone in this. It would be sad if they did a deal with Google and it got held up for 12 months, while Google continued to eat their lunch. Google is gushing money. You can see exactly why Microsoft is worried. Ballmer is not without ambition, they have huge amounts of money, but they see the danger of it turning on them.Murdoch also talks about My Space, which he owns:On Facebook vs. MySpace: I think that it is no longer true over last 6-12 months that you hear more about Facebook. By any measurement, we are 2-3x as big. There were 22 million uniques when we bought it, and now there are 120 million. We have twice as many uniques in this country by any public measurement. And users stay an hour a day longer. We're about personal expression, people reaching out, looking for other people, a true social network. In Iraq, all of those people were on MySpace, trying to find people to talk to in this country. Murdoch says 45% of MySpace users are over 35. 45% of all the mothers in America are on MySpace.Other topics include Hulu and Obama.....
An influx of cash for the Games for Health community was announced today, providing funds for serious games projects across the US. More than $2 million will be split amongst 12 research teams who aim to identify ways games can be used to increase positive health behaviours and outcomes. From the press release:This is the first round of grants to be awarded from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation through its Health Games Research national program, based at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB). Funded studies explore topics ranging from how motion-based games may help stroke patients progress faster in physical therapy to how people in substance abuse treatment can practice skills and behaviors in the virtual world to prevent real-world relapses.Today's press event was recorded live and you can see streaming audio of the announcement, plus the Q&amp;A with the first fundershere.
Yahoo chief executive Jerry Yang said on Wednesday that a potential merger with Microsoft has a "tremendous amount of power" but that valuation and issues beyond price have so far derailed a deal.Speaking at the D: All Things Digital conference of high-tech industry leaders, Yang publicly detailed his thinking about potential deals with Microsoft and rival Google.The Yahoo co-founder declined to comment on the status of current discussions with Microsoft, saying only "Microsoft has a lot of interest in buying the company, and we are listening."Earlier this month, Microsoft walked away from a proposal to acquire Yahoo for $47.5bn (£24.09bn), or $33 per share, after Yahoo rebuffed its offer, saying it would only settle for $37 a share.In an interview with technology reviewer Walt Mossberg, Yang said a merger with Microsoft would involve a variety of issues beyond price and discussions had never thoroughly explored such non-price hurdles, including regulatory issues.Yahoo president Susan Decker, appearing alongside Yang on stage, said that price had always been the biggest barrier to reaching agreement on a deal with Microsoft
I am a laryngectomee and cannot speak except with a Servox electronic gizmo. Do you know of any software that will instantaneously convert my keystrokes to spoken word with both reasonable volume and natural tone? Everything I read about text-to-speech seems to be about mobile phone SMS or dyslexia, and local computer stores are useless.Steve RowlandsText-to-speech (TTS) software is generally aimed either at providing access for blind and partially sighted users, or at reading texts aloud, and is already built into Windows (go to Start, select Run, and type narrator).Although there are dozens of Windows TTS programs (eg atdownload.comand atfiletransit.com), I suspect you'd do better withE-triloquist, which was "developed as a family project". It will speak what you type, but it also lets you assign up to 48 words or phrases to hotkeys. Pressing one key can therefore say "thank you" or "please wait a moment" or whatever. These phrases can be voice recordings, and the site says: "Dad found that his trumpet fanfares and assorted noises were quite valuable for getting the attention of a group." There's aYouTube videohere.Getting natural-sounding voices is another matter. Windows XP seems to come with Sam while Vista has Anna, but you can try a few others. E-triloquist works with Microsoft Agent voices, and some free ones are available. Among the commercial ones, E-triloquist mentions AT&amp;T Natural Voices and NeoSpeech Voices, which are both available fromNextUp.Backchat: Martin Saunders says he's been using a free Windows program calledNatural Reader, and reminds me that I'd previously recommended the old Lernout &amp; Hauspie voices, Michelle and Michael.
A few vertical parallel lines appeared on my Toshiba laptop screen. Now there are 15 lines about one inch apart!Brendan CaffreyConnect your laptop to an external monitor. I expect the image will be fine, which will indicate a faulty LCD screen. If the lines look like example 2 onLaptop Repair 101(above), then the screen will probably need to be replaced. Toshiba or an independent repairer should be able to estimate the cost. Searching eBay for completed transactions for your laptop will give you an idea what it's worth, and whether it's worth repairing.
How do I get to watch BBC Songs of Praise from Sunday April 27?Peter T JeffersYou don't, unless you are very lucky. The BBC makes programmes available via its iPlayer service (http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer), but only for seven days and only to people who live in the UK. Even someone who downloads a programme can only keep it for 30 days. Many TV programmes are available via BitTorrent file sharing, of course, and it's not hard to find popular American series. However, nobody seems to have seeded Songs of Praise: not even one featuringMica Paris.
Our Internet Explorer home page has changed to Ask.com and lists several porn sites in succession. I've tried everything, and the only thing that "worked" was to disable the add-on Ask. I still can't change the home page.Michele DillavouIt sounds as though you have fallen victim to a home page hijacker, either because you have missed a Windows Update or a hijacker has been installed with something else or by "social engineering" (where you were induced to click something without being informed what it would do). First, make sure you do not have the Ask toolbar installed. Restart your PC, close any browser windows, and run the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs applet. If there is an entry for the Ask.com Bar, click Change/Remove and uninstall it. Second, download and runSuperAntiSpyware, which will protect your home page setting. If that does not solve the problem, reboot in Safe Mode and try again.There is a free version of SuperAntiSpyware for home users.
Converted from an uninspiring PC original, we were hoping for better things on the Wii - sadly, it's not to be. This is a colourful and imaginative title, with six themed tables (including Medieval, Aquatic and Dino) and a good supply of secret bonuses and combos. But as with the original, what really kills this is poor physics. The flippers don't respond in a logical fashion and the ball mechanics feel unrealistic despite the user having six to choose from. The 3D camera angles also hinder more than they reveal. With so much potential for Wiimote flipping and a more physical approach to the genre, Dream Pinball feels like a rushed and somewhat lazy conversion.
The old TOCA series of (originally touring car-based) driving games remained steadfastly unfashionable despite its class, but this next-gen reinvention deserves to be a smash hit. Indeed, it goes some way towards justifying the existence of the next-gen consoles thanks to fearsome AI (drivers nudge you off and spin in front of you), incredible physics and damage engines and gloriously gritty graphics. Structurally, it establishes a new benchmark too. You start off as a driver for hire, taking on assignments in Europe, the US and Japan; soon, you have enough money to start your own team, and eventually you can employ another driver. You can rewind time for a short while (handy when you hit a kerb and take off), and all forms of motorsport are present, including endurance racing, open-wheel racing, drifting and "touge" street-racing (in Japan) and even stock cars. Makes the squeaky-clean, damage-free GT5: Prologue feel like Pole Position.
How easy is it to diagnose malaria? Prof Dave Newman of the University of Exeter has created a portable magneto-optical instrument to do the job in a minute. And, when his new method is fully refined, it may not even need a blood sample.Newman's expertise as a physicist involves materials for magneto-optical recordable discs. Used since the late 1980s, these rely on measuring a change in laser light reflected from magnetic media in different magnetic states.There's also a link between malaria, magnetism and light. Red blood cells are infected by the malarial parasite (Plasmodium) from female Anopheles mosquitoes. The oxygen-carrying haemoglobin is then digested by the parasite, forming haemozoin which exhibits properties of being attracted to magnetic fields.Some years ago, Newman had considered researching malaria diagnosis but was prevented by blood safety restrictions. Then he moved to the University of Exeter. "I went back to this idea and, by talking to a biologist friend of mine, I came to the conclusion that maybe it was possible to detect malaria by detecting the haemozoin by magneto-optics."Thanks to European Union funding, Newman and colleagues from Exeter and Coventry universities have now tested a prototype instrument at the Royal Tropical Institute in Amsterdam. Clinical trials are also planned in Kenya.It works like this. The parasite produces haemozoin in the form of rectangular rod-like crystals and, normally, the long axes point in random directions. "When you apply a [magnetic] field to them, they become magnetised and all orientate in the field direction," says Newman.The crystals also absorb polarised red laser light more strongly along their length than the width (optical dichroism). Put a blood sample into the instrument, apply a directional magnetic field, then a laser and photodetector take optical measurements proportional to the haemozoin concentration. "The intention is to produce something about the size of a shoe box which will be rugged enough to go out into the field," says Newman.Colin Sutherland is a senior lecturer at the London School of Tropical Medicine &amp; Hygiene and a clinical scientist at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases. He says that malaria is usually identified with a microscope or by antigen diagnostic kits which may not be too reliable. "This particular test looks very exciting," he says. "The fact that it's rapid is great but it will, of course, need to be emphasised for a test to be usable by a malaria control programme in Africa, it must be affordable and portable."Newman is researching a prototype which doesn't use a blood sample. Instead, he envisages putting a finger inside a box within a magnetic field, shining a laser beam onto a fingernail, and taking an optical reading from the blood beneath.
On the road againIt would be very surprising if Fraser Speirs did not find an improvement in fuel consumption after he has changed cars (Fuel costs 16p per mile. Why? May 22), but this will have little to do with the hybrid technology in the Toyota Prius and everything to do with the fact that it is a much smaller vehicle than his previous car, a Renault Espace. The only way you can use the Prius to carry seven people is to halve two of them! Even allowing for the difference in size, the savings may be less than expected.Hybrid technology which relies on regenerative braking is at its best in stop-start motoring, but on the open road, the electric motors and other additional hardware are just extra weight being dragged around. Depending on the nature of the driving to be done, the 25mpg difference between the government's figures for the Espace and the Prius may turn out to be rather smaller in practice.Tim Lidbetter,Kingston-on-ThamesSo fuel costs 16p per mile. Why? Because well over 10p of this is taxation. If our goverment so wished, it could reduce the cost of motoring at a stroke. But I suspect that fuel price taxation is a means of pricing the motorist off the road.Alan Ruthven,via emailI fail to see how a Toyota Prius gets 55mpg or even 65.7mpg with such a heavy vehicle with a 1.5 litre engine, especially on the open road. Even with gentle driving, I find it difficult to get 50mpg in a Ford Ka, and my previous 1.4-litre Citroen AX Diesel would do 65mpg at the most. Oh yes, and how much for a new set of batteries?Des Walsh,DublinLinux is not just Ubuntu"In a future undominated by Windows, Ubuntu hopes to be the provider of a service ecosystem for free software," says the blurb for your interview with Mark Shuttleworth ('Linux is a platform for people, not just specialists', May 22). There are several Linux companies - Mandriva, for example - which already provide services around free software, and do better than break even, they make a profit.So while Mark Shuttleworth has done a very laudable thing, and his company produces a good quality Linux distribution, there are others who already do what he proposes to do with his.Tracyanne Barlow,via emailHTML spoken hereHaving just read one of the worst articles on "programming" I have ever had the misfortune to come across (Programming is destroying my capacity for reflective thought, May 22) I feel, sadly, compelled to write to complain. I am guessing from the content of the article that Mr Brown is what might be politely termed a "hobbyist" programmer at best, who does not have full command or knowledge of the language he is using.So, rather than struggle through making incremental changes in the vain hope of finding the "magic" solution I would suggest Mr Brown spends some time learning about the tool he is using and try to understand why it works the way it does. Should Mr Brown want a guide to software development or "programming" from a professional viewpoint, I would be very pleased to oblige.Jacob Lester,IT Director, Research Together LtdHomage to Spinal Tap?I noticed today that the audio control on the BBC News [site's] embedded Flash player goes up to 11. Coincidence?Oliver Dann,Haywards HeathCheap tricksYour article on the Huawei broadband modem dongle (Technophile, May 15) states that &pound;10 will buy you 1GB of downloads on a pay-as-you-go basis. The fact that this is only valid for 30 days with 3 is an important detail - and makes this deal something other than simple pay-as-you-go, in my opinion. Vodafone only offers the dongle on a &pound;15 per month contract basis. I guess it all depends what you think "cheap" means.Colin Hall,Dundee&#183;Write to: Letter,  Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Sadly, no. In the US, Microsoft is experimenting with ways to make it financially advantageous for people to use its Live Search engine. Microsoft is not going to give you any money. But what it will do is credit your Cashback account with a discount on some of the things you buy via Live Search: it's much like using a cashback credit card."Microsoft Live Search Cashback" is really a sort of affiliate scheme. Most bloggers must be familiar with this approach, because it's used by big companies such as Amazon. The idea is that if someone buys a product via your site, you get a percentage of the deal. This enables a vendor to reach customers on millions of websites, not just the ones who visit their home site. With thesearch.live.com/cashbackservice, Microsoft is, in essence, passing on the affiliate fee (or other promotional discount) instead of pocketing it.Advertisers like the affiliate approach because it enables them to work on a "cost per action" (CPA) basis. They don't have to pay for millions of page views (where the user might not even notice their advert) or for thousands of clicks (which rarely lead to a sale). They only pay when they get a result.Of course, the deal doesn't make much if any money for Microsoft. In the beginning, the best it can hope for is to build good relationships with suppliers that will lead to more traditional advertising. But since Microsoft basically doesn't make much, if any, money on the web, it doesn't have much to lose.It also seems unlikely to make much impact on Microsoft's small and declining share of the web search market - which was, after all, why it was prepared to bid $44.6bn (&pound;22.6bn) for Yahoo. Google users may very well spend days researching their purchases on Google and only two minutes on Live Search, to see if they can get their discount.But if the idea takes off, it could be bad news for Google. In the example cited, Google will have borne the cost of the user's product searches, and then failed to get any payback because the payload - the purchasing clicks - went to Live Search.Currently, Google makes huge piles of cash by selling adverts against almost the entire content of the web, which Google has done nothing to create. It's not about to go bust. However, implicit in the Cashback idea is that there could be ways to make Google less profitable in the future. On TechCrunch, Michael Arrington described it as "a bold move that goes for Google's throat". More accurately, it goes for its wallet.
In the real world, overpopulation is a serious concern. The 6.6 billion people on this planet are draining natural resources, and in all areas - except Europe, apparently - the problem is expected to get worse in the next half-decade. In online worlds, however, overpopulation is more of a goal than a crisis.While Blizzard's unstoppable World of Warcraft (WoW) has seen an exponential growth in its subscriber base since 2004 - it now rests at around 10 million - two of its closest rivals, Lineage and Lineage II, have much smaller (1 million each) user bases. And most of the other notably successful Massively Multiplayer Online games (MMOs) plateau at (and slowly decline from) the 200,000 to 500,000 mark. In these worlds, people don't use the resources - they are the resources, and if their attention drifts, the virtual world tends to languish.Going back to WoWSome of this can be attributed to WoW's success. The game's critical esteem and massive subscriber-base promise a very consistent and well-maintained MMO experience, so it's little surprise that when a smaller MMO's subscriber-base declines, WoW's inflates. "We see a lot of MMOs like that, where they get two-to-three months of a good reaction, and then their player-base disappears," says Flying Lab Software chief executive Russell Williams. "Where? Well ... they go back to WoW!"For the majority of MMOs released after WoW, this rings true. After being released in 2006, Turbine's hyped and well-reviewed Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online declined from 90,000 subscribers to 50,000 within a few months. A year later, SOE's Vanguard: Saga of Heroes lost 80,000 subscribers after its 120,000 peak in a similar amount of time. Other big-budget MMOs - 2006's Auto Assault, notably - can't even garner enough users to keep running for more than a year.Is this simply because WoW is better than everything else on offer? Perhaps, but Williams believes it's actually because the market is too homogenised. As chief of Flying Lab's new MMO, Pirates of the Burning Sea, Williams is striving to introduce a new and original experience into the market (pirates and naval combat), because he sees that as the key to success. "When we started," he reveals, "we thought, 'Hmm, you know, there's a lot of fantasy out right now, and there's more coming.' And we wanted to do something a little bit different to what everybody else was doing. Unless you're going to go head-to-head with WoW - which is a crazy strategy - you'll invariably lose. You're always following, because odds are there's somebody who's been doing it even longer than you, with more money at their disposal. Do something fresh, and you can be the right product at the right time."Pirates has only been live for several months, so subscription figures aren't a reliable indicator as to whether the game is going to float, but they're certainly extremely promising. As for Williams' philosophy? Results are mixed. City of Heroes, Second Life and slow-but-steady EVE Online all support the notion that different approaches to the MMO formula - in this case, superhero mythology, social sandbox mechanics, and economically driven sci-fi, respectively - lead to greater distinguishability and commercial presence.These titles have around 100,000 to 200,000 active subscribers each, and while that's certainly not going to be impacting WoW's sales anytime soon, it's enough to keep the  developers in the black. For other leftfield efforts - The Sims Online, The Matrix Online, and, again, Auto Assault - being different has led to buyer confusion and commercial failure.Still, despite these high-profile catastrophes, many agree with Williams. For example, Raph Koster, lead designer of Ultima Online (the first mainstream MMO), Star Wars Galaxies and others. "If I could give any advice to a startup MMO developer," he laughs, "it would be: 'Stay the heck away from building another WoW!' One of the interesting things that's happened to the market is that we've had many, many WoW-style games, and the gameplay hasn't evolved dramatically. It's been streamlined, but it hasn't changed anything fundamentally. And one of the things we really don't want in this market is having it come to being a battle of polish. That's a bad place to be."So how do you do that to WoW? It's a very difficult challenge, because they spend so much time, and so much money, getting it to that stage where it's going to cost you as a competitor a lot just to achieve parity. And even then, that might not mean you succeed, so you've basically set a giant pile of money on fire."Koster contends that back when the market was smaller, and its two biggest players were Ultima Online and EverQuest - similar in theme, radically different in gameplay - a greater level of diversity was permitted in new MMOs. "But now," he laments, "the vast majority of the market is held by the EverQuest/WoW-style games. Large budgets aren't going to other sorts of virtual worlds, and there are a lot of other sorts of virtual worlds to be made. And after seeing the market failure of Jumpgate or Auto Assault, or any of these more niche-targeted games, it breeds conservatism. So if I were going to give advice to a developer, I would say: why don't you make a truly kickass virtual world environment - make it a game or whatever it is, but make it something else. Bring in a new market!"Undocumented millionsInterestingly, there is a massive MMO market that's largely undocumented by the mainstream press - browser-based online worlds such as Dofus, MapleStory, and RuneScape all have playerbases that number in the millions. And given the low-cost, high-convenience nature of these games (from both the developers' and players' perspectives), there's much less overhead than with their retail peers. Koster, motivated by the huge success of these smaller worlds, has created his own solution: Metaplace, a service that facilitates both the creation and online publication of user-made virtual worlds."Metaplace is designed so that virtual worlds can become essentially ubiquitous," he says. "They can go on any webpage; anyone can set up a virtual world on their own, so they can really become part of the daily fabric of the web. And so some of the hopes there are is that when we do that, we will get greater diversity, and more variety, and we'll explore new kinds of gameplay and social play."We have a markup language that is our equivalent to HTML, and just like HTML, anyone can write a browser for it that is a client. And different clients can in fact render the virtual world in different ways. So, you could have a mobile client, and a first-person 3D client. Then we have a generic server that doesn't make assumptions about what kind of virtual world is running there. It might be a WoW, it might be A Tale in the Desert, it might even be Tetris. And sitting on top of all this is a YouTube-style service that indexes, rates, and reviews all the worlds, and you can log into them from that website."If nothing else, Koster's service allows users fed up with WoW's dominance the chance to have a go at it themselves. Having only been a part of our cultural fabric since 1997, the MMO as a concept is quite young. Ultimately, subscribers will decide which approach to online world design is most compelling.As the market expands, it's increasingly likely that there will always be a single dominant MMO distantly ahead of the rest - simply because the social nature of MMOs requires large numbers of players, and players will naturally gravitate towards the world with the highest population. But as shown above, that's hardly a sign that other worlds won't prosper. Just don't hold your breath for an overpopulation crisis.
Microsoft surprised a few people last week by announcing that it would add full support for the rival Open Document Format to Office 2007. Support for ODF, Adobe PDF and Microsoft's XPS will feature in Office's Service Pack 2, expected next year. Users will be able to set ODF as the native format for reading and writing documents.Focusing on what customers need, Microsoft is supporting ODF 1.1, which isn't an ISO standard, and says it will support version 1.2, which is expected to become the next standard. In addition, Microsoft will join the Oasis ODF technical committee, and the AIIM (Association for Information and Image Management) committee, which is preparing PDF 1.7 for ISO standardisation. It is also working with Ecma to make XPS an open standard. (XPS is built into Windows Vista.)Of course, Microsoft already supports ODF - which was originally developed as part of Open Office, aka Sun's Star Office - in Microsoft Office, via its sponsorship of open source translators. This effort will continue, for three reasons. First, the translators will still be used by earlier versions of Microsoft Office. Second, they can be used by other software developers to enhance their own applications. Third, Microsoft wants Office users to have a choice of ways to save ODF files. If they don't like Microsoft's native implementation, they can use the open source translator, or Sun's ODF Plugin for Microsoft Office.We're therefore heading for a situation where both Microsoft Office and Open Office can save files in both ODF and Microsoft's Office Open XML (OOXML), both ISO-approved standards. As Jerry Fishenden, Microsoft UK's national technology officer, said: "People can now use the office supplier of their choice with the file format of their choice without some of the emotional debate." Obviously, Microsoft thinks it can win if power, productivity, accessibility and backwards-compatibility are considered: ie, value for money, not just price. As Microsoft's Office interoperability expert, Gray Knowlton, wrote onhis blog: "From a pragmatic standpoint, adding ODF to Office allows us to refocus Office on product capabilities rather than a debate about file formats."But there's more to it than that. By opening up and standardising its Office file formats, Microsoft is responding to pressure from the European Commission's anti-trust regulators and, for example, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which are in favour of standardisation on principle. (So am I, and have been for decades. I don't use, and never have used, Microsoft's doc format.)Whether this will deflect the EC's anti-Microsoft "not a vendetta" is another matter. As Clare Boothe Luce observed: "No good deed goes unpunished." Whether it will also deflect what independent XML expertRick Jelliffehas called "the rabid anti-OOXML misinformation campaign" is also another matter. It has been, frankly, disgusting. Since IBM was busy adding OOXML support to products, some of it also looks hypocritical.But I shall miss sarcastically agreeing with the gullibles who trot out the "One Document Standard" slogan, ignoring PDF, HTML, RTF and more? Yes, there should only be one ISO standard, and that one was adopted in 1989 (ISO 8613 Open Document Architecture). "So," I reply, "why do we need ODF? We already have an ISO document standard that hardly anyone uses."Trying to beat people up with an ISO stick is pathetic. It's no substitute for giving customers a viable choice.
Battle of the Bands jumps on the Rock Band/Guitar Hero bandwagon and attempts to bring the music genre to the Wii. Sadly, waving a Wiimote is no match for strumming a plastic guitar. The gameplay will be instantly familiar to any guitar hero - simply hit the correct chord on cue. And with tunes from Soundgarden to Black Eyed Peas there should be something for everyone. But the real hook here is the variety of musical styles - country, Latin etc - with marching band being the cheesy highlight. Each song can be played in the different styles and the musical mashup is initially entertaining. Keep time and you can launch an attack on your opponent. Successful assaults will make it harder for your adversary to stay in tune, allowing you to romp home. That's if you can be bothered, of course. Fatigue soon sets in - hitting the notes is surprisingly tiring - and boredom soon follows. Battle of the Bands is a one-hit wonder at best.
Censorship in China was one of the "opportunities" seen by network router corporation Cisco Systems, according to a presentation leaked just before ahearingof the US Senate Subcommittee on Human Rights. The document (a series of slides from 2002) describes in part the Chinese government's Golden Shield project. One slide lists its goals of stopping network crime, guaranteeing security and services, and to "combat 'Falun Gong' evil religion and other hostiles". The next slide notes "Cisco Opportunities" in planning, construction, training and operational maintenance (seePDF of Cisco presentation).There has been a longstanding controversy over western corporations collaborating with censorship by authoritarian regimes. Cisco Systems in particular has facedaccusations of providing custom hardwarefor the "Great Firewall of China", charges it has repeatedly denied. So any new evidence of an association between Cisco and China censorship will reopen suspicions about its possible role in enabling repression.But too much emphasis on investigating the worst possible case can be a distraction. In testimony, Mark Chandler, senior vice-president and general counsel of Cisco, said: "Cisco, however, has not and does not design products to accommodate political censorship. The tools built into our products that enable site filtering are the same the world over, whether sold to governments, companies or network operators."And the irony of his statement is that to the extent it matters, he's right. That is, whether or not there was ever a special order of censorship machines is a historical curiosity. That question holds on to the view that mass-censorship requires equipment which is extraordinary, atypical, specially made for foreign dictatorships. It would be comforting to believe it wouldn't be like what's used in democracies. But, as Cisco's executive says himself, censorware is "the same the world over".The tools sold for companies to control workers serve equally well for governments to combat "evil religion". And all can be a lucrative market. So it's understandable that a civil liberties firestorm was created by the revelation of a company viewing government censorship as merely one more customer use case. But from a different angle, what did people expect?For more than a decade, censorware has been promoted as a way for authorities to restrict the information available to people under their control.Those prohibitions have been argued to be a market opportunity. However, what's regarded as legitimate authority among parents, employers, or governments, is a social question, not a technological distinction. In reaction to what democracies regard as illegitimate information prohibitions, there have been calls in the US for legislation to restrict corporate sales of technology to governments which have extensive records of violating human rights. The hearing above was even titled Global Internet Freedom: Corporate Responsibility and the Rule of Law. But it's a very complex topic. Businesses based in other countries could rush in to capture the China censorship market, or China's own networking industry might step in.This is not to claim that no action could be useful. Indeed, the publicity generated by various proposed corporate responsibility laws has raised awareness of the issues. If nothing else, widespread knowledge of how censorware is used in repressing dissent provides moral support for the development and dissemination of anti-censorware systems (in which the difference between uses for politics and for pornography is similarly a social question, and not a technological distinction). Further, scandals where corporations are shown to be working with government censors indicate that battles over internet censorship can be big business. Which then means that the subject is taken far more seriously than shouting matches between activists and moralists.Moreover, large amounts of money changing hands are a good indication that at least one party is willing to devote extensive resources towards achieving the goal (ie, internet censorship of a country). There's a famous quote by John Gilmore dismissing the possibility of censoring the internet: "The net interprets censorship as damage, and routes around it." But what if censorship is in the router? With Cisco's actions, we can now see censorship being sold literally in the routers.sethf.com/infothought/blog
When the UK won its bid for the 2012 Olympic Games, Tony Blair was jubilant - but he probably little thought that he was shackling the City of London, the UK's top money earner, by denying it access to the national grid.How? Put simply, demand for the cabling to provide power for the computer centres the industry relies upon has outstripped supply. The City has been told there can be no more computer centres until after the Games.Before the Olympics was factored in, the picture was bleak; add the sports jamboree, and a system that was creaking has almost come to a halt. Despite massive demand, within the past two years only two data centres - Stockley Park and an extension to Telehouse - have been given the go-ahead by EDF Energy, which supplies power to the south-east of England.The City of London has a power demand of 1,000MW which is expected to rise by 80% over the next 5-7 years, while the Docklands has a power demand of 250MW, which is expected to rise by 90% over the same period. Many companies claim that political prioritisation has occurred aimed at ensuring the Games' success and risking the success of the UK's finance sector."People in the data-centre industry are saying that they have been told the Olympics are going to get priority for power infrastructure," said Steve Wallage, managing director of data centre analysts BroadGroup. "We've been trying to get power elsewhere but we are being told by EDF that they've got to find out what the power needs of the Olympics are," said Alex Rabbetts, managing director of Migration Solutions.The power demands of the Olympics are not yet known, according to the London organising committee. "A study to assess the overall Games' power demand is currently being undertaken by LOCOG and the ODA." According to industry rumours, the Olympics is likely to need 400MW and will generate its own power.Olympic-sized problemsThe problem is the sheer size of the Olympic project, which needs more than 100km of electrical cabling and the building of more than 100 substations, which is bleeding the UK of the scant specialist labour that can put in the infrastructure."EDF don't have the ability to physically upgrade the network and provide the system for the Olympics," said Ian Bitterlin, international sales director for the power company Chloride. "There is a nationwide shortage of electrical engineers because it is not a fashionable job."But rumours still abound about EDF refusing to provide new connections to the grid - rumours denied by the government and the power company. "The Olympics are a key priority, but not at the expense of other sectors of the economy," said a spokesman for the Department for Culture Media and Sport.Still, the power supplies for the Olympics are going in and power in the Docklands and the City is not. The situation is so dire that at Data Centres Europe, a conference organised by BroadGroup in London last month, one City data centre manager asked delegates if they knew influential people in EDF so that he could "jump the queue" of companies waiting to be told that they will get access to power."The reasons for the power shortage range from the Olympics to the need to upgrade the system generally," said Chris Crosby, vice-president of Digital Realty, the largest provider of data centres in the world. "There is the potential now for London to go technology-dry because of the lack of power. If you add in the mayor's office's proposals on CO2 emissions, soon there could be no data centres in London." A spokesman for new London mayor Boris Johnson said that the administration was still "bedding in" and had yet to take a position on the power infrastructure demands of the Olympics or CO2 plans.No power to the peopleThose companies that are not bound by regulations to stay close to the financial markets are moving either outside of the M25, or further afield to Birmingham, the north of England or the Isle of Man, while others are leaving the country.Nonessential computing functions such as backups are being moved away, everything else is on short rations. "In Europe over 85% of those that have revenues over &euro;1bn(&pound;796m) now have two data centres; some have more," said Crosby. "One issue is the shortage of power and the expense of it because of connection costs, another is the sheer length of time it takes to sort power out if you do find somewhere. In London everything takes 8-12 months longer than anywhere else."As a result of the power-connection crunch, companies wishing to expand their data centres in the Docklands and the City have been told by EDF that there can be no more data centres. A spokesman for EDF said: "We  advise all our customers to give us as much advance notice as possible as soon as they are aware that their power needs are going to increase significantly."Telehouse, which is currently running the computer network for the Beijing Olympics, has been allowed to expand. It is also, coincidentally, to supply the server space for the 9,000-plus servers that will be needed for the 2012 Olympics."We have got short-term capacity and long-term capacity," said Bob Harris, Telehouse's Technical Services director. "We have been talking to EDF since 2001." According to him, once the Olympics is catered for, there will still be space for another 20,000 servers for business."The only problem with that is that it's a drop in the ocean in terms of the demand," said Migration Solutions' Rabbetts, who provides server space to big business. "One of our clients, a household name in the UK, has three 12,000 server sites alone."
PC to speak for meI am a laryngectomee and cannot speak except with a Servox electronic gizmo. Do you know of any software that will instantaneously convert my keystrokes to spoken word with both reasonable volume and natural tone? Everything I read about text-to-speech seems to be about mobile phone SMS or dyslexia, and local computer stores are useless.Steve RowlandsJS:Text-to-speech (TTS) software is generally aimed either at providing access for blind and partially sighted users, or at reading texts aloud, and is already built into Windows (go to Start, select Run, and type narrator). Although there are dozens of Windows TTS programs (atdownload.comand atfiletransit.com), I suspect you'd do better withE-triloquist, which was "developed as a family project". It will speak what you type, but it also lets you assign up to 48 words or phrases to hotkeys. Pressing one key can therefore say "thank you" or "please wait a moment" or whatever. These phrases can be voice recordings, and the site says: "Dad found that his trumpet fanfares and assorted noises were quite valuable for getting the attention of a group." There's aYouTube videohere. Getting natural-sounding voices is another matter. Windows XP seems to come with Sam while Vista has Anna, but you can try a few others. E-triloquist works with Microsoft Agent voices, and some free ones are available. Among the commercial ones, E-triloquist mentions AT&amp;T Natural Voices and NeoSpeech Voices, which are both available fromNextUp.Take 15 linesA few vertical parallel lines appeared on my Toshiba laptop screen. Now there are 15 lines about one inch apart!Brendan CaffreyJS:Connect your laptop to an external monitor. I expect the image will be fine, which will indicate a faulty LCD screen. If the lines look like example 2 onLaptop Repair 101, then the screen will probably need to be replaced. Toshiba or an independent repairer should be able to estimate the cost. Searching eBay for completed transactions for your laptop will give you an idea what it's worth, and whether it's worth repairing.We don't have ParisHow do I get to watch BBC Songs of Praise from Sunday April 27?Peter T JeffersJS:You don't, unless you are very lucky. The BBC makes programmes available via itsiPlayer service, but only for seven days and only to people who live in the UK. Even someone who downloads a programme can only keep it for 30 days. Many TV programmes are available via BitTorrent file sharing, of course, and it's not hard to find popular American series. However, nobody seems to have seeded Songs of Praise: not even onefeaturing Mica Paris.Ask without askingOur Internet Explorer home page has changed to Ask.com and lists several porn sites in succession. I've tried everything, and the only thing that "worked" was to disable the add-on Ask. I still can't change the home page.Michele DillavouJS:It sounds as though you have fallen victim to a home page hijacker, either because you have missed a Windows Update or a hijacker has been installed with something else or by "social engineering" (where you were induced to click something without being informed what it would do). First, make sure you do not have the Ask toolbar installed. Restart your PC, close any browser windows, and run the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs applet. If there is an entry for the Ask.com Bar, click Change/Remove and uninstall it. Second, download and run SuperAntiSpyware, which will protect your home page setting. If that does not solve the problem, reboot in Safe Mode and try again.BackchatGareth Brown wanted a "paperless home". David Widgery says: "I too started with Visioneer PaperPort and still use an early version with my scanner, but its OCR [optical character recognition] and search functions were too slow and unwieldy. Then I discovered FineReader, a fast and efficient OCR application that will read common image files and output to Word, Excel or PDF formats. A kilogramme of random paper from my files occupies about 37MB. My laptop now contains the contents of several filing cabinets, which I can access much more efficiently using Google Desktop Search."Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Asus is now selling a new version of its hit mini-notebook with a bigger 8.9 inch screen and Microsoft Windows XP installed. Both were things I've wanted since I first reported the UK unveiling of the Linux-based 7-inch Eee PC in October. Sadly, I didn't get the third thing I wanted: a better keyboard. Still, people who don't depend on fast touch-typing, or who have small fingers, may find it's good enough.Until you open it up, the PC900 - which retails at &pound;329 - looks identical to the original PC700. However, once you get it going, the bigger screen - which measures 7.7 by 4.5 inches - makes a big difference. Running Windows XP, you get 1024 by 600 pixels in 32-bit colour. This is wide enough for sites such as Guardian.co.uk and Yahoo without sideways scrolling, though of course, there's not much depth. (The original Eee PC shipped with an 800 by 480 pixel screen.)Windows XP Home SP2 loaded from power-on in about 35 seconds, and performance was generally snappy with the 900MHz Intel Celeron (no Atom, yet) and 1GB of memory (up from 512MB). My PC900 came preloaded with Microsoft Works, Sun's Star Suite 8 (based on Open Office), Skype, and a mini DVD player. There was still 1.6GB free on the C drive (ie, the 4GB of Flash memory on the motherboard) and 6.3GB free on D (an 8GB mini-card), making 8GB free in all.Other features include a much improved Elantech multi-touch pad (for zooming and scrolling), 1.3 megapixel camera, better speakers, 802.11b/g Wi-Fi and wired Ethernet, an SD card slot, external monitor port and three usable USB ports, so it trounces an Apple Air.The USB ports come in handy if, like me, you already have lots of Windows peripherals such as external DVD writers, card readers and hard drives. These also solve the problem of loading Windows-only software onto a "driveless" PC.On the downside, I found the PC900 tended to tip over easily, presumably due to the weight of the screen. It can be annoying if you use it on your knees. Also, battery life seems somewhat poor. I was getting just over 2 hours, with Wi-Fi switched on. I'd need at least one extra battery, at around &pound;45.Still, you expect some compromises with ultraportable PCs, and while the PC900 is more expensive than the 2GB PC700, many users will find the extra features justify the extra cost. It's a great second PC for travellers and students, or a starter machine for kids.Pros:Small and light; great screen; nippy; a good value portableCons:Small keyboard, tends to tip over; disappointing battery lifeeeepc.asus.com
Books are one of the oldest industries, yet they have been hardly affected by the digital revolution. Publishers just go on commissioning and editing them in their own sweet time as if nothing had happened. In an age when your blog could be out of date in minutes, publishers seem happy to leave months, even years, between the manuscript being presented and going on sale. The curious thing is that it doesn't seem to be doing them any harm at all. UK book sales have risen in volume every year for the past five years, including a 6% increase last year. No wonder book publishers are not baying about illegal downloads like the film and music industries.There may even be a link between digitisation and the onward march of books. The pain of reading on screen may be increasing the joy of enjoying books in their centuries-old format. I recently read an entire volume on my laptop: an excruciating experience. It involved holding the machine at different angles to prevent my neck from creaking while trying to manipulate the two keys needed to move to the next screen and regularly having to press another key to rekindle the backlight. Never again. It is an altogether better experience to read books on a dedicated device such as Sony's e-reader, Amazon's Kindle or the more versatile Linux-based iLiad. They can be read easily in bright sunlight, the print size can be increased and you can download a new tome when you have finished an old one. But they are too expensive and have been slow to catch on in the UK.Unlike publishing, book distribution has been revolutionised by Amazon and abebooks.com, one of the sites that sells old books and has given a lifeline to secondhand bookshops that can now trade on the internet. It has also greatly reduced the chances of coming across an unexpected bargain because bookshop managers can see what others are charging online.Books have also been slow to form Facebook-style communities, even though what you read is often the biggest thing you have in common with others. This is now changing, but is still a bit of a minority sport. When I last wrote about it a year ago,librarything.comwas the market leader with only 200,000 members whilegoodreads.comhad only 125,000. Goodreads has now moved decisively ahead of librarything andshelfariwith more than a million members according to alexa.com. This is huge growth compared with a year ago but small beer compared with the number of people reading books. Some 51% of Goodreads members are in the US with only 3% in the UK and, curiously, 17% in Iran. These sites are really good even if you only use their basic function of cataloging the books you are reading complete with ratings: you simply type in the first few words of the title and everything is pulled up including a cover picture from a database. You can also see what your friends are reading or form local groups.You don't have to read a book to enjoy it: you can have it read to you. The market leader by an unhealthy distance isaudible.com, now owned by Amazon. When I last inquired, it had more than 90% of the market, which may help to explain why its prices are so high in a digital age when the cost of producing extra copies is almost zero. Khaled Hosseini's excellent A Thousand Splendid Suns costs $28 at audible, far more than for a paperback. It badly needs fresh competition of the kind thatsilksoundbooks.comprovides, where you can download Julie Christie reading Madame Bovary (admittedly out of copyright) for &pound;7.95. If that is too much then you can download a text-only version of out-of-copyright books at the venerablegutenberg.org, which now claims 3m downloads a month. The current best seller (or rather non-seller) is volume one of The Outline of Science by J Arthur Thomson, followed by the first volume of the Manual of Surgery. Who said the internet was all about dumbing down?vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
The internet is currently unpoliced. The nearest it has to a governing body is the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) of stakeholders - carriers, ISPs, academics, civil society, governments and international organisations - which is more like a parliament than an executive.The IGF meets once a year and deals with topics such as: openness (the free flow of ideas and information); security (protecting users and networks); e-criminals (child abusers etc); cultural and linguistic diversity; and issues of access, particularly in the developing world. It takes no votes and makes no decisions but advises bodies that run the internet day-to-day, such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann).The IGF was set up in 2005. At this time, there were several sets of would-be lawmen, all with very different ideas of how the internet should be governed.Some, such as the US, saw the internet as too fast-moving, amorphous and international to be able to police properly or bureaucratically. Other governments, such as China, disagreed. They recognised the economic benefits of the internet, but wanted to build great firewalls around their countries, which were censored mercilessly.Many countries, particularly developing nations, were unhappy that the US had so much online clout. They saw Icann, originally set up as an offshoot from the US Department of Commerce, as a tool of western colonialism. They wanted to see it administered by the United Nations in a top-down fashion.Time for a changeThe clash between these various attitudes came to a head at a fractious UN-backed World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis in 2005, which was called to deal with the digital divide between the internet-rich and internet-poor countries of the world.Kofi Annan, then secretary general of the UN, conceded that although the US had exercised its internet oversight "fairly and honourably, a change was necessary" - that is, to spread the governance across the world. However, he made it clear that the UN itself had no desire to "control or police the internet".Most countries breathed a sigh of relief, because UN bureaucracy would have induced instant paralysis. Nick Thorne, a diplomat at the Tunis summit, said the IGF was devised as "a fix to stop the bad guys controlling the internet". It would also make the internet less-US-centric. All parties accepted this compromise, albeit reluctantly.The first IGF meeting was in October 2006 in Athens, and the second in November 2007 in Rio de Janeiro. In December this year, it will meet in Hyderabad, India.  In Athens, there was much national posturing and grandstanding in the plenary sessions. Not much was achieved. However, at Rio, the 1,600 delegates avoided the plenaries but attended the workshops, which dealt with matters like the sexual abuse of children, the infrastructure of an expanding internet, overcoming digital exclusion, and helping less-developed countries build up their internets.Malcolm Harbour, a delegate from the European Parliament, found that the best thing to come out of Rio was that people from different countries engaged with one another, and realised that models of competition and structure were not necessarily relevant.Perhaps because the IGF is a rather British-style compromise, the UK internet community takes it very seriously. The British delegation to Rio was among the largest, and unlike other countries, included several parliamentarians, among them Alun Michael - who, as minister at the DTI, led the UK delegation to the Tunis summit in 2005.He put forward the idea of forming "dynamic coalitions" of stakeholders from different countries to solve internet problems. In 2007 at Rio, for example, the UK children's charity NCH got in touch with Amnesty International to explore the conflict that sometimes occurs between child protection and free speech.Michael is beefing up the British contribution to the IGF still further by creating a UK IGF. His aim is to attract a wider set of UK stakeholders - particularly from industry - to work together to make the internet a safer place, and to participate in the Hyderabad forum. To stimulate interest in the forum, the UK internet domain name registry, Nominet, is sponsoring a Best Practice Challenge for UK companies, with an awards ceremony in July. In the autumn, the UK forum will come together to decide on a stance for Hyderabad.ThinktankEmily Taylor of Nominet, who sits on the IGF's advisory board, believes that "national IGFs give the opportunity for the grassroots in each country to contribute to what otherwise would be rather rarified and sterile discussions at the annual IGF jamborees". This will turn the IGF from a "talking shop" into a "thinktank".She wants to attract the people who are "actually doing the internet", to achieve and disseminate practical results before the IGF's five-year term runs out and its work is evaluated. This approach is attracting attention in other countries and Taylor has been invited to present a joint workshop on these local processes with colleagues from Brazil, Finland and France at Hyderabad. The European parliament, which sent five MEPs to Rio, is also supportive.Taylor believes that the IGF is already having an effect on Icann, and the other bodies involved in the governance of the internet. They are becoming more global, and are using the IGF to get a wider participation in their own processes.Not everybody agrees with the IGF approach. The US government did send a delegation to Rio, but takes a hands-off free-market attitude to the internet. Its only concern is the infrastructure: to get broadband to as many people as possible.This is particularly pressing, as estimates show that by 2015, internet traffic will be 50 times what it was in 2006, fuelled by HD video and YouTube. So far, the US government has not pushed anti-spam or anti-pornography legislation. Bizarrely, the only thing it regulates is online gambling.Recently, there have been arguments in Washington about whether "net neutrality" should be enshrined in law. This debate is concerned with whether ISPs or carriers should be allowed to charge different rates to different customers. And, later this year the US government will complete a review of Icann and e-governance. It will be fascinating to see whether the official American view will become more robust.Civil libertarians on both sides of the Atlantic criticise the IGF for dealing only with trivia, while avoiding the "big difficult issues" of the internet: openness, free speech, human rights. They forget that the IGF was created specifically to avoid the divisive and intractable debates that threatened to wreck the Tunis summit.Michael finds it more useful "to take practical cooperative steps rather than a theoretical approach, and that's what will get us away from the traditional conflicts". Very low key, very pragmatic, very British.
Broadband raceThe latestOECD reporton broadband says penetration is highest in Denmark while the UK is in 11th place, slightly behind Belgium. (PDF)Samsung's 256GB SSDSamsung says it expects to have256GB solid state drivesin mass production by the end of the year.Journals to downloadThe British Librarysays it will make another 1,500 journals available for downloading from Sunday.City shortcutsNokia Maps 2.0now offers Walk, a turn-by-turn navigation system for pedestrians.Leather-bound eGoIomega has launched a brown leather-bound version of itseGo 250GB external hard drivefor $142.45 (&pound;72). The official UK price is &pound;99.99.MMOG festStaffordshire University is holding atwo-day conferenceon multi-player online games design, June 5-6.Slimming with SamsungSamsung says itsi200is "the slimmest smartphone in the world" at 11.8mm.
AtGizmodo, Brian Lam writes: "I bumped into Michael Dell at All Things D after his interview, and he was nice enough to show me this laptop that he was carrying that he said no one's seen before. It's a small form factor notebook, just like the Asus Eee and the HP 2133. He wouldn't tell me what OS it's running, or the pricing, but that it's a low-cost notebook meant for developing countries, and I hope here."Gizmodo has pics where you can see much of the keyboard, but there are no images on the screen....Dell has already said: "We absolutely plan on entering the market" (seeInformationWeek).The Dell minibook is most likely to be made byCompal Electronics, to have an 8.9 inch screen, and to use an Intel Atom processor.Reasons? (1) Compal already makes notebooks for Dell, and (2) Dell has a good chance of getting early stocks of Atom chips because HP hasnotused Intel chips in its own 2133 minibook. (3) If Michael Dell has tried the Asus PC900 (reviewed in this week's Technology section), he'll know the 8.9 inch screen is very much nicer than the 7 inch screen. (4) It doesn't really make financial sense to fight Asus for the 7 inch market when there is very little profit in it.We may know sooner than you think. If someone wants to pop along to the Compal stand (T0201A) at theComputex exhibitionin Taipei next week (June 3-7), they can probably confirm it.Update: Dell has nowblogged the product, with a couple of pictures, but no new details.
More fromPixeljamprogrammer, Miles Tilmann and artist, Rich Grilloti about the art and practicalities of browser game design. Here, the chaps talk about their favourite indie games and their future plans.How long do your games take to develop?Rich:It depends on the scope of the project. Gamma Bros took around 6-8 months. Dino Run took about eight months I'd say, and we're still tweaking it and working on it to make it better and more fun for long term play and replay. Ratmaze 2 took about a month.What have been the responses to Dino Run? Do you know how many people are playing it?Rich:The responses have been very positive! There are also some reasonable criticisms that pop up, but the beauty of making games to be played online is that we can make improvements and updates to a point.Miles:Right now the game is still in sort of a beta mode, even though it's been live for 3 weeks. In another two weeks we will release a slightly improved version with a few more levels and gameplay tweaks. Then the game goes viral and spreads to as many sites as possible.Right now with the game being exclusive to just two sites (pixeljam.com and xgenstudios.com) we average about 30,000 plays a day, which sounds like a lot but is not that much for a browser game. The number will probably shoot up when we release the game everywhere and actually start promoting it.What do you think of the indie gaming scene at the moment? Who do you think is doing interesting stuff?Rich:As a developer spending most of my working time on a computer, I tend to want to get away from it as much as possible when not producing our own games.. I did get to play some games at IGF 2008 in San Francisco, though, including Crayon Physics Deluxe, Gesundheit, Fez, World of Goo, Flipside, The Misadventures Of P.B. Winterbottom, Off-road Velociraptor Safari and others. Last year I enjoyed playing Aquaria, Castle Crashers, and Everyday Shooter quite a bit. I'd like to keep up with what's going on out there more than I do.What do you think are the key elements of a good browser game? Are there design elements that successful titles have in common?Rich:Well, "free" seems to be a big key to getting people to play. As far as what makes it good, it really depends on the type of game it is. I'd say across the board, making it FUN is important. Games that are considerate of the players' time and are designed to keep the player aware of what's going on and what to do next are a pleasure to play.It also helps to create an easy to use, intuitive interface, and to ensure people can just jump in and play. Multiplayer helps create a community and keep the game alive. People like to compete for rank and status, and simply hang out with each other in these virtual environments. Releasing new content now and then helps keep it alive. An immersive soundtrack and sound effects really help the game quite a bit as well. Same with exciting use of color and creative artwork.Miles:When it comes to browser games, it's going to be incredibly apparent why you made it in the first place, and unfortunately 99% of the browser games out there are basically the equivalent of crappy television filler designed to get you hooked to the screen. However, I think over the next few years we are going to see a reversal of the current trend and see a real scene and industry for browser gaming start to take hold... and I hope we can contribute to it!What are you working on right now?Rich: I took a couple weeks off following the release of Dino Run, to help decompress from all the time and work I put into the project. I went out into nature a lot, to some nearby hot springs here in Oregon and took some hikes. That was very important to my sanity and balance of life. After so much intense creative output, just sitting in a hot spring for a whole day is a great relief. New ideas just spring up once I give them some space to arise.Now I'm focusing on answering emails starting conversations with game portals about licensing the single player version and other opportunities, plus I'm busy putting together a press pack with a variety of graphics and logos that would be easy for publications to use if they want to review our game. I'm also starting to work on some designs for the new Pixeljam website, and some very simple mini-games for the site itself. Along with that, more ideas for Gamma Bros 2 and another little game are starting to come. I'm starting to get excited about starting on what's next.Miles:I'm also doing some heavy decompression, but of course we're always thinking about what's next. I'm not sure exactly what we'll be working on over the next few months, but I do know that Gamma Bros 2 is our next big project, and I'm incredibly excited about it. Gamma Bros was our first real game and I feel like we can make the next installment of it something really special.Are you thinking of expanding into console or mobile development?Miles:If we could get by on donations that would be great, but it's very tough. XBLA or WiiWare sounds like a next logical step for us, or maybe it's two or three steps away. I'd be curious to see what we could do with 100 times the processing power of Flash and a larger team...
Guardian blogs editor Kevin Anderson joins Aleks Krotoski for this week'sTech Weekly podcast. First off, the team discusses the new online ratings system introduced by the British Board of Film Classification and hear from Pete Johnson, head of policy and business development at the BBFC. Microsoft's UK security chief Ed Gibson explains what the firm is doing to fix the glitches in Vista, and we have the usual news and dip into the blogs.Feedback and your suggestions, as always, are very welcome.Listen now, or try one of these:•The podcast feed URL•Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes•Visit our Facebook group•The Tech Weekly archives
