Netscape's market share has fallen below 4%, according toStatmarket, which bases its figures on Web site-based browser counting. Microsoft's market share is 96%. "The browser war is in fact a massacre," says Geoff Johnston, vice president of product marketing for StatMarket. In fact, Netscape'susage share(not itsinstalled base) has fallen by almost 10% in the past year. This is an interesting contrast with the situation in level 3 browsers where Netscape usage dominated the market even though Internet Explorer was already bundled with the Windows operating system. Conclusion: you can give away as many browsers as you like, however you like, but people won't use them if they aren't good enough to compete. Netscape 4 and 6 weren't good enough.
CNet has reported what went on in the Garden Room (below) at the Intel Developer's Forum: steps towardsless-ecologically harmful computers. One potential worry: lead-free solders may not be as resilient as lead-based ones, so if you drop your cellphone, it may break the contacts. But I find this less worrying than another case Intel's Terrence McManus raised: avionics. "We've been building planes for decades using lead solders. What happens if you build them with lead-free solders? We don't know."
A worm called Slapper isattacking Linux serversrunning the Apache Web hosting software, using a security flaw in Apache's OpenSSL software.
The first sidewayssmileyface has been unearthed from back-up tapes made 20 years ago this month, reports CNet. It seems the first use of the characters :-) to signify a smile was made in a posting by Scott E Fahlman on September 19, 1982.
Amazon managed to confuse a few customers by e-mailing them that "The Segway Human Transporter will not be available in the foreseeable future," according to ZDNet (here). Actually, the company's sales strategy is still to roll out a more expensive version to corporate buyers such as the US Postal Service and National Park Service before the riff-raff gets a go. Geeks with IPO shares, sports stars, drug dealers and other likely buyers will have to wait.
Following a management reshuffle, tt looks as though the Time Warner part of AOL/TW is going to have a go at running the America Online part, asUSA Todayreports.
Reutersreports that"an international provider of adult media content",Private Media, has bid for Napster's assets.
An uncontested divorce typically costs &#163;800 in legal fees. So is a website which offers a DIY service for just &#163;80 too good to be true?The Abingdon-based company claims that its website is now involved in the legal side of nearly 2% of divorces in England. In the hope of increasing its market share still further, the owners ofwww.divorce-online.co.ukhave launched an advertising campaign, largely in pub and wine-bar lavatories.These boast that would-be divorcees can save more than &#163;700 by using its website rather than a solicitor. The site offers to refer visitors to a "family solicitor", though the only qualification by firms for inclusion on the referral list is payment of a &#163;150 fee.It also contains its own freely accessible, well-written information and useful links (including one to a previous Guardian article of mine) on most aspects of divorce.Relate and other reconciliation services are not conspicuous among the offerings. Its main service is an &#163;80 pack supposedly containing all the forms and information necessary to obtain a divorce. This contrasts with the &#163;800 the company claims is the typical cost of having solicitors act in a straightforward, uncontested divorce.Of course, what the site does not point out is that even greater savings could be made by simply relying on a book on divorce such as The Which? Guide to Divorce, which costs just &#163;10.99.This book also contains the basic information necessary to do one's own divorce and copies of the forms, though no facility to print them out. They can be obtained from court offices or down-loaded from the Lord Chancellor's Department website.The procedure for obtaining an uncontested divorce, particularly where there are no children involved, is not very complicated. In the scale of DIY lawyering, it is probably more difficult than making a will, but easier than conveyancing or launching a small monetary claim in the county court.The divorce itself, though, is not what solicitors primarily charge their fees for. For &#163;800, or even half that, a conscientious lawyer would make enquiries about the couple's finances to ensure that his or her client was not being short-changed by a "simple" divorce.Except for childless couples with roughly equal assets and earning capacities, there is almost always scope for at least one party to seek financial or "ancillary" relief. Even then the joint ownership of a house gives rise to potential claims.Often both parties will insist they want nothing from the other. A good solicitor can advise on what the likely outcome of contested financial proceedings would be, enabling an informed decision then to be made on whether that stance is a sensible one.Frequently, the only joint asset is a house and the parties to a civilised divorce might agree to sell it, pay off the remaining mortgage, split the proceeds and go their separate ways.However the husband, say, might have been paying the mortgage installments, enabling the wife to save and keep a similar amount. The divorce courts would in that situation usually order the wife to pay over some of the savings to the husband or adjust their respective shares in the house.Younger couples may give little thought to pension rights when they separate, but if one party has a valuable pension, even one that comes from their job, the courts have power to divide it up on divorce.While online guides and books may well point out such issues, for the layperson to actually spot them and work out their implications will not be easy.Couples often talk of wanting a "clean break" for understandable emotional reasons, but where there are young children it is rarely appropriate. If, as is usually the case, the children are to live with the wife, she should have a right to apply for maintenance for herself in the future even if she does not need it at the moment.Where there is no immediate need for maintenance, the courts usually order a nominal sum of 5p a year, which enables an application for a substantial amount to be made if there is a change in circumstances. This could easily be overlooked by anyone attempting a divorce without lawyers' help.Children themselves are another frequent complication in divorce proceedings, though most couples manage to agree who they should live with and how much contact there should be with the other parent. And if there is a major dispute over the children, expensive legal bills become inevitable.Divorce-online makes an excellent starting point for anyone wanting information on divorce. Only those completely confident they will not overlook any legal issues would be well advised to rely on it alone.&#183;Richard Colbey is a barrister
The Beijing government has suddenly ended its two-week block on Chinese subjects using US internet search engine Google.Users in Shanghai and Beijing reported yesterday that they could once again view Google, which until the ban was widely used by China's 30 million-plus web surfers because it has a powerful feature for finding Chinese language material online.However, another US search engine, AltaVista, remained blocked yesterday although users were no longer being rerouted to other Chinese government-approved search engines.And even on Google, users reported that links to sensitive search topics such as Tibet, president Jiang Zemin, his likely successor, Hu Jintao, and the outlawed Falun Gong spiritual movement were still being blocked.Since the beginning of this month, those trying to reach Google have found themselves being rerouted to heavily censored, less effective search engines run by private Chinese internet companies."I'm thrilled that Google is back," said one user in a chat room on the website of the People's Daily, the official Communist party newspaper. "Google, I love you!" said another posting.Chat room users had bitterly criticised the ban. Analysts said the public outcry against the move and pressure from businesses that rely on web tools such as Google for research may have persuaded the Beijing government to reverse the restrictions so quickly."The internet has seemed to prevail," said Duncan Clark, the managing director of BDA China, a Beijing-based internet consulting firm.The Chinese government made no announcement of the new internet censorship measures and refused to confirm their existence, or the fact measures against Google had been lifted.But analysts and users linked the interference to a Communist party congress in November. Dissent is usually more tightly muzzled before political events of this size.This congress is particularly sensitive because a new generation of leaders is expected to begin taking over.Authorities apparently targeted Google and AltaVista because they do not filter out material deemed subversive from their search results, as Chinese sites are required to do by the government.Analysts said the brief period of rerouting and the continuing selective censorship of material deemed unsuitable on websites such as Google had demonstrated the Chinese government's growing technological capabilities.
Associated Pressreports that China's block on Google has been lifted, with as little warning and as little explanation as accompanied their ban in the first place.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris5Current Topic:a year after the attack on the World Trade Centre, al Qaeda remains operative, Osama bin Laden remains at large and the west is still under threat. Has America's "War on Terrorism" been a success or a failure?capitalistpiglet:the causes of terrorism are too complex to eliminate overnightnameless:the only way to stop terrorism is to kill saddam husseincapitalistpiglet:that's a bit simplistic isn't it, nameless?Pashmina:nameless is a bit simpleistic I thinknameless:shut up*Bronco has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:hi room. FailurePashmina:whatcapitalistpiglet:Why do you think the war on terrorism has been a failure, Bronco?Bronco:I didnt know we had to do reasons. I just thought we were voting*LADEEZMAN has entered the NewsRoom*LADEEZMAN:successBronco:LADEEZMAN why you think the war on terrists is a suxcessLADEEZMAN:just guessing. Is it?Bronco:dunno I picked failurenameless:u r all unbelievably stupidBronco:personal abuse Chris2Pashmina:Chris2 is still awaycapitalistpiglet:who's the moderator then?nameless:moronsPashmina:Chris5 but he dont carecapitalispiglet:u there Chris5?Host_Chris5:what is itPashmina:nameless is abusing chatters!!Host_Chris5:so?Bronco:he said I was a moronHost_Chris5:Im playing quake can this wait*jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:kick nameless out!jenni@boughtledger:I'm a celebrity let me in here!Bronco:maybe nameless is some1 we know using a diffrent nameLADEEZMAN:nameless r u USABob? GordonZola? Sue38DD?Bronco:maybe he's Chris2nameless:I'm namelessjenni@boughtledger:I'm a celebrity what's going on here?Pashmina:Chris2 is that ucapitalistpiglet:this is ridiculous. We should be discussing the topic*capitalistpiglet has been kicked out of the NewsRoom*Host_Chris5:there. happy nowPashmina:Chris5 you kicked out the wrong person!*Pashmina has been kicked out of the NewsRoom*Host_Chris5:anyone elsejenni@boughtledger:I'm a celebrity kick me out of here!*jenni@boughtledger has been kicked out of the NewsRoom*Bronco:Chris5 what level r u on in quake&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Cut it outRe: Mac, Camera, Action (Online, September 5) Shirts? Pants, more like.We're called many things, but mostly "editor" suffices, rather than "Final Cut Pro operator". Did Ben Hammersley belittle our craft? Surely not. But hey, I've just discovered that my video editing Mac has a cute program on it that lets me write words on screen, and move them around to make stuff, and send them to people. Guess that makes me a journalist, maybe even a writer, then.Mud slinging aside, the impact that affordable digital hardware and software are having on TV and film makers is much closer to home than Hollywood, it's on your TV screens already. I was helped through the early days by the kind souls on several web boards, primarilywww.2-pop.com&lt;/A. (where I'm now a guide myself). This kind of mutual support is new, it's worldwide and, at times, such as when you get a reply in 10 minutes from the other side of the globe, is awesome.Phil Ashby(Final Cut Pro and Word operator)phila@brightfilament.comBounce checkHow about this for a simple way to beat the spammers (Feedback, September 5)? The vast majority of emails that any individual receives come from known addresses. The individual's email program maintains a list of these addresses and automatically lets through any message from a known address.Any email from an unknown address gets bounced, without the recipient having to be bothered with it, bearing the message (user-definable) to the effect: "This mail has been bounced because of spam. If you genuinely wish to contact me, please resend quoting code xxx in the subject line", where "xxx" is a simple code created by the user.Spammers probably don't even get them because of the fake addresses they use. Legitimate correspondents receive the bounce, resend the message with the code, and it gets through.OK, so it's a bit of a hassle for the senders, but not half as much hassle as spam is for the recipients.Alistair Scottaljay@europe.comSpam paysRe: Let's make the spammers pay (August 15). Dave Birch correctly identifies the problems related to the use of spam filters - as spammers get smarter, the filters are bound to become less and less reliable in distinguishing between legitimate messages   and unsolicited email. The solution is not in electronic filters vs smart spam arms race, but in economics.Spammers must be made to pay for postage.There is an email service provider, CruelMail LLC,www.cruelmail.com, which promises to do that very thing. Their solution to the spam problem is to let each user set a delivery fee that will be charged to all email senders not listed on the recipient's free pass list. That solves the common problem with so-called white lists - that a legitimate message is lost in the ocean of rejected spam. If the sender really needs his email to get through, he will pay the delivery fee set by the intended recipient (presumably, it will be small enough). Then the fee will either be refunded by the recipient - or accepted by the recipient as a compensation for his valuable time.Vitaly Osipovwitt@iol.ieOS X rulesHaving just read Neil McIntosh's excellent review of OS X 1.2 (Do ya think I'm OS Xy? September 5) I would agree with all his comments. However, I have yet to experience using it on broadband. As a BT Openworld ADSL user, I have to use an Alcatel Onetouch USB modem, as they have not released any drivers for OS X 1.2. I had the same experience with OS X 1.1 - the driver appeared long after the operating system. BT Openworld's website is also in   error, as that will tell you that it is still only compatible will OS 9!Gary Davisgary.c.davis@btinternet.comMac browsingThanks to Neil McIntosh for the article on OS X, but one thing puzzled me: "I still feel Macs lag behind even quite modest PC set-ups in day-to-day operations such as web browsing." If my PC-using office-mate's experience is anything to go by (he uses my Mac when I am not there) this is completely the wrong way round.Jason P Daviesucgajpd@ucl.ac.ukDon't call us...Re: Bob Augur's letter (Feedback, September 5): It's a pretty unusual, not to say pointless, CV that doesn't contain an address and a telephone number. Unless, of course, they didn't really want the job?David Fentondavid.fenton@web mayhem.comWho's right?In the item on "free text" in Web watch (September 5), Sean Dodson says that "Ebooks can cost a fortune and, unlike paperbacks, you can't lend them to your mates once you have read them". Neither point is true and, not only that, you can lend them before you have read them and to as many people as you like. This might constitute a breach of copyright. But Dodson does not appear to be concerned with copyright violation, since he is recommending to readers the use of a website distributing illegal pirated copies of copyright material. If the Guardian is advocating guerilla tactics to violate intellectual property rights, then I think we should be told!Martin Wynnemartin.wynne@ota.ahds.ac.uk
This morning I metCaptain James T Kirkandrode aSegwaypersonal transporterandgot to blog about it via a wireless LAN. How many geek points is that?
The trickle of mobile phones featuring multimedia messaging and photo messaging looks set to turn into flood. Motorola and Nokia announced new handsets last week, which will join existing models from Nokia, Sony Ericsson and Sharp.Motorola's first MMS handset, the T720i, is to launch within the next two months. It's a revamped version of an existing Motorola handset - the clam-shell designed, silver-finished T720. Like the Sony Ericsson T68i, it comes with a camera attachment. It can take 160x120 pixel images for sending as photo messages or 640x 480 pixel images for sending as email. These are stored on the phone and can be viewed on the handset's large-ish colour display. The phone supports Java for downloading games and applications from the web. It also features general packet radio service for speedy access to Wap pages. No news on price yet.In France last week, Nokia unveiled its most hi-tech mobile. The 3650 is the company's second MMS photo messaging phone in Europe and will be the first of its kind to launch in the US.Its key feature is that its integrated camera can record moving as well as still images. These can be sent by the user as MMS messages to MMS- compatible phones. A Real One player is also included to enable the user to download or stream video content. Video and images can be stored on the phone (it has 4MB of storage) or on a removable memory card.The 3650's styling is radically different from existing Nokia handsets. It has a curved design with its buttons clustered in a circle at the bottom of the phone.The phone runs off the Symbian operating system, features Java for downloading applications and has an XHTML web browser. Other features include Bluetooth compatibility and triband capability.The phone, which weighs 130g and has a battery life of four hours' talk time or eight days' standby, will go on sale early next year.Nokia also introduced an upgrade of the 3510 - the 3510i. Due on sale by the end of this year, the model features a colour display, Java and Wap over GPRS. It weighs 106g and has a talk time of 4 hours and standby time of 13 days.A cheaper way of keeping in touch is offered by the walkie talkie watch, which has proved a huge success onwww.paramountzone.comandwww.gizmos-uk.com. A pair of watches, which cost &#163;29.95, can communicate for up to 250 feet. Wannabe spies talk through a small microphone and then listen via the earpiece.
Medieval: Total WarPC	 &#163;29.99 Creative Assembly/ Activision  ****The PC as a gaming platform has been much maligned recently. Cheap and powerful    consoles have narrowed the technological gap, while a reliance on established genres has stifled creativity. Nevertheless, there are games that only a PC can do properly, such as Medieval: Total War. This strategy game covers 400 years of political and religious combat, from the crusades of 1095 to the fall of Constantinople in 1453.The  action is split into two main sections, a turn-based Risk-style map view, where players move armies, train recruits and indulge in diplomatic manoeuvrings, and the 3D battle scenes, where all hell breaks loose. Both sections have enough depth and subtlety to be games in themselves, but it is the combat scenes that impress. More  than 10,000 troops can be seen in battle at once, and tactics and terrain awareness are essential. The temptation may be to charge straight into the enemy, but tactical nous is nearly always more successful.Whether it's laying siege to a castle in France or fighting across an Asian desert, there is immense variety, although it can be overwhelming. Commanding so many troops can be difficult, and keeping track of diplomatic faux pas while building up military supplies can be hard work for gamers more used to Quake or Mario. But persevere, as commanding a victorious military campaign is undeniably satisfying. Throw in the stack of historical information - which is genuinely educational - and you have a game that will last years.  (GH)The ThingPC £29.99 PS2 £39.99 Xbox £44.99 Computer Artworks/ Vivendi Universal ****Games of films have become an      extension of the Hollywood merchandising machine, but The Thing restores some faith. It is based on a cult John Carpenter      horror classic, which can only be a good sign, and it becomes clear that this UK-developed game uses its movie theme as a      means of generating a new method of gameplay.Although it adheres to the action-adventure genre, The Thing throws up new      ideas, cleverly cribbed from the movie. You start off as commander of a military mission to a hostile, sub-zero environment.      Before long, you become aware that your multi-skilled team is prey to human emotions such as fear and panic, which makes      sense in the context of stalking aliens that can take on human form. Thus, you must work out how to kill the aliens while      keeping your men from descending into hysteria.The result is an unusually believable, deeply immersive game that replicates      the spine-tingling provided by the best horror films. In other words, it takes on the likes of Resident Evil and shows them the      way forward. Carpenter has given it his seal of approval. A must for all adult gamers who prefer their digital fodder more      cerebral than the norm, yet it is packed with wall-to-wall action. Like the film, it is a cult classic. (SB)Divine DivinityPC £29.99 CDV/ Larian Studios ****With "3D" being the watchword of PC role-playing games, it would seem      that isometric role-playing adventures such as Baldur's Gate have become almost retro, relegated to the shelf of "games we      used to play". Enter Divine Divinity.Its name may be a tautology but the game itself is an epic RPG, rich in storyline,      immersive in gameplay and long in playing hours. That's not to say that bigger is necessarily better but, as Morrowind proved,      gamers are prepared to put much of their life on hold to indulge in a world that is well crafted.In some ways, Divine Divinity      is a 2D equivalent of that aforementioned game, with a seamless enviroment where you can literally walk - somewhat      laboriously - from farmland to forest to cavern without having to worry about abrupt loading times between areas.      Graphically, the world is beautifully detailed and anything that is not nailed down can be used in some way.Household objects      can become weapons, boulders can be thrown at enemies, herbs can be picked to make potions and even rubbish or rotting      food can be turned into poison and used to enhance your weaponry.The games that dress themselves up in flashy technology,      while trying to hide the fact that gameplay and story-wise they are naked, should take heed. Although it does little that      hasn't been done before, everything that it does do is done with conviction and a desire to create a great gaming experience. (RP)
Now that our glorious world leaders have once again shown little interest in saving the planet at the earth summit in Johannesburg, the good news is that we can all take action to reduce the impact of our presence on the planet.With domestic output accounting for 25% of the country's carbon dioxide pollution, a good place to start is at home. Work out how much carbon dioxide emissions your own home produces with the help ofwww.carboncalculator.org.The site also offers a heap of practical tips on how to conserve energy throughout your home - of use even if you only want to save money. Find out if you qualify for a grant for some of this work by going towww.est.org.uk.If you want to go all the way and give your house an environmental makeover, or just want some more practical eco-ideas, then visitwww.rising tide.org.uk/tyhandwww.msarch.co.uk/ecohome/feature.html.These sites feature two of the UK's best examples of environmental makeovers of   existing houses and tell you what, where, why and how they did it. Both sites also provide great links for more eco-housing and environmental design sites.Once you've decided what eco-alterations you're going to carry out, you'll need to do some shopping. You can't just nip down to your local B&amp;Q, butwww.greenbuildingstore.co.uk andwww.constructionresources.comcan supply you with everything from organic paint to planet-friendly insulation.Commuting to work presents its own range of environmental challenges, especially if you have difficulty ditching that four-wheeled pollution enhancer commonly known as the car.To help wean you off your dependency, join a car-sharing club. Find out if there's one near you by going towww.carclubs.org.uk. If you can't make the ultimate sacrifice, though, then redeem your green credentials by joining theEnvironmental Transport Association, which not only provides national breakdown cover but, unlike its competitors, lobbies for a more environmentally sensitive transport    policy. One way to reduce the environmental impact of motoring is by choosing a low-emission car, andwww.transportaction.org.ukhas extensive information on these as well as details on the new generation of gas and electric cars.Reduce the environmental impact of your office by greening your stationery cupboard (seewww.greenstat.co.uk) and by sourcing your office furniture fromwww.blueline.uk.com, which makes all its office furniture from officially approved sustainable wood sources.The involvement of business in aid and development at this year's earth summit caused great controversy, but if you are a pension-holder or private investor, you can make sure your money is being used ethically with the help ofwww.eiris.org.Meanwhile, find out where your nearest ethical independent financial adviser is by consultingwww.uksif.org.Once you've got your salary paid into your ethical bank account, heed the wise words ofwww.ethicalconsumer.orgbefore you hit the supermarket. This gives you top tips on shopping more ethically as well as listing what well-known brands are the subject of a boycott.As an ethical shopper, one way you can make an immediate difference is to help farmers in developing countries:www.fairtrade.org.uklists every fair trade product available.Have an impact closer to home and bypass the power of the supermarkets by getting your organic food from an organic box scheme. Visitwww.soilassociation.orgto find out where your nearest scheme is.If you feel like a holiday after this information frenzy, thenwww.responsibletravel.comshould provide you with some good ideas for holidays that neither trash the environment nor rip off the locals.Tourism Concern, is the country's leading campaign group for a more ethical tourist industry.However, don't think that holidaying with some hill tribe in Africa and staying in their mud-hut gets you off the environmental and ethical hook, oh no.You will wince aswww.chooseclimate.orgpainfully calculates just how much climate-changing carbon dioxide your flight will generate and what impact this has on global warming - and, of course, on your conscience.
This week's Online isonline. Jack Schofield writes about an amazing new £5m PlayStation game set in London, SA Mathieson looks at how online privacy laws have changed in the last year, and Mark Tran meets the chatroom police. Plus, Steve Bowbrick has an interesting column on the music industry versus the internet.
Peter Wilkinson, the architect of internet service provider Freeserve, has emerged as the chairman and largest investor in a new interactive digital television business.Mr Wilkinson, who made more hard cash out of the internet boom than almost any other UK dotcom entrepreneur, has taken a 40% stake in the Digital Interactive Television Group.The firm, which is valued at &#163;50m after a &#163;10m fundraising, offers a package of services to companies setting up interactive channels, including software, studio and production facilities and digital expertise.Mr Wilkinson is best known for drawing up the business model for Freeserve on a napkin while travelling on a train from London to York and then selling Sports Internet group to BSkyB for &#163;301m.He is now in talks with retail and financial services brands about launching their own interactive "info-mercial" channels using DITG technology."Digital interactive television is everything the internet wanted to be," he said. "It is a simplistic and trusted medium that is in 10m homes and has huge potential to generate revenues."DITG's first customer Avago, a digital gaming channel run by Debbie Mason, is operating at breakeven within three months of launch.Revenues are expected to be made through a share of telephone call charges levied while viewers are online interacting with games and purchasing goods.Mr Wilkinson says brands can launch their own television channels for as little as &#163;1m per year. "It's not even a pin-prick in their annual marketing budgets and viewers can buy goods through their remote control," he said.He has emerged at the helm of the new business less than two months after he was released from a consultancy contract at BSkyB.
It's the biggest videogame ever produced in the UK and, at a cost of well over &#163;5m, the most expensive in Europe. It's the closest thing yet to something programmers have been attempting for a decade: a game that looks and plays like a movie. It's full of 18-rated, F-word swearing and violence, which will prevent millions of young PlayStation 2 owners from (legally) buying it. And its programmers hope it will claim the coveted    number one spot in the Christmas videogames chart... if they finish it in time. But if it flops, game protagonist Mark Hammond may not be the only character who needs to make a quick getaway.The one thing we know is that almost everyone who works in London, and many of those who have visited the Great Wen, will want to try it. The Getaway, Sony Computer Entertainment's next blockbuster, is not set in some mythical game landscape, but in an amazingly   detailed London. You can commandeer a black cab and drive it down Farringdon Road from the Guardian to Sony's offices on Great Marlborough Street, and it is recognisably a graphical version of the real thing.Indeed, in some ways it is "better". You can drive over pavements and the wrong way up one-way streets, while treating bollards - and pedestrians - like skittles. When the cab starts smoking, simply leap out, wave your pistol in the air and commandeer a fast car. But even if you play the law-abiding way, you still get there quicker.Realistic graphics have been done before: modern motor racing games have accurate tracks, for example. But Team Soho, the Sony studio responsible for The Getaway, has modelled 21 square miles of central London. This mammoth task has taken two years and more than 15,000 photos. The Getaway does not have all the side streets, but you can turn whichever way you like, and explore the city as a virtual tourist.It is not completely accurate because London changes too quickly. Les Miserables is still there, but some of the shows in the program's theatreland have closed, for example. Brendan McNamara, the game's producer, calls it "the Starbucks factor.""We have our fair share of Starbucks," he says, "but I couldn't say we have every single one."When a demo version of The Getaway was unveiled recently at ECTS, the European Computer Trade Show, almost everyone I watched played it as a driving game. It isn't. Or at least, it is also a mission-based shooting game with movie-style characters and plotting. Mark Hammond, ex-bank robber, is the first character you play. The police think you have murdered your wife and kidnapped your child; in fact, your kid has been nabbed by Charlie Jolson, an East End gang boss. You have to do what he says to stand any chance of seeing your offspring alive, and you start by torching a restaurant on Frith Street, Soho. Hence all the violence and swearing.McNamara, who comes from Australia, says the game was inspired by the great tradition of British gangster movies. Influences included "Michael Caine in Get Carter, and the Hoskins character in The Long Good Friday, and the black humour in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels," he says. You could throw in The Sweeney and another popular movie, Mona Lisa. On the big screen, all this might not attract much comment. In a videogame, it is almost certain to outrage the more conservative newspapers, like its precursor, Take 2 Interactive's Grand Theft Auto 3.David Wilson, the Sony PR man who will have to deal with the brunt of the attack, says The Getaway "is quite a bold statement for us, but we're catering to the biggest part of our market. The average age of PlayStation 2 owners is 23." True, but the peak is more like 14. Although the game will have an 18 certificate, many of them will want to play The Getaway, and parents will have a hard time stopping them.In The Getaway's defence, its language is the language of the streets, albeit the rougher streets. "It deals with difficult issues, such as racism," says McNamara, "and the reason we're doing it is because we think it is true to the characters in the story." A filmmaker or novelist would claim no less.And while there is a lot of gangster-style mayhem, I did not see any of the gratuitous gore that features in some other games. When Hammond takes a few hits,   for example, you notice the back of his jacket start to redden. Leaning against a wall for a few minutes usually helps him recover enough to carry on.The reddening is a key to the way things are done in The Getaway. It avoids having any kind of "health-meter" on the screen. Similarly, there is no on-screen map to help you navigate London. However, if you need to turn left to complete an assignment, your car's left indicator blinks. There are no labels to show where your car is damaged, it just becomes increasingly difficult to drive. The absence of such traditional game furniture is the first thing that helps make The Getaway look more like a movie.The second thing is the almost complete absence of loading screens. In many games there is a pause when you go from, say, the street into a warehouse, while the new scene data is loaded. The Getaway doesn't work like that. It just streams data off the DVD all the time. It doesn't often stop to load because loading never stops.This applies to the cut-scenes that tell the story, too. In many games, the cut-scenes are rendered separately, then run like videos. In The Getaway, the cut-scenes are done using the game engine. It means the visual quality is lower, but then, they have the same visual quality as the rest of the game. It provides a more seamless experience.Gavin Moore, the chief animator, says The Getaway has 34 cut-scenes with a total running time of about 75 minutes. "That's the equivalent of an animated feature, but whereas a feature would have 400 animators, we have eight!" But the computer animation was not done from scratch. The team used character actors, capturing the movement of up to five performers at once, in real time, in a room-sized magnetic field. Each actor wore an Ascension Technology MotionStar wireless tracker and, because of McNamara's conviction that people "talk with their hands", a pair of 5DT data gloves. Computers wirelessly captured each actor's movements, so the data could be used to animate the graphical characters.The developers went through the usual movie processes: writing a script, casting, getting props and sets, rehearsals, performance. In this case, the actors also got weapons training from the Metropolitan Police, who also provided some police voices for the game. And while the actors were not performing for cameras, Moore did capture the sound using directional radio mics. "It meant we didn't have to get them back into a booth to do voiceovers," he says, "and that makes a serious difference. If you just listened to the sound, it sounded like a Radio 4 play. That got the team really excited."The Getaway, like many movies, will also have a soundtrack released on CD. The game music has been composed byAndrew Hale, keyboard player with Sade. "Handily, he's on Sony Music as well," says McNamara.The cars are also stars, if of a different sort, and include an ambulance, single-and double-decker buses, and a fork-lift truck. Artist Ben Bruddenell says: "You can drive any car you can find - I think there will be about 65 in the end. And they are not just flash cars straight out of the showroom: we've tried to create what you find outside, including clapped-out old bangers."Each car is modelled in loving detail, right down to the fascia and headrests. But after play-testing, the team had to make the driving less realistic. "Most people found the cars too twitchy to drive," says McNamara. "We had to   compromise because that's the way most people liked it. We have to aim for a broader audience, really. We want people who've never played a game to look at it and say: 'Oh, that looks worth a go'."If it reaches a wide audience then Phil Harrison - "the man who writes the cheques" - will be happy. As executive vice president in charge of development, he's already shelled out more than &#163;5m, and is not saying how much more. "The people cost is by far the largest cost," he says. "Larger teams for longer times, equals more money."The Getaway has been in development for three years - it started as a PlayStation game - and has 55 people working on it full time. Factor in lots of workstations and a large open-plan office across from Carnaby Street, and do your own sums. But if it sells a million copies at &#163;45 a pop, everyone will think it was a great idea.Unfortunately, as with Hollywood blockbusters, spending big bucks on development does not guarantee bums on seats. The Getaway could disappoint the people who just want another Grand Theft Auto 3, because it isn't that, and the controls are different. And while it is intended to be a "crossover" product, it could fall between several stools. There are more comprehensive driving games, more challenging stealth titles and more brutal shooters.Worse, the "videogame as cinema" genre is littered with corpses including the Sega Dreamcast's Shen Mue, which, at a reputed development cost of $66m, is likely to keep its "most expensive" title for some time.But it's not just about money. The PlayStation 2 is being challenged and, if it does nothing else, The Getaway raises the bar for all the other development teams. And as McNamara says: "It's gone beyond 'Can you do good graphics?' because everyone can do that. It's now: 'Can you deliver compelling content?' Part of our job here at Sony is to keep pushing the envelope of what's possible." Whether it triumphs or flops, The Getaway certainly does that.&#183;www.thegetaway.co.uk
There is one hard and fast rule for kids and teenagers using the internet: never arrange to meet anyone in the real word after contact online. Unfortunately, this most basic guideline is routinely ignored. According to a study from the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire, one in 10 chat users has attended a face-to-face meeting with another chat user.Even more worrying, of the nearly 1,400 children questioned in the five-year study, five in seven chat users who went to face-to-face meetings knew the rule. As the study argues, scare tactics may actually backfire, as blanket warnings could encourage risk taking from thrill-seeking kids. It says guidelines do not recognise the distinction between risky and non-risky online contexts, nor do they clearly state the logic underpinning the safety guidelines."Children who engage in face-to-face meetings often see the process as exciting and adventurous," the study finds. Rachel O'Connell, one of its authors, calls for a more nuanced approach, focusing on education and explanation rather than hectoring. "There has to be a creative blend of solutions for children of different age groups and the rationale has to be explained," says O'Connell.There has been only a handful of arrests after contact was made on the internet. Two years ago, a 33-year-old man was convicted of unlawful sexual intercourse after raping a 13-year-old girl he met in a chatroom. The paucity of brutal incidents after contact through the internet is no consolation for the victims and their families, and the potential for harm is enormous.Debate in the UK on the use of chatrooms by children was fuelled this summer by speculation, during the hunt for the missing Soham schoolgirls, Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells, that the girls had made contact with their abductor online. According to the Parents Information Network, an independent service for parents, there are now about 5 million children online in the UK. Of those, more than 1 million are under 14.It is also estimated that chatrooms are popular with 23% of children, but in the 15- to 16-year-old age group, about 41% use online chat. The Home Office set up a taskforce on child protection on the internet last year. It is due to issue its final report this month. A draft report obtained by the Guardian says that most paedophile activity is covered by legislation.However, a taskforce subgroup is developing proposals to "tackle predatory behaviour before a sex offence has taken place where there is evidence of an intention to abuse."The proposal, which is bound to spark alarm among civil liberties groups, will apply offline as well as online. Separately, the framework of the law and penalties for sex offences is also under review. Meanwhile, the draft document has listed best practices for chatroom, instant messaging and for providers of web content.These include: clear and accessible safety messages designed for parents and children; safety features such as ignore buttons, alert buttons, reporting mechanisms, advice on handling abusive chatters; and easy availability of filtering mechanisms that pick up bad language or prevent children giving out    their email addresses.Other good practices include the prominent display of information on the kind of service offered and the audience at which it is aimed. For example, is the chat moderated or unmoderated? If moderated, what form of moderation is used?Moderation or supervision of chatrooms can take several forms. Some companies used software to screen out material that identifies users, others use human beings to keep an eye on the content. This can be done by screening messages before they are posted or on a less rigorous basis, with the moderator occasionally dropping into a chatroom to see that everything is OK. For Tom Beaney, head of new business inquiries at Neo1, a company that employs 45 human moderators and provides moderation services for Teletext, Flextech and Handbag.com, unmoderated chatrooms are unsafe and should be closed down.That is not about to happen because big online brands need chatrooms to boost traffic. "A chatroom is like a swimming pool," Beaney said. "Just as you wouldn't have a swimming pool without lifeguards, so you shouldn't have a chatroom without human moderators." Human moderators may    be a good option but it is no panacea.Companies would have to take extreme care in recruiting, screening, training and monitoring moderators, given their potentially influential position and their access to children. Currently, moderators cannot be screened for criminal records, as their job does not involve physical contact with children.Ewan MacLeod, the managing director of Neo1, says his company has a rigorous five-week training period for moderators. They are taught what makes a good community, good moderation techniques, what constitutes libel, actionable phrases and are given horror stories.There are five levels of moderators, with five the highest. Moderators beyond level five become duty managers, directly responsible for the content and performance of each of Neo1's chatrooms and discussion boards. "Being a moderator is not an easy job, it's very intense and we don't want somebody who is in it just for the money," says MacLeod."We want people who are passionate and we want to get across that they are holding people's reputations - not just mine but also our clients' - in their hands. It is about three to six months before we let some body loose in a live environment." MacLeod acknowledges that not all chatrooms can be moderated - it takes only two people to set up their own chatroom - but he thinks the big brands such as AOL and Freeserve have to have human moderators to protect their communities and themselves.O'Connell believes that human moderators are one way to go. But she puts her faith in educational programmes as the best way of tackling the issue of children and internet safety. "It is imperative for educationalists and child welfare experts to recognise the complexities inherent in online transactions," she says, "and to develop educational programmes that cater for the range of situations children may find themselves facing."The effectiveness of the current safety guidelines is greatly restricted because they are so limited in terms of relevance and applicability across a range of online contexts."
The UK government had been nibbling away at electronic privacy before the terrorist attacks on the United States last year.But according to the speakers at last week's Terrorising Rights conference, run by civil rights groups Privacy International and the Electronic Privacy Information Center, the past 12 months have seen many other countries join the feast - not least the US itself."The deaths on that day have led to the death of our constitution, and our bill of rights," said Barry Steinhardt, of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The US introduced the Patriot Act, extending state powers in many areas, including electronic surveillance.The conference heard that numerous governments have weakened data protection laws, while increasing communications surveillance, use of identity card schemes, profiling and inter-agency data-sharing.The Canadian government is introducing powers similar to the UK's for intercepting "traffic data" - billing and location data from phones, the headers in email and the servers of web-pages accessed."It's not inherently logical that the internet should be more privileged than phone communications or &#91;postal&#93; mail, but I don't see why it should be less privileged," said George Radwanski, Canada's privacy commissioner. It may not be logical, but this is the case in the UK, where traffic data is not retained for post, but is for email and telephone communications.And the British view is prevailing in Europe. As the Guardian reported last   month, European ministers have proposed forcing all European Union ISPs and telecoms providers to keep traffic data for one to two years. Countries would have to disclose their citizens' traffic data to any other EU country, for crimes including those involving motor vehicles."The EU is going from general data erasure to general data retention obligation," said Italian MEP Marco Cappato. He said traffic data could also be passed to other countries, without case-by-case authorisation from national governments.Many countries have proposed identity schemes in the wake of September 11. Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, said governments had learnt how   to market such plans since he helped defeat Australian proposals in the mid-1980s."First, don't call it an identity card, whatever you do," he said: Australia had tried using the "Australia card", New Zealand the "Kiwi card", and the home secretary, David Blunkett, is calling the UK identity scheme "the entitlement card".Second, Davies said some governments are avoiding physical cards. In Australia, government databases were linked through every citizen's tax-file number - achieving much of the dumped identity card's aims. In the UK, the government is considering linking state databases in the name of "joined-up government".Third, governments are   starting with marginal groups: Davies was told by a company selling biometric identity card equipment that it encouraged such "salami tactics".David Blunkett is already introducing identity cards, but just for asylum seekers. In Japan, the government identity scheme doesn't involve a card - yet. "Maybe this is function-creep by design," Davies said.Barry Steinhardt said US history showed function-creep in action. The social security number was originally issued to Americans purely to administer government-provided pensions, but is now effectively an identity number - and an easily faked one. Half the September 11 hijackers had fake social security documents, Steinhardt said.Plans to turn the US driving licence (which is already issued to non-drivers) into an identity card with biometric data such as fingerprints would be "an identity thief's wet dream," he said, as the card would become a single proof of identity, and thus hugely valuable.The conference launched a detailed study on privacy in 50 countries. Its editor, Sarah Andrews, said a few countries have strengthened laws for individual privacy, while providing greater openness in government, particularly in developing countries and in eastern Europe. "It's not all loss, but it's been a hugely challenging year," she said.The report points out that America fought to extend electronic surveillance, by pressuring digital communications technology manufacturers to include surveillance capabilities. The "ILETS" standards for such bugging were set at FBI-run meetings held from 1993, but secret until 1998. According to the report's authors, ILETS standards are now present in European, Australian and Canadian laws, including the UK's Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act.Furthermore, US officials encouraged other governments into enact electronic surveillance legislation such as the UK's, in an effort to push American legislators into adopting such measures - a concept one speaker dubbed "policy laundering".Despite all this, and despite staff in the American security agencies having gathered data about both the targets and the methodology, these agencies failed to stop the attacks that killed 3,000 people. More than one speaker suggested the US success in hoovering up information actually encouraged this catastrophic failure of intelligence."It may be tempting to think we'd be safer if privacy was brushed aside. I think we would be a lot less so," argued George Radwanski. "The likely result would be to shift resources away from the more targeted efforts."More information on everyone isn't likely to accomplish anything, apart from violating privacy and turning everyone into a suspect," he concluded.&#183;Seewww.privacyinternational.org/survey/phr2002How the world's electronic privacy changedFranceLast November, the French parliament voted for a law forcing ISPs and telecoms companies to retain traffic and locations data for a maximum period of one year, and compelling government access to encryption keys. This is yet to be implemented by decree.GermanyLast autumn, police trawled government databases to find young Muslims with a technical background, but were stopped by court orders from two cities. However, in April, Germany   proposed a pan-European database of known trouble-makers.The country had the strictest data protection laws in the European Union before September, but last October, the government voted to require telecoms providers to install tapping technology for the police and security services. In May, proposals to remove the time-limit on data-retention got a successful first hearing.JapanA data protection law, giving individuals access to their personal data, came into force in April last year. But in June this year, the Defence Agency said it had kept a list of people requesting information, and cross-referenced it with other data, including political affiliation. This sparked an outcry. The country is also introducing a national identity scheme, although five municipalities are refusing to implement the plan.UKThe UK already had some of the western world's most invasive powers before September 11, but still managed to tighten them. The Anti-Terrorism Act, passed in December, meant ISPs and phone companies will need to retain traffic data for longer, probably a year. In May, home secretary David Blunkett planned to allow more than 1,000 organisations, including local councils, self-authorised access to this traffic data, a power already used by state investigators. He backed down after an outcry, but may still reintroduce the plans. Blun kett is also working on a national identity card scheme, and the government has suggested linking state databases as part of "joined-up government".USThe US Patriot Act, passed last autumn, removes the need for a judicial warrant in obtaining traffic data, as well as making it easier to initiate wiretaps. The new department of homeland security aims to facilitate data-sharing between government agencies.Source: EPIC/Privacy International, press reports
Scuttlebutt that was doing the rounds at the ECTS show may be about to come true, according to thisReutersstory. Rare was formerly known as Ultimate Play the Game and was responsible for some killer Sinclair Spectrum games such asAtic AtacandSabre Wulf.
Mac fanaticsPoor old Ellen Feiss. One day she was an anonymous US student. The next, she was the star of a TV ad for Apple Computer, explaining in her unique way why she had fallen out with her Windows PC, and decided to use a Mac instead. Little was she to know that her slightly spaced-out style would inspire a huge, worryingly fanatical following on the internet.  Today, there is a rash of fan sites: Ellenfeiss.net has managed to unearth various pictures of the teenager at school, while other sites sell mugs and T-shirts featuring her face, and circulate parodies of her famous TV spot.  Ellen's reaction to all the fuss is still unknown: she, perhaps wisely, is keeping her head down, while Apple milks the ad for all it's worth.www.apple.com/switch/ads/ellenfeiss.html(requires QuickTime plugin)www.ellenfeiss.nethttp://ellenfeiss.gloriousnoise.comBouncy moveBon Jovi might not be my musical cup of tea, but you have to applaud the band's anti-piracy efforts. Instead of attempting to copy-protect their CDs, a move that frustrates legal users and does little to deter freeloaders, the group have decided to beat the illegal copiers another way. They're going to make it worth your while to splash out on a legitimate copy of their new album. So, buy a copy of their new album, Bounce, and you'll get access to the band's    American XS benefits package, which includes priority concert ticket offers and unreleased tracks available to download. The new album also comes without any attempt at copy protection, we're happy to report.www.bonjovi.comBollywoodWith the look and style of Indian cinema being at the height of fashion these days, Niall Richardson should be expecting lots more traffic to his large collection of Bollywood album covers. The site is simplicity itself: spectacular thumbnails on the home page, and if you click on a cover you get a larger image and a track listing too.http://bollylp.users.btopen world.comFender benderIs it art, is it sick, or is it just a joke? John Rooney claims to be "an artist who is torn between the desire to create and to destroy". The result is Crash Bonsai: miniature replicas of car crashes created using Bonsai trees and model cars. "Each model is unique," he promises, "and individually disassembled, cut,    melted, filed, smashed, then reassembled to replicate a real fender bender."www.crashbonsai.comNews junkiesC-Span is the US television network, funded by cable companies, that aims to provide access to the American political process. Over the coming weeks and months, its coverage of everything from White House and Pentagon press briefings to major policy conferences could be as relevant to us as it is to US citizens. Luckily for those of us not living north America, its website is an excellent resource, with hours of archived video stretching back from the last few minutes, to last year. There is a special September 11 section available at the moment.www.c-span.org/terrorismCulture ClubHave you seen the BT ad featuring a telephone, sporting a dancing chameleon and a small harmonium-playing frog that has Culture Club's Karma Chameleon as a ring tone? According to Gadget Shop, the phone was specially created for the advert. Now, it is taking orders for replicas,    which should do everything in the ad when they arrive next month after a "frenzied development programme". At &#163;70, they don't come cheap but, then, cutting-edge style never did.www.gadgetshop.comLego buffsCould Monty Python: The Holy Grail be any funnier? Well, maybe - if it was acted out by Lego characters. Film buffs - and Lego enthusiasts - will not want to miss a pretty remarkable library of classic film remakes, available as QuickTime or Windows Media, narrow or broad-band, from the official Lego website. My, how they have come on from the days of simple plastic bricks _www.lego.com/eng/studios/screening/movie.asp?id=montypythonNew &amp; noted&#183;Bush 1.2 for OS X 10.2: your own artificial President?www.versiontracker.com/moreinfo.fcgi?id=16112&amp;db=macosxSix of the bestHoliday planningWhere to go?www.fodors.comOff the beaten trackwww.lonelyplanet.comBargains aplentywww.teletextholidays.co.ukTop notch hotelswww.lhw.comBook upwww.expedia.co.ukRain checkwww.meto.gov.uk/weather
Hilary Rosen runs the Recording Industry Association of America - the American music industry's trade body. She has become a media celebrity because of the RIAA's practically medieval suppression of file sharers, downloaders and other copyright miscreants. This is not an obscure tussle between corporate lawyers but a very public war between the net and the music biz - involving one of the most powerful corporate lobbies in history, the brightest geeks of their generation and up to 100 million people - the file sharers themselves. Both sides see this as a battle for survival.Rosen has upset so many people and created such a poisonous atmosphere between those nearly-friends - the net and the music biz - that it is easy to read the episode as a disaster for all involved. Walls have been erected, businesses shut down, millions alienated. Right-thinking people everywhere shake their heads. But why is all this happening? Is there reason in this apparently senseless conflict and could some good come from it? Yes, and yes.The origin of the conflict lies in fundamental differences between the two warring industries: music and the net. The net is a new industry. In new industries, almost all value is created by new ventures raising new capital for new projects (let's ignore the crash for a minute, shall we?). Everything about a new industry is expansive, creative, positive. It attracts innovators and entrepreneurs, creators, people who like new stuff. The psychological profile of the entire industry is up, optimistic, open. Net people don't understand defensive, negative behaviour. It makes them anxious. But new industries are not a good proxy for the wider economy. Out there, in the older sectors and businesses - where growth is slower, change more measured - value is created in a pretty even mixture of creation and protection.Music businesses produce value in two ways. First, they invest money in new assets. This is the risky part - most new acts fail, most releases don't cover their costs. Second, they operate back catalogues from which they hope to wring steadier, longer-term returns to balance the high risk stuff. Music businesses have to balance both within one organisation. The hothouse produces value in the creation phase, regularly betting the farm on a faint promise. And the more conservative rights management function defends the tail-end of an asset's productive life. Rosen has well-developed defensive instincts: this is an industry where firms employ hundreds of staff solely to defend rights. So, given the instincts of the rights owners, the battle was always going to get nasty.But can any good come from it? When the dust settles will we be left with the status quo or, worse - as the net-heads fear - a compromised net industry and a pumped up music industry, newly empowered by silly new laws everywhere? Probably not.If music lovers had shunned file sharing when Rosen told them to, it might never have come to this. Unfortunately, for Rosen, the consumers aren't returning her calls. File sharing is now a mainstream habit and new evidence suggests that it's started to dent record sales. It's only once sales really start to suffer that the music industry's attitude will change. This is as it should be. In established businesses, almost all change is resisted at first, often by brutal means. It's a simple calculation: even an expensive and drawn-out legal battle with a new entrant can prolong the exploitation of an established line of business profitably. It's almost always a good use of an established industry's cash pile to mash up the new guys. Only when change is inevitable do the big guys cave in and adapt - often with surprising enthusiasm - sometimes turning a new technology from an existential threat to a profitable new line of business over night.So the bloody battle of the file sharing minnows and the music industry dinosaurs is programmed behaviour. Do not panic. Do not leave your seats. It will soon be over. This also explains why the experienced business people now running the surviving file sharing firms haven't given up in the face of Rosen's withering siege. They know that the accommodation is coming. Their bet is that they can stretch their resources and their patience until it does.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What keeps Mac users like you loyal?Mainly because it's not Microsoft, although to some extent they are, now that Microsoft has a small financial interest in Apple. My latest toy is the20Gb iPod, which I still haven't quite managed to fill up yet! I wonder when I'm ever going to find the time to listen to all the weird stuff I've been filling it up with. I have two G3s, a desktop and a PowerBook, waiting in the wings to replace my trusty old PowerMac 4400/200, and I realised that they only have the same size of hard-drive storage as the iPod!Was the computer-game addiction in Complicity drawn from personal experience?I was anticipating it and it then turned out to be true. I'd heard ofCivilization, though I hadn't tried it at that point, so Despot (the game in Complicity) was my imagined vision of what that would be like. I did, however, subsequently become a Civ addict! I've developed the technique whereby I get a game, play it compulsively for about a month, then wipe all the files, break the CD and throw it in the bin! I'm not really into shoot-'em-ups; it's more strategy games I like.Any thoughts on the Greek government's ban on computer games?As a species I think we'll always find a way of getting addicted to something _whether it's an intellectual or a physical addiction. I suspect that theGreek government's banwon't be that successful. It could be an interesting experiment but I'll believe it when I see it!Do governments have the right to read our email?No, I think it's wrong. One suspects that there are ways around it. The hacking community, in particular, can move much faster than any government. It's very much an invasion of privacy. In one sense, I am all in favour of transparency. In my last book,The Business, the people who worked in a worldwide company all had access to everyone else's accounts. If my wife would let me, I'd publish all my financial details on my website. I think the whole thing withPretty Good Privacyis entirely the wrong way to go. The way to cut down on corruption is to make everything as transparent as possible.Do you have broadband?I'd really like to have it, but we're over the 5km limit from the nearest exchange. I might give satellite or something else a try. I only got the internet proper a couple of years ago, as I was worried I'd get addicted to it. That's why I don't have any particular favourite sites, as, without broadband, surfing the net is incredibly slow.Favourite gadgets?I'm afraid I can't see past the iPod. I don't even have a personal digital assistant. I use a diary - the batteries never go flat on it!How do you imagine the net evolving?What do you think I am - a science-fiction writer?Visit:www.iainbanks.net
It's an article of faith that anyone who is on a trip away from the office is basking in the sun, being fed grapes by dusky maidens/serenaded by tanned hunks (depending on sex and orientation). The Intel Developers Forum should be like this, but it isn't, as you could tell from today's schedule. 6.30am Alarm call; shave; shower etc. 7.15am Breakfast in press room. Check email. 7.45 Head for convention centre. 8.00-9.30am Keynote presentation by Intel's Sean Maloney and Mark Fister (yes, they turn off the wireless LAN). 9.40-10.00am Q&amp;A with Sean Maloney and Mark Fister. 10.15am Back to hotel, to press room: check email, say hello to Sean Maloney. 10.40-11.00 Roundtable briefing with Sean Maloney. 11.00-12.10 Storage press lunch and technology showcase with Sean Maloney. 12.10 Check email, go outside, lie down, no, do a bit of blogging.... I always enjoy meeting Sean Maloney, which is just as well, since I've been meeting him for 12-15 years -- he featured in Computer Guardian when Intel launched it i960 RISC processor. Then he was a very bright lad from Lewisham. Now he's a very bright lad from Lewisham who has climbed the Intel hierarchy to executive vice president level, and is general manager of Intel's communications business. Since it's now 12.25pm in San Jose, Ca, I just have time to grab a sandwich before my 1.00pm session on Intel and "green" design. A conference planner with a sense of humour has scheduled this for the Garden Room.
"Open Source" guru Bruce Perens hasparted company with Hewlett-Packard, where he worked to promote Linux. Perens wrote the Open Source Definition, by which Free Software (as in Free Software Foundation) was renamed to make it more acceptable to Big Business. (The "open source" definiton allows the ignorant to think that software is "open source" if the source code is available, as opposed to the "free software" definition, which allows the ignorant to think you can't charge for it.)
Microsoft has releasedService Pack 1for Windows XP. As well as rolling up a variety of bug fixes, it adds support for tablet PCs (Windows XP Tablet PC Edition), Windows Powered Smart Displays (Mira) and XP Media Center Edition, among other things. Probably not a good idea to rush to the Windows Update centre, however, as the whole thing is 133 megabytes. Still, at least it's free.
In the first quarter of 2000, Apple and Dell were in a head-to-head battle for dominance in the US education market. Since then, Dell has increased its market share from 22.6% to 34.9% while Apple's market share has fallen from 20.2% to 12.4% in the fourth quarter of 2001, reportsMacCentral. The figures come from market research firm, International Data Corp. (IDC).
"Apple's Success: I'm not really an expert on this, but I see two things that make Apple successful now where others aren't. They are really a tight monopoly. They're a hardware monopoly, and there's no hardware monopoly on the other side," Apple co-founderSteve Wozniakin MacWorld magazine.
Lamb stew, served with yellow rice and a tomato and green bean salad is on the midweek "munch" menu at Fairbridge, West Midlands, a charity supporting disadvantaged young adults. The menu has been designed by 16-year-olds Sonia Fereday and Claire Cooper, having found the recipes on the internet.A web search for African meals produced an array of dishes. Now the friends have to buy the ingredients with &#163;25 supplied by the charity and prepare the food for 10 people, including members of staff. "We chose the simplest recipes," admits Fereday, who has little experience of cooking. But Cooper says she is looking forward to getting into the kitchen.This is just one example of how young people at the Fairbridge centre in Birmingham are using the internet. Cooper, who is about to start college, also found out what qualifications she needed to study childcare. In the 10 months the girls have been attending the centre, they say they have spent at least an hour a day sending and receiving emails from friends they have made around the world.This global gateway is provided by a kiosk - about the size of a fruit machine - located in a corner of the centre. "It always has a crowd of young people round it between course breaks," says Sarah Clayton, assistant development coordinator of the Fairbridge project. "Sometimes they're just finding out what's on at the movies; other times it's career information. They haven't got a lot of money, so it's important that it's free."The SURFiT kiosk is provided by virtual charity YouthNet UK, which aims to expand internet access to dis  advantaged young people across England and Wales. Fairbridge West Midlands was one of 10 initial pilot sites, funded by Barclays. It went live in March last year.Twelve months later, a survey was completed by 205 young people through an online questionnaire at the by-then 29 Barclays-sponsored kiosks in youth advisory centres. It revealed that almost half had never used the internet before. One in three said they used it to seek advice; another third sent emails; and 7% used the kiosk for study purposes. Some 70% of respondents also used the kiosk more than once a day.During the three months from January to March this year, 30,706 online user sessions were registered at the kiosks. Fiona Dawe, YouthNet UK chief executive, hails the programme as a clear success in tackling the so-called "digital divide"."There are over 7 million 15- to 24-year-olds in Britain, many of whom do not have access to a PC or the internet, nor the finances and skills to source any information from the internet," says Dawe. "The provision of free internet access has empowered many young disadvantaged people to source information and advice about aspects and issues that impact on their lives and to communicate with potential employees, housing agencies, their relatives and friends."As a result of its findings, YouthNetUK is extending the SURFiT programme, funded as part of a &#163;3m deal with Vodafone. By the end of this month, 100 youth organisations will have a kiosk, together with three years' free internet access. In addition, a chain of "student pubs", adjacent to universities, is being supplied with kiosks.YouthNet UK was established in 1995 to design a website that would provide impartial advice to 18- to 24-year-olds on everything from relationships and health to careers and legal matters, signposting the nearest support services. The award-winning site, TheSite.org, now attracts almost a million visitors every month and acts as the homepage on all SURFiT kiosks.Claire Cooper admits to sneaking a look at its relationship top-tips. "I'm not very good with boys," she says. "I've always been shy. I learned that if someone doesn't like you, don't chase them and don't look desperate."Doncaster Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Dacro) and Pendle Pakistan Welfare Association are among centres that have integrated the kiosk into their IT courses. Others leave the users to find their own way around. "It's good to let them find out their own information," says Angela Protain, day centre manager at the London Connection, a day centre for young homeless people. "We help if people can't get on to a site, and we encourage those that ask for a lot of help to enrol on one of our computer courses."Unemployed Wayne Bartlett, 17, tries to beat the queue for the kiosk by arriving at 9am. He is searching the internet for a job, but has experienced difficulties using the system.Bartlett says he may take up Protain's offer to improve his IT skills. "I come in here every day to look for work in a warehouse and I write down the telephone numbers of those that seem all right," he says. "But the system keeps crashing because you have to do it a certain way. I may have to go on a course to learn how to do it better."
This motorbike is called 999 and that seems to be a good choice. It's certainly the number I most felt like dialling when the nice Italian man in the Ducati shop in Croydon handed over the key and said, "Have a good weekend." Police, ambulance or fire brigade? Better send all three. Police because - look at it - it has to be illegal, doesn't it? Ambulance because I'm going to be dead quite soon. Fire brigade... erm, because it's bright red and hot. Oh, and when it's upside down, 999 will read 666, so better send a priest as well.Actually it's called the 999 because it is the replacement for the 998 and it is, well, one better. To be more precise, it's lighter, faster, more aerodynamic and simpler. The 998 replaced the 996, which replaced the 916, the 888 and the 851, which was the bike that started Ducati's domination of the World Superbike Championships. Superbike means very, very good bike - the top-of-the-range bike from every manufacturer and the one that gets raced in the World Superbike Championships. Got it? Anyway, enough laddishness. What it all boils down to is that the Ducati 999 goes like the clappers.But it's also beautiful. Ducatis have always appealed to the aesthete in a way that no Honda or Yamaha has ever managed. (It's down to styling and Italianness really. A Ducati 916 once even made it into the Guggenheim Museum in New York.) And this new one is no exception. Everything is the right shape; it is low, sleek and stylish, with beautiful details like the pinhole headlights and the shape of the tank. It has to be red, of course - red is the colour of Italian racing.In a recent survey of the coolest brands in Britain, Ducati beat clothes designer Alexander McQueen, sparse hi-fi specialist Bang &amp; Olufsen, raunchy underwear label Agent Provocateur and the Tate Modern to come top. The 999 is the top-of-the-range Ducati - its superbike - and at the moment there are only a handful in the country. Can you see where this is going? Yes, right now, I am one of the coolest people in Britain. Where are you, Mr McQueen? I'm going to come and pull a wheelie right outside your shop and teach you a lesson in advanced cool. Loser.Actually, I feel pretty much the opposite of cool - wobbling, terrified, up the A23 in the hot Friday evening rush-hour traffic. And only the deeply uncool say "cool" now anyway, don't they? This survey is a sham! But the noise my new red devil makes is beautiful - most modern bikes whine, and whine louder; a Ducati burbles and roars. And I make it home alive, which is a bonus.The following morning I need to go to Sainsbury's, which is a couple of miles up the road. Perfect for a bit of confidence-building. But half an hour later I find myself, inexplicably, in Aylesbury. Then Oxford, Wallingford, Pangbourne. It is several hours before I get back to Sainsbury's - with a sore arse and a Cheshire cat grin - after swallowing up most of the A roads in the home counties. This bike goes like stink and handles like a dream. I won't bore you with petrol-headed blokiness. But think in terms of music. You can pick up a cheap violin at any old music shop - the Japanese do perfectly good ones. It will be fine if you plan to scratch away in the back desk of the second violins of an amateur orchestra. But if you are a soloist and you plan to perform Bruch's violin concerto you will be wanting something a little more special. It's the same with motorbikes. And the Ducati 999 is a Stradivarius. In the right hands it will make beautiful music. I'm not saying I have the right hands, but at the moment I feel like Nigel Kennedy.When the shopping finally gets done, and I return to the bike in Sainsbury's car park, a German man is practically wetting himself with excitement. "The new 999, I have only seen it in magazines. It is yours?" "Yes," I lie. He calls his girlfriend over to have a look. Soon several people are admiring the beautiful red motorbike in Sainsbury's car park. Maybe I really am the coolest person in Britain.On the downside, the Ducati 999 is uncomfortable, impractical and expensive - you can buy a nice family saloon for the price. There are far more sensible ways of getting from A to B. But then the Ducati 999 has nothing to do with being sensible or getting from A to B. It's all about where you go in between.
fromWired.
According toFT.com, Hutchison 3G plans to build a subscriber base for its new 3G services across Europe by undercutting its 2G rivals on the price of voice calls. That makes sense: while the analysts scramble around looking for the "killer" 3G service, the answer continues to stare them in the face: it's voice calls. What is not yet clear is exactly how much the first 3G phones will cost to the consumer - the FT says they will cost $750 to make. Consumers will not pay that much, so it's pretty irrelevant worrying about what the cost of calls will be if the subscribers are being put off by the initial price of the kit, or a high monthly subscription.
Two announcements emerge from MacWorld in Paris today, where Steve Jobs is giving the keynote. First,iCal, Apple's new calendar program for OS X 10.2 users, is now available for download. The free program allows Mac users to create calendars, put them on a variety of handheld devices and share them over the internet... I'll be playing with it this week for review purposes, so do let me know how you get on.Meanwhile, Apple says that all new Macs will boot into Mac OS X by default from the start of next year, although they will retain the ability to run OS9 applications in the "classic" mode that comes bundled with OS X. It's a move that makes sense, both for Apple and the users: new developments on the Mac platform are only going to happen on OS X, and running Classic too often appears to cause headaches for all who try. Those users who move wholesale to OSX report far fewer problems.
AOL Time Warner yesterday warned that America Online is continuing to disappoint expectations and would deliver far lower earnings this year than previous forecasts.The world's largest media group blamed weakness in the internet service provider's advertising sales. The division's full-year advertising revenue is likely to be $1.7bn (&#163;1.1bn), with an additional "5% downside risk", the company said.Core earnings will be in a range of $1.7bn-$1.8bn, pared back from earlier guidance of between $1.8bn and $2.2bn.America Online, which had been cast as the engine that would supercharge the old media businesses during the merger with Time Warner, has instead become a drag on both earnings and the company's share price.As well as faltering advertising sales, America Online has suffered a sharp slowdown in subscriber growth. Many of its   advertisers were other dotcom companies that have since either gone out of business or are conserving cash.The company reaffirmed its earlier forecasts for the wider group, but the bleak outlook at America Online weighed on AOL shares. They fell 3.5% in early trade to $12.67.AOL last month named Jonathan Miller as chief executive of America Online, replacing Bob Pittman, who quit under increasing pressure.Mr Miller, a former USA In teractive executive, is one of the first outsiders to hold a top position at America Online. He reports to Don Logan, a veteran Time executive recently installed to oversee the subscription parts of the empire which also includes magazines and cable television.The US justice department and financial regulator the securities and exchange commission are conducting continuing investigations into the accounting methods used by America Online.They are investigating allegations that the business inflated its advertising revenues with a series of dubious deals in the run-up to the merger with Time Warner.The executive who brokered many of those deals, David Colburn, was asked to leave the company last month.America Online has struggled to replicate its narrowband success in the more lucrative broadband sector, but has agreed a breakthrough deal that will give it access to   19m Comcast cable homes in the US.In the most recent quarter, America Online reported core earnings of $473m, down from $652m a year earlier.The company added just 492,000 subscribers, falling short of analysts' expectations of 1m.For the wider group, AOL is sticking to forecasts of full-year revenue growth of between 5% and 8% and earnings growth at the low end of a 5%-9% range.
Have you been wondering whyDaypophas broken so badly? It's ownerrevealshe's on holiday in Italy - and can't do a remote fix. He gets back home on Friday (the 13th, wahaha). In the meantime, what on earth is the weblogging community going to write about?
Another surveyout today shows that Britain has a lower percentage of broadband penetration than anywhere else in Europe. Heck, evenEstoniais miles ahead of us according to one report issued late last month. I got the chance to challenge the e-commerce ministerStephen Timmsabout this last week on the Simon Mayo programme on Radio 5 Live. I'm afraid he didn't even seem aware of the latest research, claiming (wrongly) that the figures I quoted were out of date. But he still insisted that no government intervention was required to bring broadband to more people, more quickly. The most he wants to do is monitor BT, to make sure it doesn't abuse its monopoly position.
Oh dear. On Saturday Ipostedthat google.yahoo.com was available to internet users in China, thus making their ban on Google rather less than complete. Alas, it seems the Chinese authorities are among Onlineblog's audience (hello!), because (as reader Marcus helpfully points out in the comments below) google.yahoo.com is now showing up as banned as well. The BBC link is still working... but having said that, I'd think it'll only be a matter of time...
TheIntel Developer Forumopens today at the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose, California. This is where I'm spending the week, along with several thousand delegates and about 450 journalists from all over the world. The hotel has its own Wi-Fi wieless LAN so you can surf from the lobby, but I'm using Intel's network, set up for the conference. (I'm told it also supports 802.11a but my Cisco card is 802.11b.) Briefings start at 9.30am, ie about 45 minutes from now, local time. Other Brits spotted so far include Mike Magee (The Inquirer, formerly of The Register) and Rupert Goodwins (ZDNet). Ziff UK's special PDF report, linked from its front page, is for theFebruaryconference.
"The megahertz mentality reigns, but processor speed is almost passé" claims theWashington Postjust before the start of theIntel Developer Forum Conferencein San Jose, California. (Jack Schofield's there for Online, and he'll be blogging the latest news too).
For the first time, Europe has more internet users than the US. According to Irish-based industry monitor Nua.com, Europe has almost 186 million users, while Canada and the US register 182 million. The difference may not seem substantial, but Europe is still a growing market."Internet penetration rate in the US is now close to saturation," says Nua.com editor Charlie Taylor. "However, the number of Europeans going online is increasing at a fast rate - they now account for 32% of the global internet population."As the European market continues to increase, the battle to dominate the continent's internet service provision is becoming increasingly heated. There are three big players in Europe's ISP market; Germany's T-Online, France's Wanadoo and Italian Tiscali. Between them, they control the market with a total of around 25m regular subscriptions.Much of the battle comes down to a scrap between Europe's largest telecomms companies. T-Online is a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom and Wanadoo - which also owns Britain's Freeserve - is controlled by France Telecom. Only Tiscali stands out from the top three for not having such major backing - but that doesn't necessarily mean it is further away from finding the secret of success."None of these companies has ironed out the ISP business model yet," says Hellen Omwando, consumer markets analyst for Forrester. "Having a pan-European footprint is not good enough. These companies need to be competing for the top positions in each of their national markets."T-Online has definitely grabbed the opportunity to chase as many markets as possible. "We are positioned in three of the five European key markets, which I think are Germany, Great Britain, France, Spain and Italy," says T-Online chief executive Thomas Holtrop. "Our position allows us to wait and to observe the consolidation process very closely."Conversely, some observers are concerned about Tiscali's plans for the future - mainly because the company gained its position through the aggressive acquisition of more than 30 other providers over a short period. Many believe the lack of organic growth could be its downfall."The kind of fast acquisition techniques of Tiscali have proved to be something of a double-edged sword," says Darren Stevenson of internet monitoring firm Jupiter MMXI. "It allowed the company to grow quickly, but it means customers have less loyalty to its brands."Tiscali insiders are tight-lipped about the future, but stress the level of success the company has achieved in a very short time. "Not only did we take advantage of our managerial skills and independent status to rapidly gain market share," says Tiscali's chief financial officer Massimo Cristofori, "but it is also thanks to our technology platform and our innovative product portfolio."While the big boys grapple for the mantle of European supremacy, BT has been representative of British hopes - its ambitions came crashing down at the end of the dotcom boom, and observers argue that its opportunity could be gone forever. With the same kind of backing and resources as Europe's most successful ISPs, BT has failed to make a similar impact."There's a simple reason for that," says Omwando. "The key distinction is that T-Online and Wanadoo are the leading ISPs in their own domestic markets. BT doesn't lead in the UK and that has hampered efforts to increase the user base in Europe. It was Freeserve, not BT, which drove the internet revolution in Britain."BT lost out because it was slow to capitalise on its massive user base. For similar reasons, AOL - the world's largest internet provider - has been assaulting the bastion of European access but has yet to find a dominant foothold in any single country.But while Wanadoo and T-Online edge towards regular profitability, there have been persistent industry rumours that Tiscali may end up selling out in part - or even in whole - to one of its competitors."It is burning through cash like a traditional dotcom, and that's anachronistic these days," says Stevenson. "But we can't ignore the company's achievements - it has come from nowhere to being the third largest ISP in Europe in less than three years, and that's phenomenal."As the focus for internet service providers moves towards sustained profitability, their business plans are shifting towards broadband. Dial-up markets are relatively complete in terms of growth, especially in the more mature British and German sectors. But broadband is an area that British providers in particular have been slow to exploit. Accusations of anti-competitive behaviour against BT have hampered attempts to roll out broadband services across the UK, and now the high-speed industry in Britain looks a shadow of that in other countries."Tiscali's proprietary network means it is very well placed to exploit a strong customer proposition in the broadband arena," says Cristofori. "Therefore, we are confident that we will substantially increase our subscriber base on a broadband proposition, while also retaining our market share in the narrowband market."It is T-Online, however, which has once again led the charge, with more than 50% of its German internet users now able to use high-speed connections. It's something it feels is a central part of its strategy."We think that broadband is the future of the internet because of its quality and speed," says T-Online's Holtrop. "For us as a company, broadband customers are a very interesting target group as they spend more time on the internet and are more inclined to e-commerce."But don't let the smart words and heavy marketing lead you to think the web wizards have found their holy grail. Europe's largest ISPs are still chasing the same elusive dream that has existed since the web was born - and conjuring money out of the internet is as hard as it's ever been.
As with every other stock-market mania, the dotcom bubble was inflated by the hot breath of hucksters. The frenzied buying on Wall Street before the Crash of 1929 was encouraged by professors who shouted that America was in a 'new era' of 'scientific management' and Ford production lines. In the 1990s, the 'new era' was replaced by the 'new economy'. This was a cosmetic alteration: the propaganda for and from the credulous was the same.Yahoo! and Netscape meant that hitherto unimaginable prosperity could flourish without fears of a recession, said Michael Mandel of  Business Week as he mapped the new world. 'The unique nature of an expansion led by high-technology explains why the US has been able to sustain a lower unemployment rate with faster growth and less inflation than economists ever believed possible.'Mary Meeker, a stock analyst from Morgan Stanley, whose certainty that technology stocks would rise forever earned her the title 'Queen of the Net', was as good at rationalising mob buying. Incredible prices for shares in tiny companies which had never made a profit were investments you'd be mad not to buy, she wrote in 1997. 'The world has never experienced as rapid/violent a commercial revolution as that being caused by the acceptance/usage of the internet as a communications and commercial tool.'After the crash and the al-Qaeda attacks, 1997 seems an age away. No investor now believes that technology has abolished the booms and busts of capitalism. Even conventional economists, who asserted that markets were efficient and rational, have fallen silent in the face of the evidence of the madness of stock-market crowds. Only one lonely institution hugs the belief that technology and private enterprise can make the unthinkable thinkable: the bubble-headed British government.New Labour has been tied to the New Economy since its birth. Gee-whizzery promised to free the party from the hard questions about how wealth should be shared. Gordon Brown said in 1999 he would move Britain 'beyond the old and self-defeating choice between Old Left   over-regulation... and the New Right belief in unfettered markets.' Liberation would come by equipping 'people to master ever faster waves of technological, financial and global change in a way that is sensitive to the needs of all'. The net would bring equality and liberation. Tony Blair promised in 2000 he would 'achieve leadership for the UK in the global digital economy'. Peter Mandelson promised in 1998 that Britain will have 'the best environment in the world for electronic trading by 2002'. The bursting of the bubble has in no way restrained their techno-utopianism. Last month, Brown assigned yet more billions to 'e-government'.This was not the act of a prudent man. New Labour can't master the 'ever-faster waves of technology'. All it can do is produce needless suffering and throw public money at bungling and rapacious corporations.In all the coverage of the Criminal Records Bureau fiasco, few journalists have noticed the boldness of the Home Office's ambition. At the moment, Capita, the out-sourcing company whose failure to deliver benefits or stop fraud has made it an old friend of this column, can't check the criminal records of teachers. Children are probably dying on the roads because Ministers are too scared of the post-Soham tabloids to allow them into the safety of the classrooms. Today's scandal, however, could well be dwarfed in the spring.The scrutinising of those who work with children is just the start. Meeker's vision of a violent technological revolution convinced the Government it could inspect the entire adult population. Depending on which Home Office civil servant you believe, 10 million or 12 million people a year will be obliged to give their employers certificates from Capita stating what crimes, if any, they have committed.To Ministers, the linking of databases made previously unimaginable mass vetting a credible twenty-first-century aspiration. What could be easier? reasoned Jack Straw and Paul Boateng. Capita could check the Police National Computer and create a world where bygones need never be bygones and criminals who wanted to go straight in an honest job would be forced back to crime.Their calf-eyed innocence was exposed two years ago. Anyone who uses computers, rather than fantasises about their authoritarian potential, knows that the presence of information in a database doesn't make it true. By all accounts, the cops' computers are world leaders in misinformation. The Chief Inspector of Constabulary found an error rate on criminal records of between 15 and 65 per cent in different forces. A secret investigation by the Met, which a friendly mole leaked to me, discovered mistakes in 86 per cent of samples from London's criminal records. Many of the howlers were so bad, worried inspectors reported, they were libellous - which opens the gorgeous prospect of thousands of thwarted jobseekers suing David Blunkett for falsely accusing them of being crazed hoodlums.Like men on a mission from the Lord, Ministers press on, blotting out the lessons of experience. The German new technology giant, Siemens, promised the Immigration and Nationality Department that it could save it a fortune by computerising its records. Experienced case officers were duly sacked at a time when the politicians could talk of little else but the asylum crisis. The computer was never made to work, and racial violence resulted as the denuded Home Office struggled to clear the backlog of asylum claims. Only Siemens prospered. It secured an agreement to carry on being paid for a useless system until 2003.A rough and by no means complete list of New Labour's other new technology disasters must also include the attempts to wire-up the Child Support Agency, the courts, the Probation Service, National Insurance, the Post Office and Benefits Agency. Last week the Inland Revenue complained that it had spent &#163;17 million on an online tax return service hardly anyone wanted. It seemed not to have occurred to the tech managers that it is far easier to fill in a long form by pen than on a screen.The Victorian journalist Charles Mackay concluded his survey of the bubble markets of his time by writing: 'Men, it has well been said, think in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds, while they only recover their senses slowly, and one by one.' While the rest of the world is slowly recovering its senses, New Labour is stuck in the madness of its digitalised delusions.
Java "is not living up to the promise of letting programmers'write once, run anywhere', according to developers gathered in London last week", reports CNet. What is amazing is that, after the past 5 years, there are still programmers who are naive enough to think it would.
You might have caught the story earlier in the week that Google had been banned in China. Well, we all know that such governmental bans are doomed to failure and, sure enough,New Scientistclaims that there's a way round it.Trouble is, it's still going to be a little inconvenient for our Chinese friends. Their answer is a Google parody site calledelgooG, where everything (like the name) is reversed. So, you type in "golbenilno" and you get links to this site - although the results are aligned to the right of the page, and the type is backwards. Better than nothing, I suppose, although only just.New Scientist points out, in the last paragraph, that Google allows others to use its API so sites can call on Google's vast database without holding the information themselves. (The little Google powered search box on this page is not quite the same: I suspect that because the web form below sends the request to google.com, and because the results then appear on a page served up by google.com, it would be blocked in China.)But New Scientist couldn't find any sites actually hosting a Google search, which makes you think they couldn't have looked very hard (as this is how Google makes much of its money). There'sgoogle.yahoo.com, for a start, which is not blocked in China. And the Google poweredBBC searchis served up by bbc.co.uk. According tothis testof China's firewall, the BBC site is available to surfers in China (it's news.bbc.co.uk that is blocked, famously).Neither site has the cached page feature that, we suspect, is what upsets the Chinese authorities most. And the BBC'sresultsare slightly rearranged from the Google original. But both picks have got to be rather better bets than elgooG.
The freedom of information available on the internet has been seriously curtailed since last year's terrorist attacks on America on September 11, a report by media watchdog Reporters Sans Frontieres has warned.RSF argued the campaign against terrorism and the resulting tightening of security has caused governments to clamp down on the free flow of information on the web."One year after the tragic events in New York and Washington, the internet can be added to the list of 'collateral damage' caused by the general spate of security measures.  As a result, basic cyber freedoms have been cut back," said RSF's internet representative, Lock Coriou.Countries with traditionally poor records on human rights, such as China, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and Vietnam, were criticised for being "schizophrenic" about the internet."Since the 11 September attacks, these 'enemies' of the internet have taken advantage of the international drive against terrorism to strengthen the police and legal machinery they have installed to put the internet under surveillance. They are also using it to step up pressure on cyber-dissidents," said Mr Coriou.Over the past few months the Chinese government has closed 14,000 internet cafes and imprisoned 30 people over their use of the internet, said the report.Mr Coriou also attacked US internet giant Yahoo! for signing a self-censorship pact with the Chinese government.In Tunisia, the founder of Tunezine.com, a website critical of the country's president, has been imprisoned for more than two years.But the watchdog also accused more liberal western governments of using September 11 as an excuse to extend their monitoring and control of internet use.RSF argued that by retaining email records countries including the US, the UK, Germany, France and Spain were turning internet service providers and telephone companies into "a potential arm of the police"."What would the citizens of Europe and elsewhere do if they were told a law had been passed allowing what they sent through the post to be routinely read by the police at any time?" asked Mr Coriou."They would be outraged at such restrictions on their freedom. Yet these are exactly the kind of measures that have been or are being taken concerning the internet. We need to be much more vigilant," he warned.
Cheap chipsRe Online for &#163;499 (August 29). I believe Dell charges &#163;99 to install operating and application software, which, with VAT and delivery, results in a price in excess of &#163;600.Surely a less powerful machine can be offered to first-time PC users at a cost significantly less than &#163;500? Many of us use slower PCs and these "ancient" models are adequate for web and home use.Marketeers wish to keep prices as close to a grand as possible. Technical gains produce a more powerful model without producing the replaced model at a lower cost. The spiral of increasing capacity and speed that is often in excess of need and demand has to level off.John Flowersjohn2flowers@aol.comDate dilemmaJenny Madden (Feedback, August 29) claims "scores" of women have contacted her    after online dating disasters.  Many more people of both genders have dating disasters after meeting in traditional ways. At least with the internet, a woman (or man) can assess potential partners without risking physical contact or revealing an address. Could she be blaming a life problem on the internet without recognising its advantages?Jeremy Smithjpwsmith@ntlworld.comSpam planHere's my idea for beating the spammers (Feedback, August 29). Using the same method used to "bounce" emails that are sent to an invalid address, a semi-bounce routine should be automatically sent out on all incoming email. If that transmission bounces back to the server that received the email, indicating that the message had forged headers or if the sender has purposely tried to conceal origin, the email goes no further and is deleted.Spammers would then   have to deal with the same volume of messages they force upon others, or in the case of forged headers, the ISPs that allow them to operate.Timmie Forsythperfectionpaint@hotmail.comKilling appsRe Dave Hills' reminder (Feedback, August 29) that "services and applications sell, technologies do not". The computing industry lives by innovating and selling technology and its applications. It is telecoms that understand creating and selling services.Unfortunately, telecoms let computing make the running in the 1980s; we are all obsessed with selling technology, with even computing applications taking a back seat. Few new communications services have surfaced in the past 10 years.The overwhelming need now is to exploit broadband to get growth going again following the dotcom and other disasters. We need to   create new broadband communications services that will be used by millions. The people in a position to do this are the countrywide telecoms carriers such as BT. They owe it to us to show what they can do.John Harperberry@pavilion.co.ukCup of chaosI'm curious to know how Starbucks (Slurp and Surf, August 29) intends to approach the security of its wireless Lan. It would have been appropriate to explain the security concerns surrounding this technology.Emma Batcheloremmabatchelor@yahoo.comMac messRe Stephen Wolff's letter (Feedback, August 29), I also have minor problems with Logic/iMac (OS 9.1)/Midiman systems. Do others in the music biz have similar problems? Main difficulties are: USB not recognised at startup and the loss of the MIDI click.Robbie Mitchellrobbiemitch@mac.comBounced outRe Spam Defense (Feedback, August 29). Fake email addresses may be a good idea in some circumstances but a recent recruitment ad we placed in the Guardian    produced two applicants with great CVs who "faked" their return address. The unlucky applicants will never know whether or not they were considered for the job.Bob AugerNewm&#233;rique,Digital Media Consultancybob_auger@ yahoo.co.uk
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris5Current Topic:Tony Blair has promised to publish a dossier of evidence against Saddam Hussein in the coming weeks, to make the case for attacking Iraq. Meanwhile, American tanks are already being moved to the Iraqi border in Kuwait. Is war with Iraq now a foregone conclusion? What do you think?jenni@boughtledger:WARBronco:war!jenni@boughtledger:good god, y'all!Bronco:wot is it good for!nameless:it's good for the economyBronco:is itnameless:it drives oil prices up in the short tErm, while protecting the free flow of crude oil in the long termjenni@boughtledger:say it again!nameless:it also provides an important proving ground for new military technologyBronco:2 much info now*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:wb pashPashmina:roomjenni@boughtledger:WARPashmina:you 2 still singin I seeBronco:yes. WARnameless:is the only way to prevent Saddam from developing   nuclear weapons*LADEEZMAN has entered the NewsRoom*LADEEZMAN:how do I lookBronco:wikked! u capped up yr username!!Pashmina:it siuts youjenni@boughtledger:WARnameless:is simply diplomacy by other meansBronco:who IS this guynameless:I am namelessPashmina:thats not alowwed. you must have a namenameless:my name is namelessPashmina:throw him out Chris2Bronco:where is Chris2?Pashmina:Chris2, WERE ARE YOUHost_Chris5:hes not herePashmina:WERE IS HE THENHost_Chris5:hes awayPashmina:well pls throw out nameless for having no name NOWHost_Chris5:his name is namelessLADEEZMAN:well tell him to stick   to the topicHost_Chris5:he isPashmina:Chris5 u need 2 be a little more pro activ I thinkHost_Chris5:whateverBronco:how come they skipped Chris3 and Chris4LADEEZMAN:its annarchy in erejenni@boughtledger:i'm a celebrity get me out here!*jenni@boughtledger has left the NewsRoom*Pashmina:she must think shes lara tomkins-palmerson or summatHost_Chris5:the next person who bothers me is banned&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Capcom vs SNK 2: EOGameCube 	&#163;39.99 Capcom 	**Tekken 4PS2	&#163;39.99 Sony 	***Fighting games are still popular despite a lack of real innovation in recent years. Titles like Street Fighter set the template, with nicely hard-to-master special moves and oddball characters. Since then, the biggest change has   been the move into 3D, which worked well on titles such as Soul Calibur.Despite this, many fans prefer the more precise controls of the 2D arena. It is they who will be interested in Capcom Vs SNK 2: EO, which   has the same mix of cartoony combatants and deceptively tactical contests.Unfortunately, in trying to make the action easier - EO stands for Easy Operation - Capcom has taken away some of the incentives to hone your skills. Special moves are easier to pull off, but the biggest problem is the GameCube controller, which lacks a suitably precise interface.A better bet for fighting fans is Tekken 4. Graphically this is a treat, with the backgrounds particularly impressive. There are numerous opportunities to learn better moves while there is still some scope for button-bashing novices to achieve success. Nevertheless, polished as Tekken 4 is, neither it, nor Capcom Vs SNK, offers anything new and are unlikely to gain new devotees to the genre. (GH)Scooby DooGBA 	&#163;29.99 Heavy Iron/THQ 	***Full marks to THQ for getting this out almost in time for the big movie, far fewer for dumbing it down to appeal to everyone.You start with a choice of playing Scooby or Shaggy, a semi-redundant choice given that they're as fast as each other. Later in the game, you get limited control of other characters, either to perform certain functions (Velma is smarter, Daphne more aggressive, Fred stronger, etc) or to be saved from traps and dangers when the level demands it.Scooby Doo is an old-school arcade adventure, so expect lots of wandering around, looking for objects or goals with occasional fights breaking out to liven up the action. There are also four mini-games, some of which can be played at any time, others you have to complete to advance in a particular level. Controlling your character is easy, but imprecise, so fights break out when you meant to run away and vice versa, but you get used to it after a while.One glance at the screenshots will also tell you that Scooby is no looker.   Although the backgrounds are well-detailed, the animation is crude and the graphics are so dark, they're almost impossible to make out.You also have to question how much time is spent on tedious cut-scenes, presenting the new-look movie characters or advancing the plot, when more effort should have gone into more imaginative gameplay.This is a trait common to many big franchises, where the developers are aiming for the movie audience as well as the more demanding and savvy game-fans, resulting in a title that sits uncomfortably in both camps. Some of the cheesy dialogue works on both levels, but only kids will find it consistently amusing.So, all in all, an average game based on an average movie. With more Scooby titles in the pipeline let's hope for more ambitious gameplay in future. Until then, enjoy it for what it is: simple undemanding fun for people with 20/20 vision and a good supply of carrots to see in the dark.    (MA)StuntmanPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Reflections/Atari	***Stuntman is Infogrames' first major game under the Atari banner, and it just about lives up to Atari's reputation.Created by the team behind the Driver franchise, it casts you as a stunt driver,   contracted to drive like a maniac for the benefit of the cameras in a selection of films that pastiche old favourites such as Lock, Stock . . . and The Dukes of Hazzard.The detailed aspects of the game are impeccably observed: once you complete the set of missions making up each film, you get to see a playback of your efforts, and the video sequences are generally amusing and among the best seen in a videogame.But Stuntman has flaws: it is too short, and the gameplay, which insists on precision,   consists mainly of repeatedly going over the same ground until you achieve near-perfection. Some may find this frustrating rather than fun.That said, the cars' handling is a joy, the level of difficulty ramps up smoothly, and as you progress, you do begin to feel like a real stunt-driver. And you can acquire new cars and toys to put in the stunt arena, which you can drive around to your heart's content. This is clearly designed to give the game replay value, but doesn't really succeed in that aim.Don't expect to play it for months, but with the likes of The Getaway and GTA Vice Cities waiting in the wings, Stuntman whets the appetite for some of the PS2's big Christmas blockbusters. (SB)
The NHS has appointed an information technology supremo charged with rescuing the service's faltering e-strategy  - and made him the highest paid manager in the health service, if not the entire public sector.Richard Granger, a partner with Deloitte Consulting, will be paid around £250,000 a year as the director general of NHS information technology - around £90,000 more than the NHS chief executive, Nigel Crisp, earns, and £125,000 more than the health secretary, Alan Milburn.Mr Granger will be responsible for implementing the NHS information and technology programme, regarded as one of the world's largest IT projects, which aims to wire up the entire health service.The programme will see the roll out the of electronic transfer of patient records, laboratory tests, prescriptions and electronic booking of patient appointments across the thousands of organisations making up the NHS.The advertisement for the job, published in June this year, described the job as "a Herculean task &#91;that&#93;... will demand an individual of extraordinary talent and experience" .The NHS has suffered from a fragmented a piecemeal approach to IT over the past few years, which has seen multitudes of local IT systems spring up which are incompatible with other systems in the organisation.Mr Crisp today welcomed the appointment: "Without a doubt, this is the IT challenge of the decade and I am confident that Richard's skills and experience put him in a unique position to deliver it."We needed an outstanding director to deliver a world class programme and that is what we now have."Mr Granger joined Deloitte Consulting in October 1998, since when his clients have included Transport for London, the Department of Education and Employment, and the former Department for Social Security.Although he will be accountable to Professor Sir John Pattison, the Department of Health director of research , analysis and information, Mr Grainger will have the freedom to choose his own programme team.He starts his job at the end of this month.
