The Art Fund has launched public appeal "to help save JMW Turner's The Blue Rigi for the nation," ie the Tate Gallery. The aim is to collect £2.45 million by March 20, with the total price being £4.95 million. One fund-raising effort is selling brushstrokes in the painting athttp://www.artfund.org/savebluerigi/The_Blue_Rigi.htmlThe idea was launched with some celebrities buying brushstrokes, including David Hockney, Peter Blake, Antony Gormley and Bridget Riley. However, with each brushstroke costing £5, even a sell-out is only going to raise £300,000.Early buyers can get a bit of mountain or figure. Leave it until later, and you'll be filling in bits of sky....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Acer is one of the largest PC makers in the world and is noted for its products' reliability. Both of which struck student Arianne King as excellent reasons for choosing an Acer laptop. When, unhappily, the laptop expired in the first hour of use, she still congratulated herself on choosing a trustworthy name that would repair or replace it without quibble. Which is what Acer promised to do, sending a courier to collect it and reassuring her that the symptoms she reported were common. A week later, however, the company demanded she pay &pound;400 for the repair, claiming that there was a mark on the screen, indicating damage. This mark, according to King, was invisible when the laptop was returned untouched.At this point, more questions emerge about Acer. Online chatrooms have stories of defective laptops that Acer either can't or won't repair; people claiming to be ex-employees of Acer's repair company, Esplex, allege there is chaos and indifference that cause malfunctioning machines to be sent back to customers; and a recent survey by the consumer group Which? found that Acer, while top for product reliability, came bottom of the list for its after-sales support. "When things do go wrong they take a long time to put it right," says a Which? spokeswoman. Acer admits that it has been a challenge for its customer services to keep pace with the company's growth, but points out that PC Pro magazine has rated it highly for its overall performance. A spokesman insists that King's screen was cracked in transit, causing "confusion", but that the laptop has since been repaired free of charge. It's worth remembering that independent retailers usually come out best in surveys of customer satisfaction and, since the Sale of Goods Act decrees that faulty new goods should be returned to the retailer, not the manufacturer, it might be worth paying a little more and buying from small traders.
Lord of the Rings Online- perhaps the only massively multiplayer online game that can challenge WoW this year - will be released on April 24th. Don't expect fans to be queuing up in a high street near you, but do expect some fairly decent MMO'ing that mixes Tolkien's epic with some of WoW's polish.Whether that will be enough to distract you from Azeroth is open to question. What I've seen is promising - running around the Shire was pleasant enough - but it didn't grab you in a way to make you abandon your level 60 undead warlock. But then let's be honest, what would? And that's the point really. A new MMO not only has to match WoW - which is hard enough - it has to seriously better it to have any hope. New competitors like Vanguard have pitched for player housing and diplomacy card games as a differentiater. But the setting, story and rabid fanbase give LOTRO a better chance of creaming off some of WoW's subscribers.If you're already convinced then the 99 pound lifetime subscription might be tempting - for once Europe is getting a better deal than the US where the offer is 199 dollars - but chances are the monthly fee (6-10 UKP) will be more appealing. Lord of the Rings Online then - excited or not?
GigaGamezreports (viaWonderland) that theHistory Channel's ratings improved by 1/4 the week they chose to run a computer game to support the content of a documentary. From the post:SHOOTOUT! chronicles famous shootouts in history from the perspective of both sides of the fight. This series examines the personalities, the weapons, the firepower and the leadership needed to defeat the enemy. Using 3-D animation sequences, audiences will experience the thick of battle from the points of view of the players themselves.Of course, it's a war game/show and the comments hedge around readers' concerns that this will further inextricably link computer game simulation to real world violence.OK then, which will be the first channel that'll tie in a soap opera with The Sims? PerhapsChannel 4could (re)boost its popularity by offering a web version ofDesperate Housewives the gameoff the back of the TV series?Susan Mayer (Teri Hatcher), the divorcee and single mum who'll go to extraordinary lengths for love; Lynette Scavo (Felicity Huffman), the ex-career woman who traded the boardroom for boredom, mixed with moments of sheer panic as the mother of four unmanageable kids......and then play the game! Brilliant.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday January 30 2007A review of the BlackBerry Pearl handheld computer in the article below was wrong to say that it does not have a built-in camera or MP3 player. It has both.The problem with choosing personal organiser software is that so often the choice appears to be made for you. You can buy Microsoft Office, which comes with Microsoft Outlook by default; Mac users buying Office will find it comes with an equivalent program called Entourage. Mac users not buying an office suite will find that the basic machine comes with iCal, contact and email software, and Windows users have an address book.There is in fact very little reason to equip yourself with an alternative for your desktop, although a number of organisers and smartphones offer alternatives of a sort (see items below). The big question for a number of small businesses will be how easy the existing software is to use with the various accessories that are on offer to make your organisational abilities travel around with you. This review will therefore round up the most common desktop personal information managers and then look at some of the smartphones and hand-held computers available to accompany them and how they perform.THE DESKTOPMicrosoft Outlook, Microsoft Entourage, Apple iCal, Palm desktopIn 1997 when I began using Microsoft Outlook the first thing that struck me was that someone had tied my address book to my diary. They had also tied both of these to my email program and it was less than simple to have all three open at the same time. It would, I pronounced, never catch on.Eight years later it felt perfectly natural to have all these items bundled into the one piece of software - although when I decided to switch to using a Mac and found them separated out again the sense of liberation was considerable.Essentially these pieces of software do the job and are simple to use. Entourage is a powerful tool for people with the discipline to log every email into it, and Outlook's spam filtering is improving. Palm's own desktop software looks increasingly outmoded as more and more people use Outlook and synchronise with their hand-held devices from there.Prices:Bundled into Office or included in the desktop operating systemURLs:www.microsoft.com,www.apple.comwww.palm.com/ukPros:Ease of useCons:Some tie together applications that could benefit from being separatedStar rating:4/5THE WEBOrange diary, .Mac, Google CalendarPutting your contacts and appointments online with a trusted partner - someone you know will be there for the foreseeable future and who will guard your privacy as if their life depended on it - is a good way of safeguarding them even if your office burns down. It also means you can reach them wherever you are as long as there's a connected computer.The difficulty is that so many of these things are sold as part of another service and tie you in to a single platform. Before I moved to a Mac I had my Outlook diary perfectly synchronised with the Orange website which in turn synchronised with my phone; the moment I moved away from PCs there was no software to allow my computer to synch with the website. .Mac software is also tied to the one platform, although clearly anything from Apple is bound to be. The success of independently-produced web calendars and contact managers like the Google beta will depend largely on how smoothly they integrate with desktop applications.Prices:.Mac depends on data usage, many others are freeURLs:www.orange.co.ukwww.mac.comwww.google.com(beta)Pros:Accessibility from any web browserCons:Synchronisation with hardwareStar rating:3/5THE EMAILERSBlackberry, PearlThe Blackberry is probably the "other" marketing masterpiece next to the iPod - talk about music and people think of the Apple device, talk about email delivered on the move and people will automatically think of the Blackberry.It's very good for what it is. A small Qwerty keyboard that is operable by thumbs takes a little getting used to but the software on board is recognisable to anyone who's sat in front of a screen, and set-up is straightforward between a computer and the device. Corporate email accounts require a little more work to establish on the device.For the company employee this is likely to be the device of choice; the self-employed loner who doesn't want a separate phone for social and business uses is likely to find it a little more frustrating - reasonably enough, there's no camera and no MP3 player.Prices:Dependent on contractURL:Your own phone providerPros:Ease of emailingCons:Small keyboard, a necessary compromise for a pocket deviceStar rating:...#9733;...#9733;...#9733;...#9733;PALMTreoAlthough Palm still produces very appealing hand-held computers such as the Lifedrive which has four gigabytes of memory and plays music and video as well as offering Wi-Fi connections for email and web, the Treo has to be its device of choice simply because it has the phone bundled in as well. Why, you'll be asking yourself, have you been carrying (and charging) more than one device around for so long? Windows Mobile models are now an option as well as Palm software-based editions.Watch out also for the Apple iPhone when it comes out later this year. Everything on one box with a larger touch-screen display and, frankly, Apple's styling and marketing. As long as no one comes out with an absolute killer before the launch it's difficult to imagine anyone using any other multiple-function mobile phone in certain sectors - the question will be whether the diary and other smaller functions synchronise particularly well with the PC software owned by the majority.Price:Dependent on contract, expect to pay &pound;300 for a separate TreoURL:www.palm.comPros:Everything on one deviceCons:Size of screenStar rating:4/5THE PHONESony Ericsson K800iThe odd thing about this Cybershot-branded phone is that it's not marketed as an organiser at all - it's a phone, a camera and an MP3 player. On the other hand, along with many of the phones on the market - I picked this one to review simply because it was in my pocket - it comes with a PC software suite, synchronises well with Windows and the Mac (given a little third party software that costs a princely &pound;1.11).The diary display is clear; the limited memory depending on your memory stick means you'll need to be selective about the numbers and addresses you carry around with you and, although it will download email attachments, it won't display them unless they're pictures - forget Word and Excel documents, the screen would be too small anyway. But as long as you understand the limitations, for an extra couple of functions within a phone the calendar and address book offer excellent organiser facilities - making better use of technology for which you've already paid rather than demanding you spend some more.Price:Dependent on contractURL:www.sony-ericsson.comBest thing:Extremely portableWorst thing:Fiddly data entryStar rating:4/5
In 2001, a colleague asked me to fix her computer, which was acting "strange". She spent most of her time on websites she knew should be advertisement-free - including the site of the university where we both then worked. Yet she'd get annoying pop-up ads anyway. These ads couldn't be coming from the university; it didn't sell ads at all. So who delivered them? Her computer turned out to be infected with Gator - the first of a series of programs that track users' online behaviour and show extra pop-ups.It was my first encounter with adware-type spyware - programs that watch what users do online, then try to exploit it for their own benefit.Adware vendors defend their practices as "targeted advertising". True, their ads are generally related to what a user is doing. But that doesn't make them useful or desirable to the user.Uninformed consentAdware also compromises users' privacy. To decide which ads to show, programs must track what websites users visit. But users have no way to know where this data will be stored or who will be able to access it. Some adware vendors boast of terabyte-sized databases of users' online activities.Adware vendors are devious, particularly in their attempts to get their software on to users' computers. Rarely does a user grant informed consent to receive pop-ups. Instead, adware vendors resort to trickery to infiltrate users' PCs. Many bundle their adware with programs users actually want - hoping that they won't read all the fine print.In other cases, the fine-print mention is too convoluted, euphemistic or hidden for any user to understand. I've dissected dozens of spyware and adware programs and their legal agreements. I've videoed what happens when you "agree" to their installations. Often you don't get what you expected. Or agreeing to one program somehow lands you with dozens.If a user grants "consent" via a provision buried 10 pages within a 50-page document, has the user really agreed to the installation? If a program describes its features in vague euphemisms ("targeted offers") rather than clear admissions ("pop-up ads"), can a user be expected to understand? I say no. But US law operates under the fiction that these terms are valid. Truly fixing spyware will require reminding judges that hidden terms have no proper place in consumer contracts. Clicking "agree" to an "agreement" that's hundreds of pages long and written in obscure legalese isn't what users would call acceptance. It's more like defeat.Meanwhile, adware vendors continue to use licence agreements to their advantage. Massachusetts's Clickspring requires users to agree to install "additional ... third-party applications" - without telling users what those programs are. To date, vendors have largely got away with this sleight of hand. But litigation against Direct Revenue, a New York-based company that promises to provide "useful content and free software in exchange for the opportunity to deliver highly targeted behavioural messages and optimized [sic] search results" may yet rule these tactics impermissible.Other adware installs without any consent, by exploiting defects in Windows or Internet Explorer. And a few vendors install even if users specifically refuse it: pressing "no" is ignored.At the height of the adware mess, an NCSA survey found that 61% of computers were infected - and only 8% of users knew they were. Security researcher Richard Stiennon estimated in 2004 that advertisers paid more than $1bn (pounds 500m) a year for spyware placements.Fortunately, there are some signs of contraction in the adware world. Gator (later renamed Claria) last year left the business, realising it could never clear its reputation while serving annoying pop-ups. Litigation - such as a major investigation by the American Federal Trade Commission of Washington-based Zango that yielded millions of dollars in fines - put other vendors on the defensive.Nonetheless, new adware vendors are ready to step into the gap. Last year saw the rise of Netherlands-based DollarRevenue, whose huge adware bundles often crashed users' computers. In addition, new programs continue to appear.But spyware isn't just about serving up unwanted and intrusive ads: other developers have more worrying designs on your PC.One natural project is stealing users' passwords. If an attacker gets a user's eBay password, he can sell items under the user's identity. Thanks to the user's good reputation, buyers will be willing to pay for the promised merchandise. But the attacker simply pockets the payment without ever sending anything. Others target passwords to stock brokerages. A typical strategy is to buy preselected small-cap stocks via hacked accounts, bidding up the value of those companies and yielding profits to attackers who purchased other shares in advance. Stealing bank passwords and PINs allows an even more direct theft.The rise in spyware also helps fuel other online scourges, most notably spam. Using spyware-infected PCs makes detection harder: with more spam-sending computers, it's difficult to identify spam based solely on where it comes from.Many spyware programs take extreme steps to escape detection. Last year security experts at Sunbelt Software studied an Italian program called Gromozon which modifies Windows with a rootkit to cover its tracks, creates its own user account, and automatically renames its files. The longer Gromozon and kin stay on users' computers, the larger their profits.I've seen much of the spyware onslaught first-hand - in part as a researcher testing spyware, but also especially in litigation. There were early successes, such as the New York Times and Washington Post winning an injunction to stop Gator.But these days litigation has progressed to improper installation methods. The US Federal Trade Commission has sued half a dozen vendors for spyware-related practices. State attorneys general in New York and Washington have also brought major cases, and private attorneys jumped in too. These efforts have helped to curb the practices of the most well-known spyware vendors, but so far they've largely left lesser companies unchecked.Would new laws be helpful? Draft US federal legislation was initially slated to prohibit a variety of deceptive practices. But special interests sought to water down the legislation. Similar changes occurred in the handful of US states that ultimately passed anti-spyware laws. It turns out that spyware vendors have powerful allies: ad networks want the freedom to track users' activities in great detail, and even mainstream software vendors aspire to install software without thorough disclosures.Weak legislationUltimately no US federal bill was passed and state laws have been narrow and weak. Outside the US, legislation has been even more limited: drafts were considered in Australia and the Netherlands, but none was enacted.So you have to fend for yourselves. My advice? Install all available security updates to Windows and other software, as these close holes that might otherwise let attackers in. Then modern antispyware software can find and remove any infections that slip through. Finally, think carefully about what software to install. Ask a tech expert whether a program can be trusted; or Google the program's name to see what others say. These steps won't stop spyware, but they can help to keep unwanted programs off your PC.&#183;Ben Edelman studies web advertising as a Ph.D candidate at Harvard University.benedelman.orgGlossary of termsSpywareSoftware that collects personal data without users' consent. The information is recorded using techniques such as logging keystrokes, recording web browsing history and scanning documents on the hard disk.AdwareSoftware that automatically plays, displays or downloads advertising material.Pop-upA form of online advertising. The pop-up window is usually generated by JavaScript. A variation on the pop-up window is the pop-under advertisement. This opens a new browser window behind the active window.RootkitSoftware intended to conceal running processes, files or system data from the operating system and user.&#183;Source:en.wikipedia.org&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A sensitive subjectPeople living in Faraday cages because they think they're "electrosensitive" (Electrosmog in the clear with scientists, January 18)? This all reminds me of a spate of cases some years ago of people electing to live in plastic tents because they were "allergic to the world". What happened to them? No mobile phones then.Tim PearceBath&#183;There is a real difficulty with provocation testing - subjecting a person who claims to be electrosensitive (ES) to double-blind exposure in controlled conditions. First, there are too few studies, even those interpreted as "best" by the Rubin team, that truly replicate each other without introducing fresh variables in what is in all probability a complex biological interaction. Any "sham" testing should achieve a natural EM environment, since ES people show sensitivity to extremely small changes, and this is rarely achieved. Second, testing for responses takes very little account of "lag time" - ie, it assumes an instantaneous response in the course of a 40-minute changing EM environment, and this is far from often the case. Third, introducing placebo and nocebo advances us nowhere. If the mind affects the body in this way, there is a fair chance that at least part of that neurological communication itself involves endogenous electromagnetic communication.Andy DavidsonWorthingTurn the volume downI have noticed that CDs are getting brasher and louder (How CDs are remastering the art of noise, January 18). Surely the driving force behind this is how the music sounds when it is squashed into a low-to medium-bitrate MP3 file and then played through tinny little headphones, which is sadly how the majority of people now listen to music.Keith CollinsDungeness&#183;The issue of CD loudness is particularly prevalent in the hip-hop genre, with so much emphasis placed on the production of the backing drum beat that it has been known to damage speaker systems. As a student of music production, I have been aware of the issue for a while and I have vowed to keep the records I produce as free of over-compression as I possibly can.Jonathan ArdernLeeds&#183;At least you can turn the volume of your CD down. Try the cinema! I have just about given up due to the ridiculous level of music backing. The Last King of Scotland was the last straw - unbelievably loud (don't know the decibels) with bass notes thumping away at any "exciting" frame. Totally spoiled an otherwise good film.Chloe BaveystockLondon&#183;There's always another alternative of course ... vinyl!Nick HigginsLeicesterPaul's LawAs to Chandler (Read me first, January 18), I have what I call Paul's 90/90/90 Law to explain that. This states that 90% of all IT projects are 90% complete 90% of the time. Look at almost any project, and it is true. The last 10% usually has to be abandoned to achieve if not completion, then at least a stopping point.Paul NethercottLondonStill hanging onTwo months for a broadband connection? (Letters and blogs, January 18). My current TalkTalk status page says that I should be live by the end of July 2006. I'm still waiting.Cliff LaineLancasterRinging in the earsSusan Saunders' can't work her mobile with her instruction book (Letters and blogs, January 18). I can't either - until my sons sort me out.Wendy WestonEaling&#183;I sympathise with Ms Saunders. The two little booklets that come with the phone are quite inadequate. There is a full manual online, but at 120 pages no-one will be printing it.Peter StrayLondon&#183;Read all this weeks letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you're not in the habit of trawling YouTube you may have missedCollege Saga, a beautifully crafted parody of role-playing games such as Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest. Student Mark Leung has directed and starred in four episodes of the comic drama on his Massachusetts campus, pulling in friends and staff to take archetypal RPG roles while ripping music and sound effects from classic titles in the genre. It's painstakingly accurate about everything from random battle encounters and inane conversations with non-player characters, to the arbitrary rules that govern exploration in an RPG - at one point, Mark's character is unable to progress down a path because a small chair has been placed in the middle of it. Anyone who's ever played an adventure game will have suffered the unique frustration that is the ridiculously surmountable barrier.But two elements really mark College Saga out as fascinating work. First, it is genuinely warm about its subject matter. Unlike the videogame parodies slotted into the Simpsons, or the recent South Park World of Warcraft episode, College Saga laughs with gamers, not at them. There is no sneering subtext, no intended or unintended collusion with America's raft of game-hating politicians who waste so many hours penning ill-conceived and unconstitutional legislation to control the industry.More importantly, what it does brilliantly, and what mainstream videogame journalism has largely failed to do, is explore the small, satisfying inanities of the gaming experience. College Saga is really about the many hours between boss encounters and mammoth set-pieces, the hours in which players quietly wander the map, surrounded by computer-controlled characters and their minute cycles of repetitive robotic behaviour. The university campus is a pretty good stand-in for an RPG domain - both are subtly divorced from reality, dependent on idiosyncratic rules and relationships.By putting his physical self into a game, Leung says something about interactive entertainment that rarely gets mentioned: that within the limited structure of the digital universe, every player constructs their own virtual environments - their own challenges and successes - quite apart from those dictated by the designers. No two people ever have the same experience, because even the most linear titles provide room for interpretation and experiment.Every time I finish a game like Final Fantasy or Half-Life or God of War, I think about Rutger Hauer's famous speech at the end of Blade Runner: "I've seen things you people wouldn't believe ..." Why can't game reviews capture that essence? Guardian Unlimited Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers.&#183;blogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I love my Sony Vaio laptop. But I loathe Sony's new (and definitely unimproved) technical support service. The new system has fallen for Cole's first law of system design: if something works well, wreck it.We've all heard horror stories about automated telephone support lines that force you to navigate through endless menus or which leave you hanging on for ages while an electronic version of Greensleeves assaults your ears. But frustrating as these systems are, at least in the end you do get to speak to a real human being. Not so with Sony's, because it uses a computer to filter any contact with its support staff.It wasn't always like this. At the end of 2004, my two-year old Vaio was overheating and then shutting down. "No problem," I thought, "I've got an extended warranty." So I called the technical support number, pressed "9" on my phone keypad and spoke to a Sony support agent. My Vaio was collected for repair and returned within a week. Here was a system that worked smoothly, efficiently and effectively. And then someone at Sony decided to screw it all up.A few months ago, my Vaio's LCD screen died. I called Sony's technical support, but this time encountered a new system."If you want to open a new case," said an automated voice, "press one. If you already have a case and want to talk to your dedicated Sony agent, press two." I pressed one. "Enter your Vaio's 15-digit serial number, which is at the bottom of your computer," said the voice. So I did but then the voice said: "Sorry, your Vaio is out of warranty. Please call this [premium rate] number for technical support." Then it cut me off."But I've got an extended warranty! Let me speak to someone!" I shouted. I tried the system again but got the same result. The computer's decision was final. I was stuffed.To cut a long story short, I had to play the journalist's card and a kind soul from Sony PR got the Vaio support team to call me and arrange repairs. But what if I hadn't been a journalist? And what if I was visually disabled and couldn't read the serial number or found it difficult to tap 15 digits into a handset?Or what if I had a physical condition like RSI and couldn't lift my Vaio to access the serial number? And which idiot designed a telephone support system that doesn't give you the option of speaking to someone? I put all these points to a nice lady from Vaio support in a follow-up call months ago. I've just tried Sony's support line and the dreaded system is still in place. Get rid of it, Sony - your customers deserve better than this.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dell may be losing its grip on the personal computer market, and Hewlett-Packard is taking over. What's even more surprising is that HP is now the world's largest IT company. HP first challenged Dell in the PC market in 2002 when it bought Compaq. Many of us assumed this rivalry would be temporary. Once the joint operation was rationalised and the overlaps removed, HP's sales would shrink. But HP has grown while Dell has faltered. The latest (preliminary) numbers from the two leading US computer market research companies, IDC and Gartner, tell the tale. Over the whole of last year, HP and Dell were level pegging: each had 16% to 17% of the global PC business. According to Gartner, both companies sold 38m PCs in a market that grew by 9.5% to 239.4 million units.But in the Christmas quarter, HP increased its PC sales by 24% in units, while Dell's fell more than 8%. Most of the damage was done in the US, where Gartner reckons Dell's shipments dropped 17.3% from 5.6m units to 4.7m units.Dell suffered partly because it sells mainly to businesses, whereas the bright spot in the market was for consumer notebooks. IDC added that "Dell's focus on profitability over share" left it open to price competition from HP, Acer and Apple. True, but since Dell supplies direct, it also had no old stock to clear before Windows Vista arrives.Looking at the global market, Dell's other rivals grew even faster than HP. According to IDC, China's Lenovo, the world's third largest PC supplier, increased its annual shipments by 28% to 16.6m units. Fourth-placed Acer grew by 37.9% to 13.6m units. Toshiba grew by 26.9% to 9.2m units. The big brands just got bigger.Whether PC sales will improve this year remains to be seen. According to IDC, the US market ended "unseasonably weak," but the company says: "It does not appear that the January release of Vista's consumer version had a big impact on fourth-quarter shipments." I wouldn't be surprised if consumers had other things on their minds, such as new games consoles (both the Nintendo Wii and Sony's PlayStation 3 appeared in the run-up to Christmas), HD DVD and Blu-ray movie players, and HD TV sets.Still, at least people shopping for those products might also have seen Compaq computers and HP printers on the shelves. Unlike Dell, HP is competing hard for retail sales. As for overtaking IBM, HP has only managed that with IBM's help. "Big Blue" was a $51bn corporation in 1986, when HP had $4.5bn in IT sales and Dell was smaller than an IBM rounding error. IBM's annual turnover should be well over $200bn (pounds 101m) by now. However, it keeps shuffling off divisions, with the $11bn PC business the latest to go.HP, by contrast, has grown partly by absorption. Today it contains what's left of Compaq, Tandem and DEC (Digital Equipment Corp), plus Voodoo, the games PC company. So while IBM's revenues stuck at $91.4bn last year, HP shaded it with $91.7bn. Otherwise, the two companies are very different. IBM represents the past. In essence, it is a large services business targeted at the IT needs of governments and large corporations.Hewlett-Packard has some of that, too - it's big in servers and storage - but most of its money comes from selling to consumers via retailers. HP's profits float on rivers of high-priced toner and printer inks. That's why it doesn't get much respect.HP now has two challenges: to hang on to its top spots and to create a PC line with a brand-leading image. I'd sooner bet on HP achieving the first than the second.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The idea of a ".xxx" web suffix for porn sites is the internet's vampire: it seems nothing can kill it. Censors often oppose it because they believe anything that can be construed as legitimisation of pornography will hinder their efforts against it. Civil libertarians oppose it on grounds such as the threat of it being used to marginalise a wide range of material having to do with sexuality. Adult webmasters widely view it with suspicion, as anyone who has a ghettoisation scheme to "help" them usually isn't doing them a favour.In fact, it is very difficult to find any lobbying group in favour of .xxx, with one notable exception. Namely, a company called ICM Registry, which would hand out .xxx site registrations, and would be given a money-making machine. The .xxx vampire has risen again because Icann, the organisation in charge of top-level domains, recently revisited the question of whether it should approve it as a "Voluntary Adult Top-Level Domain".Too much of the punditry about this consists of repeating clich&eacute;s about kids and red lights. But, leaving aside where one stands on issues of censorship, the .xxx domain is a bad idea purely from a business standpoint. To begin with, it provides no additional technical value. Labelling schemes have been around for years, and there already are systems that provide all .xxx could do. Putting such a label into a domain extension accomplishes nothing useful and gives the registry a monopoly.Some people who support .xxx are apparently unaware of the long history of rating and labelling, as shown by the fact that already tried ideas are being reinvented, badly. (See, for example, the memo.sex Considered Dangerous').Furthermore, many sites that already exist would not want to switch their names. If they already have a user base, why do anything which could disrupt operations? If the new domain is truly voluntary, a purchase would have to pass a cost-benefit analysis. But ICM Registry still has a virtually guaranteed market. Three notable groups would rush to purchase .xxx domains:&middot;Corporations not associated with pornography who will want to protect their trademarks. They will register their trademark names as domains for defensive purposes - not because they want to put a site on the domain, but so someone else cannot. This is a perpetual stream of income for the registry, and at the planned price of $60 (&pound;30) for each domain, it will be a big chunk of money.&middot;Domain-name speculators who will want to get common words for potential resale value. These people don't want to run a site themselves, they want to resell the name to others.These first two groups are pure profit to the .xxx registry. Since they aren't running sites themselves, there are no verification or compliance costs associated in determining if the domains are following registry policies.&middot;Bona fide pornographers, who will register the .xxx domain names corresponding to their existing .com domain names to avoid speculators, or so a competitor doesn't do it to cause market confusion, or as insurance in case some future law makes the .xxx domain mandatory for their content. This is similar to the trademark reason: it's defensive.None of these registrations and associated registration revenue has anything to do with protecting children. It's all about fear that someone else will use the names, or greed to resell the names. Essentially, whoever gets the .xxx registry is playing the above groups against each other in a game of fear, uncertainty, and doubt - and collecting a large fee no matter who wins.And pointing to the amount of preregistration claims shouldn't be used to imply that anybody actually wants the .xxx domain. Again, speculators may want it, but not for a reason anyone else would endorse. (Comments can be made to ICANN until February 5atxxx-icm-agreement@icann.organd viewedhere). Surely, if everyone from civil libertarians and censors to adult industry webmasters says .xxx is a bad idea then maybe we can all agree it's a bad idea, and finally put a stake through its heart.&#183;Seth's blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Major new versions of Microsoft Windows only come along every five years or so, and the next one - Vista - gets its consumer launch next week. There's no doubt that it's going to become ubiquitous: the cumulative sales of more than 10,000 PC manufacturers will see to that. But will the changeover go as smoothly as before?The first problem is that there are five different versions of Vista, instead of two. Should you choose Home Basic, Home Premium, Business, or Ultimate? (There's also Enterprise, sold to big companies, and a cheap Starter Edition for countries such as India that won't be available here.)All have different features and some have different hardware requirements. In particular, the semi-transparent effects of the Aero Glass user interface need a reasonably powerful graphics card with at least 64MB of memory. Such cards may be common in newish desktop PCs, but not inCynthia Crossley, who runs the Windows Client division at Microsoft UK, rejects the idea that users could be confused by having too much choice. Either you're a home user or a business user, and either you want the ordinary or the premium version, she says.Limited editionThat's true, but plenty of home users paid extra for Windows XP Pro - the business version - and the Ultimate edition (ie Business Premium) appeals to both camps. Vista Ultimate has everything, including a limited edition "signed" by Bill Gates.Still, the choice isn't too hard if you look at the three areas where Vista hopes to appeal. The main one is security: Vista has far more security features and code-hardening than any previous version of Windows. While Vista will no doubt have some holes - everything does - the extra security should make it more attractive than Windows XP.The good news is that all versions of Vista have the security features, including the Security Center, User Account Control, Windows Defender and the firewall. The main exceptions are BitLocker drive encryption, which is only included in the Enterprise and Ultimate editions, and the parental controls, which are not in the business versions.What about Vista's new features such as the Sidebar, RSS support, instant search, and the Calendar, Contacts, Mail, Photo Gallery, Windows Media Player 11 and backup programs? Again, all of those and more are included in all the main versions of Vista, including Home Basic.However, the Home Premium version has extra features, mostly taken from the Windows Media Center and Tablet PC editions of XP. These include support for HDTV, projectors and touch screens, plus Windows Movie Maker and Windows DVD Maker software.Home Premium also has Sideshow, which supports auxiliary screens (such as on the outside of a notebook PC) and Xbox 360 extender software (for sending stuff to a TV set via an Xbox).The business versions of Vista have backup and recovery programs that Home Premium lacks, plus web server software, and the ability to join Windows Server domains. But they don't have the DVD and movie software. That should stop home users buying business versions.Some of Vista's new features are nice to have, such as Windows Meeting Space, which lets you form an ad hoc wireless network with two or more colleagues. However, there are alternatives to most programs, and some can already be downloaded for Windows XP. Examples include Microsoft's Internet Explorer 7, Windows Media Player, Windows Defender and Windows Movie Maker. You don't have to buy Vista to get them.So in the end it comes down to eye candy. Home Basic does the job, but it doesn't offer the Aero Glass user interface, with live thumbnails on the taskbar, and so on. Using it makes you look like a second class citizen.I asked Crossley which versions would sell best. She says: "We're starting to get early indications from the distributors, and the premium SKUs [stock keeping units] are quite popular. To be fair, that is our strategy, but it is nice to see it come through."But if more people buy the more expensive versions, that will increase the average selling price. Isn't that tantamount to a price increase? "We're offering a lot of features that weren't there before," Crossley replies, "so arguably we've put more value into the different releases. If people see value, they will purchase. If they don't, they will vote with their wallets."Crossley says that Microsoft really wants the PC manufacturers to come up with exciting new systems that exploit the features in Home Premium, including PCs that are "fashion accessories". She says: "There's quite a diverse set of machines coming out. It takes time for something like this to come to fruition, but when you have a broad ecosystem of PC manufacturers, everyone can get what they want."In the end, of course, it's the PC manufacturers who really need Vista: most users have been managing perfectly well without it. The launch is the manufacturers' main chance to attract attention and tempt people to buy new PCs rather than, say, new TVs. Vista could kick off a whole new upgrade cycle.Which brings us to the fundamental question about Vista: how is that upgrade cycle likely to go? Earlier upgrades were obvious enough. With Windows 3 in 1990, we moved from DOS to a cheap, optional graphical user interface. With Windows 95, we got what amounted to a new 32-bit operating system with a vastly improved user interface. With Windows XP, which launched in 2001, consumers finally left DOS/Windows behind and moved to a reliable, multitasking New Technology operating system that was also more secure - though, as it turned out, far from secure enough.Bit of an upgradeSo what about Vista? It's the first Windows to include both 32-bit and 64-bit versions. Most PCs now run32-bit Windows XP on 32-bit chips. In five years or so, most should be running the superior 64-bit Vista on 64-bit multi-core processors. But how do we get there from here?How many of today's programs will need to be converted for 64-bit operation, and how soon? How many of the billions of printers and other devices will be supported with new drivers? Old 16-bit applications and 32-bit drivers will not work.The shift from XP to 32-bit Vista should go smoothly, simply because most people eventually junk their old PCs and buy new ones. But the move to 64-bit Vista: is that one upgrade or two?One of Windows' greatest benefits is backwards compatibility with old programs and peripherals, but that also acts as a huge drag on progress. The new 64-bit Vista could be a triumph - or a victim.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Consumer choiceWhether it is a laptop or new HD Ready TV or the latest DVD player with all "essential" add-ons, how does one decide just what is best or even high quality and good value?David BeattieJack Schofield replies:All purchases have an element of risk. Today, however, there is an unprecedented amount of information available online, from magazines such as PC Pro and Hi-Fi World, and from web-only sites such as Trusted Reviews andDigital Photography Review. Some shopping sites carry user reviews: this is one of the attractions of Amazon, for example.AV Forumsis often useful when it comes to researching video and home cinema products.When it comes to finding out what the problems are, the best sources are often company help forums. In some cases, you can find useful external sites by searching for the company or brand name with either "sucks" or "hell". At the moment, this category seems to be led by Talk Talk, rather than NTL or AOL.Clearly, any product with a large user base is going to throw up some problems. Dell, for example, is shipping almost 40m PCs a year, so even if 95% of its users are happy, there could still be 6m or so with significant gripes. Still, I think you are much more likely to get a realistic view of a product by searching thousands of opinions via Google than the anecdotal evidence from a bloke in a pub who heard about it from a friend. And even if you don't get the best product, you can probably avoid the worst.I have a short .wav file of two people talking, recorded on a handheld. There is background noise that I would like to clean off.David ScottJS:Many sound-recording programs have filters that will attempt to clean up sound, and these are often targeted at improving music transferred from cassette or vinyl. Typically you start with a silent part of the recording, which gives the software a good idea of the background noise that it can subtract from the bits that contain speech or music. The software of choice for this kind of thing used to be Cool Edit, and you may be able to find an old version. It was taken over by Adobe, and is now sold as Audition, which is a bit expensive for passing use. Today, the standard answer to all sound recording questions is usually Audacity, which is open source and free. It has a good automatic noise cleaning function. For more help, see Geek.com's Tech Tip 105 -Cleaning Up Audio Files with Audacity. Note: if the "background noise" includes a lot of variation, such as doors slamming and car horns, simple noise reduction is not going to help much. However, it is possible to reduce the effect of some sound peaks by editing the .wav file manually. If you always work on a copy of the original file, you have nothing to lose by trying.Defender problemWhat is Windows Defender? Do I need it? Since the new year, I have been getting a stop message saying "Application failed to initialize 0x800106ba" and to restart my computer - which makes no difference.Margaret Healy-DoyleJS:Windows Defender is a free Microsoft anti-spyware program. It is included in Windows Vista but can be downloaded for XP. The very unhelpful error message suggests that you had the beta version installed; this expired on December 31. You should now uninstall it using the Control Panel's Add or Remove Programs utility. If you still want to use Defender, install thelatest version. If not, Ewido - now renamed AVG Anti-Spyware - is a good free alternative. Otherwise, users can find the answers to most Defender problems by searching theMicrosoft news groups.Play it simpleI liked the old Windows Media Player: it worked, and it didn't look like a PowerPoint presentation made by a student who'd just taken LSD. All I want it to do is play music, not waste hard drive and screen space displaying album art.Sam HardyJS: You probably have an old version of Windows Media Player 6.4 hidden on your hard drive. Search for mplayer2 and create a shortcut for it. I prefer Windows Media Player Classic 6.4, which looks the same but is actually a much more powerful open-source clone. You candownload a copycomplete with the K-Lite codec pack. The extra benefit is that this also plays .mp4 (H264) movies, a format Microsoft has either overlooked or can't be bothered to support. MPC is not a sophisticated music player but it does support .m3u audio playlists. There are, of course, plenty of alternative music (rather than media) players. You could tryCoolPlayer, which is small, fast and open source, orfoobar2000, which is freeware.Backchat&#183;Dave Smith has pointed out an error in last week's answer about broadband frustrations, wholesale line rental (WLR) and local loop unbundling (LLU). He says: "WLR and LLU Services are provided by BT Openreach, not BT Wholesale. It's more than a little confusing that 'Wholesale Lines' are not provided by BT Wholesale especially when 'Wholesale Calls' are. However, you need a UK-wide network (which is managed by BT Wholesale) to deliver calls; you just need local access to the exchange (which is managed by BT Openreach) to provide a line."BT Openreachwas spun off at Ofcom's request, and since last summer has provided what BT calls "LLU Equivalence of Input (EoI) via the Equivalence Management Platform (EMP)." In other words, BT Wholesale gets the same LLU on the same terms as other suppliers.
Vista test driveMicrosoft is offering an online test drive of Vista Business. It allows you to run a virtual copy remotely, and very slowly.windowsvistatestdrive.comVirtual CBBCThe BBC plans to launch CBBC World, a Second Life-style virtual world for children aged 7-12.bbc.co.ukNot such toshToshiba is offering a money-back guarantee on some of its business notebooks.toshiba.co.ukHappy Christmas shoppingMRG, the UK's online sales body, says Christmas "exceeded all expectations". British consumers spent &pound;7.66bn online, 54% more than in 2005.imrg.orgWizard dealMerlin, a new non-profit agency representing indie record labels, will make unprotected MP3 songs available for sale via sites such as YouTube and MySpace.Design IT for charityMicrosoft UK has launched its DesignIT 07 competition to encourage British IT professionals to design innovative systems for UK charities.microsoft.comGo fly an eggAirbus has launched a competition for children in UK schools. The challenge is to build a model aircraft to carry a hen's egg as far as possible.youngeng.orgRefreshing changeSony is refreshing its Vaio C range of notebooks for the spring. The C2 range includes a new sixth colour, "rediscovery blue". Sony says it "evokes skies and seas and feelings of self-awareness and stimulation". Isn't that sweet?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
LG ShineLG is hoping to have another bestseller with the Shine phone after the success last year of the Chocolate. The same menus are there, with a similarly underwhelming text message process. Where the Shine phone really shines (apologies) is in the design. The front portion of the otherwise wholly metallic phone is a mirror. When activated, this mirror becomes a screen. The front panel slides up to reveal the traditional keypad. The handset feels sturdy and resists attempts at scratching and sticky fingerprints. The features are fairly standard, with a 2 megapixel camera, a dedicated MP3 button on the side, 50MB of internal memory and a Micro SD slot for expansion. Battery life is quoted as three days on standby, and while this might be true, when it reached halfway the battery icon tended to swing erratically between nearly full and close to empty. Despite this, it is no doubt set for similar success to the Chocolate.Sidekick 3The design of this latest version of the Sidekick has stayed the same, including the swivel screen, but the trackball makes navigating easier than previous models. It also acts as an alert, as it changes colour according to whether it's on standby, has a message waiting or is getting low on battery. There is also a traditional D-pad, which navigates very similarly to the trackball - it seems to be overkill. The Sidekick 3 features an MP3 player, making the included 64MB MicroSD card a welcome addition to the 64MB internal Flash ROM. The Qwerty keyboard has decent-sized buttons, making it easy to take advantage of the instant messenger facilities. Setting up both IM and email is simple, and any email services are pre-programmed into the device, so that all you need to enter is your username and password. The only IM service currently on offer is AOL, although T-Mobile hopes to add MSN Messenger and Yahoo! later in the year. Overall, there is a good mix of features that will not doubt appeal to the younger mobile audience.iRecordThe iRecord provides much-needed simplification of the media transfer process to iPods and PSPs as well as other mass storage devices. On initial glance it looks innocuous - a white box about the size of a paperback, with one power button and one record button. But the simplicity belies its potential. By connecting the iRecord to any analogue source - be it a television, DVD player, VCR or media player - media is transferred straight to the device. It is then filed in the appropriate place, cutting out the need for a computer altogether. The files are compressed to allow you about three hours of video per gigabyte. Music files are converted to MP3 files, while the device uses H.264/AVC for video encoding, at 320x240 resolution, and AAC for audio encoding. The &pound;160 price may be at the top end of the market, but its simplicity - and inclusion of all the cables you need - justifies the expense.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Under the circumstances, they should rename it "PayStation 3".Why? Sony hasn't adjusted the planned UK price of the PlayStation 3 so it's going to be amazingly expensive in dollar terms: £425 is currently $834.89, which is $235 more than an American would have to pay.This seems strange because Sony would not have to take much of a hit to get the price below a psychological barrier to £399.99. And even then it might be vulnerable to dealers who could offer buyers both an Xbox 360 and a Nintendo Wii for less than that.Frankly, I think Sony will cut the UK price to £399.99 very quickly.....It's also strange because sales of the PlayStation 3 appear to be struggling. Sony said it shipped a million units in the US, but that left the majority of shops with stocks.According to GamesIndustry.biz, NPD Group research only reported 490,700 PS3s sold in December, and 687,000 in all.That would have left an amazing 313,000 unwanted PS3s washing about somewhere. Machines that could have cost Sony around $300 million to make.The Japanese market also is not being very console-friendly at the moment.According to Digital Trends, research firm Media Create reckons that "last week was the worst sales week for Sony's PlayStation 3 since its launch in Japan, with 25,531 units sold during the week ending January 14".Again, you have to wonder how many unsold machines are sloshing about, prompting retailers to flog them off at a discount,as already reported.So, in a couple of months, we will have the amusing spectacle of British PlayStation fans queuing up at midnight to pay some of the world's highest prices for a console that should not really be in short supply, because it seems Sony can already make more than it can sell.Update: Our games reviewer Steve Boxer has pointed me towardsUK Resistancefor Cmdr Zorg's very amusing take on this story. This includesSONY ANNOUNCES XBOX 360 LAUNCH LINE-UPandPS3 EURO LAUNCH: THE FACTS.
Gizmodo has had a quick look at theLG BH100 Hybrid Blu-Ray/HD-DVD Playerwhich Bobbie wrote about from CESback on January 7. Basically, it says: "the rumors that the HD-DVD compatibility is half-assed are absolutely true." It plays the discs but appears to be missing some of the special features.
In the US, Dell is offeringWindows-free n-Series Dimension desktop PCswith prices starting at $624. The site says:With the n Series desktop, customers have the flexibility to install an alternative operating system (such as a version of Linux), and help reduce the price of this system. In addition, the n Series desktop comes with a non-formatted hard drive ready for your custom installation.This is a good deal for Dell because the covering note says: "Dell does not support non-Dell installed operating systems." It was the cost of installing and supporting Linux that made Dell abandon its previous efforts in this area.Whether the Windows-free systems are cheaper is another matter. For example, if you spec two identical Dimension E521 systems with Athlon 64 X2 Dual-Core 3800+ processors, 1GB of memory and 320GB hard drives, the "free" system costs $789 whereas the one with Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 costs $769. Yes, adding a $110 OEM version of Windows saves you $20.I only did one comparison as it takes too long, so you may be able to find systems that are cheaper than the ones with Windows ... but probably not by much. And for good reason. The Windows version comes with a bundle of crapware that companies like Google and Symantec pay Dell to bundle. The OS-free version comes with a blank hard drive.This could also make the n-Series models appeal to people who already have a full version of Windows: I'd certainly pay $20 (£10) extra for a PC without the crapware. However, remember that Dell won't support Windows if you install it yourself.In passing, you can get a Mac Mini with 1GB of memory and a half-size hard drive (160GB) for $1,750 or $1,900 but with 90 days instead of 1 year's support. That's mainly because of the $699 cost of a 20in Apple screen compared with the Dell's 19in LCD. (Upgrading the Dell to a 20in widescreen costs $50 more.) Or you could cross-grade to a 20in iMac with 250GB hard drive for $1,548, which is almost twice the Dell price.
Almost as well known as Monty Python's parrot sketch is the rant in Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy against local council planning by its hero, Arthur Dent. Where did he discover the council's plans to demolish his house? "It was 'on display' in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying, 'Beware of the Leopard.'..."But that was before the net. Nowadays, councils are very open with their planning data, which you will find on their websites. Generally, any application, with plans, is available to view. From the standpoint of the Free Our Data campaign, which says that impersonal data collected by government should be available online for free, that's an excellent start.But, thought Richard Pope, a professional programmer and web designer, it could be done even better. So over the course of five days last Christmas, he put togetherplanningalerts.com, hosted by the MySociety group, which "screen-scrapes" dozens of councils' sites for the text of their planning reports, and extracts essential details such as location and postcode.The result: a simple site that emails you if, for example, there's an application to open a nightclub in your road, or - as happened to prompt Pope's work, in an echo of Arthur Dent's experience - a bulldozer turns up one day to demolish the much-loved Victorian pub around the corner from you."Councils are generally very good about sending out letters about planning application, but they only send them to immediate neighbours," says Pope. "The first anybody knew about the pub was when some photos were posted of the bulldozer that has turned up to knock it down." Pope's plan is that once you enter your postcode, his system will alert you to any planning schemes in your area.Though it's only got 40-odd of the 387 planning authorities, Pope is confident that adding more will be easy: "Councils only use three or four off-the-shelf packages to put their data up." Ultimately, he suggests that councils should also provide a data feed to end the need to scrape the relevant text off their websites. That would be an ideal endpoint, fulfilling everyone's requirements at once.The irony is that government already offers a similar service to search for planning applications through its national planning portal atplanningportal.gov.uk. But rather than five days, it has taken a year to build; it doesn't send out proactive alerts; and a formidable copyright notice says that the National Planning Application Register is copyright of a commercial company, Emap Glenigan (whose website is used for the searches).By contrast, Pope hasn't worried much about copyright: "This information should be available to all." We agree.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Whether it is a laptop or new HD Ready TV or the latest DVD player with all "essential" add-ons, how does one decide just what is best or even high quality and good value? David BeattieAll purchases have an element of risk. Today, however, there is an unprecedented amount of information available online, from magazines such as PC Pro and Hi-Fi World, and from web-only sites such as Trusted Reviews andDigital Photography Review. Some shopping sites carry user reviews: this is one of the attractions of Amazon, for example.AV Forumsis often useful when it comes to researching video and home cinema products.When it comes to finding out what the problems are, the best sources are often company help forums. In some cases, you can find useful external sites by searching for the company or brand name with either "sucks" or "hell". At the moment, this category seems to be led by Talk Talk, rather than NTL or AOL.Clearly, any product with a large user base is going to throw up some problems. Dell, for example, is shipping almost 40m PCs a year, so even if 95% of its users are happy, there could still be 6m or so with significant gripes. Still, I think you are much more likely to get a realistic view of a product by searching thousands of opinions via Google than the anecdotal evidence from a bloke in a pub who heard about it from a friend. And even if you don't get the best product, you can probably avoid the worst.
I have a short .wav file of two people talking, recorded on a handheld. There is background noise that I would like to clean off. David ScottMany sound-recording programs have filters that will attempt to clean up sound, and these are often targeted at improving music transferred from cassette or vinyl. Typically you start with a silent part of the recording, which gives the software a good idea of the background noise that it can subtract from the bits that contain speech or music. The software of choice for this kind of thing used to be Cool Edit, and you may be able to find an old version. It was taken over by Adobe, and is now sold as Audition, which is a bit expensive for passing use.Today, the standard answer to all sound recording questions is usually Audacity, which is open source and free. It has a good automatic noise cleaning function. For more help, see Geek.com'sTech Tip 105 -- Cleaning Up Audio Files with Audacity.Note: if the "background noise" includes a lot of variation, such as doors slamming and car horns, simple noise reduction is not going to help much. However, it is possible to reduce the effect of some sound peaks by editing the .wav file manually. If you always work on a copy of the original file, you have nothing to lose by trying.
What is Windows Defender? Do I need it? Since the new year, I have been getting a stop message saying "Application failed to initialize 0x800106ba" and to restart my computer -- which makes no difference. Margaret Healy-DoyleWindows Defender is a free Microsoft anti-spyware program. It is included in Windows Vista but can be downloaded for XP. The very unhelpful error message suggests that you had the beta version installed; this expired on December 31. You should now uninstall it using the Control Panel's Add or Remove Programs utility.If you still want to use Defender,install the latest version. If not, Ewido - now renamed AVG Anti-Spyware - is a good free alternative. Otherwise, users can find the answers to most Defender problems by searching the Microsoft news groups athttp://www.microsoft.com/athome/security/spyware/software/newsgroups/reader/
I liked the old Windows Media Player: it worked, and it didn't look like a PowerPoint presentation made by a student who'd just taken LSD. All I want it to do is play music, not waste hard drive and screen space displaying album art. Sam HardyYou probably have an old version of Windows Media Player 6.4 hidden on your hard drive. Search for mplayer2 and create a shortcut for it. I prefer Windows Media Player Classic 6.4, which looks the same but is actually a much more powerful open-source clone. You candownload a copycomplete with the K-Lite codec pack. The extra benefit is that this also plays .mp4 (H264) movies, a format Microsoft has either overlooked or can't be bothered to support. MPC is not a sophisticated music player but it does support .m3u audio playlists.There are, of course, plenty of alternative music (rather than media) players. You could try CoolPlayer (http://coolplayer.sourceforge.net/), which is small, fast and open source, or foobar2000 (http://www.foobar2000.com/), which is freeware.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday January 31 2007In the article below about high-altitude airships being developed by Lockheed Martin for the US Missile Defence Agency we said each airship could oversee an area of 600 square miles. That should have been an area with a diameter of 600 miles.Perhaps, though not yet - those who live in fear of an eye in the sky tracking their every move have until 2009 to dig a bunker and set of underground tunnels to the nearest shops. But yes, the American defence contractor Lockheed Martin has been working for three years on a $40m (&pound;20m) contract awarded by the US Missile Defence Agency to build 11 High-Altitude Airships.The fun, and the speculation, starts once you delve into the technical details. Each airship will float 12 miles (20km) above the surface (in the low stratosphere), be powered by solar panels and could oversee an area of 600 square miles. Put 11 of them over the US with suitably powerful cameras, and they could keep watch on every square metre of the whole country.But surely the part of the Pentagon which awarded the contract - the Missile Defense Agency - isn't into surveillance of the American people, but their defence from incoming ballistic missiles? That's what its website atmda.milsays. However,delving more deeplyshows that the project's aims include being used as "a mobile, retaskable, high-altitude, geostationary long-endurance platform" whose functions "will span from communications and weather/environmental monitoring to short- and long-range missile warning, surveillance, and target acquisition". ("Target acquisition" is what civilians call "aiming a weapon at something".)But by the time the lighter-than-air blimps are ready for launch, the US might have more pressing business in space than observing its own people from on high. China this week confirmed that it used one of its own weather satellites for target practice with a missile strike on January 11. For what reason? It wouldn't say. Now that's worrying.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As long as it applies the "nofollow" tag to the sites that it links to, certainly. To explain: Google, and other major search engines, tend to rank sites more highly if lots of other sites, or highly ranked sites, link to them. Spammers try to exploit that by getting highly ranked sites to point to their sites (seeGetting the blog spammers to hang up their affiliations). Wikipedia, as one of the top-ranked sites for almost any factual search, is a natural spammers' target.So a couple of years ago, the "nofollow" tag was suggested: when a search engine's crawler encounters it attached to a link, it doesn't count the link as being "pointed to" by the site. In theory, it means link spam is pointless. (In practice, it continues unabated.)Faced last weekend with a"contest"among spammers trying to see who could get the most links from Wikipedia, its co-founder Jimmy Wales declared that every outgoing link from Wikipedia should forthwith have a "nofollow" tag.The result: any site that used to be a destination from Wikipedia, and thus highly ranked, will abruptly fall in search engine rankings.But the converse isn't true. People aren't attaching "nofollow" to the links pointing to Wikipedia. In the words of Nick Carr, a longtime watcher of the online encyclopaedia: "Although the no-follow move is certainly understandable from a spam-fighting perspective, it turns Wikipedia into something of a black hole on the Net. It sucks up vast quantities of link energy but never releases any."That's not the end of it though. Wikipedians are stilldiscussing the move, and "nofollow" might be rescinded very soon. The problem is, it cripples the web for search engines. By using nofollow, "we're breaking the web, as we know it," noted Shelley Powers, a software developer. "There should be no 'good' or 'bad' to an item showing up on a search list: if one site is talked about and linked more than another, regardless of the crap it contains, it's a more topically relevant site. Not authoritative, not 'good', not 'bad', not definitive: topically relevant." Spammers will surely be delighted; Jimmy Wales less so.The trouble is that Wikipedia now has sufficient gravity within the web - comparable to Google's - that it can, as Carr suggests, begin to suck in content from outside itself and become larger and larger, while disclaiming the validity of the sites which confer value on it (since it still requires external citations for articles).One potential solution: better editing to remove spam. All that needs is an army of editors ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
While the rest of the known (European) gaming world is jumping over themselves aboutSony's late night announcement, I'd like to redirect attentions to two games which are also making a healthy resurgence: the classic quiz game Your Don't Know Jack and the mildly disturbing (yet compelling and innovative and revolutionary) Seaman.You Don't Know Jackwas a multimedia take on the old quiz format. The in-your-face, Howard Stern-a-like who fronted it spouted loads of nonsense, insulted the crowd and generally challenged players to test their ignorance.A web version of the game can be foundhere. Among the more enlightening things I've found out whilst playing are *there's a real patent for monkey tap shoes (call in theRSPCA) *"Yo, banana boy" is a palindrome* *Banana Mania is a Crayola crayon colourGo! Proscrastinate! Prosper!Seamanwe have discussedbefore. It was, without a doubt, one of the more surreal offerings for the truly magnificent Sega Dreamcast (which I grow to love more and more every day). In a nutshell, a Seaman was a fish/man/foetus thing that swam around in a virtual tank and insulted you, its owner, if you didn't speak to it on a daily basis. By speak, I actually mean speak; Nintendo may have popularised the audio commands with its Nintendo DS, but The Dreamcast had the first microphone on a home console.Think twisted tamagotchis. Think Seaman.Well, the news on the street is thatSeaman's got a more evolved brotherwho'll be released in March in Japan.Kotakureports that there's some new content up on the site to pique people's interests (even if they can't understand Japanese).Their description of the game is a good sum-up:For those who have played the original game on the Dreamcast (or PC, PS2), Seaman 2 won't focus on the vivarium based, human faced sassmouth fish thing, but a tiny island bound apeman. He's made extra creepy by his still attached umbilical cord. Ick.The new game will usea specialised voice controller, but, using the power of the guesstimate, the PlayStation 2 game also looks to make use of the EyeToy camera. Neat!Who needs a PlayStation 3 with these games available? Eh?*thanks TinRobot!
Affiliate schemes have been described as a good way to earn money without lifting a finger. Say you're a classic car enthusiast and create an interesting website about them: you'll attract like-minded visitors who might be interested in buying spare parts. You don't sell any spares, but can offer a link to a site that does. By signing up to that site's affiliate scheme, you'll receive a commission for the visitors sent from your site who buy spares.A good affiliate scheme will, naturally, attract many affiliates, all vying to provide visitors and earn the most cash. But the idea of getting cash for having links on a site that leads to something people want also draws in those who want something on the cheap: blog spammers, who coordinate machines to post links to their own sites in the comments sections of blogs, or "sploggers" (spam bloggers), who simply steal others' blog content wholesale in order to splatter affiliate ads around it.Because spammers understand that increasing the number of links pointing to a site increases its popularity in Google, they will spam blogs with links in the comments that point to their site. Google doesn't know that it's not an outbreak of people thinking that the spammed blog is great. Result: the spammed site rises up the search results.Networking for cashTake the activities of "Lee Ritchie", which might or might not be his real name. As the owner of the UK site itsamobile (according to Nominet UK's records), Ritchie has for a couple of months now been trying to post comment spam on my blog and Guardian Technology's Free Our Data blog. What made him stand out from the thousands of others was that his site was British, and the spammed links used the keywords "Carphone Warehouse" - so anyone searching on that term might be likely to be pointed to Ritchie's site. It's unusual for big-name British brands to get caught up in blog spam because they know how badly their reputation can be affected by the practice, and tend to stamp it out on discovery.The spam promoted links to different pages on itsamobile, which redirected to another Ritchie site (showing images of mobile phones), which then linked to the website of Dial-a-Phone - an online mobile phone retailer. For every potential buyer Ritchie's site passed on, Dial-a-Phone dangled a carrot of &#163;40 commission via the TradeDoubler affiliate network - or so it seemed. "The particular affiliate you refer to was spotted blog spamming several months ago and was removed from the Tradedoubler programme within one week," said Julian Hearn, head of online marketing for Dial-a-Phone Ltd. "This is the only case of an affiliate using comment spam in the last four years that I am aware of."If Ritchie was cut off, it hasn't stopped his spamming, which continues to this day. Hearn won't name the person who would receive that commission, nor say whether the name Lee Ritchie is real or false; apparently UK data protection law helps spammers too. He also points out that Dial-a-Phone has worked with several affiliate networks and thousands of affiliates. He claims the majority are hard-working business people who run websites such as shopsafe.co.uk. "We have identified a handful of affiliates who have used unethical methods of generating traffic and sales, including comment spam. All these affiliates have been removed," says Hearn, who adds that the worst offenders are those who use adware.Hearn isn't able to stop Ritchie spamming. The actual entries to blog comments comes from an IP address controlled by a Mike Van Essen in Australia, identified by anti-spam campaigners Spamhaus as a major email spammer infamous for promoting penis enlargement pills, diet patches and growth hormone products. Ritchie's spammed website is hosted by Van Essen too.Ritchie has since switched the redirection of itsamobile to an affiliate scheme run by Austrian pay-per-click search engine company, PeakClick. Did PeakClick know about Ritchie's spamming? Its terse response: "We will not answer any questions, the spamming affiliates will get their account terminated, just like the account that spammed your blog." I contacted Andreas Bernstrom, Trade- Doubler's UK and Ireland managing director. The Swedish company has more than 100,000 affiliates for customers including John Lewis, Littlewoods, Dell and HMV. Bernstrom describes Ritchie as a "young gentleman" living in England trying his luck - but won't give out personal details: "The person who was blog spamming was identified by the account manager for that particular company [Dial-a-Phone]. They came quite quickly up the top list for that company in terms of number of sales done. Essentially what he's trying to do is to make quick money from a pretty underhand practice."Bernstrom adds that TradeDoubler keeps a close eye on its affiliates, flagging up new and unexpected achievers for technical scrutiny. There is a zero- tolerance policy with spamming, adware, spyware, fraudulent clicks and other unethical practices. "There will be publishers [affiliates] who will try their luck. We just have to make sure we are as professional as possible so they don't get anywhere," says Bernstrom.Web attackHow bad is blog spamming? I asked Matt Mullenweg, founding developer of the popular open-source blogging software WordPress and operator of two major services for bloggers: wordpress.com, which hosts more than 500,000 blogs, and Akismet, a spam filtering system that's stopped nearly 500m spam since October 2005. His statistics show that 94% of comments to blogs are spam."Spam is getting so bad that it's effectively a denial-of-service attack on people's websites," says Mullenweg. He believes that affiliate schemes contribute to "most of the spam", and also agrees with zero-tolerance on spam through better affiliate marketing industry regulation - perhaps a code of conduct.It would have been nice to track down "Ritchie". Initially, we couldn't because Nominet allows "private individuals" to opt out of providing full address details for public consumption; only his name appeared on querying for his contact details. But Ritchie isn't a private individual - he's using the sites to make money.Lesley Cowley, chief executive for Nominet UK, says the opt-out is only available to people not using domains for business. "Generally, we regard pay-per-click sites and spamming as commercial activities, and we will therefore remove the opt-out from this domain," says Cowley. "We will be looking at all of the opted-out registrations for this individual." Soon after, an address appears for Ritchie in the Nominet records. It's that of a pub in Lochgelly, Scotland - which appears to have closed. Nor does Ritchie respond to emails.Fortunately, bloggers under siege can use plug-in defences like Akismet or "captchas" that defeat spam software but don't stop humans leaving a real comment. The "nofollow" tag, supported by some blogging software, means search engines won't rank any link in a comment. Fine - except it doesn't get rid of the dozens, hundreds, thousands of comments that pour on to blogs. While there's money in it for people like Ritchie, and no effective comeback from the companies that benefit, the moneymaking will go on and bloggers will curse those trying to make money from their goodwill.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It has always been a puzzle why so few UK website have become global success stories. After all it was a Brit - Tim Berners-Lee - who invented the web. But one site that is proving to be an exception isSaatchi's Your Gallery, which claims to have 3m hits a day, having doubled since it recently launched Stuart (as in Stu(dent) and art) for art students to display their work, chat to each other and attract buyers. It is now doing for the art world what MySpace does for music, only in a much more focused way. About a third of its hits come from the US, a third from Britain and a third from the rest of the world.Charles Saatchi (Nigella's fella) dreamed this up as a fun thing to do between the closure of his real-life gallery on London's South Bank and the opening of a new one in Chelsea later this year. Like so many other start-ups, from Google to Second Life, the creators had little idea they were going to be so successful. Who would have thought there was scope for a new one in a world awash with excellent art sites?I am reminded of the old story of two economists ignoring a &#163;5 note lying on the pavement. Their logic for doing so: if it were real, someone would have picked it up already. Every good idea looks obvious in retrospect, and one wonders how many other ideas are out there waiting to be picked up.Mind you, if Saatchi wants to retain its new-found world leadership it would do well to look at a new American site,artfaceoff.com, claiming 400,000 visits a day - which offers extra interactivity such as rating paintings on a scale of 1 to 10.The highest rated artists go into a "faceoff" as viewers decide which is the better of two paintings shown on the screen. This process is repeated until clear winners emerge in eight categories for which there is a $1,000 prize for each. I only know about this because they solicited my custom as a user of the Saatchi site. I duly joined and was impressed by its interactivity.The Saatchi site operates on two main levels. Your Gallery enables anyone to upload their own paintings (at no cost) so they can be seen by other viewers, potential buyers and, if you are lucky, the legendary Mr Saatchi - though he says he doesn't plan to buy anything for the first year while the project settles down. Some 25,000 artists have already displayed their works plus 2,500 works of video art.I was among the first to sign up when it opened last May and found it easy to upload a painting (once you have its dimensions) apart from the fact that there was no facility to rotate images, as there is on the Flickr photo site, if they appear horizontal instead of vertical. There still isn't as far as I can see. Anyway, I managed to impress a few friends that I had had a picture accepted by the Saatchi gallery (well, for a few seconds). Saatchi doesn't know for certain how many paintings have been sold from the site, as most are transactions between individuals that it doesn't necessarily pick up, but it is clearly doing quite well. Last weekend two new shows opened in London (at the Brick Lane Gallery and at 125 Charing Cross Road) linked to paintings from Your Gallery.The introduction of Stuart, which has doubled hits to the Saatchi site, is even more blindingly obvious (in retrospect, of course). Isn't it a no-brainer that art students across the world will want to see each other's art, chat about trends, showcase their student shows even before they do at their art colleges and make them available to potential buyers around the world?If success is sometimes the art of discovering the obvious, then Mr Saatchi gets full marks. It won't do his new gallery in Chelsea any harm at all - but it still leaves open the question of how many other obvious ideas are lying around on the pavement waiting to be picked up.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Forbes, kings of the list feature, launch what's bound to be a fresh annual feature with theirWeb Celeb 25. The ranking make great play of the democracy of the internet in terms of celebrity:The ranks of the world's celebrities used to be dominated by millionaire actors, athletes and musicians, but the Internet has leveled the playing field. A kid with a video camera has access to as large an audience as the biggest Hollywood star. A mom with a blog can attract more readers than a best-selling author. And an opinionated entrepreneur can become a guru to millions.Video bloggers (both fake and real) get a good shout, with the #1 spot is taken by LonelyGirl15, and appearances byAmanda Congdonand the excellentZe Frank. Elsewhere, it's a mix of Silicon Valley and the worlds of American media and politics (Robert Scoble, Michael Arrington, as well as Guardian contributorsJeff JarvisandMarkos Moulitsas Zuniga).But apart from a few good eggs, what a pedestrian list! I'm sure there's more outside the American bubble that's worth pointing to. What are your suggestions?
Jim Greer is a games programmer who wanted a pair of vintage running shoes. He knew what he wanted, except he wasn't sure where he'd find them. He ended up using an image search engine calledLike.comto find something similar. "I searched for the model I wanted and was able to single out the shape of the toe as the feature I liked the best, and find more similar shoes."Cue one satisfied customer. But what's strange about it? Because although being able to search for an object that "looks like" another feels natural to us, computers can't do the same. They can compare strings of bits very quickly - and so compare two files of text in an instant. But rotate an image by 90 degrees, and the stream of bits comprising the image file changes too. Yet the object's the same.Take faces. Humans can tell faces apart very easily, or recall that they've seen one. Computers can't. But that could change with the launch of a new image search engine developed by the Swedish company Polar Rose (polarrose.com). This works via a plug-in for the browsers Firefox and Internet Explorer, which combines computer analysis and social tagging; if it succeeds, once your computer has seen one photo of you, it will be able to recognise you again in countless more pictures. Furthermore, any Polar Rose user who takes a shine to one of your photos - that self-portrait on Flickr, perhaps? - will be able to search the web for "more like this", at the slight risk of finding your twin or just someone with an uncanny resemblance.Poor track recordMikkel Thagaard, vice-president of business development at Polar Rose, explains: "Anywhere you go online [using the plug-in], what you'll see are rose icons popping up wherever there's a face. When you click on these roses, our technology makes what we call a faceprint. You're familiar with a fingerprint. This is the same thing, but for a face. Then the user can look elsewhere on the web to find matches for that particular face." Polar Rose will also let people tag faces with names, which he hopes will improve its accuracy.Thagaard believes that traditional image searches, which actually search for text tagged to the image or nearby, are too inaccurate on an increasingly visual web. "There's no way to search for images unless they're tagged, and even then you can't be sure you'll find the image you want because there are two people's interpretations at work. The person tagging the image has to have the same idea of the image as the one that is searching". The difference with Polar Rose or other image search engines is that you are searching for images by pointing to an image you have already and saying, "find me more like this".Since Polar Rose is still only in beta, we can't be sure that it will work. Indeed, facial recognition technology has a poor track record. In 2002, Florida police withdrew crowd surveillance technology from the American company Visionics after just two months - it had failed to identify a single criminal on the police database while raising a number of false alarms (read James Meek's article on this topichere).Polar Rose is going out on a limb by claiming to have a system that works. But even Thagaard admits that facial recognition technology is still learning. "Looking at the photos on the web, there's bad quality, different expressions, different poses and different light sources, so it's not easy. Even for people it's hard to distinguish between two photos sometimes."Furthermore, it may soon have some competition from Google, which last year acquired Neven Vision, a company with a string of patents in the image recognition field. It seems likely that the dominant search engine will want to offer more accurate image searching.Image recognition could make online shopping easier too. That's certainly Like's aim, where you can search for products based on their colour or design. If you've broken a plate or can't find your favourite shirt, simply take a photo, upload it and Like's search engine will try to find matching items in online stores. You can highlight a part of an item that most appeals to you and even specify whether you want the search results to concentrate on items of the same colour, or items of the same shape. Munjal Shah, chief executive of Like, explains how it works: "We convert each picture into a maths formula, and we call this maths formula a visual signature. The visual signature is about 10,000 numbers from each picture, which encodes in it the shape, colour and texture of an item, and all the other details."When you do a search what you're actually doing is comparing the visual signatures of two different items. So strictly speaking, we don't compare the two pictures, we compare the two maths representations. It's all done using these mathematic visual signatures." There's not much to fear about image recognition when it's helping us find a polka-dot tie. But when the focus is on faces, things aren't so rosy.Granted, a search engine that recognises faces could make managing images and searching for them a lot easier. Instead of tagging photos, you could simply use one photo of yourself, or whoever, to find all the others. But the problem is, so can anybody else. Just as it didn't take long for people to become worried about "being Googled", if image search engines take off we might have to be a lot more cautious about the photos we share online. By syncing photos of us with whatever other personal information we've left lying around online, who knows just how detailed a personal profile could become?Surveillance societyJonathan Bamford of the Information Commissioner's Office, the independent body that both promotes access to official information and campaigns to protect personal information, believes this is a genuine concern: "New technology means the risk of constant surveillance is higher, and we need to be aware of that risk. We are concerned that we're putting together the infrastructure for a surveillance society."However, Shah, who is also chief executive of Riya (riya.com), the first photo sharing site to use facial recognition technology, thinks faces are still beyond computers' reach. "We tried the same algorithims that are used on Like.com for faces on Riya. We downloaded 50m faces from MySpace, and we brought in 100 users to test both the shopping and the faces. The face stuff got 2.5 out of 5 on average, the shopping stuff got 4.2 and up."There's something about faces. You can't win. It isn't about the technology. The technology is performing at the same level of efficacy as it is with items, it's just our expectation is substantially higher because something in our brain is better at it."Thagaard doesn't see the potential for abuse, either: "We're trying to give people a solution that will help them, and we have no benefit from making something that people will abuse. We will always be very aware of privacy concerns people have and be open to hearing them."But if you want my guess about what's going to happen, I think even more people will start uploading their photos now that they're easier to look for."Might he be right? Time and again we see that where technology provides neat time-saving applications, people are willing to give up personal information. But Bamford believes this must change."You really need to understand how valuable your personal information is. I don't think people understand that the more and more you put out there in the electronic world, the more people can potentially access that."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Finding that face in a crowdFacial recognition technology means that it could be easier to find pictures of friends online. But does it have more worrying implications? Ronan Fitzgerald reports.Pick a pack of Windows VistaWhat do you get in the different versions of Vista? With up to five flavours of Microsoft's new operating system to choose from, which should you go for? It's not straightforward, says Jack Schofield.Don't panic: we'll email if someone plans to demolish your houseFree our data: Almost as well known as Monty Python's parrot sketch is the rant in Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy against local council planning by its hero, Arthur Dent.Your path to gaming is blocked by a small chair ...Keith Stuart: If you're not in the habit of trawling YouTube you may have missed College Saga, a beautifully crafted parody of role-playing games such as Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest.Has Wikipedia become an internet black hole?As long as it applies the 'nofollow' tag to the sites that it links to, certainly.Is the US launching a blimp to spy on its population?Perhaps, though not yet - those who live in fear of an eye in the sky tracking their every move have until 2009 to dig a bunker and set of underground tunnels to the nearest shops.Read me firstSeth Finkelstein asks why the .xxx would anyone want a top-level domain for porn?The art of running with a good ideaVictor Keegan: It has always been a puzzle why so few UK website have become global success stories. After all it was a Brit - Tim Berners-Lee - who invented the web.TechnobileGeorge Cole: Want to speak to a human at Sony technical support? Really? It's easier to get hold of the Prime Minister.Why I can never agree with adware and spywareBen Edelman, spyware hunter: Absurdly complex licences and a raft of underhand techniques means the tide of pop-ups and tracking programs keeps growing/How HP has overtaken the bigger boys of computingJack Schofield: Dell may be losing its grip on the personal computer market, and Hewlett-Packard is taking over. What's even more surprising is that HP is now the world's largest IT company.Getting the blog spammers to hang up their affiliationsFor dodgy dealers who spam weblogs with links to their sites, affiliates are a way to make quick money.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesVista test drive | Virtual CBBC | Not such tosh | Happy Christmas shopping | Wizard deal | Design IT for charity | Go fly an egg | Refreshing changeGadgetsLG Shine | Sidekick 3 | iRecordLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
PlayStation 3 will launch in the UK/PAL territories on 23rd March 2007 at a price of £425. Only the 60GB model will be available with the 20GB to follow later, "dependent on demand". No mention of price for the 20GB model. A million units will be available throughout the SCEE territory, "during the initial launch period". No exact launch day figures are given. Over 30 games will be launched with the console, including Resistance: Fall of Man and Motorstorm. And there will be an number of games available for download including Gran Turismo HD and more casual games like Sudoku. Read on for the full list..PLAYSTATION 3 LAUNCH TITLE LINE-UPResistance: Fall of Man - disc MotorStorm - disc Genji: Days of the Blade - disc Formula One Championship Edition - disc Ridge Racer 7 - disc Tekken®: Dark Resurrection - network Lemmings - network Go! Sudoku - network Go! Puzzle - network Blast Factor™ - network flOw™ - network Super Rub'a'Dub - network Call of Duty 3 - disc Marvel: Ultimate Alliance - disc Tony Hawk's Project 8 - disc Gundam - Target in Sight - disc Full Auto 2: Battle Lines - disc Sonic the Hedgehog - disc Virtua Fighter 5 - disc Virtua Tennis 3 - disc World Snooker Championship 2007 - disc NBA 2K7 - disc NHL 2K7 - disc Blazing Angels Squadrons of WWll - disc Enchanted Arms - disc Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent - disc The Elder Scrolls lV: Oblivion - disc Def Jam: Icon - disc Fight Night Round 3 - disc NBA Street 4 Homecourt 2007 - disc Need for Speed Carbon - disc The Godfather: The Don's Edition - disc Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2007 - disc Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom - disc F.E.A.R. - disc Gripshift - networkPeripherals:SIXAXIS™ Wireless Controller - £34.99Blu-ray Disc Remote Control - £17.99HDMI Cable - £17.99AV cable - £12.99Component AV cable - £17.99S Video cable - £12.99So, what do you think?
While you're waiting for that PS3 announcement, here's some more Sony news - the company has announced that it's getting together with Namco Bandai to form a development studio named Cellius Inc. The new outfit - 51 percent owned by Namco, the rest by Sony - has been formed to fully exploit the cell processor and will work on games as well as other audio visual entertainment applications. PC and mobile phone games will also fall under its remit.Sony and Namco have been working closely together since the early Nineties and now they've had a child. It's sort of cute.Morehereandhere.
The full UK/Europe PlayStation 3 launch details will be announced tonight at midnight - er, thanks for that Sony - and we'll have all the details up then, including date, price and launch titles. Let the 'next-gen' battle begin, or something.
Bloomberg is reporting that Apple's chief executive,Steve Jobs, has been questioned by SEC investigatorslooking into backdated stock options.Does that mean he's guilty of anything? Of course not. But it does mean that the Securities and Exchange Commission people are nagging away at a question that an internal report led by Al Gore said had been answered satisfactorily.Valleyway has "five reasons to fear for Steve Jobs" (which for some reason reminds us of Wired's 1996 issue in which it had 100-odd suggestions for the between-Jobs Apple to save itself from destruction).They boil down to: (1) the SEC doesn't give up just because Apple had a good quarter (2) Jobs did benefit from the backdating, because the options were swapped for shares (3) board meeting records were faked (4) Apple has moved kinda slowly on all this (5) if the SEC bears down on him, Apple will have to pay out to keep him (and his presence is estimated to add $20bn to the company's capitalisation), and that payout to the SEC could be really big.Jobs isn't alone in all this stock options anti-joy, of course. The Wall Street Journal has ascoreboard of who's under what in the options mess. Last update was yesterday, but we're sure they'll add this detail on Apple in a moment.And we haven't even mentioned Pixar... where Disney is still carrying on an internal review after acquiring the company that, um, who used to be the chief executive?(Previous references: "Is Steve Jobs off the hook after his stock options probe?", Technology, Jan 4.
Microsoft has failed to learn from Wikipedia founder Jimbo Wales, which is that if you want to correct entries that concern you,do it yourself. Instead,Microsoft's Doug Mahugh, who works on the Office Open XML file formats, tried to get an independent technical expert to do the job -- and offered to pay expenses.According to his post on Slashdot, Mahugh wrote to Rick Jelliffe, chief technical officer of Topologi in Sydney, Australia, saying:"Wikipedia hasan entry on Open XMLthat has a lot of slanted language, and we'd like for them to make it more objective but we feel that it would be best if a non-Microsoft person were the source of any corrections ... Would you have any interest or availability to do some of this kind of work? Your reputation as a leading voice in the XML community would carry a lot of credibility, so your name came up in a discussion of the Wikipedia situation today.""Feel free to say anything at all on your blog about the process, about our communication with you on matters related to Open XML, or anything else. We don't need to "approve" anything you have to say, our goal is simply to get more informed voices into the debate ... feel free to state your own opinion."Of course, this shows more than a little naivite and a dramatic failure to understand how Wikipedia actually works, but neither is a criminal matter.Rick Jelliffe -- who is not a Microsoft user or a Microsoft fan -- blogged about it at O'Reilly inAn interesting offer: get paid to contribute to Wikipedia. (It's well worth reading this post.)On Slashdot, Mahugh adds:Wikipedia's definition of "Microsoft (sic) Office Open XML" is not fact-based, and I think it would be a good thing if there were more participation by persons like Rick who are knowledgeable and interested in the actual facts of file formats, and less participation (or at least less influence) by those with specific agendas based on specific corporate interests.It appears thatMicrosoft thinks IBM may be responsiblefor the bias in the Office Open XML entry, possibly because IBM has been hostile to the standardisation of the format. However, many other entries about IBM are rubbish, even by Wikipedia standards, so it's not obvious that anyone at IBM cares two hoots what Wikipedia says. But, obviously, there are plenty of Open Document Format and/or anti-Microsoft bigots who do. There are certainly enough of them to explain what Jelliffe calls the "sea of crap being produced".How it's possible to push back a sea of crap is another matter, but I don't really see why helping to finance independent experts to do it should be an issue. Paying independent experts is what, for example, Encyclopedia Britannica does all the time. Also, companies like Red Hat, Google, IBM and Sun pay expert programmers to write open source software, while perpetuating the myth that random bozos actually do it for fun.The problem with Wikipedia is that you also have to keep it corrected, because any random bozo can come along and introduce errors, and they very frequently do. (I'm not against Wikipedia, and I have made more than enough contributions to vote. It's just an observation of fact.) Given that the proportion of random bozos on the web has grown steadily from 0% (ie Tim Berners-Lee) to roughly 94.8%, this is not a problem that is going to go away.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
On the back of impressive sales performances achieved by Burning Crusade and Gears of War,Gamesradarhas raided ChartTrack's data files and come up with the UK's top ten fastest selling videogames.Before you click through, write down your predicted top ten - you get one point for every title that appears in the real list and extra point if you've got its position dead right. No cheating.1. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (PS2, Rockstar) 2. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2, Rockstar) 3. Gran Turismo 4 (PS2, Sony) 4. Halo 2 (Xbox, Microsoft) 5. Pro Evolution Soccer 5 (PS2, Konami) 6. Pro Evolution Soccer 6 (PS2, Konami) 7. FIFA '07 (PS2, EA) 8. FIFA '06 (PS2, EA) 9. The Getaway (PS2, Sony) 10. Pro Evolution Soccer 4 (PS2, Konami)Here'sthe full story.
The PS3 launch details are expected any day now - think March 23rd at a cost of 425 UKP. Those of you who tempted to wait for the inevitable price cut may be hanging around longer than you'd like.Reports from the USsuggest no price cut until at least June 2008, which probably means Christmas 2008 in Europe. Not that you can blame Sony of course. The PS3 is certain to suffer from high demand/low supply in Europe throughout 2006. But is it worth the money?I'm still in two minds. I've spent a lot of time on a pre-release machine and you can't fault the hardware itself - though the controller is definitely too light - with Blu-ray playback certainly worth getting excited about if you have the right telly. The problem is the games themselves, with none of the launch titles good enough to justify purchasing a PS3 as games console alone. Yes, what I've seen so far of Motorstorm is promising, while, bizarrely considering I loath the sport, F1 is looking rather sexy too. I've recently got hold of Gran Turismo HD and will get some impressions up shortly.But you can't escape the tentacles of Xbox Live, and it's the online side that really lets the PS3 down. Once you get used to playing mates, spying on their progress and generally feeling that you are not alone even when playing a single player game, it's hard to go back. Yes, the media functions and Blu-ray are admirable, impressive even. But - and call me a bluff old traditionalist - surely it's the games that make you fall in love with a console and not the ability to display photos or browse the web? If so then the PS3 still has some work to do before it becomes something really desirable.
The blogging side of the Guardian has been getting a bit of a rejig behind the scenes, to try to keep up with the growth in traffic. If things went to schedule, another server has just been added. Our apologies if you turned up during some slight downtime yesterday. If you comment to a post, yes, it does take them a while to register, but the system is working so just hang in there!Udate:The new server has been online since lunchtime. Some software upgrades are planned for tomorrow (Thursday) and this will involve taking the system offline for up to 20 minutes. Thankyou for any patience you may care to show ;-)
In case you missed it yesterday, Ubisoft has officially announced the first new title in the Driver series since Atari flogged them the rights last Autumn. Driver 76 is a PSP exclusive and will be out in March. Here's some hype from the press release:"The game thrusts the player into the heart of the 1970s, through 27 missions divided into six main plots. Players can take side jobs, earning cash that can be used to modify their rides. Driver 76 also offers an extensive multiplayer mode and a host of mini-games ranging from street races to all out carnage in Destruction Derby mode."Ah the seventies. How much more mythology can we squeeze out of that generous decade?I'm pretty sure I've seen all the afros and muscle cars I can handle for at least another ten years. This is not even the first time 1976 has been done - remember Activision's driving romp Interstate 76? But then again, the chaps fromSumo Digitalare involved (seemingly working alongside original developer, Reflections) and as they can do very little wrong in my book, this will almost certainly prove to be more than the sum of its scrapyard-salvaged parts. Sumo have done excellent work with their Outrun and Toca conversions. If anyone can get re-ignite my interest in Ford Mustangs and superfly pimps it's them.In the future, though, if we have to go on revisiting this era, can UK developers at least look closer to home for inspiration? Why are theAmericanseventies so eulogised? I know, it's the cultural imperialism of the country - the fact that Starsky and Hutch have more global cache than the Sweeney. But as Life on Mars has shown, there's a wealth of possibilities on the grimy, blackout-plagued streets of Edward Heath's Britain. Capri chases through Milton Keynes, with Brotherhood of Man playing in the background - surely I'm not the only gamer who'd love to see that?Am I?I am aren't I?
There's some cool virtual worlds news this week, including a MMOG used to teach language lessons. Plus, those broadcasters can't get enough of 'em. Both MTV and the BBC announce moves into cyber-neighbourhoods near you.First up, viaJoystiq,the education juggernaut continues to find new and exciting applications for virtual worlds. A MMO created by Michigan State's Confucius Institute aims to teach people Mandarin Chinese.The Institute, which offers DIY Chinese and more formal Chinese language and culture education, has moved into the virtual realm with the support of the Chinese government to create Zon - The New Chengo Chinese, according to this report inInvestors Business Daily:The five-level, massive multi-player online game weaves Chinese history and geography into an immersive environment aimed at middle- and high-school students. ... Students travel through villages and cities and finally make their way to the game's highest level. There they take roles of residents who can negotiate business and serve as tour guides.In the process, they encounter characters from history and folklore, including "the woman who cried the Great Wall down." According to legend, the emperor drafted her husband to work on the Great Wall, but he died in the effort. Thus her tears.There are many educators interested in the virtual world, and as yet I've not heard of a game specifically aimed at developing a language (though Alice considers the possibilitieshere). The situated elements and in-built support mechanisms should provide a good learning environment for whoever wants to learn Chinese. I've always fancied it myself...Meanwhile, MTV continues to expand into theThere.comuniverse bybringing more of its TV propertiesto the digital screen.Virtual Laguna Beachhas been a success in the eyes of the broadcaster, supporting the reality TV show property with online escapades and branded experiences. Now they're hoping to repeat the trend with their new series The Hills, another reality-TV type of product.ViaCNet:MTV Networks on Monday announced the launch of Virtual Hills, a new custom virtual world created using the There.com platform, and which is based on the network's hit show,The Hills. And in an interesting twist, fans of another hit MTV show and its virtual counterpart can teleport right in.This is MTV's second go-round with There. Last year, the network and the virtual world creator teamed up on Virtual Laguna Beach, a digital, 3D environment based on Laguna Beach, another of the network's shows.As the article rightly says, the really interesting thing about this is thatVirtual Hillsplayers can go to Virtual Laguna Beach to hang by the seaside for the day. Meta-identities?But I ask, why must they only do reality TV properties? Surely something really interesting could happen if someone brought, say, Green Wing to these spaces? I'm sure someone's working on it. Maybe someone with a big, long-running science fiction property that features time-travelling warlords and dainty yet tough female assistants...And speaking of the BBC, they announced yesterday that they're launching "a Second Life for kids," according tothis Guardian article:CBBC World will offer youngsters a safe environment to explore, and provide them with different zones offering CBBC content.The project is one of the keystones of BBC Children's move to become truly cross-platform. ... The BBC Children's controller, Richard Deverell, said that CBBC World will have a soft launch over the summer, then roll it out in September to coincide with the planned revamp of the CBBC digital TV channel."CBBC World will be a space where children can find radio, TV and on-demand content."Over time we hope to enrich the world with better software. We hope then it can be adapted to make it more personal so it understands what kind of person you are ,and offers you things you might like, such as our new show MI High...."Hmmm, more cross-media fun. But at the minute, it's all too one-way. TV stuff going into virtual worlds. What'll happenwhen that process is reversedand we start getting mainstream media entertainment that's changed by online actions?
Rumour has it that Google is looking to buy its way into the burgeoning world of in-game advertising. After Microsoft's purchase ofMassivelast year - a company that arranges dynamic in-game ads for game publishers and advertisers - Google has apparently been sniffing around for a smiliar deal. And it may have found one in the shape of privately owned company,Adscape Media, another advertising facilitator possibly ripe for takeover.Arstechnica.comworriesabout the way in which Google might run an in-game advertising concern. Perhaps the search engine behemoth will cleverly marry its Google AdWords system to your headset mouthpiece, so that whatever you shout during deathmatch sessions will bring up a range of suitable advertisers: 'Find 'Die, scum!' on eBay'... It's likely though that Google will just provide a matchmaking and technical support service for companies that want to advertise in games.The Arstechnica post moves onto a wider discussion of in-game advertising, noticing that most gamers are happy for ads to appear in relevant game environments - around a race track or football pitch, perhaps - but would baulk at billboards going up in role-playing games. Thing is, if/when in-game advertising really takes off, the likes of World of Warcraft, with its eight million inhabitants, represents prime real estate.Question is, if there really,reallyhad to be ads in WoW - say the game would shut down if there wasn't - what would you choose to go in there?
Photo: AkibaAccording toKotaku, translating theAkibablog, a Japanese retailer is flogging off 20GB PlayStation 3's at reduced prices -- 20% off."The 20GB version originally books at 49,980 yen (US $412), but is being offered for 39,980 yen ($329) in a sale ending February. The shop is knocking a flat 10,000 yen ($82) right now," says Kotaku.This is terrible news for Sony because the system costs roughly twice that to produce, and because it had already cut the price of the 20GB PS3 by 20%before it was even launched.A new Sony PlayStation product that doesn't sell even in Japan? Surely nobody imagined that....Update: Later today (Wednesday), Sony is expected to announce that the PS3 will be launched here on March 23 at £425. That's the price of an Xbox 360 and a Wii combined....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
We might have seen what it's like to have a First Life - as posted byJackyesterday - but what about when the real world starts to leak into the virtual?Over at his Hackdiary blog, Matt Biddulph has been exploringreal world inputs into Second Life(there's a short video on his site).Essentially: twist the nob on the Arduinohardware prototyping boardand it moves an object inside Second Life. OK, limited now - but imagine the possibilities for physical objects that interact with virtual worlds (even if I'm sceptical of Second Life's vaunted popularity and have found it nigh impossible to use).
They've got a grip on software already, but now researchers at Microsoft are looking towards the future - the far future. According to theSeattle Post-Intelligencer:The project, dubbed "immortal computing," would let people store digital information in physical artifacts and other forms to be preserved and revealed to future generations, and maybe even to future civilizations.After all, when looking that far in the future, you never know who the end users might be."It is definitely a long-term project," said Andy Wilson, the Microsoft researcher whose musings on the ephemeral nature of digital information inspired the research initiative.Suggestions include embedding data in tombstones - or producing individual equivalents of the Golden Record on the Voyager ship (which includes instructions on how to build a player to retrieve the information). All sounds a bit weird to me.
New Scientist magazine has identified, variousweb user tendencies, from the fairly confessableego-surfingto the slightly more embarrassingWikipediholism.But perhaps most disturbing of all was the detection of a phenomenon known as "photolurking", which involves an obsession with browsing the online photo albums of complete strangers.Since the popularity of photo-sharing sites exploded, the lives of snap-happy citizen journalists have been there for the lurking. And like the experience of Robin Williams' tragic photo developer inOne Hour Photo,happy family photos offer the perfect escapism from an unpleasant reality.Researchers at Lancaster Universityuncovered this strange breed of web addictswhile analysing the habits of photo sharing site users.Their report said: "People do this for emotional kicks. Curiosity, loneliness, even jealousy are just some of the reasons people look at these images." Wedding photos are extremely popular, and at the time of writing, on sites like Flickr there were3,868,832 images tagged 'wedding'.Perhaps the photolurkers aren't entirely to blame. Some photographers are posting their most private moments online, without any password protection, for all the world to see. It's not as if lurkers are hiding behind a bush taking pictures at your family gathering.But everyone is entitled to their own OK! moment should they want it. And most photo albums have traditionally been abandoned to a dusty cupboard rather than contributing to an extremely rich and profound document of our lives and times.Are you a self-confessed lurker, or do you fear these people and worry what they might know about you?Are there any photos you would not upload to the web or is your photographic life an open book?
