It's not often that a newspaper column can resolve a dispute that has troubled the finest minds of an abstruse academic discipline, but hey, what else is theNew Reviewfor? The field is cosmology, and the dispute concerns the issue of whether there exist parallel universes that together include "everything that physically exists: the entirety of space and time, all forms of matter, energy and momentum, and the physical laws and constants that govern them."Today we can reveal that at least one such parallel universe exists. It is usually found in Finland, but last week alighted on the ExCel Centre in London, where it was visited by several observers known to this columnist. It is called the Nokiaverse (though some call it Nokia World) and it is populated by people who believe that it is possible to go backwards into the future.The London manifestation of the Nokiaverse was opened by a stirring speech by an important Nokia person named Niklas Savander in which he declared that Nokia was a Very Big Company. Then there was a presentation by Anssi Vanjoki who explained why Nokia's new phone, codenamed N8, would blow the opposition out of the water. The hardware was better, he burbled, the software was "superb" and something called "the Ovi services" outshone anything that the likes of Google's Android could offer. "The message was clear," reported the BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones, "the fightback has begun". Spoilsport that he is,  Cellan-Jones then went on the web and discovered that"Mr Vanjoki had made the same claim in a blog back in July".One characteristic of the Nokiaverse is that its reality distortion field is even more powerful than the one that dominates the Appleverse, another parallel universe centred on Cupertino, California. An innocent space traveller who had wandered into the London manifestation would not have guessed that this was a company in deep trouble: its market cap is down 75% over the last three years; it is losing senior executives like the government loses personal data; and it's been forced to make a hurried appointment of a new CEO, Stephen Elop from Microsoft, to replace his expelled predecessor. But if our space traveller really wanted to know what's wrong, then all s/he needed to know is that this is a company that thinks the N8 will be a world-beater because it has a 12 megapixel camera with a Xenon flash.Nokia's problem, you see, is that it's fundamentally a hardware company. In the early days of the mobile phone industry, that was a good thing to be, because then it was all about handsets, and Nokia was very good at designing and making them. It was also astute in spotting the strategic importance of the GSM standard, and pushing hard for its adoption – which is what enabled Europe to leapfrog the fragmented US mobile phone market. So for a long time, Nokia flourished – as a hardware manufacturer. Of course its phones had software, but in those days it was very much a secondary concern because it wasn't expected to do very much.This ethos was brilliantly captured in an email sent by a former Nokia engineer to John Gruber, a well-known tech blogger. "Here's the problem,"the Nokia guy wrote. "Hardware rules at Nokia. The software is written by the software groups inside of Nokia, and it is then given to the hardware group, which gets to decide what software goes on the device, and the environment in which it runs. All schedules are driven by the hardware timelines. It was not uncommon for us to give them code that ran perfectly by their own test, only to have them do things like reduce the available memory for the software to 25% the specified allocation, and then point the finger back at software when things failed in the field."But there came a moment in the evolution of the mobile phone when suddenly the software was more important than the hardware. That moment was the arrival of the iPhone. And Nokia missed its significance for two reasons: its senior people – being hardware-focused – didn't see it; and the company lacked the software capability to compete. It didn't, for example, have a mobile operating system that was up to the job. In fact, it still doesn't, which is why it will eventually be forced to buy one in from outside. The only available options are Windows Phone 7 and Google's Android. So, in the end, it looks as though Nokia's future will be as an OEM (original equipment manufacturer) of handsets running someone else's operating system.And the moral of the story? Simple: software rules OK.
Halo: Reach, Xbox 360The alleged last-ever Halo game is a prequel to the first, telling the story of the doomed defence of Earth's colony on planet Reach, which is invaded by the Covenant on their way to wipe out humanity. Against this jolly backdrop, the single-player campaign plays out in fabulously entertaining engagements with groups of enemy grunts, brutes, hunters and elites. Set pieces that in other games would form the heroic denouement occur with frequency, while the triumphal architecture of the first Halo is back, lending the game an epic grandeur. New guns, vehicles and species of Covenant make battles even more dynamic and unpredictable, but Halo is all about fighting with frenemies, and there's an astounding multiplicity of customisable maps, rules and equipment, plus the most complete DIY level editor ever to appear on a console. Halo: Reach is currently the world's most entertaining way to spend £50.Microsoft, £49.95RUSE, PC, PlayStation3 &amp; Xbox 360RUSE.RUSE is a strategy game that presents you with both authentic and "what if?" battles from the second world war. Playing first as a plucky Yank (assisted by acid-tongued Englishmen), then as General Major Erich von Richter, the Wermacht's finest, on his way to invade Britain, maps become larger and more involved until you're fighting full-blown wars complete with your own supply line disasters and surprise attacks. Built for consoles, the lack of keyboard and mouse control never feels like a compromise, with the action requiring extreme focus to ensure you're not ambushed, flanked or overrun. Its other distinction is ruse "cards", which you can play to reveal hidden enemies, create decoys or move undetected. It's these intricacies that lift RUSE from being a me-too title into something truly engaging, while the scattering of neologisms that have beamed themselves back to the 40s (such as "Let's roll!") are almost appropriate given its alternate-history context.Ubisoft, £39.99-£49.99Mass Effect 2: Lair Of The Shadow Broker, Xbox 360Mass Effect 2.The Mass Effect trilogy is a space opera in which you play the heroic Captain Shepard in his or her ongoing battle to save mankind from enslavement by artificial lifeforms, the Geth, and their shadowy masters. While still only on episode two, there has been a healthy stream of new downloadable missions, crowned by this, easily the most full-bodied to date. Acting on a tip-off from the Illusive Man, you discover the whereabouts of the Shadow Broker, someone whom Liara T'Soni, a friend made during the game, would dearly love to find and kill. In its roughly four hours of playing time you'll uncover plenty of cash and upgrades, take part in a hostage stand-off and a memorable car chase, and discover a neat plot twist. On completion you're awarded access to the Shadow Broker's database, which expands amusingly on the game's characters and shows you where all the best mining planets are without all the tedious trial and error it normally demands. Meaty downloadable goodness.Electronic Arts, 800 Microsoft Points
The Last BarmanOn the lookout for poetry versions of the Aristocrats – the unfunny joke that US comedians use to show off their stagecraft – the people behind Homework, a monthly poetry cabaret night in London, plumped for The Last Barman from Cocktail. The spontaneous verse, spouted by Tom Cruise in the 1988 movie, is one of the most embarrassing moments in his career, but also one of history's most excruciatingly embarrassing poems (sample line: I make things with juice and froth. The Pink Squirrel. The 3-toed Sloth). The challenge here is to make this heinous verse your own, rewrite it, do a dubstep version, stick a video on YouTube or destroy it with superior prose. The best rewrites land on this website where you'll find a Morse version, a scouse version and many rude variations.RegretsyRegretsy.A hit book in America, subtitled "where DIY meets WTF", this blog compiles all the weird, freakish, tacky and disturbing homemade rubbish you may stumble across on crafting sites such as etsy.com or in the more obscure corners of eBay. Last week the author focused on projects that act as tributes to 9/11, from September 11 flipbooks to novelty glasses to commemorative flick-knives; if you were looking for a gift for pastor Terry Jones, this is the place. Elsewhere craft atrocities include novelty penis scatter cushions, a wedding dress made from recycled men's ties, the uncovering of a bizarre woolen-based sexual underworld, Lady Gaga toilet paper, terrifying pencil drawings of Jesus, and a bike helmet which doubles as a bird feeder.Blog roll: MusicologyLeft And To The Back.Left And To The BackForgotten 60s nuggets, homebrew compilations and novelty vinyl finds from the Music &amp; Video Exchange.And Another ThingWords of wisdom on the state of pop – and Wayne Rooney – from erstwhile Old Grey Whistle Test presenter David Hepworth.Landcroft HouseRecipes and album love cooked up side by side.DiscographiesBands' entire careers condensed into 140 snarky characters.A New Band A DayUsers of this site were into Wolfy &amp; The Bat Cubs years before you losers.Pushing Ahead Of The DameDeconstructing David Bowie song by glorious song in wondrous infinite detail.What we learned on the web this weekThe Soviet Museum Of Arcade Games.The fantasticalwonders inside the Soviet Museum of Arcade GamesWhere toclimb aboard the YouTube time machineAmerican trousersare lying to menProofof the most awesome character in Mad MenHow Arcade Firemade their online videoThe averageFarmVille player is a 43-year-old womanIf there'sa tube strike on or notHow many100pt Helvetica characters you would need to reach the moonEven Hells Angelsneed a mini-break
I made a mistake, with the Fiat Doblò, of calling my friend who is a car nut and telling him to come out with me in a cool car. I&nbsp;didn't look it up. I just assumed it was cool, because who&nbsp;would want you to review it if&nbsp;it wasn't?Well, that is not how it works, people. I was surprised but not ashamed by its appearance. Tim was&nbsp;outraged. He said even its headlight cluster was ugly. He said, "You know what this reminds me of? A Fiat Panda… horrible, 80s car… it looks like the original owner of the Fiat Panda has called up and said, 'I want exactly the same car, only I&nbsp;have now been eating solidly for 20&nbsp;years, so it will have to be larger to accommodate my obesity. And my wife's.'"I was beginning to feel sorry for my Doblò, its sluggish first gear notwithstanding. "Who would need a boot like this?" he said. "A children's entertainer, or a serial killer. It's a shame we don't have more time – we&nbsp;could see how speedily we could load a human body and move off."He's right, it does have a peculiarly large boot – 790 litres at the smallest, going up to a house-moving 3,200 litres if you fold in the second row. I texted some people to see if they needed any furniture shifted while I had it. My mother asked me to move a table from her kitchen into her front room.The front half is so spacious, you have to stretch to adjust the wing mirror from the front seat: the back window is the size of one of those giant flatscreen TVs that get you into the Daily Mail (if you're on benefits). Most bizarrely, there is enough headspace to accommodate two top hats. On top of each other. I&nbsp;think I've learned my lesson. There is nothing cool about this car, from any angle. As a city drive, it's no fun, because, well, I was in the turbodiesel version, and the low gears are trying so hard you can practically hear them effing and jeffing. And yet, that's not the end of this road: with six gears and a two-litre engine, this car takes to motorway driving effortlessly. Uncomplaining at high speeds, responsive, solid as a spouse in weird conditions (Though nothing that weird. Biblical rain. Not frogs). It was imperturbable. Even Tim, at one point, admitted that if he closed his eyes, he would think he was in a Land Rover. And once we were conceding things, we also allowed: a&nbsp;very comfortable driving posture, especially as a result of the back-rest; a handy feature where the engine cut out in traffic, which was a little bit eco and partly made up for the sludgy city driving; and a lot of space, goddammit. It wasn't stylish. But it's the kind of car you can't make a proper judgment about until you urgently need to move stuff.Fiat Doblo 2.0 16V MultiJet 135 EleganzaPrice£17,145Top speed111mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.3 secondsAverage consumption49.6mpgCO2 emissions150g/kmEco rating6/10In a wordCapacious
Intel has launched an investigation after the master key used to stop unautharised devices playing copyright-protected HD media was anonymously posted on the internet.Is the leaked HDCP master key real? Fo' sho', confirmed an Intel spokesmanThe world's largest microchip manufacturer is looking to track down the source of the leak after its 376-line HDCP (High Definition Content Protection) antipiracy key wasuploadedon Monday this week.Intel spokesman Tom Waldrop confirmed that the code, released by the company in 2004, was authentic to tech site CNet and to Fox News,saying:""We can use it to generate valid device keys that do interoperate with the (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection) protocol. [...] In order for someone to use those keys to obtain digital content in an unauthorized way, they would have to implement them in silicon. As a practical matter, that's a difficult and costly thing to do."We believe that this technology will remain effective. There's a large install base of licensed devices including several hundred licensees that will continue to use it and in any case, were a (circumvention) device to appear that attempts to take advantage of this particular hack there are legal remedies, particularly under the DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act). It's business as usual going forward."The leaked master key could be used to spawn so-called "black boxes" which allow people to make unauthorised copies of movies. But the provenance of the leak will come under the spotlight from any investigation by Intel as only an authorised group would have had access to it.Paul Kocher, president of semiconductor security company Cryptography Research, said the leak was likely to come from someone "who either had access to the keys during the development process or someone involved in testing HDCP-based devices or the chips that go into them,"according to CNet.Ed Felten, of Princeton's Centre for Information Technology Policy,surmisesthat this fresh leak will implicate HDCP further for those that are critical about the security of the technology. "HDCP is now a dead letter, as far as security is concerned," Felten says, adding:"The impact of HDCP's failure on consumers will probably be minor. The main practical effect of HDCP has been to create one more way in which your electronics could fail to work properly with your TV. This is unlikely to change."Mainstream electronics makers will probably continue to take HDCP licenses and to use HDCP as they are now. There might be some differences at the margin, where manufacturers feel they can take a few more liberties to make things work for their customers. HDCP has been less a security system than a tool for shaping the consumer electronics market, and that is unlikely to change."One of the many revolts of the Digg.com fanbase was sparked when a hacker posted a master key to "unlock" encrypted HD-DVDs on the social news website in 2007. But the episode was brushed into the corner of the blogosphere where barbed blogposts about digital rights management (DRM) go to fester. And it became academic when Blu-ray won the high-definition DVD format war at the start of 2008.Computerworld technology writer Richi Jennings brought DRM back to the fore this week,arguingthat the latest master key leak is "an interesting academic exercise. Nothing more". Jennings writes: "How many metaphorical bloody noses will it take before the movie and music industries realize that DRM is a waste of their time – and ours? As if we needed more evidence, now the HDCP Master Key has been cracked".
The splendid supply chain rumour millDigitimes is reportingthat "Component suppliers including touch panel and reinforced glass suppliers for Apple's iPad are completing validation with Apple for the second-generation 9.7-inch iPad, according to Taiwan-based component suppliers. Apple is expected to launch the second-generation iPad in the first-quarter of 2011, the suppliers noted."This report is pretty unequivocal - it gives you the size of the screen and it gives you a timescale (the latter matching Apple's usual timescale for launching revisions of its computer-ish products, ie announce them in January (like it did with the iPad - remember? - and iPods).Which hasn't stopped some slightly excitable blogs declaring that the launch of "iPad 2" is "imminent" (here's thesearch; I didtry it on Bingbut couldn't get the same relevant set of results).Some are suggesting that Apple is going to try to knock out the smaller 7" tablets that have begun appearing (such as the Samsung Galaxy Tab - readTim Bray of Google's very fine review) by offering its own 7" "mini-iPad".A moment's thought will tell you that this is wrong. I'm certain that Apple is not going to announce a 7" iPad early next year.The iPod mini, launched in January 2004. Remember that? Photograph: Martin Ruetschi/Keystone/CorbisHere's why.The tablet market is exploding; it'schewing into netbook salesand even, if you believe the numbers,notebook sales(at least in the US). There are all sorts of competing OSs (Techcrunchcountssix OSs - Apple's iOS, Android, Chrome, Windows, WebOS, and the mysterious "BlackPad" for BlackBerry-ish devices.)Update:Make that 7 - asMagicianUKpoints out in the comments, there's going to be aMeeGo tablet launched (Germany only to begin with) next week. Oh my.There are also competing sizes - with Samsung having gained a lot of attention for the Galaxy Tab, which is a 7" tablet. Other companies seem tempted to follow. Dell's got the 5" Streak, Toshiba has a 10" tablet, but 7" is what quite a few companies are aiming at (including Viewsonic).Now ask yourself: if you were in marketing in Apple, would you launch a product which has adifferentscreen size from the one you've spent millions of dollars/pounds marketing, yet which has thesamescreen size as (some of) your competitors? Wouldn't doing that make it look like you think your rivals had the right idea about screen size, and that you screwed it up the first time? (Even if you did. But this is marketing, remember, where no decision is ever wrong.)Or would you stick with the same screen size that you've already established, and perhaps increase the pixel density, and so make it something more like the iPhone 4's "Retinal Display"? That way the old and new models are the same size, so that retailers don't have to remake their in-store displays (much) and can also sell any remaining old stock they have without people asking too many difficult questions.Well? No-brainer. You stick with the existing size.Yes, you can point to theiPod mini, which was released in January 2004: before that, all iPods had been the same size (but with various feature tweaks). It was the iPod mini, a smaller version of the original iPod, which made the category take off: its sales were truly enormous, and that's what cemented Apple's leadership of the MP3 player market.But we're not yet at the same point in the product cycle of the iPad, or tablets, as the iPod mini was in the iPod cycle. Tablets are a category that has barely begun to make an impact on consumer consciousness; it's still unusual to see someone carrying one.By contrast in January 2004, Apple had been running the iTunes Music Store for almost 9 months; by the summer of 2004 it had sold 100m songs, which implies that it was already well along the way before the iPod mini was launched.So what should you expect?- no revision of the iPad any time this year- another version of the iPad to be announced some time in the first quarter of next year, with the same screen size, probably with more storage, and possibly with greater resolutionIn the fullness of time - ie once a few of the would-be tablet makers have folded their tents and gone home, unable to make anything resembling a profit - it would make sense for Apple to try to corner the rest of the market by launching a smaller iPad, just as it did with the iPod. But even if that makes sense in the market, I don't expect to see that until 2012 at the earliest. Remember, the iPod was launched in October 2001; as a product line it was more than two years old by the time the iPod mini came along. The iPad hasn't even been in peoples' hands for six months yet. Apple doesn't move that quickly. But there are plenty of blogs - and even newspapers - which like to let expectation run ahead of reality. Cooler heads prevail in Cupertino, though.
The challenge facing EA when they were planning FIFA 11 must have been similar to that facing a top football manager after a successful season. Change too much, and you may lose what made you great in the first place. Change too little, and you could stagnate and allow your rivals to catch up.Konami, meanwhile have a pretty huge task on their hands. Once title challengers, their form has slipped in the past few years to the point where few could see them winning the title race this time around - though their past pedigree means you can never rule them out entirely.I got my hands on FIFA 11 last month and was very pleased with what I saw - the game has built on the successful features of 2010 World Cup, feeling different but still reassuringly familiar.Aside from the obvious cosmetic tweaks - the new pitch and player likeness are really something to behold - and hundreds of small tweaks most gamers will never notice, it's the gameplay which feels like it's received the most attention.Passing in particular has been revamped, hopefully eradicating the 'ping-pong' passing problems which irked so many FIFA 10 players. You can no longer tiki taka your way through opposition defences with all but the most limited of teams - it requires real skill to weight passes appropriately to string moves together.I'd imagine this will place the focus back on dribbling and player skills as the key to unlocking the opposition - better start boning up on your rabonas and Cruyff turns.My Pro Evo demo crashed during download (definitely a sign) but as usual Konami are promising their best ever release. It's unlikely to match FIFA in terms of presentation and finesse, but I'm sure it will still maintain a decent fanbase with its alternative interpretation of the beautiful game.Dipping into both series over the past year, it's as hard as ever to define exactly what differentiates them both in terms of gameplay. FIFA, to me, feels more fluid, but slower. Meanwhile I've found it harder and harder to score great goals on Evo, but easier to keep clean sheets.A year ago now I wrote an article in which I confessed my loyalty to the Evo franchise - ultimately that loyalty was short-lived once FIFA's superior online play and ability to create more cultured passing moves won me over. I'm now a FIFA man, through and through - something I never thought I'd hear myself say. Well, write.With the both demos now out, you've all had a chance to sample both offerings. Could this be the year that you switch allegiances? Or do you already know who's got your £40 come the first week of October?FIFA 11 is released on 1 October . Pro Evolution Soccer 2011 is released on 8 October
The organisers of the annualLondon Games Festivalhave been releasing a steady stream of intriguing announcements over the last week. Running from September 30 to November 4, the festival is a collection of events taking in the Eurogamer Games Expo, the Golden Joystick Awards and theMCM Expo, which covers games, mucis and manga. There are also plenty of more esoteric options, includingBoardGameCamp, a day-long spin-off event form the annual GameCamp looking at, yes, board games with lots of practical sessions and the chance to design your own game.The big news, perhaps, is that Sonic the Hedgehog creator Yuji Naka will be there in the first week, presenting his new game Ivy the Kiwi and then holding an audience Q&amp;A session. Naka left Sega back in 2006 and set upPrope, a studio dedicated to supporting offbeat and indie game projects. The date and venue are yet to be confirmed by check the website for more details.Meanwhile, the hugeEurogamer Expo, which takes over Earls Court between October 1-3, has just announced that Peter Molyneux will be kicking off the first day with a demo of Lionhead's Fable III. If it's anything like the talk he gave at this summer's Develop conference, it'll be worth the entry price alone: Molyneux is a great speaker and fabulously indiscreet, so you're bound to pick up a few secrets that'll have Microsoft execs shuffling uncomfortably in their seats. Talking of Microsoft, it seems Gears of War 3 will also be on the showfloor in playable form, joining the likes of Gran Turismo 5, Killzone 3, Medal of Honor and Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit.Finally, the festival has also announced a competition offering two lucky winners the chance to go to every event on the calendar and blog about them all for the official website. "We're looking for two enthusiastic gamers, who are keen to join the games industry, to become the festival's official 'voice'," says director, Kirsty Payne. "This is a fantastic opportunity for an aspiring writers and bloggers - not just to see the inner workings of all aspects of the games industry, but to get their work in front of a global audience." If you're interested, you need to email Kirsty (kirsty dot payne at ukie dot info) outlining in 200 words or fewer why you would be an ideal candidate.
A piece of software called Haystack, which claimed to be an "anti-censorship" system to let people in Iran use the internet anonymously, has been withdrawn by its author after experts raised serious questions about its security.The author, Austin Heap, a 26-year-old programmer from San Francisco, has been roundly criticised by professionals who complain that he has never allowed them access to the program's code – which they say is a necessity with security software to check whether it can do what it claims.After having obtained access by other means, the experts now say that instead of making users anonymous, it could reveal key information about them to the Iranian authorities.In apost on his blogon Monday, Heap says that in the "vigorous debate" about Haystack's security "many of the points made were valid" and that users have been asked to stop using it.Daniel Colascione, who worked with Heap and says he came up with the "Haystack" name,tweetedon Tuesday that the Censorship Research Center (CRC) that he co-created with Heap to host Haystack is now being wound down. But he also maintained that the software that has been criticised was not intended for widespread use, and was only a test version.In March the US governmentgranted Haystack an export licence, required for "sensitive" cryptographic software, following a fast-track approval process which does not seem to have included independent verification of its security.Haystack, and Heap, won plaudits from a number of organisations after the software's release last year. Its genesis followed the Iranian protests at the presidential election there in 2009, which was widely felt to have been rigged. Many people there tried to use mobile phones and services such as Twitter to organise protests, but there were also fears they could be traced by the authorities, using software in mobile transmission systems sold bywestern companies such as Nokia.The idea of Haystack was to make communications by its users look like innocent – rather than sensitive – information. Heap developed it so that Iranian users could use email and web services such as Twitter without the Iranian authorities being able to trace them.However suspicions about the software's robustness for anonymous use began to grow after people inside Iran started testing it. They reported that it could not get through the content-filtering firewall put up by the government there.Evgeny Morozov, atechnology journalistwho has been critical of Heap's claims from the outset,sayshe eventually managed to get a copy of the software, and passed it on to a security professional, Jacob Appelbaum, who in turn concluded that Haystack did not provide the safety for users that had been claimed. On Twitter, Appelbaumsaidthat "Haystack is the worst piece of software I have ever had the displeasure of ripping apart".Soon afterwards Colascione, the leading developer on the Haystack program resigned, saying the program was an example of "hype trumping security".But in along messagesent to a mailing list, Colascione added: "I would like to stress that I am not resigning in shame over the much-maligned test program. It is as bad as Appelbaum makes it out to be. But I maintain that it was a diagnostic tool never intended for dissemination, never mind hype. I did have a solid, reasonable design, and described it in our brief overture of transparency. That is what Haystack would have been. It would have worked!"He continued: "What I am resigning over is the inability of my organisation to operate effectively, maturely, and responsibly. We have been disgraced. I am resigning over dismissing pointed criticism as nonsense. I am resigning over hype trumping security. I am resigning over being misled, and over others being misled in my name."Colascione appears to take a lot of the blame for some flaws discovered by Appelbaum. "There was plenty of error on my part too, of course. I should never have allowed that damned "test" program to be distributed at all, and should never have added diagnostics to it; running it once in a controlled environment was a risk – arguably an acceptable one at the time. Multiplying that risk by users and by uses was what made it a catastrophe. I should have stuck my head out of the code and more strenuously objected to the hype."I regret that we exposed anyone to undue risk, and that we deprived citizens of the effective anti-censorship tool that might have been. I regret standing silently while I listened to empty promises — and I especially regret that this whole ordeal has scarred the anti-censorship landscape so badly that it may be years before anything grows there again."Haystack, and Heap, had previously received extensive coverage from the BBC, US National Public Radio, the International Herald Tribune and The Guardian, whichawarded Heap the title of "Innovator of the Year"in its MEGAS awards last March.Asked to comment, Steve Busfield, head of media and technology for Guardian News &amp; Media (GNM), who chaired the 2010 MEGAS judging panel, said: "The MediaGuardian Innovator of the Year award is presented each year to someone who the judges consider has had the greatest impact on innovation in the media in the past 12 months. Austin Heap was chosen as this year's winner as a result of his vision and unique approach to tackling a huge problem. It was his inventiveness and bravery which the judges sought to reward, rather than the Haystack software itself."Earlier this week the Guardian sent a list of questions about Haystack and its security to Heap; he said he would respond but missed his own deadline to do so, and had not responded despite a reminder as this article was written. At the time of writing, Heap has not updatedhis Twitter feedsince Tuesday.Earlier this week hetold the BBCthat "all functional copies of the software had now been withdrawn" and that "it is absolutely reasonable for people to raise these concerns". He said the CRC would get a third party to review the Haystack source code, would make the code available for anyone to examine, and would stop people from testing it in the field. On his blog, he asks people to stop using the software until a security review can be carried out – although it is hard to see how that would differ from Appelbaum's review.Previously on his blog,respondingto Morozov, he wrote: "We don't *ever* want to put anyone at risk. The last thing I want is blood on our hands."Claims made by Heap in March that roughly 5,000 people were using the service in Iran have not been backed up by evidence; a report in the Financial Times suggests that only a few dozen Iranians were using it.Morozov, writing at the online magazine Slate, says: "I don't think that Heap's deceptive advertising and the media's poor watchdogging are the main culprits here. What made Haystack possible was the US government's urge to embrace the power of the internet to democratize the world –and to do so as fast as possible, without first designing appropriate procedures and regulations to guide its digital operations."
Released today, PlayStation Move is Sony's attempt to wrestle motion control fans away from Nintendo's Wii console. Featuring pinpoint accuracy and a range of interesting games, it presents something of a experiential mid-point between the basic motion fun of the Wii and the hands-free futurism of the Microsoft Kinect.Here's everything you need to know before rushing out and buying one...The technologyPlayStation Move is a motion control system for the PS3. Users can interact with compatible games simply by wafting around the Move controller, which resembles a microphone with a glowing sphere at the top. To use the device, you'll also need a PlayStation Eye camera, which sits near your TV. The camera accurately tracks the movement of the glowing sphere in 3D space, translating your extravagant gestures into onscreen action. The Move controller also boasts an accelerometer and a gyrometer to sense motion on three axes, so it'll know when you tilt or rotate the device.Onboard the controller, you'll find the square, circle, triangle and cross buttons from a standard PlayStation joypad, as well as a larger Move button and a trigger. The device is wireless of course, and some games will allow you to wield two at the same time – handy for boxing sims. Impressively, the glowing ball, which is powered by a full colour 24bit RGB LED, can change colours – this can either be used to show different game states (it might glow red if your character is injured, for example) or for the camera to differentiate between different controllers if you're playing with a friend. The device also has vibration feedback, so it'll rumble in time to game events.And that's not all. Users can buy an extra 'navigation controller', which offers a d-pad, an analogue stick, and two shoulder buttons. It resembles the Wii's Nunchuk, and when held in your left hand, adds extra input possibilities for Move games. You can get by using a standard Dualshock controller though, so this isn't a necessary purchase. Shooting fans can also purchase a gun attachment, which turns the Move controller into a sidearm – perfect for titles like Killzone 3 and SOCOM 4.Both the motion controller and the navigation controller feature rechargeable Li-ion batteries and can be charged by your PS3 via a USB cable.The priceSony has put together a PlayStation Move starter pack, which comes with a Move controller, a PlayStation Eye camera and a demo disc featuring exerts from several compatible games. It retails at £49.99, but doesn't come with a navigation controller. Alternatively you can buy all the components separately. The Move controller is £34.99, the navigation controller is £24.99 and the PlayStation Eye is £24.99.The launch titlesHere are the games you'll be able to buy with the Move controller from today. Most of these are only £25 each, showing Sony's determination to compete in the more price-competitive family market.Start The Party!These 'augmented reality' party games use the PlayStation Eye camera to place you and up to three friends on your TV screen. There, you'll be swotting virtual flies, creating hairstyles, painting pictures and lots of other daft challenges. There's a good selection of mini-challenges on here, and they provide a decent introduction to the technology, but this is one for kids and veeery casual gamers only.Sports ChampionsThis one tends to be billed as Move's answer to Wii Sports – by people who haven't played it. Yes, it's a collection of sport events, but the likes of archery, bocce (boules) and beach volleyball are very different from Nintendo's selection, and several of the events allow you to use to Move controllers at once for even more physical fun. "Definitely the standout launch title," says Joel Gregory of the Official PlayStation Magazine. "The six different activities range from the everyday – such as table tennis – to slightly less run of the mill competitions like gladiatorial battles. They're all well implemented and a definite step-up in motion control gaming, plus you can live out all of your beach volleyball fantasies. No, notthoseones…"Kung Fu RiderSony Japan's freaky concept should have been the best game in the line-up – but it's not. You play Tobio, an office worker who must escape Triad gangsters by riding an office chair through the streets and alleyways of Hong Kong. Sounds fun but the unintuitive controls, which involve thrusting, shaking and swiping the controller – often simultenously – sap much of the fun out of it.RUSEUbisoft's excellent real-time strategy title lets users order their units around with great wafts of the controller. It feels so much more dictatorial than jabbing at buttons. You can read our reviewhere.Games being patched with Move compatibilitySony has revealed that several popular PS3 titles are to receive free downloads that update them for Move compatibility. The company also says that dozens more titles will get the same treatment in the near-future. For now, here are some standout examples:EyePetSony is releasing a special Move edition of its cute and technically rather amazing pet sim, which uses the PlayStation Eye camera to put your virtual critter into your room. But if you already own the original, you can get the Move download for nothing.Heavy RainThere's a new Move version of this brilliantly atmospheric serial killer drama lined up to hit shop shelves on October 8 – it'll use the motion controller to carry out the game's action sequences rather than the joypad buttons. And as with EyePet, PS3 owners who have the original game will be able to download the Move patch for nowt.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11Naturally, EA Sports' golf sim lets you use the Move controller to take your swings, but reviewers have pointed out that it doesn't let you add any subtle nuances like draw and fade to your game.Resident Evil 5: Gold EditionThe extended Gold version of Capcom's Africa-based zombie-thon will allow gamers to take on the undead using a combination of the Move controller and the navigation consoler – just like the Wii Remote and nunchuk combo that made the masterful Resident Evil 4 so much fun on Wii.PSN titles with Move compatibilityDevelopers of downloadable titles are also getting in on the Move action. It's pretty rudimentary stuff so far, but the sort of indie studios currently concentrating on digitally distributed games may well end up doing more imaginative things with the technology than the larger more well-established companies. Here are a few current and forthcoming titles…TumbleThis interesting puzzler from UK studio Supermassive Games (also responsible for Start The Party!), requires you to build towers out of differently shaped blocks, using the Move controller to pick them up and carefully place them. It's an impressive implementation of the core technology – plus, the game also supports 3D for an even more immersive challenge. According to Joel, this is another favourite in the Official PlayStation Magazine office: "What could've been little more than a hugely impressive tech demo has been turned into a virtual quasi-Jenga game that alternates between being pleasantly relaxing and totally infuriating. No other title showcases the precision of the tech as well, and the multiplayer quickly gets more competitive than you'd expect."Hustle KingsThe wonderfully authentic pool sim from indie team VooFoo Studios now offers Move support, allowing players to take shots with the motion controller. As close as you can get to playing on a real table without actually being able to balance a pint on the side.Planet MinigolfAs an interesting antidote to the disappointing Tiger Woods implementation, this crazy golf sim by Budapest-based ZEN studios, already offers a patch for Move support.Plain SightBeatnik Games' frenzied multiplayer sci-fi robot explode-'em-up is on its way to PSN soon, and it'll boast Move support. A critically acclaimed indie release on PC, this should be a massive hit on PlayStation 3.Eight key Move-compatible titles due out after launchSome of the forthcoming Move titles that we're looking forward too...Killzone 3The latest gritty futuristic shoot-out from Dutch developer Guerrilla is getting Move support.According to CVG, the Move controller handles your aiming, and you need to point it off screen to move your view around.Here'sa video of it being demonstrated at gamescom. Killzone is due out in February.Virtua Tennis 4The latest instalment in Sega's tennis odyessy, allows you to use the Move as a racket, employing its rotational-sensing abilities to pull off spin shots.We played it last weekand it's looking glorious. It's out next year.SOCOM 4: U.S. Navy SEALsThe long-running tactical shooter series returns with your spec ops unit investigating the slaughter of a NATO squad in Southeast Asia. The Move and navigation controllers can be moved to aim and shoot your guns. This is the Move title that's really got game journalists excited… It's due out early next year.The Fight: Lights OutA gritty, underground boxing sim, with lots of nasty-looking men going at each other in dingy car parks. Players can use two Move controllers, one in each fist, to pull off a range of jabs, uppercuts and haymakers.Here'sa demo from gamescom.The ShootEvery motion controller needs a decent on-rails shooter and this is Move's. Developer by Dundee studio Cohort Studios, it has you blasting your way through a series of movie sets featuring sci-fi, horror and western environments.According to Kotaku, you can roll the controller to strafe, and point it off screen to access special moves. There's a demohere.TV SuperstarsHmm, this could turn out to be a guilty pleasure… TV Superstars is a 'reality TV' sim, which uses the PlayStation Eye camera to put your face on the screen and amid the action. The aim is to become the biggest celebrity in your family. It's from Sony's talented Cambridge studio and you can see the designers introducing the concepthere. It's coming out early next year.LittleBigPlanet 2The sequel to the critically acclaimed create-it-yourself platformer will feature Move support but only in a selection of specific mini-games. It's possible, however, that more in-depth Move functionality will be added later, perhaps allowing you to place objects in your own levels using movement controls. IGN has a demo of the current Move stuff in actionhere.Time Crisis: Razing StormNamco's classic on-rails shooter returns, this time with an elite task force taking on terrorists in South America. Fans can select to use either Namco's own Guncon 3 controller or the Move. It's out this autumn.Any questions?If there's anything you want to know about Move that isn't covered here, stick a question in the comments below and we'll start an FAQ section.
When Sony's Move motion-sensing input system was unveiled, it attracted a certain amount of derision – it was accused of being a pale rip-off of the Wii remote, and of being clunky in comparison with Microsoft's high-tech Kinect. Which just goes to show how first impressions can be misleading.It's true that technologically speaking, Move is about as sexy as Norah Batty's wrinkly stockings, but astoundingly, it makes much more sense as a purchase than Kinect. The main reason is that it actually works, whereas Microsoft's attempts to keep Kinect's price down means that it suffers terribly from terminal lag between your gestures and its response.Move, by contrast, just works – and does so brilliantly. It's lag-free and impressively accurate, able to detect the subtlest movements. The way it achieves that is through using tried and trusted (not to mention cheap-to-manufacture) technology. The ice-cream-cone-shaped handset has similar motion-sensing abilities to the Wii Motion Plus, but the glowing ball on the end adds another dimension, as its movement is sensed by the PlayStation Eye camera so, unlike the Wii Remote, it can work out how far it is from your TV screen.If you already own a PlayStation Eye camera, you only need to buy one of the Move controllers (£34.99) to get up and running; you can also get a bundle of controller, camera and demos of various launch games for £49.99. Plus, there's another component, called the Move navigation controller (£24.99), which is essentially a wireless version of the Wii's nunchuk – a small cylinder you hold in your weaker hand with, crucially, a joystick (plus, like the Move controller, most of the buttons you find on the PS3's joypad).Thus, as the portfolio of games which support it grows, you will be able to build up a full Move system over a period of time, and without lashing out sums of money which are too frightening (Kinect will cost an eye-popping £129.99). The Move navigation controller is a more crucial piece of kit than it might at first seem, as it gives the system something that Kinect simply can't: the ability to run proper, grown-up, hardcore games. We've already played Socom: Special Forces on it, and it works a treat, handling the movement and such things as taking cover and throwing grenades, while you point your weapon using the Move controller. Already, it has been confirmed that you will be able to play Killzone 3 and Resident Evil 5: Gold Edition using Move; the latter is a particularly delicious prospect.The initial crop of launch games for Move is less than convincing. Sports Champions is more or less Wii Sports with better graphics and extra precision – the table tennis and archery games are great, but the others range from average to dodgy. Start the Party! (as the exclamation mark suggests) is sub-Wii dross of interest only to excitable pre-teens, and Kung Fu Rider is tediously basic. Eye Pet is an interesting curiosity, although the original was almost as playable without a Move controller.Much more interesting are the patches emerging that let you play existing games with Move. Top of the list is Heavy Rain – a free downloadable patch will be available in October and, given that the ambitions of Heavy Rain's control system overreached its execution, plus the game's multiple-ending replayability, this could constitute the first irresistible reason for buying a Move. A Move patch is also available for Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11, and the upcoming John Daly's Pro Stroke Golf will support the system from launch. Veteran Sony-lovers will derive excitement from the prospect of a new Time Crisis game (due in October) for the system, and The Shoot offers similar on-rails shooting. For those who idolise shows like The X Factor, TV Superstars offers a means of living out such fantasies – whether or not its truly astonishing level of campness makes up for its excruciating gameplay will be a matter of taste.Move, then, may superficially appear to be a derivative system using unremarkable technology that, at launch, lacks a killer app, but in action, it proves to be surprisingly compelling. Its ability to add an extra dimension to non-casual games means that it possesses more than mere novelty value, and should make it a slow-burning success story.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Facebook Places, the location-sharing service launched in the US last month, is now available in the UK.Some UK users of the Facebook iPhone application found they could check-in using the then-unreleased Places earlier this month, but the Cupertino-based company denied it had been testing services this side of the Atlantic.The UK becomes the fourth territory where Facebook Places is available to users, it launched in Japan earlier this week after the initial announcement in the US.A European launch is imminent, but such a move in Germany would add to growing concerns over technology and the infringement of privacy in the country. Data protection authorities in Hamburg are locked in talks with Google over its Street View mapping service, the California-based company looking to upload images of 20 cities in the country by the end of this year.Although the service is operated on an opt-out basis unlike most of the features on Facebook Places, Google has said it will not publish images of properties where a member of the public has made such a request as it looks to placate a particularly hostile reaction in the country.Michael Sharon, product manager for Facebook Places, said there were three goals behind its new location-sharing service: to makeit easier to share where you are, discover new places and discover new friends.On the privacy settings in place, Sharon said: "We wanted to prepare a robust set of privacy controls. I'm really proud of what we've done with the Places privacy settings because they are unprecedented in the industry at this moment in time."We think Here Now is a fantastic feature. It's a great way to meet new interesting people, but we also know some people wouldn't like to use the feature – they just want to share with friends or friends of friends – so we took care to turn it on for only some people."Some people explicitly let us know that they just want to share with a certain group so we changed the settings from the default for them – of course they can opt back in at a later time."Sharon confirmed that a wider European rollout would be imminent, saying: "We want users to have best experience possible in every country that we are in, so we hope to bring it to wider Europe in the near future."People are [sharing their location on Facebook] already, people are already saying on Facebook, 'I'm here' – this formalises it, it let's them have a structured way of sharing. This is really the beginning in terms of how we start to weave location into out everyday lives."We think the tagging feature is one of the most powerful and interesting. For minors [aged 13-17], we made sure to restrict visibility of tags just to friends [and friends of friends] only, no matter what the minor chooses to do. If you're a minor and go to privacy control and set it to everyone, even though it will say everyone it won't show for anyone but your friends."Tony Dyhouse, cyber security director of the UK Digital Systems Knowledge Transfer Network, issued a use-with-care warning to users of applications like Facebook Places: "Location based services have done a lot to improve our lives but people need to treat applications like Facebook Places with care. It's important to realise what criminals can glean from where you are not, i.e. at home."The criminal fraternity can quite easily build up a profile that includes your address, if they then have confirmation you are not at home, it can be dangerous. My main concern here is that the default setting for the location application will be 'on' – people need to be aware of the potential privacy risks associated with this."Earlier this week media reports linked a spree of burglaries in the US to Facebook Places, claiming the suspects had seen that homeowners were out and trying their luck. However, journalism professor and Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis quicklypointed out:"One or two of the suspects were Facebook friends with the respective homeowners. They basically had access to the walls and could read that the families were away on vacation. The information was only available to friends and the Facebook Places feature was NOT a part of this."A survey of 1,184 British Foursquare users commissioned by MyVoucherCodes.co.uk showed that most (82% in this case) would ditch the check-in service once Facebook places launches in the UK. The juggernaut-like momentum of Facebook could be cause for concern for lesser-known location-sharing services like Foursquare and Gowalla, with 74% of respondents saying they'd be happier using Places as more of their friends were likely to also be using it.Facebook's larger user base – it has more than half-a-billion active users worldwide – will also attract the attention of advertisers looking to connect the virtual and physical worlds. In the UK, Domino's Pizza has a Foursquare campaign offering incentives to users who regularly attend its physical stores.But Facebook, still a privately-held company valued at more than $33bn, is in no hurry to risk sacrificing adoption for commercialisation. Its primary aim is to tap into the increasingly lucrative social gaming industry, betting that swathes of "late adopters" will follow the dedicated group sharing their location on a daily basis."I think that crossing the chasm from the early adopter segment of oversharers, over to the more reticent mainstream, is not something that will happen right away," says Ray Valdes, a senior analyst at research firm Gartner. "The mainstream will absorb geotagging habits only by osmosis over time."According to a recent study by communications regulator Ofcom, 45% of web browsing time on UK mobiles is spent on Facebook.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntel AppUp is Up, but underwhelming &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingWhat if they gave an app store, and nobody had bothered to populate it? "Intel has launched AppUp, its application store for Windows and Moblin/MeeGo Linux...Who knows, AppUp may have a bright future, but Intel could have done better with the launch. Three is a poor selection of apps, confusing Moblin/MeeGo branding, and out of date information on the site. Of these, the biggest problem is the lack of apps themselves. The main target is netbooks, and Intel will need a greatly improved selection before AppUp comes close to enhancing netbooks in the way that Apple's App Store enhances iPhone, iPad and iTouch, which is the obvious model."HTC to offer Android 3.0 tablet PC in 1Q11, say Taiwan component makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe article begins: "HTC plans to launch a tablet PC, possibly equipped with Android 3, in the first quarter of 2011, according to Taiwan-based component makers." Note the diference between headline and first sentence.Government Departments: Computer Software &gt;&gt; Written answers, House of CommonsFrancis Maude, Cabinet Office: "The Cabinet Office along with the Office of Government Commerce are working on "Guidance for Procurers" specifically covering open source software. A key principle is that Government will actively and fairly consider open source solutions alongside proprietary ones in making procurement decisions."Procurement decisions will be made on the basis of the best value for money solution to the business requirement, taking account of total cost of ownership of the solution."Where there is no significant overall cost difference between open and non-open source products, open source will be selected on the basis of its additional inherent flexibility."Police spent tens of thousands on failed BitTorrent probe &gt;&gt; The Register"A failed three-year police investigation of a filesharing website, run in cooperation with the music industry, cost taxpayers at least £29,000, and probably much more."Figures released by Cleveland Police detail some costs of Operation Ark Royal, a raid on invitation-only BitTorrent site OiNK.cd."Halo: Reach makes $200m in one day &gt;&gt; The Guardian"The title, exclusively available on the Xbox 360 console, beat the three-day opening weekends of blockbusting movies like Iron Man 2 and Toy Story 3, making it the biggest entertainment release of the year so far."Malicious Search Suggestions with Google Instant &gt;&gt; PandaLabs Blog"If you've followed our blog in the past, then you know that Google hasn't done a great job in mitigating Blackhat SEO threats, which have plagued search results for years.  As a test, I thought I'd search for "antivirus" and see what suggestions came up. Lo and behold, Antivir Solution Pro, a well known Rogueware infection was amongst the suggested search terms."Nokia Is the McDonald's of Phones &gt;&gt; GizmodoBrian Barrett allows for all of Nokia's sales and strengths, but points to the weaknesses and threats: "The innovation race is one that Nokia's losing, badly. And the sad part is, there's no indication that they're about to claw out of the hole they've dug themselves. Reading Nokia's official statements these last few months about the N8, the company sounds like a degenerate gambler just waiting for this one big score to get him back in the game. Every financial release sites its imminent release as the light at the end of a very long tunnel. But—in a clumsy metaphorical extension—it's just more tunnel."Nokia still has a place in the mobile world. A huge one. But it's more 7/11 than Whole Foods, more DSW than Saks. And there's nothing wrong with that! Until they either embrace it or radically change course, though, this spiral downward only gets worse."HTML5 Readiness &gt;&gt; Paul Irish/Divya ManianComparing the HTML5 and CSS3 compatibility of all the newer browsers - including IE9. Needs a CSS3-capable browser for best effect.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The rapid proliferation of military drone planes and armed robots should be subject to international legal controls, conferences in London and Berlin will argue this month.Public awareness of attacks by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), such as Reapers and Predators, in Afghanistan and Pakistan has grown but less is known of the evolution of unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs).Two conferences – Drone Wars in London on 18 September and a three-day workshop organised by theInternational Committee for Robot Arms Control(ICRAC) in Berlin on 20-22 September – will hear calls for bans and for tighter regulation under international arms treaties.British academics and policy experts, Red Cross representatives, peace activists, military advisers, human rights lawyers and those opposed to the arms trade are participating in the German meeting.Prominent among them is Noel Sharkey, professor of robotics and artificial intelligence at Sheffield University and a judge on the BBC series Robot Wars, who is speaking at both gatherings.The development of what is known as "autonomous targeting" – where unmanned planes and military ground vehicles are engineered to lock automatically on to what their onboard computers assume is the enemy – has heightened concern.Research is under way at enabling UAVs and UGVs to work in collaborative swarms, ensuring each machine selects a different target. This has reinforced fears that UAV strikes along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border and in the Horn of Africa – or wherever future wars are fought – will increase death tolls.RAF pilots already operate armed drones from Creech US air force base in the Nevada desert. Eight thousand miles away from the frontline they control the release of Hellfire missiles and Paveway bombs against Taliban targets.Through a freedom of information request submitted to the Ministry of Defence, the Oxford-basedFellowship of Reconciliation– the group organising the Drone Wars conference – found that as of April this year RAF-controlled Reapers had opened fire on 84 occasions so far this year.Defence equipment manufacturers insist that there is always "a man in the [control] loop" to authorise operations and that they are far less indiscriminate than the high level air force saturation bombing that occurred in the second world war. Since there is no onboard pilot at risk, so the argument goes, they do not always have to fire first.Critics highlight the number of civilian casualties in supposedly "surgical strike" raids, allege that reliance on remote screens may induce a dehumanising electronic games mentality in operators, and fear that such clandestine missions could lower the threshold for war – for example in Yemen and Somalia where the US is not involved in any formal conflict.Philip Alston, a UN human rights special rapporteur, warned last autumn that US use of drones to kill militants in Afghanistan and Pakistan may violate international law. He called on the US to explain the legal basis for killing individuals with its drones."More than 40 countries have robotic programmes now," said Sharkey. "Even Iran has launched a UAV bomber with a range of several hundred miles."These [robotic] systems are difficult to develop but easy to copy. In the states a large proportion of robot making is being moved to Michigan to compensate for the decline in the car industry."Increasingly [the manufacturers] are talking about the 'man on the loop', where one person can control a swarm of robots. Our biggest concern for the future is autonomous systems that [select] targets themselves."For many scientists the future potential is most alarming. David Webb, a professor of engineering at Leeds Metropolitan University, vice-chair of CND and an expert on the militarisation of space, will address the Drone Wars conference in London. "We are only just starting to become aware of the wider issues," he said. "Robots are [being developed] to make some decisions for themselves. If they kill somebody by mistake do you put the robot on trial? The idea of having networked UAVs that work in swarms and could be armed has all sorts of implications."Dr Steve Wright, a reader in applied global ethics also at Leeds Metropolitan University who will speak at an ICRAC workshop on the dangers of terrorists obtaining drones, said: "We need a new treaty to limit proliferation. All the arms fairs now are selling UAVs. It's naive to think they will remain in the hands of governments."The Ministry of Defence has defended the use of RAF-controlled UAVs in Afghanistan. An MOD spokesperson said: "The rules of engagement used for Reaper weapon releases are the same as those used for manned combat aircraft: the weapons are all precision guided and every effort is made to ensure the risk of collateral damage and civilian casualties is minimised. This may include deciding not to release a weapon."
Launched on Tuesday to an overwhelmingly (though, ahem,not universally) positive critical reception, epic first-person shooter Halo: Reach has made a staggering $200m (£128m) in its first day on sale.The title, exclusively available on the Xbox 360 console, beat the three-day opening weekends of blockbusting movies like Iron Man 2 and Toy Story 3, making it the biggest entertainment release of the year so far. In the UK, the title shifted 330,000 copies in the opening 24 hours with dozens of stores opening at midnight to allow Halo fans an early taste of operatic sci-fi action.It'll be interesting to see if Activision can eclipse this extraordinary figure with the much-anticipated release of Call of Duty: Black Ops on 9 November. That title will be the first in the CoD series since the gigantically successful Modern Warfare 2 – and it's on multiple platforms.Whatever the case, it's good news for the beliguired UK games industry which has seengames sales dropping to pre-Wii levels. It's also a nice little publicity coup for Microsoft  in the week that Sony launches its PlayStation Move controller.
Taking the profile pages of more than 1 million Twitter users,ColourLovershasmappedthe colour of our online social sphere – and it turns out most folk aren't that creative.Most Twitter users – who customised their profile page usingThemeleon– in every US state but one (Wyoming) chose their profile colour scheme to match that of the sky blue Twitter logo.ColourLovers also did a little digging into the Twitter biographies of said Twitter users. Clever hackers, it turns out, are among esteemed company – bloggers and, er, Pepsi – when it comes to an affinity with the colour blue. Fanatics love grey (whodathunkit?), felons – criminals to you and I – prefer an ephemeral bluey-grey profile (akin to the cloudy sky they don't get to see too much of when in the slammer, presumably) and strippers love the pink:Those hackers love electric (?) blue, apparently.
What's the first thing you do with a new Windows PC? Chances are you'll download a new browser. Chrome, Firefox, Flock … anything but Internet Explorer. However, Microsoft has just unleashed the beta version of IE9, which could make you change your mind about browsers.First, however, you have to get past the install process, which is longer and more tiresome than it ought to be. The 64-bit version toddles off and looks for updates, then forces a reboot once it's installed.However, once up and running, what's immediately obvious is its pared-down look. It's very minimalist: the box is both the address bar and the search box. The default is of course Bing, but you can change that. Next to that are tabs; to the far right of the screen are discreet icons for your home page, your favourites (not everyone is going to like that being moved to the other side of the screen) and your tools. And that's it. What you get instead of toolbars, add-ons, buttons and sidebars is just acres of screen real estate. Perhaps a little too much on a wide, high-res screen as many websites are designed as though they're going to fit on a sheet of A4 paper, though generally the sense is of the browser fading into the background and putting the website centre stage.Customisation freaks will feel bereft as there's no skinning – instead the back button adopts the underlying style sheet of the website you're visiting, and the bar at the top renders in Aero glass. Oh, and there's the rub: this is only for users of recent Microsoft operating systems: Vista SP2 and Windows 7. No XP, and certainly no other operating systems.But the point is that it's designed to take advantage of modern hardware. Instead of calling on your CPU for processing, IE9 diverts the grunt work to your graphics processing unit (GPU), which means that graphics can be rich and fast. Do a side by side test with your current choice of browser and IE9 of the FishIE Tank athttp://ie.microsoft.com/testdrive/and see the difference hardware acceleration makes to rendering the fish.The whole thing feels fast - the browser is focused on standards and compliance, which makes sites built in HTML5 a pleasure to use. In fact, what this does is in effect turn websites into apps: the IE9-optimised version ofAmazon.com, for example, which looks rather like the iPad bookshelf app, means you can pick books off the shelves, flip through them and order them via a whizzy, interactive process.You can pin websites as apps in your taskbarAnd if you drag the favicon from the IE9 box down to your taskbar, you can launch the site direct from that – just like an app, though how much use I'll make of that remains to be seen as those buttons could fill up the taskbar rather quickly. Developers can code the jumplist –the  list of options that pops out from a button on the taskbar when you right-click it - making websites feel even more like apps.Under the hood, Microsoft says it's safer than other browsers. Using the same engine as its Security Essentials antimalware package, the browser checks websites and downloads and warns you if an app you're downloading isn't signed or a site is dodgy.Privacy is also at the fore in this version of IE. You can block elements of web pages – such as those that gather browsing metrics, though you have to do so on a site-by-site basis. However, you can't use that to block ads, and at present there isn't a dedicated ad-blocking add-on, which might be a dealbreaker for some.As more websites build content that takes advantage of IE9, the benefits of it will become clearer. For now, this is a good beta: it's stable, clean and fast and integrates well with the operating system. It could mean that downloading a new browser is no longer the first thing you do with a new computer.Pros:Very clean UI; ability to pin websites to the taskbar, safe browsing, standards-focusedCons:Slow install, forces a reboot, the minimalist layout might not be to everyone's taste.http://beautyoftheweb.co.uk/
Like many of your loyal readers, I frequently use public Wi-Fi places like coffee shops. I would appreciate some tips on how to improve my computer's security under this circumstance.Dr David NullWi-Fi hotspots are often unprotected and unencrypted, with users doing their email and surfing the web in plain text. Anyone nearby can pick up the same radio signals and read them. Often this doesn't matter, but in general, it's best to avoid using public networks for banking and shopping. Note that sharing a public network can also provide access to your PC, so you must run a firewall and perhaps disable file and printer sharing in Windows. In Windows 7 and Vista, you can choose the park bench icon for an untrusted Public Network and not a Home or Work network. Microsoft has an advice page,7 tips for working securely from wireless hotspots, with other details.Some web pages, such as log-on pages, need better security, and these often use SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) connections. You can tell when you're using SSL because the page address starts with https:// instead of http://, and the browser will show a lock icon in the bottom right-hand corner. However, some sites that use SSL to protect log-in details then switch to plain text for normal surfing.Most people use either WEP or, preferably, WPA on their home Wi-Fi network, which means their communications are already encrypted. Large companies often provide mobile users with VPN (virtual private network) connections, so that everything is encrypted even if they use unsecured Wi-Fi hotspots. One alternative for the rest of us is to use a public VPN such as AchorFree's ad-supportedHotSpot Shieldwhich, in effect, sets up a VPN between your PC and AchorFree's server. Alternatives includeHotSpotVPN.comandWiTopia.A very similar alternative is to use an anonymous surfing service such asMegaproxy(mentioned here previously), which uses a "proxy server" to access the internet on your behalf. Because the communications between your PC and the proxy server are encrypted (essentially a VPN), you can access sites that might be banned locally. This is particularly useful in areas where the internet is censored, such as China. However, the encryption that provides anonymity also protects you from local snooping in Wi-Fi hotspots.Anonymous surfing services make you appear to be surfing from a different country: the one where the proxy server is located. This is handy for accessing sites that block overseas users. However, free services can limit access to things you might want, such as streaming video or Skype, and add things you don't want, such as advertising banners. Even with paid-for proxy suppliers, the terms of service will usually forbid access to pornographic and other undesirable sites. (The hotspot provider can't read your data, but whoever is running the anonymous service is usually logging the sites you access.)The Free Countryhas a list of some anonymous surfing services. You can also read the reviews and comments at the Gizmo Freeware page,Best Free Anonymous Surfing Service.Another thing to watch out for when using a public Wi-Fi hotspot is the rogue or"evil twin" network, which is essentially a phishing scam. Users with a range of open Wi-Fi networks to choose from may be lured to pick one with a familiar sounding name, but it's a fake used to collect log-in names and passwords. I'm not sure how much of a threat this is, but it can be worth checking the exact name of a hotel, coffee bar or airport network before you log on.Finally, watch out for physical risks. If you're using a public hotspot, someone may be literally looking over your shoulder and able to read anything on the screen. And if you leave your laptop unattended, someone might steal it. Either limit the amount of personal data you carry around or make sure it's password-protected and properly backed up. Losing an unprotected laptop could well be more serious than being snooped on at a Wi-Fi hotspot.
Yes, it's all CGI but the 7 minute trailer for Final Fantasy XIV does look rather special. Will the game itself match up? PS3 owners can find out soon.  What do you think?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Alice Cooper's Billion Dollar Babies tour, 1973. Photo byHunter-Desporteson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat Is Microsoft's Next Billion-Dollar Business? &gt;&gt; Redmondmag.comThink big.Digital Agencies of the Future &gt;&gt; NarrowdesignAd agencies' sites, as viewed on an iPhone. Don Draper never had this problem.Apple's AirPrint Wireless Printing for iPad, iPhone &amp; iPod touch Coming to Users in November &gt;&gt; Apple"AirPrint automatically finds printers on local networks and can print text, photos and graphics to them wirelessly over Wi-Fi without the need to install drivers or download software. HP's existing and upcoming ePrint enabled printers will be the first to support printing direct from iOS devices." I had been wondering what had happened to HP's "cloud" printers. Now we know.T-Mobile US to Implement a Twitter Tax on Texts? &gt;&gt; Gigaom"Beginning Oct. 1, the carrier reportedly will charge a toll of one-quarter of one cent to businesses for every SMS delivered to its customers. That's right, the Twitters of the world could soon have to pay to send your texts."The move mirrors a similar — but much more costly — effort from Verizon Wireless two years ago. In 2008, Verizon told its business partners it would begin charging three cents per text alert, but abandoned the plan after tremendous backlash from text companies that resulted in coverage in mainstream media outlets such as the New York Times." Worth recalling that Sir Tim Berners-Lee said on Wednesday that SMS is "the most expensive way of sending bits there is". Soon to be even more expensive.Large collection of stolen Facebook logins go public &gt;&gt; Sunbelt blog"&#10;While we can't confirm these logins were obtained via the FarmVille phish (that seems a little too crude to be grabbing this many username / password combinations), there's a good chance that many of the users on the list use the same passwords for their email accounts as their Facebook login. We have everything from Yahoo and GMail to Hotmail and AIM on there – not great in terms of the amount of personal data that might be accessible." Do you use the same password on all those systems? if so, WHY?Microsoft's Surface tablet: Three years too late? &gt;&gt; ZDNet"I thinkMicrosoft and its partners aren't going to have any true slate contenders until mid-2011, at best, as I've said before. And even then, Apple, Google and their partners aren't going to be standing still waiting for Microsoft and its PC partners to come out withWindows Oak Trail slates which may or may not sport some kind of new user interfacecrafted by Microsoft to make them multi-touch-centric."Life After Comes With Music: Thoughts and Reflections Nokia's Music Product Strategy &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsMark Mulligan: "Nokia is of course most closely associated with the often criticized Comes With Music. The service certainly hasn't exactly been a rip roaring success in Western markets but it is getting some significant traction in emerging markets.  And I'm still convinced the model can be a crucial element of digital music revenues in the future."Dell's Atom-powered Inspiron Duo: 10-inch netbook / tablet hybrid with a crazy swivel &gt;&gt; EngadgetFrom the looks of it, modelled on a deckchair.Good News, Lesbians — Google Instant May Soon Suggest You! &gt;&gt; SearchEngineLandGoogle says it's just a bug. Uh-huh. Nothing to do with all the pr0n results you get then?Biolab Disaster: an HTML5 game &gt;&gt; PhobosLab"Biolab Disaster was completely build for HTML5 – that is, JavaScript and the new Canvas and Audio elements. It doesn't need any Plugins, just a good browser. The game was initially conceived as a demo for my Impact Game Engine, but it became much more in the process.."Big Macs on campus - Apple 2.0 &gt;&gt; Fortune TechDell used to be the computer of choice for incoming US university students; not so now. "As Weil points out, Apple and Dell have switched positions in the college laptop market in the space of five years. In 2005, 47% of students buying laptops chose Dells. In 2010, 47% are choosing MacBooks."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
internet browser wars. Remember them? Microsoft does, as it won the biggest one a while back. But then it was overhauled - at least for features and standards compatibility - by Firefox. Which left it struggling a bit to win back the approval of those who choose their browser (as opposed to those who just use the default, or have their browser imposed on them by, say, their employer's IT team).So tonight Microsoft is rejoining the fray with anew beta of Internet Explorer 9.There's a lot to it, if you haven't played with it before.TechCrunch has asit-down interview with Dean Hachamovitch, Microsoft's general manager of IE9, which notes that it's a very "bare bones" browser: rather than (the usual Microsoft?) feature bloat, it tries to simplify the appearance. Not so many menubar items.It also lets yourun any page as an "app" in Windows 7(an idea that resembles Todd Ditchendorf'sFluidiumidea on Mac OSX - you save a web app as a desktop app).As Fast Company notes,"What are apps, other than tiny colorful icons that provide rich, interactive experiences on mobile devices? Think about your iPhone's New York Times or Facebook app. They don't feel like an installed program--they're much less clunky--nor a website, which is anything but native. Apps are some lighter in-between. Now Microsoft is trying to bring that same concept to Windows 7."And it supports HTML5 and CSS3 and SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics, one of the technologies that Sir Tim Berners-Lee said on Wednesday at Nokia World was a vital one for future development on multiple devices because, as the name implies, you write it at one size and it can be scaled bigger or, more likely, smaller).ComputerWorldnotesthat there has already been some sniping about speeds:"Internet Explorer 9 (IE9) will tap Windows Vista and Windows 7 PCs' graphics processors to speed up rendering, assembling and displaying a browser page. Microsoft has touted the technique, called "hardware acceleration," since it announced IE9 almost a year ago, and has been aggressively promoting the technology since last March, when it rolled out the first preview."Microsoft beat on the acceleration drum even harder last week, when Ted Johnson, the program manager lead responsible for the browser's graphics and rendering, boasted that IE9 was the only browser to use what he called "full hardware acceleration.""Which didn't go down too well: "Microsoft is wrong; we accelerate content and compositing," Mike Shaver, Mozilla's head of engineering told ComputerWorld.IE9 won't run on XP (which, according to NetApps, runs about two-thirds of Windows machines). It's not obvious whether there's a version for OSX coming; we'd guess not.Ed Bott, meanwhile, has along review of the betaat ZDNet - which is not what was released today; it's going to be another beta.Bott notes that "With Internet Explorer 9, Microsoft is trying to make the browser disappear." He makes the same point as Hachamovitch:"The most obvious difference is what you don't see on the screen. For starters, there's no branding beyond the logo on the Taskbar button—the familiar blue E. There's no text or logo in the title bar, nothing that screams or even whispers "Internet Explorer." Like Windows Explorer, the browser's primary role is to be a frame that hosts content as unobtrusively as possible."At the BBC, Rory Cellan-Joneshas been impressedby the hardware acceleration:"Speed is the first thing you notice. I was shown a demo in which the fish in an animated web aquarium swim around happily in Explorer 9, while struggling to move at all in the latest version of Google Chrome. Microsoft says this is all down to what it calls hardware acceleration - any site with graphics is sent to your computer's graphics processor, which previously has not been used by a browser. "Instead of using 10% of the power on your PC, we're now using 100%," says Leila Martine, who runs the Windows consumer business in the UK."There's an interesting quote after that."But the big claim is that this re-engineered browser finally brings a web experience which has been stuck in the past right up to date."""Over fifteen years the web has progressed," says Leila Martine, "but not to the same degree as other technologies." "Well, up to a point, Ms Martine. The web has progressed a hell of a lot - especially when you see how people are starting to build apps that are aimed across not just desktop machines but also mobile phones, using the latest HTML5 technologies (because those promise the lightest payload, which at a time when carriers are trying to squeeze you for every last drop matters when you're downloading them).The important question may not presently be just about the desktop version of IE9. It will be about the performance of IE9 on laptops where there isn't access to the same level of graphics processing unit (GPU) acceleration available; and also whether it is going to form the basis of the Windows Phone 7 browser. On that, it seems it won't: thesuggestion from back in Marchis that that is an "evolved" version of IE7 - two generations old.And IE7? That was first released in late 2006. Yes, we've shifted somewhat from the discussion of IE9 to mobile. But if people get very different browsing experiences between their Windows 7 machine and their Windows Phone 7, that can't be good, surely.We're interested, meanwhile, in your experiences of IE9. Have you tried it, and if so, what's it like?
The Daily Mail reported this week that a mother neglected her three children "because she was so obsessed with . . . the Small World game". Small World, the Mail stated, is an online boardgame, which can be played through Facebook and either with friends online, or alone.Almost all those statements are wrong. The neglectful mother wasn't playingSmall World – an engrossing family boardgame made by Days of Wonder. That game can't be played online and isn't on Facebook. Although the Mail has now taken down this story, Days of Wonder VP Mark Kaufmann told me that as of Tuesday they hadn't issued a retraction. The erroneous story has now spread across the internet.But the problem here isn't just a journalist making mistakes: it is that identifying the game in question is totally irrelevant. The story seemed, astonishingly, to blame gaming for a bereaved mother neglecting her children.Contrast this with the reporting on the horrific death by neglect of three-year-old Tiffany Wright. The adults who should have been caring for her spent their time running their pub instead, but no paper reported this story as "mother obsessed with business neglected child". The point is that they weren't caring for their child – it's irrelevant what they happened to be doing instead of remembering to feed and clothe her.Gaming is our cultural bogeyman – we blame it for everything from child obesity to violence to short attention spans. But any explanation that fits every situation ultimately explains nothing. Whatever the problem was in this home, whether bereavement-induced depression, or a failure of personal responsibility, excessive gaming was the symptom, not the disease.
The September issue of Vogue will never be the same again.Traditionally the biggest of the year, and as hefty as a brick, in future the magazine is likely to be a waif-like half-inch thick, no matter how much advertising is packed between its glossy pages. Welcome to the iPad edition, publishing's equivalent of a size zero.Publisher Conde Nast announced today  it would launch iPad applications for the fashion bible beginning with the December issue, out next month. It will also launch an iPad app for the December issue of Wired, the technology magazine. The company has already launched a number of iPad apps for titles in the US, but this will be its first move in Britain.The apps will be priced at virtually the same as the print editions, at £3.99, compared to £4 for the physical edition of Wired and £4.10 for Vogue. The app is priced for a single edition, which means regular buyers would need to pay £3.99 each month.At a presentation on the publisher's digital strategy, Nicholas Coleridge, managing director of Conde Nast in the UK, said he saw no reason to discount electronic editions. "We don't want to get into selling our content cheaper on the internet," he said.He forecast that as much as 40% of the publisher's sales could come from apps for Apple's iPad and similar devices within 15 years. The company also publishes titles including GQ, Vanity Fair and Glamour.Last month the iPad was described by Rupert Murdoch as a "game changer" for news media.He predicted that "hundreds and hundreds of millions" of similar tablet computers will eventually be sold around the world.Albert Read, general manager at Conde Nast, was equally lavish in his praise, saying the iPad's arrival "marks a significant shift" for the publishing industry. "We have arrived at a point where magazine publishers have before them what they have long dreamt of – an opportunity to transfer the magazine qualities of deep immersion, high resolution images, long form journalism and storytelling to a digital format," he said.Advertisers appearing in the print editions of the two magazines will appear automatically on the iPad app. There will be a chance to include a link to advertisers' sites and a limited number will be offered the chance to augment their advertising, whether with video, slideshows or other media.Wired has one of the most natural constituencies for an iPad app of any magazine; Conde Nast claims that 18% of its readers, a circulation of 50,000, already own a device.Conde Nast launched its first iPhone apps in Britain in July, with the Conde Nast Traveller City Guides. The guides for Rome, New York, Barcelona and Paris are updated free of charge quarterly and include insider guides, restaurant reviews and a function to call and make a reservation, as well as GPS to get you to the door. The publisher is developing iPhone apps for GQ and Brides, which will be launched at the end of the year.
You may have heard that Steve Jobs is a ninja.No?Yes, the fabulous rumour that has been circulating - and I can't think why it hasn't immediately been dissected byLost In Showbiz- is that Jobs was stopped at a Japanese airport and told that he couldn't take his ninja throwing stars on board his private jet.SPA! magazinereported(possibly a better verb would be something more like "writted") it, and then Bloomberg, which is never going to let the chance slip to see what effect a crazy story might have on a company's stock price,reported the report.To which Apple, sighing and rolling its eyes, said that while Jobsdidvisit Kyoto in July, "the incidents described at the airport at pure fiction".No matter! That hardworking team at Next Media Animation (whose slogan should be "no story's so weird that we can't make it even weirder with our strange avatars"), has pitched in with its own video. Or, as John Paczkowski puts it so perfectly over at AllThingsD, "Shurikens on a plane!"(Certainly, Jobs would be up to the linguistic demands of such a film.)Of course this does raise the point that (1) Apple didn't actuallydenythat Jobs is a ninja - bit of wiggle room there. Or perhaps he does have the ninja stars, but he wasn't stopped. Ah-ha!We also wonder what Apple-made ninja stars would look like. Fewer points? Really, really shiny? Made of super-sharp eternium steel?
Mobile operators and internet service providers must not be allowed to break the principle of "net neutrality" – that there should be no favouritism for connecting to certain sites online – Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, warned today.He also said that low-cost mobile phones with a data connection were essential to ensure that the 80% of people who are not yet connected to the web could benefit from its ability to bring new information.Berners-Lee suggested that concerns over privacy and the sharing of personal data will mean that businesses will have to improve their ability to segment the use of user-specific data such as addresses and where people are using their phones.On net neutrality – which has become a major talking point in the US, especially as Google appears to have ceded the principle to some of the major mobile carriers there – Berners-Lee was adamant that it must remain a founding principle of the internet."Most of us work at a higher level," Berners-Lee told the Nokia World conference in London's ExCel centre. "We assume that when we look up a web address and the domain name to get that page that you can get any page because that's how it's always been."But, he warned, "a lot of companies would love to limit that. If they're trying to sell you movies streamed online, they'd like to slow down your access to other people's movies, so you'd come back to them. If they sell you telephone services, they'd love to block voice-over-internet connections, or just slow it down so you decide it's not a very good technology and go and use theirs instead. They'd like to tell you where to buy your shoes by slowing down the service to one site but not another."In the US, the issue of net neutrality has been keenly argued over, with Google previously insisting it was a key principle for sites such as its video-sharing service YouTube: there had been fears that some US ISPs would seek to charge Google to make sure that service to YouTube for the ISPs' customers was fast enough.But Google has been criticised in recent weeks because it has appeared to accede to demands by mobile phone operators to give priority to traffic from particular sites. The companydenied the claims that it had made a deal with the US mobile carrier Verizonto favour some Google content – though the wording seemed to leave open the possibility that the mobile area might lack the neutrality of wired services.In the UK, the communications regulator Ofcompublished a discussion paper on net neutrality in June– for which the discussion period ended on 9 September.Berners-Lee insisted that a level playing field for all sites over all forms of transmission is essential: "If you let that go, you lose something essential – that any innovator can think of a new idea, a new data format, a new protocol, something completely novel, and set up a site at some random place and let it take off through word of mouth, and make a business, make a profit, and help humanity in a particular way and it takes off."Sure, you have to buy a domain name, but they're pretty cheap. And once you have that you don't have to register your server with anyone central. You don't have to pay money to every mobile phone operator to make sure people can get your site. That's really important."He added that the threat even comes from governments in some countries: "They would like to slow down information going to and from particular political sites."Berners-Lee, who is working with the British government to open up access to data from central and local government, said the mobile phone network would be key to bringing more people on to the internet. "At the moment the world wide web reaches about 20% of the world's population. But 80% have mobile phones. Why is there that gap? That's why we've startedthe Web Foundation– there are plenty of organisations dedicated to getting people fresh water, and getting them vaccines. But it turns out that the web can be really instrumental in getting healthcare to people."Not western-style healthcare, but the sort of thing that people need in developing countries. Sharing information about health, about issues like banana blight, or Aids – getting the message across about how you avoid getting Aids. Getting that information shared is something that isn't happening now. These are all people who have a mobile signal but aren't part of the information society, to tell the world about the crops they have for sale, or to go to Wikipedia and translate their favourite article into their own language, to blog. Not being part of the information society becomes really important."He called on mobile operators to make low-cost connections available in the developing world so that people could get online more easily. "If you have a mobile signal and you have a phone, and your $10 phone has a web browser, then it's a shame if you go to your service provider and want a data plan – to connect the phone to the internet – they move you from a plan that costs $5 per month to one that costs $60 per month, because they think that because you want access to data you must be an executive! And there's no in between. And the government decides that since you must be an executive, it's going to tax you heavily too."The fact is that even small amounts of data are very effective for connecting people.But he was dismissive of suggestions that text messages, which are widely used in many developing countries for money transfer as well as messaging, could fill the gap left by the lack of data plans. Each SMS contains a maximum of 140 characters, which Berners-Lee denounced: "SMS is the most expensive way of sending bits that's out there. It's very constrained. SMS for a developer is really hard, it would be nice to send internet packets. I'd like people enrolled in a low data package by default."He also pointed out that the explosion in location-based services such as Foursquare and Gowalla could lead to new concerns about privacy and control. "The whole privacy area is a big one. I think we're probably going to have to think about privacy from a different point of view. When you work in many different roles, say within a company, you may see somebody's CV with some information that you use in the human resources department, but you wouldn't, you mustn't, share at the office party. But you might find out information for sending me something but not for other use – such as my address, where I might want to receive a package from you, but I don't want my address used for anything else. I think we'll build systems to help organisations become accountable and to know what request the user had about how it would be used. We'll build companies that will respect how it is used. We'll have to have systems for tracking and passing all sorts of accountable systems."
Need a distraction this lunchtime? Got a "modern" browser? Then you might care to go and have a play onBiolab Disaster- a fairly standard platformer which wouldn't draw much attention, except for the fact that it's entirely written using HTML5 and Javascript.Is that clever? Cool? Well, it's interesting, because it shows that more developers are getting to grips with the possibilities offered by HTML5. Was it harder than doing it in Flash? Quite probably - but once one person has done it, and shared their experience, it gets easier for everyone who comes after them.And as Dominic Szablewski, the developer, says,"Biolab Disaster formulates the playable truth that it makes sense to create games for HTML5. Not only is the result on par with current Flash games, but also is the development process incredibly smooth and satisfying. The hurdles that a new technology such as HTML5 sets, were already overcome by the game engine. For the development of the game itself, I didn't have to deal with any browser or platform issues at all.""With Microsoft delivering some HTML5 support in Internet Explorer 9 and JavaScript and rendering performance steadily increasing, I can't see any reason why JavaScript and Canvas would not be the gaming platform of the coming years that finally removes Flash from its quasi monopole."(I think he means "monopoly". Though monopole is a good word too.)This echoes the rather larger effort that we've seen from SPIL Games, which at the end of August announced that it would beoffering HTML5 versions of its its games websites- and that it thought that would be a new standard within a few years.Of course, no new technology ever runs completely smoothly. There are still big differences between browsers in performance, and compatibility.The author offers his own notes on compatibility:Opera 10.61: PerfectSafari 5.0 (Mac): PerfectFirefox 4 Beta 3: PerfectFirefox 3.6: Sound issues; slowChrome 7: Sound issuesIE 9 Preview: Sound issues; slow.In fact, he's a bit narked with some of the browsers involved. Specifically, Safari:"please get your shit together! You are a very nice browser; my game runs with an excellent frame rate and everything works fine. But please (please!) support the Ogg Vorbis codec for Audio elements. There is no reason not to. I had to encode all my sound files in Ogg Vorbis and MP3, just because of you, Safari. You make my life unnecessarily difficult."Unfortunately I think he's going to be disappointed - the chances of Apple supporting Ogg Vorbis are between zero and none.All the browsers tested performed well - offering frame rates above 30fps - apart from Internet Explorer 9 (preview 4), which could only manage 23fps on his Intel Core2Duo/Windows 7 rig (on which Opera 10.6 managed a whopping263fps. (To see the comparative rankings, click the picture at the top of this post.)Still, never mind - we'll have to see how the real Internet Explorer 9 (released this evening) performs.And if you headed over there on your iPhone/iPad and didn't get a result, he's ahead of you..."The [game] engine gets nocanplaythroughnotification for sound files from Mobile Safari. Haven't really looked into it, as the game itself will only run with ~12 FPS (iPhone 3GS) anyway (the bottleneck is the drawing performance - it easily consumes 90% of the CPU time).That's got to be embarrassing for Apple, which has made much of the HTML5 qualifications of its iOS operating system. Perhaps someone will get in touch with Szablewski and help out.Also: he doesn't know if it works on Android. Anyone got an Android phone and want to try?There's also amaking-of video. And whenyounext do a making-of video, do think carefully about what web searchesyou'regoing to leave visible in the browser search space.
Aleks Krotoski presents this week's programme from Nokia World – the Finnish mobile communication giant's world conference and developer summit in London's Docklands.Charles Arthur catches up with technology analyst Michael Gartenberg to find out what he makes ofthis week's movements at the top of Nokiathat have seen its chairman and former chief executive Jorma Ollia, its current chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, and the head of mobile Anssi Vanjoki announce their departures from the company.They also discussthe latest changes in Apple's app store rules,andthe launch of Google Instant search.Also in the programme, Aleks speaks to game developer Jane McGonigal from the Institute of the Future and hears about how she intends to bring other developers together with a social network –Gameful– to create games for good.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google will begin the introduction of "layers" of social-networking features later this year, the company's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, has said.Speaking at the Zeitgeist conference yesterday evening, Schmidt suggested that plans for a social network to rival the likes of Facebook – and now Apple's Ping – are further away than previously thought.Schmidt told reporters: "We're trying to take Google's core products and add a social component.""If you think about it, it's obvious," he said. "With your permission, knowing more about who your friends are, we can provide more tailored recommendations. Search quality can get better."The Wall Street Journalcitespeople familiar with the matter in suggesting that Google plans to be something of a portal to the wider web for users, allowing access to content created on sites like Twitter and Flickr.However, rumours of a social network dubbed Google Me have not entirely dissipated. Mashablepredictsthat the speculationkickstartedby Digg founder Kevin Rose and a former Facebook staffer will see a launch before the end of the year. Yesterday Schmidt moved to dismiss talks of a "Facebook killer", saying:"Everybody has convinced themselves that there's some huge project about to get announced next week. And I can assure you that's not the case."Google Wave, the company's more recent social platform, was unceremoniously dropped from development last month, you'll remember. And Google Buzz has so far failed to grab and retain the imagination of Gmail users whose social appetite is already sated externally with Twitter, Flickr, Facebook etc.But a wave of summer acquisitions has shown Google to have big ambitions for the future of its social services.In August, e-commerce enginelike.comwas added to Google's expanding portfolio in a $100m deal enveloping the four-year-old company's "visual search technology". Jambool, the virtual currency company allowing developers to integrate payment systems into their games, was next on the list for Google in a rumoured $70m buy.Schmidt announced a future partnership with social gaming platformZyngain June, leading many to speculate about a forthcoming release of Google Games. Earlier that month, Schmidt said Google aims to "improve the way flight information is organised", announcing a $700m bid to buy airline ticketing firm ITA software.Schmidt's announcing of a timeline for social networking plans came as Twitter, now at 160 million users, revealed a significant new look for the site.Twitter.comwill now display images and videos embedded in tweets on a seperate panel on the page, eradicating the need for users to click away from the site – potentially ringing bells with Google's rumoured plans to integrate access to third-party sites from one page.''It's going to increase the value that people are getting out of Twitter, so in less time you can get more information and value," Evan Williams, Twitter's co-founder and chief executive, said. Earlier, Twitter's vice-president of business and corporate developmentsaid: "Twitter is not a social network – Twitter is news, it's information."
Icowas the greatest game ever released on Playstation 2. Ico's minimalist look and emotional pull - why don't more games use the character hand-holding mechanic so memorably used here? - created a game unlike any other. The "spiritual successor" Shadow of the Colossus - also released on PS2 - didn't quite hit the same highs but was still a memorable and powerful experience. So theconfirmationthat both are getting HD upgrades for a PS3 release is easily the best gaming news you will hear all month.Famitsu - via andriasang - have published separate boxes for each but you would imagine a bundle release would make more sense in Europe. What we don't want are any "updates" that detract from the original games. HD visuals will do fine thanks.Anyway, what do you think? Excited by the news? And if so, what are your memories of Ico and Colossus?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Twitter's self-imposed - and endlessly fascinating - 140-character limit on "tweets" is being tweaked to include pictures and video, the company announced last night.Although a number of third-party programs which access Twitter's output via its database can already link directly to pictures and videos on other sites, the site itself has so far held back from allowing anything beyond text-only hyperlinks to appear in users' streams.But now it is following in the footsteps of the biggest social networks Facebook and MySpace, which have made themselves essential to their hundreds of millions of users by becoming a channel for multimedia content.Twitter has already been famous as a channel for pictures: in January 2009 when a plane ditched in the Hudson river in New York, the first pictures of the plane was propogated via Twitter from Twitpic.com, one of a dozen photo-storage sites that have grown up around the microblogging service which launched in 2006.Sharp-eyed usershad noticedthat Twitter tested an "inline media" option in July, apparently as part of a test: officially Twitter said then that it was "a small test of a potential... setting for inline media."More information can be found attwitter.com/newtwitter
Guess which country has the most smartphone users per head in western Europe? Photo byThe Library of Congresson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat Apple and Android owe to Symbian and RIM &gt;&gt; asymcoDelicious, principally for its population-adjusted graphs of smartphone use by country for the US and western Europe, and population-adjusted Symbian use for the US and Europe. (Symbian is Nokia's mobile OS.)Bing Overtakes Yahoo! as the #2 U.S. Search Engine &gt;&gt; Nielsen WireUS only; for the world, Google will have a larger lead. But hey, Bing has 13.9% in the US compared to Yahoo's 13.1%! Break out the... well, Bing now powers Yahoo. Not sure it matters.Former Nokia exec nows calls for an axe to fall across management &gt;&gt; TechCrunch UK"the former head of Symbian user experience design and Forum Nokia has called for the resignation of 13 key executives and claims Nokia is now following his own plan of re-making the company. Even if he's an outlier, his suggestions are almost certain to set the cat amongst the pigeons. Juhani Risku spent nine years at Nokia from 2001 was also head of Nokia Showroom, where operators make their decisions on Nokia systems."Nielsen: Bing Passes Yahoo To Become #2 Search Engine &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"According to Nielsen data out this morning Microsoft's Bing has passed Yahoo to become the number two search engine in the US. Nielsen says that Google's August share is 65% (and growth is flat) but that Bing and Yahoo have now switched places"How to Google Instant(ise) a Custom Search Engine (CSE) &gt;&gt; RSC MASHeContains instructions on how to, well, turn your custom search engine into a Google Instant version.Spotify income passes iTunes (for one artist) &gt;&gt; Ugress"There's currently a public discussion on streaming rates in Norway, where some labels want to pull their material from Spotify. The reason is discontent with current rates, especially from the ad-based model, if I understand everything correctly.In light of that I was a little bit surprised to see my latest payment for digital music, where Spotify actually passed iTunes, income-wise. I now make more money on streaming than downloads. I knew it would happen at some time, but didn't expect it that soon."Bouncing Beholder [JS1k entry] &gt;&gt; Marijn Haverbeke"In typical 21st-century programming, the machine limits one has to deal with are wide and fuzzy. Program size is rarely an issue, so like painters working on an infinite canvas, we often don't know when to stop. When a program has to fit in a tightly limited space, the experience is different. You program by carefully refining every single expression, chipping away at your code until it reflects your vision as well as it can. In terms of productivity, this is an awful way of coding. But it certainly is fun. Not to mention that it gives me an excuse to use every kind of weird hack I can think of."Includes the 1024-byte program, plus a commented version. Excellent to test your programming chops on.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The turmoil at the top of Nokia has continued for a third day, with the company saying on Tuesday that its chairman and former chief executive Jorma Ollila is to step down - though not until 2012.The Finnish company, the biggest seller of mobile phones in the world,ejectedits chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo on Friday, and then lost its head of mobile, Anssi Vanjoki, on Monday when heresigned, apparently disappointed at the appointment of Stephen Elop, formerly at Microsoft, to the role of chief executive.A Nokia spokeswoman said that while no definitive announcement had been made about Ollila's post, he has said he would be "at the disposal of the company" until the annual general meeting of the company in spring 2012.Last Friday Ollila said the board had asked him to stay on as chairman for a transitionary period. "The board did want me to continue because this is a particularly difficult time. My time will be up soonest," he said then, but added, "no time set."Nokia's announcement on Friday came after its stock had continued its plunge: it is down more than 20% this year following two profit warnings, while the company's management had come under increasing pressure.On Tuesday, the company presented new telephones and applications for its handsets, hoping to get back into the high-end smart phone race."Today our fight back to smart phone leadership shifts into high gear," said Niklas Savander, executive vice president of Nokia's markets unit said at the Nokia World event in London. "Despite new competition, Symbian remains the most widely used smart phone platform in the world."The company unveiled three new smart phones the C6, C7 and E7 with price tags ranging from 260 to 495.But markets were not impressed, and Nokia stock closed down more than 3% in Helsinki at 7.64 ($9.82).Vanjoki is a board member, and in charge of the top-end mobile smartphones, an area Nokia is keen on improving as it tries to rival Apple's iPhone and Research In Motion Ltd.'s BlackBerrys, and phones built around Google Inc.'s Android software.Vanjoki will remain for a six-month notice period, Nokia said. Vanjoki, who joined Nokia 20 years ago and has been a board member since 1998, said on Monday he felt "the time has come to seek new opportunities in my life."He had previously been seen as a potential successor to outgoing Kallasvuo but drifted away from the top management when the company reshuffled responsibilities earlier this year and Mary McDowell was appointed top chief of the mobile phones business.During Kallasvuo's leadership investors had long been expecting something fresh and new from the company that once had the innovative edge in the industry, but that has not happened. He has also been unable to tackle problems in the North American market, the company's worst performer, despite a pledge to make it a top priority.Markets have also not been impressed by Symbian, which is older than Apple's software and wasn't designed from the ground up for touchscreen phones. Other manufacturers that had used Symbian have mainly jumped ship to Android.• This article was amended on 16 September 2010. The original referred to the chairman of Nokia as Jorma Ollia. This has been corrected.
Vodafone seems set to introduce further data tiers, as networks get serious about managing the effects mobile services are having on their networks."Data pricing has to adjust," Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao told the Nokia World summit in London on Tuesday morning. "We are already providing, today, (data) caps. More will come."The principle here must be that, a bit like motorways or hotels, every class of service must have its own price and customers must be able to pay for whatever level of service he or she wants - we cannot penalise those who pay more."That will ring an alarm with advocates of net neutrality - the principle that all internet data packets should be routed with equal efficiency.But tiering the speed of internet services to end users - which is already common practice from many landline ISPs - is not necessarily the same issue which riles the campaigners.Some carriers have struggled to meet the expectations of a wave of new smartphone users with network capacity. O2 UK, which was Apple's exclusive iPhone retailer for a time, has fallen over several times in the last couple of years. Colao said Vodafone had not shirked from improving network infrastructure, which he listed as #1 out of five industry priorities at Nokia World, even during the recession.But carriers have this year introduced caps on monthly data use, limiting customers to significantly less than their liberal "fair use" allowances.Colao referred specifically to last week's Economist cover feature which examined "The Web's New Walls" - ways in which internet services are fragmenting despite not necessarily riding over "net neutrality" concerns."One can agree or not agree with the points in the article," Colao said. "But it's very important we have a debate on the future of the networks, especially the mobile part of it. We cannot get the incentives of all the players wrong."
Nokia's beaten-down top dogs opened their annual Nokia World show in London Tuesday morning with a blunt and rousing pep talk and a direct riposte to their competitors."We're not going to apologise for the fact that we're not Apple or Google or anybody else - we're Nokia and we're unique," markets executive vice president Niklas Savander said."Nokia's going through a tough, challenging transition and we have a LOT more work to do. But we have laid the foundation for success."Bullish, Savander mocked Apple's Scott Forstall for borrowing Nokia's corporate slogan to talk about iPhone recently:  "Connecting People is more than just a feel-good tagline - it's our mission." In return, standing on stage in front of Nokia's developer community, Savander borrowed back a Steve Jobs catchphrase and took aim at iPhone 4…"One more thing," he said, before talking about Nokia's flagship new N8 handset: "They perform - day in, day out - no matter how you hold them."In the past quarter, people bought far more Nokia phones than Apple and Android combined. On average, people buy 260,000 new Nokia smartphones every day - that's more smartphones sales than any other company by far - period." The N8, which has been taken on by over 100 carriers globally, is the first Nokia handset to be released with the re-engineered Symbian 3 OS on which Nokia's smartphone future will depend, and Nokia expects to ship at least 50 million.But, in services, too, Savander also dared to declare: "Contrary to popular perception, Nokia - not Google (NSDQ: GOOG) - is the leader in mobile navigation. functionality quality and reach. Ovi Maps is far, far less hungry than the Google service. Why? Because it's optimised for mobile use." He also said Ovi Maps offers walking navigation that Google Maps does not.On location sharing, Savander said over 800 million people will use GPS-enabled phones by 2013. "Soon, everything on the internet will have a location coordinate - it is a space that we intend to OWN."In fact, Google launched walking navigations for Android's Google Maps last week, and no phone manufacturer is necessarily winning the location-sharing game ahead of dedicated services like Foursquare themselves."I recognise that we haven't been as competitive as we want to be in smartphones. Well, that's about to change. Today, we shift in to high gear in Nokia's fightback in smartphone leadership." Nevermind the past, Savander said: "Today is about the here and now, about three words. NOKIA IS BACK."Executive vice president Ansi Vanjoki, who received warm applause after his resignation was announced on Monday, told delegates in another confident address: "The reality is that Nokia invented the smartphone."Nokia's "fightback" amounts to four new handsets - the N8 entertainment smartphone, mid-market C6 and C7 phones targeted at social network users, and an E7 corporate communicator - packing Symbian 3.
The government has said today that rights holders in the music, TV and film industries will have to bear 75% of the expense of notifying and pursuing illegal downloaders – estimated to be as much as £14m a year.Internet service providers will foot the remaining 25% of the bill to notify and pursue those identified as illegal downloaders.Rights holders will also have to continue to pay millions to initially identify illegal downloaders under the government's plan to deal with internet piracy. It had been hoped that ISPs would be forced to share some of the initial identification costs.The cost-sharing mechanism will be introduced in the first half of 2011. Ofcom has been given three more months to complete the Online Copyright Infringement Initial Obligations Code that will govern the notifications and cost process.Several reports have been published with estimates of the annual cost of implementing the government's proposed filesharing notification system – with figures ranging from £8.5m to £13.8m annually. This excludes the millions that rights holders currently spend on identifying illegal downloaders. The government and Ofcom have not provided figures yet.To date, rights holders have footed the bill for detection, which it is thought runs into the millions of pounds per year, and the industry hoped sharing the costs with ISPs would allow significantly more investment in pursuing pirates.However, the government's decision today, based on a consultation on the cost-sharing proposal, said that the argument to split detection costs had been rejected as a "business as usual" bill for copyright holders."This argument was rejected as the initial proposal to share costs 75/25 was made in the full knowledge that copyright owners did have these separate costs to bear," said the government. "At the level of the individual copyright owner the level of detection activity (and any legal action) is a matter for them. It was considered these were largely 'business as usual' costs that copyright owners would face as part of protecting their own copyright material."The government also said that after giving "serious consideration" it has decided not to charge consumers fees to appeal a notification that they have been illegally downloading."As a free system risks the possibility of large numbers of unnecessary appeals, the government will monitor the situation closely, and reserves the right to introduce a small fee at a later stage," the government added.Ed Vaizey, minister for communications, added: "We expect the measures will benefit our creative economy by some £200m per year and as rights holders are the main beneficiaries of the system, we believe our decision on costs is proportionate to everyone involved."Unsurprisingly, rights holders argued that they have been hard done by."We continue to believe that ISPs should bear a greater proportion of the costs of communicating with their customers about illegal peer-to-peer use on their networks," said a spokesman for the British Recorded Music Industry (BPI), which represents the UK's music companies."We will work closely with the government and Ofcom to ensure that the costs framework overall is workable and affordable, in particular for small labels, and that the Code can be swiftly implemented."However, consumer group Consumer Focus argued that levying the 25% charge on ISPs could lead to tens of thousands of consumers being "priced out of broadband" as fees will have to pass onto subscribers."Consumers should not be picking up the tab for the enforcement of copyright laws that will benefit the music industry to the tune of millions," said Robert Hammond, head of post and digital communications at Consumer Focus. "The previous government admitted any extra cost on ISPs may push up the cost of broadband, making it unaffordable for thousands of vulnerable consumers who need internet access to get vital services and cheaper deals."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
We spoke at Nokia World with Niklas Savander, executive vice-president and general manager of Markets for Nokia. He's also a member of its Group Executive board - and so one of the people who would have been involved in the decision last week to eject its chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo.We spoke to Savander (along with two other journalists, who were also asking questions, included here; so don't assume which questions are mine) after he had given an aggressive, upbeat address to the Nokia World conference for developers - proclaiming, among other things, that "We're not going to apologise for the fact that we aren't Apple or Google or anybody else - we're Nokia and we're unique" and that "we have laid the foundation for success."We asked him about a variety of topics - starting, inevitably, with the departure of Kallasvuo. Clarifications and comments are in [square brackets in italics].Q You've lost your chief executive last week and your head of mobile this week. How big a hole is Nokia in, and how do you get it out?Execution is dependent on a much larger business than just two people. Right now there are 60,000 other Nokia people committed to executing on the strategy that we have.Q Your financial results show falling profits since the introduction of the iPhone and Android, and your price and profit per phone is falling. How are you going to change that?The falling ASP [average sale price] isn't directly correlated to that at all. It's that as more and more people join from emerging markets, you get first-time phone buyers. As they buy their first phone, they drive the average down. You can't draw a direct conclusion with the ASP to anything else than that we're being successful at the low end. The low end has a different price structure from the high end, which explains that.We have a 40% share in smartphones. When you look at the ASP for smartphones, that has also deteriorated.But it's partly seen that we haven't been able to compete for value from the high end consumer that we used to. Because that has been taken by Apple in particular.But the data has more to do with our strategy which is going for the next billion consumers.. rather than leaving that to somebody else.Q Aren't you losing share in India to the iPhone and RIM where high end smartphones are becoming more popular?No, that's not true - the iPhone isn't making any impact at all in India. True, in any big market like India or Indonesia, the high end market might be a small percentage even if the numbers seem large. As economic prosperity goes up, you get more people who can afford these.India and China have high and middle range users - it's about converting people who know it as a phone to do more with it. And to get the low end which is about capturing people for whom it's their first phone. [Essentially, the strategy is to capture those first-time users and then get them to migrate up the Nokia value chain by buying and using more high-end phones and services.]Q Isn't there a risk that you get that next billion users to buy a handset - and then someone else such as Microsoft, Android or Apple comes along and skims off the profit at the top?There's always a battle. Some people who have smaller scale than us will have to choose which battle they go for. But really, only Samsung seems to have a similar kind of ambition to us to play in all the segments.There's RIM, Apple at the high end. And there are other former wide-scale rivals such as Sony Ericsson, Motorola and LG which will have to choose where they are going to fight. And other new competitors who have targeted the low end.Q Why should someone choose these new phones [the N8, C7, C6 and E7 being shown off at the show] running Symbian S^3 rather than an Android or iPhone model?There's a different answer for each of these four phones. We're targeting the pricing below the iPhone: affordability is the argument we're making across high end products.The N8 is a bit masculine in its design, but it's got a great camera and its multimedia capability is second to none. The C7 is like a classic Nokia design in its balance. The C6 has a more feminine skew in terms of its design. The E7 is a business model with a QWERTY keyboard, because QWERTY is increasingly popular in business. [We were intrigued to notice that he couldn't find the pressure point to slide out the keyboard when he was handling the E7.]And there will be new improved Symbian functions in these phones, because we can roll out updates over the air [OTA] to these, so we will use that to improve functions while they're in the market.Q To clarify - will Nokia roll out the OTA updates, or the carriers? Because there have been problems with Android phones where OTA updates have been slow to come, or have included carrier software that people didn't want.We do it. Us, Nokia. The carriers are keen for us to do it because otherwise it's a cost for them. And we remove errors. For the normal consumer who wants a software update, if they go into a carrier's shop it's going to cost tens of euros [it's not clear whether that's to the carrier or the consumer, but it's clearly a cost for someone].Q How can you be sure that in doing the OTA update you won't run into a bug with some piece of carrier software that's come pre-installed on the phone?[At this point Savanger became quite animated] Because we have been in this business for15 years. We have a whole team of people doing variant management [handling the effects of software updates on different handsets and software packages]. We make 15 phonesevery second. They don't get started without an order from somewhere for them. We know every IMEI [unique phone identifier number] code that goes out of the factory, and we have a database of every IMEI and software version. So if a phone's going to Vodafone, we have a copy of what that phone will have. [The OTA rollout, he suggested, will be bug-free across any network/phone/preinstalled or post-installed app package.]Q When will you be showing MeeGo? Some people were expecting it here.We will have more to say about MeeGo later this year. We want to focus on these [phones] and we want to be ready with what we're going to do with MeeGo.Q How many operators are going to sell these new phones?Signed up to sell the S^3 phones... we aim to sell 50m devices. Of course less than half are sold through the operator channel.Q Even if you don't agree with it, do you understand the board's reasoning in forcing Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo out?I'm not going to comment on it, at all.Q But without commenting on whether it was a good or bad one, do you understand it?I'm absolutely not going to comment.Q How do you stop people moving to other platforms? [The question is partly about how you stop that next billion from abandoning Nokia when they upgrade their phone, and partly about how you stop developers defecting. Savanger seems to have gone for the second interpretation more than the first.]Well, I'm used to the developer community - I used to work with them when I was at HP, and then at Nokia. Developers are a pretty predictably group of companies. They look at what's the hassle, the effort, of developing for a platform, and what's the benefit.We have to lower the effort required. If you develop for the iPhone, what work is needed to make it run on a Symbian device? That's about the developer kits in Qt, WebKit, Java. The second part is the "code signing" process. This is the same for all platforms - you have to get the code digitally signed so that the user can be sure that it's not malware, that someone hasn't taken something else and altered it. It's a unique certificate for the software.In the past that signing process has been expensive. It's still time-consuming but now it's got no cost. And we've got the time required for signing down from 7 days to 1 day. But we have to do it because that's needed for consumer confidence.Now, the benefit side - it's about monetisation mechanisms. If you look at the app stores that are around, there's a mix of free and paid apps. There's about 90% free apps---Q that's not what I've seen - the data suggests it's more like 75% on Android and Apple.OK, but that doesn't change the argument. Why would you write a free app? It's either for glory, or because it's a step on the way to a commercial version, through ads or an upsell to a paid level - like Angry Birds, where you get the Big Eagle or whatever. A model such as the first three levels are free, and then you pay for the next ones.Now, we sell in a lot of countries where people don't have credit cards [which means they can't pay via the Apple App Store method]. That means you have to go with operator billing, that becomes a very very important part of the process. And we have done a lot of work with operators to be sure that the proportion that they take [of an app price] is reasonable. In some markets there's a very very high tariff from the operators for the use of their billing systems, and that's damping the use of apps." [The implication being that Nokia isn't happy about that - and wants to change it.]Q How many apps are downloaded, and how many smartphones does Nokia have out there?We're downloading 2m per day. [In a keynote speech, Nokia said that it had 45m addressable touchscreen smartphones.][Interview ends.]
Where's MeeGo? That's the game that Nokia developers are playing here at the ExCel centre in London.Amidt the turmoil in the executive ranks - with first its chief executive exiting abruptly on Friday, and then its recently-appointed head of mobile resigning on Monday - the question for developers is a much more simple one: what phones is Nokia going to offer, will there be compelling reasons to develop for them, and will people want to buy or use apps on them?Nokia has been showing off its new N8, C7, C6 (two of them; you tell them apart because one has the -00 an the other has the -01 suffix,obviously) and E7 models. They all run on Symbian^3, the latest version of Symbian.Speaking to some of the developers on the floor it's clear that quite a few had been hoping - and expecting - to see something using MeeGo, which is a Linux-based mobile OS that is going to be part of another strand in Nokia's smartphone attack.However Nokia clearly decided not to show it off here, despite this being the annual show for developers. Niklas Savander, executive vice-president and general manager of markets - and a member of the Nokia board which ejected Olli-Pekka Kaliasvo last week - told the Guardian: "We will have more to say about MeeGo later this year. We want to focus on these [new phones] and we want to be ready with everything when we do show off MeeGo."There's some murmuring among the developers that MeeGo has run into some end-stage bugs which mean that it can't be shown off on working phones yet. It's worth noting that Savander isn't necessarily saying that Nokia will be showing offphoneslater this year - only that there will be more to say.MeeGo is pretty young - it was only formally announced in February, as a joint Intel-Nokia project, combining the old Intel Moblin and Nokia Maemo concepts into one. (Intel was allegedly unhappy that Microsoft wasn't providing full Windows 7 support for the Atom processor, which Intel was banging out by the ton.)MeeGo is intended to be a multi-device OS - indicating perhaps that Nokia is looking past just phones. Developers won't though have to learn an entirely new language to develop for it: the handset interface can be targeted via Qt, the development environment which Nokia owns.According to Wikipedia, there was asoftware prerelease of the user interface for handsets on 30 July, while Intel showed off a MeeGo-based tablet in July.Since then? It's quiet. Too quiet for the tastes of some developers... but we'll have to see.
Mark Zuckerberg doesn't readily offer himself up for media interviews. But over the summer the 26-year-old co-founder of Facebook met up with the New Yorker magazine for several interviews, resulting in an exhaustive 6,000-word feature.Going from "Zuck's" adolescence spent building private Instant Messaging (IM) services across his parent's network of computers to the ill-advised college IMs that threatened to prove his undoing, the New Yorker's Jose Antonio Vargas hasan insightful takeon the man he calls "the boy king of Silicon Valley."It's worth reading in full – not least as an addendum if you're planning to go seeThe Social Network, the film about the Zuckerberg due to be released next month – but here's a few sharp takes.In a selection of IMs leaked toSilicon Alley Insider, Zuckerberg explained to a friend how his Harvard peers ("dumb fucks") trusted him by submitting personal information when signing up to his social network. A conversation he now says he "absolutely" regrets:"If you're going to go on to build a service that is influential and that a lot of people rely on, then you need to be mature, right? I think I've grown and learned a lot."Zuckerberg goes on to distance himself from his younger self: "I think a lot people will look at that stuff, you know, when I was 19, and say, 'Oh, well, he was like that ... He must still be like that, right?'"Barely 12 months after launch, Facebook began attracting interest from execs big players in the media and technology world, one of which was Yahoo. Terry Semel, Yahoo's former chief executive, who reportedly offered Zuckerberg close to $1bn for the social network in 2006 told Vargas: "I'd never met anyone – forget his age, 22 the or 26 now – I'd never met anyone who would walk away from $1bn. But he said, 'It's not about the price. This is my baby and I want to keep running it, I want to keep growing it.' I couldn't believe it."And on privacy? Zuckerberg sticks to his line: "A lot of people who are worried about privacy and those kinds of issues will take any minor misstep that we make and turn it into as big a deal as possible."Read the New Yorker interview in full
While Halo: Reach is currently getting all the attention and Call of Duty: Black Ops is stomping about in the wings, one of the key titles of the Autumn is remaining suspiciously (yet characteristically) quiet. Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is the latest title in the acrobatic, time-spanning adventure series from Ubisoft Montreal. Following experienced killer Ezio Auditore as he battles his arch rival Cesare Borgia in renaissance Rome, it's another visually lavish combination of acrobatic exploration and visceral combat.The trailer higlights lots of the latter, with Ezio battling multiple foes and pulling off deadly finishing moves (one poor chap is knocked off his feet by a flying spear). The character is able to combine melee and ranged weapons to deadly effect, and it'll be interesting to see how intuitive this new system is. We also get glimpses of the Brotherhood feature, which allows Ezio to call on a cabal of AI assassins to help out when he's in a tight situation.There's also some horseback combat, and a sequence in which Ezio leaps from a moving stallion onto a pole crossing the road above him – which all looks extremely exciting and seamless. Of course, what we now want to see more of is the highly promising multiplayer mode, which offers a range of intriguing options, including a one-on-one assassinate-'em-up, shown off at E3, which should provide a compalling antidote to all those frenzied team deathmatch sessions.For now though, check out the trailer and let us know what you think...Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is due out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 19 November
You've no doubt seen the scores. In the 48 hours since Microsoft lifted its embargo on Halo: Reach reviews, the latest shooter in Bungie's epic sci-fi series has seen a tsunami of critical adulation. CVG calls it, "a beautiful, astoundingly deep - yet very familiar - Halo package", while IGN states, "whether you like playing with friends or you're more of a lone wolf, Halo: Reach has evolved to the point where it'll make everyone happy." I know I should agree. I don't.I never 'got' Halo. From the beginning, I never appreciated the disconnect between the game's epic narrative and the comedic nature of the Grunts. I know these shuffling troglodytes represent the bottom feeders of the Covenant foodchain, but they still seem bizarrely anachronistic in a 'serious' science fiction universe.At the same time, I never enjoyed the game's approach to epic action, its sonorous choral score, its po-faced characters, its matter-of-fact portrayal of mass galactic genocide. It always felt, to me, like the impersonal, ponderous works of Arthur C Clarke or Kim Stanley Robinson, rather than the gritty punkish musings of William Gibson, Neal Stephenson or Jeff Noon – works that have powered the feverish imaginations of Bullfrog (Syndicate), Warren Spector (Deus Ex) and Hideo Kojima (Snatchers). Of course, this portrays a preference for cyberpunk over hard science fiction, but videogames have always been more about the former than the latter and I'm surprised more players haven't professed an impatience with Halo's lumbering operatic writing.All the while, I understand the brilliant achievements of the series. The way it rescued the first-person shooter from the structural and gameplay constraints of those never-ending corridors (though Battlefield 1942 can justly claim some credit here); the way it took enemy AI seriously; the way it allowed the player's energy to renew over time, doing away with the dreaded health pack. And of course, the multiplayer design is masterful, benefiting from Bungie's experience in the formative LAN gaming era with Marathon.But then, I dislike the weapons in Halo, which often sound like cheap wet fireworks, spluttering into disappointing life. The architecture, too, has always felt perfunctory, impressive in its scale, but not in its design messaging – say what you like about the endless rusting industrial complexes of the Killzone series, but they are unmistakable – they represent Guerrilla's unified aesthetic. They say something; they say the future under the Helghast is cold and dead. Not a profound statement, but one that we can all immediately read and process. The designers at Bungie are astonishingly talented, but their vision of a human civilisation in the 26th century says nothing to me.For sci-fi fights at the edge of time, I have always preferred Gears of War. I prefer its mad, pulverising vision of death and destruction in an existential universe of dread. I love the grit and detail in every set piece, the sense that violent disembowelment is around every shadowy corner. The weapons are like vast chunks of machinery, spitting out missiles of bloody carnage. The characters are Nietzschean fantasies as monstrous, ludicrous and alien as anything they fight. There is nothing graceful about the series, and it doesn't want us to believe that it is taking place in a massive, fully realised narrative environment. It just chucks stuff at us and says, 'this monster will kill you if you don't kill it first'.I also don't buy this whole idea of Halo having narrative depth. The video game industry has managed to construct for itself a whole new interpretation of the phrase 'deep story' which seems to require merely a plot in which sometimes things go a bit wrong,  and characters who are partly good, but also partly bad. That's not depth, those are the basic –the basic– building blocks of fiction. Again, I appreciate the painstaking work, the mammoth encyclopaedic detail that's gone into creating the Halo universe. But that doesn't make it War and Peace.The beauty of all this is that wonderfully made, hugely successful games can be divisive. We are often sold the concept of the 'must have' title, as though – unlike any other form of media – there are releases that will be universally appreciated simply because they are so well crafted. But games are not entertainment machines, they are more complicated than that. Halo doesn't do anything for me, but I'm happy for millions of other gamers to appreciate and enjoy its majesty, because this is a vibrant and diverse form of entertainment. It's not wrong to dislike Halo, but it's probably wrong not to appreciate it. That's just plain rude.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
At the Nokia World 2010 jamboree, the stage is set.Billed – by Nokia – as the company's biggest annual conference yet, a tumultuous week at the Finnish mobile manufacturer threatens to overshadow a critical 48 hours for the mobile giant looking to reverse a long term decline in profits and market share.Stephen Elop, the Microsoft executive newly charged with turning around Nokia's fortunes, was appointed as chief executive only four days ago, replacing Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo. Meanwhile, Anssi Vanjoki, executive vice president of Nokia's mobile business, announced his departure suddenly yesterday morning.Vanjoki, one of the company's longest-serving executives at nearly 20 years, is thought to have been one of the internal candidates vying to accede fellow Finn Kallasvuo and, at time of publishing, is still on the agenda to address thousands of delegates in London's Docklands later today.But since news of his departure filtered out on Monday morning, uncertainty has loomed over Vanjoki's keynote speech, earmarked as one of the most important in the company's recent history.Twenty four hours after announcing his decision to seek pastures new, Vanjoki will lay out the company's future in the mobile market – crucially, how the manufacturer fits into a smartphone market increasingly different and more dynamic than the one Nokia established its popularity in during the first half of the closing decade.Or: how the still-dominant companycan avoid being reduced to a commodity also-ran within years.On the commercial challenges facing the Finnish manufacturer, my colleagueCharles Arthur's postis worth digesting in full. Here's the upshot:"By the end of 2009, despite smartphone sales having increased by 24% worldwide according to Gartner, Nokia's phone profits (which includes smartphones and "dumb" mobile phones) were - on an annualised basis - the lowest they'd been in the entire eight-year period, despite the revenues being the second-highest."That speaks of Nokia's product being commoditised - that the average price and profit per phone sold is dropping. The question for the incoming chief executive Stephen Elop is whether that's a satisfactory state of affairs."Nokia's mobile phone division: revenues and profits by quarter from 2002 to Q2 2010. Note the trends in revenue and profit.Despite this week's annual event being all about the parading of new products, it's likely that that the behind-the-scenes workings at Nokia over the coming weeks will provide stronger clues about the direction the company is heading in. Nick Jones, analyst at research firm Gartner, says the incoming chief executive's hiring and firing will "give us the first clues about the type of company Nokia will become."For today, we have a range of product and service launches to pick over. Expect a modest family of new phones, app-based partnerships with mobile operators and more on its Symbian operating system. Substantial news on the MeeGo OS will likely wait two months for theconference in Dublin.It is understood that neither departing nor incoming chief executive will be in attendance at London's Excel conference centre this week, but the mobile man on his way out is under no illusions about the task ahead.Writing on his second day in the job, Vanjoki declared: "There is no denying, that as a challenger now, we have a fight on our hands. [...] I'm ready to take this challenge on, and so is the entire Nokia team." Vanjoki leaves his post after two decades service early in 2011.
Time for change. Photo byDavid Reeceon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia's death march &gt;&gt; Computerworld Blogs"It's not a pretty story, that's for sure. When even Gartner Group can see the writing on the wall, you know that something smells in Espoo."Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg opens up &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMammoth feature – could be a definitive take on the 26-year-old.E.U. to Back Plan for Pan-European Mobile Market &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The European Commission is poised to back a plan that would divert a portion of the valuable broadcast spectrum used for television to mobile operators."UK tech sector poised for deal flurry &gt;&gt; Financial Times"Bankers and analysts say they are preparing for a pick-up in merger and acquisition activity in the UK technology sector as cashed-up companies look for targets"The first Nokia casualty under the new regime &gt;&gt; GartnerGoodbye Anssi Vanjoki, Nokia's head of mobiles and services, who has just resigned. "Steve Elop doesn't have a mobile industry background so he will have to rely heavily on his executive team to address Nokia's challenges. In a sense Steve is the man whose job is to hire or promote the people who will fix Nokia. Anssi is the first change in the executive team but I don't think he will be the last."If you don't remember Vanjoki, he's the man who declared "The fightback starts here" on July 2, his first day in the job.Above the Law - Russia Uses Microsoft to Suppress Dissent &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"[...] Instead, the group fell victim to one of the authorities' newest tactics for quelling dissent: confiscating computers under the pretext of searching for pirated Microsoft software. Across Russia, the security services have carried out dozens of similar raids against outspoken advocacy groups or opposition newspapers in recent years."Google Arrogance? I've Never Seen Them So Humble &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"More recently I've seen a Google that's been humbled by droves of engineers leaving for Facebook and Twitter, a Google humbled by China, and a Google generally terrified of an upcoming decade where they may not be the center of attention on the Internet."Top 10 Things to Do with a New Windows 7 System &gt;&gt; LifehackerPretty good recommendations.Nokia's New CEO: Challenges &gt;&gt; Monday Note"For Nokia to win, Elop must change the hearts and minds of 123,000 people, make unpopular decisions and make them quickly: The smartphone business is moving much faster than when Nokia was king."Is Elop up to the task?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's the biggest game series of all time, and Super Mario is 25 years-old today. To celebrate, we've jammed together 25 snippets of Mario trivia. Don a pair of blue dungarees and adopt an inaccurate Italian accent, it's Mario time!1. Mario was created by Shigeru Miyamoto and appeared in the game designer's first ever title, the 1981 arcade platformer, Donkey Kong. Miyamoto was hired as a graphic artist by Nintendo in 1977, and was given the task of designing a game after several of the company's early coin-ops had failed to make an impression on the lucrative arcade market. Donkey Kong was created using the hardware behind an older arcade title named Radar Scope, which sunk without a trace in the US. Miyamoto ditched the shooting theme and added an ape and rolling barrels. Success naturally followed.2. Mario was originally known as Jumpman. However, when Nintendo's US office were trying to think of a better name in time for the American release of the game, they were interrupted by their landlord Mario Segale, after whom they christened the character.3. Mario was originally a carpenter, not a plumber. He's also appeared as a doctor in the 1990 puzzle title Dr Mario and its sequels.4. The look of Mario is all about the graphical limitations of the hardware at the time. He has a hat, because realistic hair was difficult to portray, a moustache to accentuate his nose, and dungarees to make his arm movements more noticeable. In Super Mario Bros, he wears a brown shirt below his overalls – a look that was swiftly abandoned.5. Donkey Kong Jr, the 1982 sequel to Donkey Kong, is the only game in which Mario officially stars as the antagonist. He has trapped poor Donkey Kong in a cage and the ape's son must rescue him. In the game's promotional material, Mario even gets a specially twirled moustache, highlighting his evil nature.6. In contrast, Bowser, the key antagonist of the Super Mario Bros series, has also appeared as a good guy. He helps Mario in the 1996 title Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars.7. Super Mario Bros was preceded by the 1983 arcade platformer, Mario Bros. Designed by Miyamoto and Game Boy-creator Gunpei Yokoi, it's set in the New York sewer system and introduces Mario's brother Luigi.8. Bowser was originally sketched as an ox by Miyamoto, but his drawings were misinterpreted by animator Yoichi Kotabe as a turtle. The duo worked together on the latter idea and the Bowser we know today was born. He's definitely a turtle, though, and not a dragon as some assume. (Morehere.)9. The naughty version of Mario – Wario – first appeared as a nemesis in the Game Boy title, Super Mario Land 2. He was designed by Hiroji Kiyotake, who also created Samus Aran, the heroine of the Metroid series. Wario's name blends Mario with the Japanese adjective 'warui' meaning evil.10. The first Super Mario Bros game has sold 40.24 million copies, although that figure is skewed by the fact that it was bundled with the Nintendo Entertainment System console. It was until recently, however, considered the best-selling game of all time. It has been pushed into second place by Wii Sports on 41.65 million units.11. Super Mario Bros was the first game to be set in Mushroom World, Miyamoto's long-running and ever-evolving fantasy kingdom. When Mario 'eats' a super mushroom he grows in size and ability. Miyamoto denies that he was influenced by Alice in Wonderland, and instead claims the idea came from enchanted foodstuffs in myths and folklore.12. In the 1984 Nintendo Entertainment System game Golf, Mario made his first appearance in a sports sim. Kind of. The original character merely resembled Mario, while the later NES Open Tournament Golf specifically featured Mario as a golfer. He appears on the cover in red and white striped overalls, with a blue starry shirt. An awesome outfit.13. Nintendo composer Koji Kondo provided the iconic soundtrack to Super Mario Bros. The main theme, known as 'Ground Theme', is one of the most recognisable pieces of game music ever recorded. The tune remained in the Billboard ringtone charts for 125 weeks and has been performed in concert by live orchestras. (Morehere.)14. The original Super Mario Bros 2 was designed as a tougher version of the first game and released to support the Famicom Disk System, a new add-on for the Japanese version of the Nintendo Entertainment System. It was considered too difficult for Western release, though, so the US and Europe got a tweaked version of the 1987 title Yume Kojo: Doki Doki Panic instead. The game was hastily refitted with Mario characters in a sort of digital cut-and-shut job. In 1993, the genuine SMB2 was finally released in the West as Super Mario Bros: the Lost Levels, part of the Super Mario All-Stars collection.15. A Q Score survey in the early nineties revealed that Mario was more recognisable to American children than Mickey Mouse.16. Footage from Super Mario Bros 3 appears in the climatic scene of appalling 1989 movie, The Wizard, about an emotionally withdrawn gaming champion. As this was the first chance that US Nintendo fanatics would get to see the game, the movie effectively acted as an advert for the release.17. The new Chain Chomp enemies in Super Mario Bros 3 look like steel black balls with razor sharp teeth. They were inspired by an incident in Miyamoto's childhood when a neighbour's dog chased the terrified genius, before it was yanked back by its chain.18. Elsewhere, the Whomp characters from Super Mario 64 were inspired by a mythological being known as the nurikabe, a 'wall ghost' that misdirects or impedes travellers at night.19. ...and the versions of the ghostly Boo enemies found in Super Mario 64, are based on the wife of the game's co-designer Takashi Tezuka. As Miyamoto explained in an interview with Nintendo Power magazine: "Mr. Tezuka got an idea about putting his wife in the game. His wife is very quiet normally, but one day she exploded, maddened by all the time he spent at work. In the game, there is now a character who shrinks when Mario looks at it, but when Mario turns away, it will grow large and menacing."20. Released in 1989, the Game Boy title Super Mario Land was the first major Mario game to be developed without Miyamoto. Producer Gunpei Yokoi didn't do too badly however: the game shifted over 18 million copies. The game also introduces a new female character, Princess Daisy, replacing Mario's usual love interest, Princess Peach.21. The 1993 movie, Super Mario Bros, was Hollywood's first attempt to create a video game tie-in. Starring Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper it was a critical and commercial failure, which conspired to give the game a darker, more adult veneer. Apparently, Dustin Hoffman was interested in the role of Mario as his children were fans of the game.22. Since 1995, the voice of Mario has been provided by American voice actor Charles Martinet. He also voices Wario and Luigi.23. The Wii hit Super Mario Galaxy was inspired by a tech demo known as Super Mario 128 shown at the Nintendo Space World event in 2000. The demo showed dozens of teeny Marios walking around on a slightly curved surface. During the Gamecube era Galaxy designer Yoshiaki Koizumi thought that entirely spherical levels would make an interesting environment for Mario, but Miyamoto wasapparentlyunconvinced at first. Finally, Koizumi showed off several test levels and the project was greenlit for Wii.24. The Super Mario bros series is in the Guinness Book of Records as the most successful gaming franchise of all time. It now boasts global sales of over 240 million units.25. Mario has appeared in over 200 video games.
UK top 10 games chart, week ending 11 September 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Mafia II(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (49)32 (10)Tom Clancy's H.A.W.X. 2(12+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (48)23 (2)Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (49)PC (1)44 (4)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (46)Wii (20)PS3 (15)Xbox 360 (15)95 (–)Tetris Party Deluxe (3+)DS (70)Wii (30)16 (–)Spider-man: Shattered Dimensions(12+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)Wii (1)DS (1)17 (–)Kingdom Hearts: Birth By Sleep (12+)PSP (100)18 (–)R.U.S.E.(16+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (40)PC (17)19 (9)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (29)Wii (4)1710 (5)Red Dead Redemption(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)17Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
The weather is getting cooler, the nights drawing in and the big games are starting to arrive. This weekend's gaming was a case in point with Halo: Reach and Dead Rising 2 both arriving. This made my relatively limited time to play both even more frustrating. My early impressions of Reach were good - it won't disappoint the fans and looks bloody marvellous. It does take itself VERY seriously though. Are you really worrying about the futility of war in the middle of an exhilarating firefight? I certainly wasn't. The choral soundtrack kicks in regularly too, reminding you of the supposed seriousness of the action.Far less serious is Dead Rising 2. Again I only had a brief go on this - sadly - but lengthy loading times and numerous cut-scenes were not the best re-introduction to the zombie-bashing feast. Like the original though the incessant undead barrage soon makes for mindlessly enjoyable fun. There seems to be more depth in the sequel too. More thoughts on this soon.Anyway, how was your gaming weekend?
