Got a golem?TheGolem@HomeProject, based at Brandeis University, is an attempt to evolve artificial robotic life-forms using the power of millions of PCs. You can join in by downloading a screensaver (Windows 95/98 only) which includes the Golem program. Every week or two, your PC will exchange up to three colourful tubular creatures at random with another PC on the net. The researchers say: "The central Golem server does not collect results. We rely on the fact that 'good' creatures will survive long enough to eventually reach us by migration."Golem is supposed to stand for Genetically Organized Lifelike Electro Mechanics. Orignally it was a mythical automaton made of clay.BloomersCombine the silly misprints and humorous pictures used by newspapers with video "bloomers" and you have the beginnings of a hysterically funny website. Being on the web, it can be ruder and cruder than traditional publications and TV programmes. The anonymous editor(s) say: "What the hell does 3BP stand for? It doesn't... Those bastards took all the domain names!!" Seewww.3bp.com.In your viewThe BBC wants licence payers to comment on its plans for an online education service or "digital curriculum". The proposal document has been sent to public libraries and can also be obtained by phoning 0808 100 4900. The website has supporting video clips and a questionnaire atwww.bbc.co.uk/consult.I spyGlobeXplorer has launched what it claims is the world's largest online archive of aerial and satellite pictures and the only "on-line, real-time" commercial service, atwww.GlobeXplorer.com. The clever thing is the way images are linked to MapQuest maps. Unfortunately both maps and images are far too small, navigation is hopeless, and there is actually very little detailed coverage outside the US.I spy tooAmerica's Central Intelligence Agency has a Fine Arts Commission, and this has exhibited a selection of objects from a private collection of more than 4,000 items related to movie and TV spy fiction. The CIA has now putThe Spy Fi Archives: 40 Years of TV and Movie Spy Fiction on the web. It is, it must be said, a very small collection of pictures, but it does include, from The Avengers, one of the most devastating weapons known to man: Mrs Peel's leather trousers.Blinding flashCan't wait for Whistler? Wish you had a Mac Aqua-style system instead? WindowBlinds is a well-established "skinning" utility that lets users change the appearance of Microsoft Windows, and popular skins now include the next version of Windows 2000 (code-named Whistler), and several "liquid" interfaces like Aqua, the front end for Apple's long-delayed Unix-based Mac OS X. Go towww.windowblinds.net.RivalsHere's a good idea for a site: create a directory for the hundreds of independent fan sites covering football, cricket, rugby union, cycling, Formula One and so on. That's what Rivals does atwww.rivals.net. The mystery is that there's only one site for each football club or Formula One team, and so on. That must leave room for a rival to Rivals...New and notedVirgin Radio is hosting the official UK site for the latest Jim Carrey movie, Me, Myself &amp; Irene, opening tomorrow. Seewww.memyselfandirene.co.uk. TMA Ventures, the commercial arm of the Telecoms Managers Association, has launchedThe Technology Channel, which helps users calculate phone tariffs. You can't top up your pay-as-you-go mobile there, but you can do that atwww.fastbeat.com, which supports BT Cellnet, Vodafone, Orange and One-2-One and Virgin services. Finally, Amazon UK now lets you click to add things to a "wishlist". Instead of a shopping basket: friends can look it up when buying you presents Seewww.amazon.co.uk/wishlist.Six of the bestOlympicsOfficial sitewww.olympics.com/engSend fanmailwww.fanmail.olympic.ibm.comBBC newshttp://news.bbc.co.uk/sport/hi/english/olympics2000Yahoo's specialsports.yahoo.com/olyUnlimited coveragewww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/sydneyJust the factswww.ausport.gov.au/factmenu.html
The screens have gone blank this week at Pseudo.com. The pioneering streaming video and audio company failed to find a business partner willing to pump in fresh cash.This is another high-profile collapse in the troubled online media sector.Pseudo, founded by Jupiter Communications founder and aspiring performance artist Josh Harris, was one of New York's first generation of internet companies. Its demise - with the loss of 175 jobs - brings an unceremonious end to the content programming studio that was launched in 1994 and fired an early a salvo at the mainstream media industry.The company's prospects for survival had been in doubt for months, due largely to the deadly combination of high running costs and low traffic.Despite its high profile, Pseudo never attracted enough visitors to be measurable by Media Metrix, which only starts monitoring sites with more than 200,000 visitors a month. Even the company's much publicised broadcast of the Republican and Democratic conventions this year did little to boost traffic.Pseudo's programming often reflected the eccentricities of its founder and was targeted to an urban audience interested in fare ranging from hip hop music to video   games to alternative underground culture. Early next month, Harris had planned to broadcast his life, and that of his model girlfriend Tanya, from his vast SoHo apartment, which had been wired with cameras and microphones in every room.Harris, who owns 20% of the failed company, was already an internet millionaire from his founding stake in Jupiter, an internet consultancy. He began Pseudo in 1994 as an extension of his multimedia experiments on the Prodigy online service.Pseudo started out as an online radio station before expanding to video, but was also known for the massive parties that often became part of the programming itself. Many were held in Harris's home.Pseudo had been looking for $40m in new investment since July to stay afloat, but with running costs of more than $2m a month, and its position in a dot.com sector regarded as even more precarious than many, investors were shy of pumping in more money.The most serious suitor was understood to be Pacific Century CyberWorks, the London-based broadband content firm owned by Richard Li. He had owned satellite broadcaster StarTV before selling it to Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.Last May, Pseudo had raised $14m from a roster of investors including the media arm of French luxury conglomerate LVMH. However, LVMH was not prepared to open its wallet a second time."Our investors have been great," said former CNN executive and Pseudo chief executive Bohrman, "but there's only so much in good faith you can ask. They put in a fair amount of money the first time, but you realise you need fresh investors. If it was a small amount to complete a deal that was secure, fine. But no one in this market was stepping in."After the announcement Harris said that it was a "Woulda-shoulda-coulda" situation. "Maybe it was ahead of its time."Last autumn, Pseudo's plans to go public were scrapped after then-CEO Larry Lux left the company.Bohrman took the position   with plans to refocus Pseudo toward more mainstream fare, including daily webcasts devoted to finance, technology and sports.The new model was to be a 24-hour marriage of MTV and news-style broadcasting. But that too failed to ignite   interest and 60 employees were fired earlier this summer.Pseudo's failure highlights the difficulties now being faced by online content companies.Lou Dobbs, former CNN financial news anchor and a friend of Bohrman, said he   was saddened but not surprised by Pseudo's collapse. "I expect we'll see more victims of two fundamental market forces: capital markets that expect an accelerated path to profitability, and an advertising market that demands a higher rate of delivery."
Moralists and net-nanny software hucksters have put a lot of effort into convincing the public that our kids are unsafe on the internet and that we need to put strict controls on what people can see.Let's be clear: this is about censorship.These people generally don't like sexual material even for adults, and they like to exploit our fears for children to try to make us think that the rights and even needs of adults have to be put aside in order to protect the kiddies.They certainly don't want us to give any serious thought to whether the material in question is really harmful to young people, and they hope they can make us feel it isn't any good for adults, either.They want to find some way to block the things they don't like, if not on the net as a whole than at least in public   libraries and on school online systems - even at universities.And net-nanny software is a truly fine example of how censorship really works. To begin with, it provides a Trojan horse to censor other materials that we didn't have in mind. You might think you are protecting your kids from hardcore pornography, but most of the censorware out there is designed by people with an extensive political agenda, and they will be stopping far more than you imagined.Bennett Haselton, founder of thePeacefire Teen Anti-Censorship, has found quite a few strange inclusions in the lists of things the software designers don't want kids or academics to look at. They include the National Organisation for Women, the American Civil Liberties Union, Feminists Against Censorship, and,   unsurprisingly, the Peacefire site.This is particularly impressive when you consider that civil liberties and censorship issues - and even pornography - have become major academic subjects across disciplines, studied even by fairly young teens.Feminists Against Censorship routinely gets letters from students asking for information on all of these subjects, for civics classes, media studies, sociology and psychology courses, among others.The censors do, of course, want us not to be able to talk   about sex. They'd prefer if teenagers couldn't look things up or ask people about their fears and feelings about sex. They pretend that kids won't absorb all sorts of misinformation without the use of the internet.Indeed, they would be happier if adults went on in ignorance. They even invent phony science to convince us that letting people look at sexual images will turn us all into rapists. They have yet to acknowledge that rape existed before the camera and the printing press were invented.Almost any blocking system is going to stop things you didn't have in mind. Some systems block any words perceived as inappropriately sexual, so you find that you can't sign on if you come from Scunthorpe, you can't talk about breast cancer, and recently a woman discovered she couldn't   register with a system because her name was Sherril Babcock. After they told her she had to change her name, she signed on successfully as Sherril Babpenis.On the other hand, a systems administrator of my acquaintance is still trying to convince his employers that they really don't need software that stops him from accessing the websites of some of their suppliers, such as Hewlett-Packard. We have no idea why HP is blocked, since the only thing the software is supposed to stop is pornography.Which of course leads us to the next question: Does this stuff at least do what it's supposed to do?Well, no, of course not. Most pornographic images aren't labelled "pornography", so you can't stop pictures merely by blocking words. How many pin-ups have all the parts labelled? To block all porn, you would have to   look at every single page, and every single image, and put it in the database. There are millions of images and articles on the net, and no one could possibly look at all of them.The idea that software could ever be sophisticated enough to be able to identify pornographic images is sheer fantasy, since there are no parameters it could meet that wouldn't also block most other human images, at the very least.All of which might be terrifying if it wasn't for one simple, under-reported fact: No one has ever been able to demonstrate that anyone, of   any age, is harmed by seeing pornography. What is pretty clearly demonstrated by sex crime data and clinical evidence is that sexual repression can do far more harm than good. If we are constantly telling kids that sexual images are bad, we are giving them some pretty terrible messages about sex.Should we be worrying about what our kids see on the net? I think the answer is, "Not very much." Keeping lines of communication open between you and your children is a lot more useful than trying to close their lines of communication with the world. And don't let them get their hands on your credit card number.&#149; Avedon Carol is a founding member of Feminists Against Censorship and author of Nudes, Prudes and Attitudes: Pornography and Censorship.Seewww.fiawol.demon.co.uk/FAC
Violent endsThe games industry is guilty of selling violent games to underage children in defiance of its own rating system, according to a report by America's Federal Trade Commission. The report, Marketing Of Violent Entertainment To Children, also finds the motion picture and music industries culpable.Surveys found that unaccompanied children   aged 13 to 16 were able to buy explicit recordings and mature-rated video games from retailers 85% of the time. Almost half the cinemas allowed these unaccompanied under-age children to see R-rated (restricted) films.The report recommends action by the industry but makes no legislative recommendations to Congress. The 409KB file of the report (pdf format) can be downloaded fromwww.ftc.gov/opa/2000/09/youthviol.htm.Eidos awaitsEidos's chairman, Ian Livingstone, has told the company's annual general meeting: "We have a highly anticipated line-up of games still to come in this fiscal year, including Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?, Chicken Run, Hitman, Startopia, Project IGI, 102 Dalma tians, Anachronox, and new instalments in the Tomb Raider and Championship Manager franchises, together with sequels to Fear Effect, Commandos and Gangsters. Scheduled PlayStation 2 releases are to include TimeSplitters, Soul Reaver 2, Herdy Gerdy and Eden."Norns wildNorns, the artificial life forms that inhabitCreature Labsprograms, will be released on the web in November.The British company plans to release Creatures Docking Station software that will "dock" with Creatures 3 on the PC. It will also let net users play with Norns even if they do not have the program.The title's producer, Mark Ashton, describes this as "the world's largest artificial life    experiment". Creature Labs also has plans for a website atwww.creaturesvillage.comfor players aged six to 10, when it releases Creatures Playground, the second Creatures   game designed for children.America's Swing! Entertainment has signed up to publish Creatures for the Nintendo Gamecube and Game Boy Advance.Kick aboutRage, one of the UK's leading software houses, has put its new football management game one the web for users to test. There's a limit of 10,000 players. Check to see if the quota has been filled atwww.internetfootballclub.com/beta.Tokyo gamingThe Tokyo Games Show opens tomorrow, and the news-zine Game Informer expects to see 94 titles for the Sony PlayStation, 65 for the PS2, 49 for Nintendo's Game Boy Color, 18 for Game Boy Advance, and 16 for Sega Dreamcast. Of these, 56 will be action games, with 53 simulations, 40 role-playing games (RPGs), and 32 sports games. Ssswww.gameinformer.com/news/news_story.cfm?NEWS_ID=3284.
Nice try, but it's the wrong sort of tackleRugby 2001Windows 95/98	&#163;34.99 The Creative Assembly/EARugby games are rare, and this is the best since Codemasters published Rage's Jonah Lomu Rugby for Sony's PlayStation in April 1997.Unfortunately, it isn't quite as much fun, partly because a PC keyboard is less suitable for this type of game than a console gamepad.EA's Rugby 2001 scores in sound and graphics. At high resolutions, the PC graphics   are very good, though the players are not particularly recognisable and the crowd has not been given much attention. The worst thing is the camera movement: the viewpoint swings around following the play in a way that almost makes you seasick. Not even changing the default view to sideline cam or isometric cam makes it behave.The sound, however, includes an outstanding commentary from Bill McLaren and former England and New Zealand centre Jamie Salmon. If only soccer commentators were as frank and honest.In most respects, Rugby 2001 is easy to play, and you can score fabulous solo tries, if you can just manage to pick up the ball. But as usual, the ruck and maul aspect of the game is nothing like as well handled as the kicking and    passing. The Creative Assembly, based in Sussex, did the PC version of EA's Rugby World Cup 1995 then developed Australian Rugby League (ARL96), Australian Rules Football (AFL 98 and 99), and EA Sports' Cricket World Cup 99, before branch ing out with Shogun:Total War.The market for minority sports sims is not very competitive, so Rugby 2001 should satisfy the fans.However, it does not have the playability to satisfy a less committed audience.  (JS)Flash, bang, wallop, what a Pok&eacute;mon!Pok&eacute;mon  SnapNintendo 64 	&#163;49.99  NintendoThe Pok&eacute;mon craze shows little sign of abating with Nintendo extending the franchise to the N64.Following the gladiatorial battles of Stadium is Pok&eacute;mon Snap - a very different take on the phenomenon. Rather than release a simple cash-in (like the Yellow Game Boy version), Nintendo has gone for a unique gaming experience.The aim is simple: explore Pok&eacute;mon Island and take photographs of all the inhabitants. Then, back in the lab, the photos are marked for pose and size, with rewards including new courses and goodies. Your vehicle is set on rails with no control over   direction, but there is plenty to be getting on with.Throw food to get that perfect "Pok&eacute;mon at lunch" pose? Lob a pester ball and snuff out that hidden Bulbusaur? Or play the flute and take a high-scoring dancing picture? Strategy takes over surprisingly quickly and you'll need to use combinations of food, music and annoyance to get a successful album.You can save your best snaps for posterity, but with only six courses and (criminally) only 63 out of 151 Pok&eacute;mon involved, there are genuine longevity issues. While there is a real incentive to "snap 'em all", it is likely that the Game Boy will be bought out sooner than many parents would have hoped.Still, while it lasts, Pok&eacute;mon Snap is absorbing fun and it's a shame that it will be ignored by anyone aged over 10. Although it's too cutesy, the actual premise of the game is highly original and worthy of a wider audience.  (GH)Fun for those foul-mouthed gun fanaticsTeam BuddiesSony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99 Studio Camden/SonyGuns are fun. That's the message of this game, in which the tranquil world of the Buddies is plunged into bloody chaos when Baddies introduce them to the joys of high-powered weaponry.The Buddies are basically pills with legs; think the Homepride bloke minus his bowler. They're smiley, they're   happy, and they live to dance - that is, until the Baddies begin their evil experiment.But it's not all about running round and shooting things; there's a significant strategic element too. Crates fall from the skies . By carrying these to   construction pads and arranging them, the Buddies build up their forces. One crate gets you a bog-standard Uzi, two stacked build a new Buddy, and a stack of eight turns into a tank.The principles are simple.   Putting them into practice is a different kettle of fish. Every button on the joypad has at least one use, and the in-game tutorial consists of no nine sections. It takes a while to get the hang of, but the mayhem that ensues is worth it.So who's it aimed at? Not kids, if the Buddies' cheery refrain of "f***in' 'ell" is anything to go by.While up to four can join in the mayhem, it needs too much thinking for this to be a mindless post-pub hit.It will be a shame if Team Buddies does fall between demographic stools, because it's frantic, foul-mouthed and funny - if a tad too clever for its own good.  (AB)
It was an eventful Apple Expo 2000 last week in Paris, with the company's chief executive Steve Jobs rolling into town to unveil a test version of the new Mac OS X and a series of more powerful iBook laptop computers.The event was marred by a flood in the main exhibition hall, caused by a faulty fire sprinkler system, which left many booths - including Apple's - under two inches of water.The new iBooks laptops don't float, but are beefed up after criticism that previous versions have been short on power. The processor on the entry level iBook is now a 366MHz G3, with a 10GB hard drive and 64MB of memory as standard.A special edition version has a faster 466MHz G3 processor, high-speed FireWire port and DVD drive. All versions come with the video editing package iMovie 2.The standard iBook costs &#163;1062, and the special edition &#163;1275, ex VAT.Following the pattern of the recently revamped iMac desktop range, the new iBooks are available in new colours - indigo and lime. The special edition comes in graphite or lime.Also unveiled was the first beta version of the new Mac OS X, a complete re-write of the Mac operating system which will radically change the way the machines work and look on screen.Unlike many beta versions which are free, the Mac OS X beta will cost &#163;24.95. It will also need a mammoth 128MB of memory to run, which may cause some upset among Mac users. Even the latest Macs only have half the necessary memory fitted as standard.The new OS is expected to be realised in its final version in the first quarter of next year.
Could it really have been so simple? Not so long ago, a couple of guys would come up with an idea for an internet start-up, have a lot of cash thrown at them to buy brand recognition, and as much time as they wanted in which to become profitable. Taking their cue from the US, most dot.com companies over here tried to get one round of seed funding followed by two or three rounds of venture capital to tide them over until flotation.Not any more. As venture capital becomes thinner on the ground and valuations of   floated start-ups consistently fail to set the market alight as they once did, the "trade sale" is back in fashion. Selling off the business is fast becoming part of the long-term plan, rather than a necessary measure after suffering bankruptcy further down the line.In the summer, an ill wind began blowing away the prospects of many a UK and European dot.com company. Boo.com, ClickMango, ToyCity and most recently Dressmart.com all joined the growing list of start-ups running out of cash, as PriceWaterhouseCoopers promised many would, in its report in May.Now, more research published by the management consultancy last week suggests time is also running out for start-ups to fulfil any aspirations of growth and market share, as the period allowed for profitability begins to shrink rapidly. "Dot.coms are no longer able to coast along on the promise of profits without making any money," the report says. "While this pressure has been growing for some time and there have been some high-profile dot.com failures, many are only now realising they are soon to be judged on a traditional price/earnings ratio.   The time-scale is three years and closing."Many have begun to recognise that only a trade sale will put them in a position to cope with these new demands, and this summer has seen a number of high-profile deals.First Tuesday, the networking organisation responsible for galvanising so many dot.com ideas on this side of the Atlantic, was sold to an Israeli venture underwriter, Yazam, in July for $50m.Co-founder John Browning, says the company decided to sell despite offers of venture capital, because the prospect of faster growth via an established infrastructure was so attractive. "The sale gave us more global offices, in-house expertise and more product offerings. We could have tried this on our own, but it would have taken a year. And in this market, a year is a long time."It also meant bypassing the ordeal of having its intangible services put through the City wringer to seek a subjective valuation. Browning says many industry watchers missed the point and accused First Tuesday of "selling out", rather than just selling.Somehow, amid the hype of the e-commerce explosion, a myth got written into industry folklore: nothing less than an initial public offering will do. The IPO would be the exit strategy of choice, converting the founders' paper millions into real ones and returning the venture capitalists' stake - plus some.However, a focus on US trends, encouragement from investment banks, venture capitalists and incubators plus hype from the press all played a part in sustaining this myth.Robert Conway of PriceWaterhouseCoopers financial advisory services agrees. "In Silicon Valley, everyone wants to float on Nasdaq. Six months ago everyone thought that would happen here. Now the bubble has burst, you can't IPO a company without a robust revenue stream."A company that came to exemplify the trials and tribulations of bringing a start-up to market is the UK video-on-demand provider, Yes TV. In April, following the correction in telecoms media and technology stocks, it twice put off a &#163;560m flotation on the Stock Exchange. Forced to cut the intended flotation price by 30%, it scrapped the offering the following month, just two days before trading was scheduled to commence.Similarly, Chello Broadband, the internet service provider owned by Dutch cable company United Pan-Europe Communications, spent months preparing to float on the Amsterdam stock exchange, then opted   for a merger with the non-US assets of Excite, in July.But forAce-Quote, an UK-based online marketplace for the IT and telecoms industries, the decision to sell came much earlier. It was first approached just before Christmas by DCI, a successful German company, operating in the same industry and listed on the Neuer Markt exchange, after only six months' trading, and while still searching for first round venture capital. The founders finally gave in to DCI's advances in May for &#163;33m."We never got to the VC part," recalls Helga St Blaize, co-founder of Ace-Quote. "But we certainly saw how difficult it was going to be to get funding. We knew dot.coms would have to start behaving in a   grown-up fashion." This desire to be seen to be grown-up has prompted others to consider a trade sale, an option sought by both private and already floated companies, particularly the rapidly consolidating European internet service provider sector.Enter World Online. The Dutch ISP that floated on the exchange steeped in ignominy in March, saw its shares dive from their initial &euro; 43 to as little as &euro; 10 in May, after it emerged that founder Nina Brink had sold a substantial part of her stake before the IPO. Now the loss-making ISP is considering an offer from Italian giant Tiscali.Gerry Montanus, senior partner at Atlas Ventures, sees both offensive and defensive trade sales as a growing consideration over the coming year. "It is more of a challenge now than in the past, to get private funding. For listed companies with high market capitalisation, it will be advantageous to them to pick up companies operating in areas they want to access."
What computers or computers do you own or remember owning?Two Dell desktop PCs, a Compaq Presario, a Toshiba laptop, a Palm V. The worst thing that could happen is for computers to be seriously designed, to become beautiful; then I'd start buying one a week. My first computer was an Amstrad with double floppy disk drives you had to boot up each time. It was really primitive and so frustrating that I used to go to bed at night and dream in DOS.Any favourite software?Powerpoint because I give lots of presentations. I spend hours going through the design templates which look like they were created by Barry White and the Love Unlimited Orchestra, all rococo kitsch, trying to choose the most vulgar ones!How is the internet affecting television production?Instead of just four terrestrial channels, we now have thousands of competitors and niche broadcasting is proliferating rapidly. Some examples arewww.earthnoise.com, a portal for people to post their documentary or drama videos, andwww.quokka.com, which has expertise in extreme sports, windsurfing, yachting, martial arts. The net makes broadcasting comparatively cheap and easy. In response, Channel 4 has transformed itself into a multimedia corporation with a strong online presence and new division developing a whole range of TV/internet/interactive enhancements and programmes... Big Brother was our first major success.Do you shop on the Net?Too much! I do most of my banking Online, buy some food and get drink fromwww.Lastorders.com, clothes, records, books, especially old and out of print books from Amazon, and I like to look in on the auction sites likewww.QXL.comandEbay.com. It's a good way to spot trends. But when I caught myself wanting to bid for a lipograph, a lipstick print on a tissue by Diana Ross, I thought: "Good God, man, get a grip!"Do you visit any chatrooms or clubs Online?I spend time inwww.motleyfool.co.uk, an unofficial and perverse version of the Financial Times; it's the place to go to dig the dirt. I also likewww.webmonkey.com, where website and navigation designers hang out. TheDigital Thinking Networkis an online community where people try to imagine and solve the problems of a digital era through complex scenarios, part of a post graduate course set up by Rotterdam University.Is there such a thing as electronic art?Absolutely, and it happens on three levels: fine art, popular or commercial art and community arts. A site I'm hooked on iswww.soulbath.com, a cheeky, intriguing site that plays tricks with you - icons jump away when you try to click on them. And atwww.icebox.com, a US site, they have the best in post-Simpson's, post-Southpark animation; and a Glasgow based company, theDigital Animation Groupis a world pioneer in 3D avatars.
Crusoe ahoySony could be the first notebook PC supplier to launch a system powered by Transmeta's new Crusoe processor, instead of an Intel or AMD chip. But when Sony showed off a wide range of forthcoming products at its annual European sales conference, held in Venice last week, the PCG-C1VE was overshadowed by other devices. These included the Clie palmtop (What's New, September 7), a new Cybershot digital camera, and the feature-packed J5 mobile phone.The C1VE notebook is small: it has much the same casing as the PCG-1, and the same swivelling Motion Eye camera built in to the lid. And with its 600MHz Crusoe chip, 128 megabytes of memory and 12GB hard drive, the C1VE packs a lot of power into a 1kg package. However, the Crusoe chip's compatibility remains to be proven, and Sony was claiming a only 2.5 hour battery life for its notebook. This is a lot less than the 10-12 hours we expected from the Crusoe's power-saving design.With an estimated price of &#163;1,499 plus VAT when it appears   around the end of October, the C1VE may find it hard to win sales.The reverse could well be true with the new PCG-SR11K notebook PC, which is not quite as small but looks more stylish. The SR11K has a 600MHz Intel Pentium III SpeedStep chip instead of the Crusoe, a 10.4in instead of a 9in screen, and Microsoft Windows 2000 instead of Windows Me. It also comes with an external CD-rom drive that costs extra on the C1VE, and while it is a little shorter on memory and hard disk space (64MB, 10GB), it still only weighs 1.36kg.The CMD-J5 mobile phone is like the Z5 launched in June but offers even more features. For example, it lets you record your own ring, so you could use your dog's bark or your better half's titter. It has Tegic's predictive T9 software for fast text entry, and the SMS capability has been extended so you can send images and sounds to other J5 owners, as well as text messages. Like the Z5, the J5 includes Microsoft's Microbrowser, so it can handle HTML as well as Wap pages.Sony had to admit that the J5 could not talk to its Palm-compatible Clie electronic organiser, but said that when the Clie appears in the UK next year, it will.Both new notebook PCs, the Clie, and the J5 phone have slots for Sony Memory Sticks. All four also have Jog Dials, Sony's circular menuing system.The new DSC-P1 camera uses Memory Sticks too, and Sony claims this has helped it make this Cybershot model noticeably small for a 3.34 megapixel camera. The design is unusual because the 3x zoom lens is right at the end of the body, but the whole thing is only 113mm long. The P1 Cybershot can be used to produce images from 640 by 480 pixels (VGA resolution) up to 2,048 by 1,536 pixels, and it can also record short MPEG movies.Sony also showed many other new products: video cameras, a projector, an electronic photo printer, a Digital8 Video Walkman, more notebook PCs and even some desktop PCs. (The desktops are already on sale in the US and Japan, and will eventually reach the UK.) And if the stream of new gadgets grew tiring after a while, we could at least be grateful for the absence of new audio and hi-fi systems, video recorders, TV sets, television set-top boxes and other Sony devices from the Aibo robotic dog to PlayStation 2 games console.At least it makes sense of Sony's design strategy. It has to make all its gizmos as small as possible so that customers still have room to buy more.Born in the UKMost British people are not descended from Americans, but no one would know this from the American genealogy software sold in the UK.   However, Sierra Home - an American subsidiary of France's Havas Interactive - has finally done something about it. It is releasing its Generations software in two localised editions. Generations Starter Kit 8.0 UK Version provides everything most people need, and comes on 11 CDs. Generations Grande Suite 8.0 UK Version includes a lot more data on 20 CDs. It is the one to get if you really need the Magna Charta Sureties, Griffith's Valuation, and various historical records such as the UK Deeds Index Database, the US Civil War Muster Rolls, and the Titanic passenger list. The Starter version goes on sale tomorrow for Microsoft Windows 95/98.Sounds safeSmart cards would be more secure if they could only be used to the sound of their master's voice. Domain Dynamics, based near Swindon, has now shown that this is possible by developing voice authentication soft  ware small enough to fit on to an 8KB smart card. The system uses Domain Dynamics' Tespar (time encoded signal processing and recognition) technology to store a template of the card owner's voice. The user provides a speech sample, which is then processed and checked against the template stored on the card. Ian Taylor, a director of the company, says mobile commerce is an obvious application but can "foresee a range of applications from access control for confidential data to payments made via TV set-top box or PC". Domain Dynamics is now looking for companies to license the technology for various devices. Seewww.ddl.ision.co.uk
DomainsYour correspondents Sean Dodson and Patrick Barkham assert, in their article Why the net is not invited to Sydney (September 14), that "although Planet Scotland is not trading in the US it is still subject to US jurisdiction because the domain, like all other domain names, is ultimately US registered".But all domain names are not ultimately US registered. Domains that are country-specific such as guardian.co.uk or amazon.fr are registered in their respective countries, and each country maintains the right to create sub-domains of its own national top-level domains (TLDs).I doubt that Britain had to consult the US for permission to create the domains royal.uk or parliament.uk!As for the traditionally "American" TLDs such as .com, .org and .net, these are no longer under the sole control of Network Solutions, and you can register a domain under one of these TLDs in a number of countries, including Britain, France and Australia.Dr David Harperadh@sanger.ac.ukBT defendedReading in your columns the various moans from disaffected internet users, you would think that British Telecom was guilty of single-handedly holding back hi-tech Britain. This, obviously, is not so. That honour has to be shared, surely, between the dot.com companies with such dubious ideas, a heavy handed government and, most of all, all those here-today-gone-tomorrow internet service providers who promised net users the earth, but delivered nothing. In all this, British Telecom might have acted slowly with things like high speed internet access and a flat rate for internet calls. But at least    it has not acted in haste and promised what it could not deliver or, even worse, endangered the telephone system. Who would you rather have running Britain's telephone network: BT or AltaVista?Robert Osbornerobertosborne51@hotmail.comMac problemsOnline's comment about Mac users having fewer problems may well be true, though I have to say that I've had more problems with my iMac than with earlier models. However, it cannot be said loud enough that the Mac system files are very easy for an amateur to get the hang of, and when there are problems there is an excellent library of advice on the Apple website:www.apple.com/support.Philip Bowlerpgbowler@emirates.net.aeCD rightGeorge Kitchin (Feedback, September 14) thinks it hardly worth bothering to buy CD-roms any more.The fact that CD-RWs are usable only on the machine that wrote them is a reason to bother, I would have thought, especially, perhaps, if you are using CD-RW for backup.Conrad Corkconradcork@tadleyewing.co.ukPaid for letterSimon Bisson's article, An easier way to turn clicks so cash, featured details of WorldPay as an example of a provider of online payment solutions.However, Planet Payment outperforms WorldPay in all the areas mentioned in the article.Planet Payment operates in 140 countries; takes a lower handling fee than WorldPay; through partnerships offers e-business solutions in all five continents; is allied with a large, international network of acquiring banks, including NatWest; offers its payment solutions to the mobile internet; and can multi-currency enable any merchant within minutesOK, I'm biased as I represent Planet Payment. But let the above facts speak for themselves.Darren Nesbethdarrenn@buchanan.uk.com
HSBC bank faced an internet security scare today when a hacker defaced several of its website pages.The hacker broke into the bank's British home page and posted a picture of prime minister Tony Blair and a message in support of the recent fuel protests.Sites in Spain and Greece were also affected.The hacker, who identified himself as Herbless, has been behind a string of similar recent attacks on websites - including several local government agency sites and Legoland.co.uk.A spokesman for HSBC described the breach as "an embarrassment", but added that the hacker did not have access to customers' records.He said that the violated website was maintained by a third-party company that he refused to name."We are talking actively to that third party supplier about what has happened and how it has come about," he said.Online banking services, where customers can make transactions and access their accounts, are maintained by HSBC internally."No transaction data has been affected. But it is an embarrassment and a nuisance and obviously we will try and take care that it does not happen again," he said.
Tesco likes to do things in a big way. Britain's largest grocer, it has also grabbed thetop spot in cyberspace.  Yesterday it claimed 750,000 registered customers and the strongest penetration in the world through 90% coverage of the British market.Orders taken byTesco.comare running at60,000 per weekwhich brings in sales worth &#163;5m every seven days. Like-for-like growth is up 100% in the first six months of this year with demand escalating strongly since the creation of the website in April.In Britain 300 of the 759 Tesco stores offer dot.com deliveries, mainly food but increasingly other goods including books, CDs and mobile phones. Personal finance products are sold on the web, too.Tesco also has an arrangement withGrattansfor mail order sales and has agreed a joint venture withi-Villagethe women's internet site.While rival food retailers such asSainsburyhave been struggling to find the right formula for online sales, analysts believe Tesco benefited from six years of home shopping experience. Sainsbury, under new chief executiveSir Peter Davis, is aiming to cover 60% of the country by next March through the relaunch of "Sainburystoyou".Tesco based its dot.com operation on a store-by-store basis rather than dedicated distribution centres. These proved difficult for Sainsbury which is now using depots and local stores.Tesco claims its success is based around asophisticated computer modelwhich ensures the supply chain works smoothly. David Reid, deputy chairman, says half the online turnover is from new customers; the rest from existing customers spending more. Next up is to follow up aggressive physical expansion worldwide with a rollout of its online services, starting in Dublin.
Surfers using the internet's most popular portal,Yahoo!, will no longer be advised to buy books atAmazon.comafter a parting of the ways between the two big-name hi-tech companies.Amazon walked away from its partnership with Yahoo! after the end of a three-year agreement on Monday.Under the tie-up, anyone entering a query on Yahoo! was offered the chance to buy books on the subject at Amazon.The end of the agreement was seen as a blow to California-based Yahoo! Analysts said several internet vendors had renegotiated agreements with web portals after deciding that the number of customers generated was disappointing.Yahoo said the partnership had been ended "mutually". It moved swiftly to fill the gap, naming Barnesandnoble.com, as its "preferred bookseller" in the US. On other national sites such as Yahoo.co.uk, Amazon will still be recommended in the short term, although there was speculation that agreements elsewhere were likely to be re-examined.Yahoo's president, Jeff Mallett, put a brave face on the news, stressing the potential of the deal with Barnesandnoble.com, even though it has only a third as many customers as Amazon. "This displays our continued commitment to offering convenient, quality resources and services to our millions of users," he said.Barnesandnoble.com is a   joint venture between Barnes &amp; Noble, the US chain of "bricks and mortar" bookshops, and Mannesmann, the telecoms company owned by Vodafone. Barnesandnoble shares surged 30% on hopes the tie-up would raise the profile of the business.Amazon said it intended to concentrate on an alternative agreement with America Online. A spokeswoman said: "This was more compelling to us for a variety of reasons."Amazon is thought likely to have been impressed by AOL's merger with Time Warner, which could offer more opportunities for co-promotion.The online bookseller has been making an effort to cut marketing costs recently, following concerns about its business model.Amazon is often cited as an example of the trend for markets to generate sky-high valuations for dot.com companies with few assets and no record of profits.In addition to being the number one bookseller on the net, Amazon is the leader in selling videos, compact discs and DVDs.AOL's president, Bob Pittman, said: "Amazon.com is one of the best known online retailers in the world and I'm pleased to extend a relationship that has clearly been successful for both of us."Amazon's top selling lists are seen as a bellwether for the popularity of books and music. Among its latest bestsellers are JK Rowling's novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and the Barenaked Ladies' album Maroon.
Leading highstreet retailer Boots has teamed up with internet search engineYahoo!to provide an internet photo service.The joint venture will mean that pictures can be transported quickly and easily and sent via e-mail all over the world.Boots is following the lead of the Netscape technology entrepreneurs Jim Clark and Jim Barksdale, who are hoping to make a fortune from online photo processing companies.Boots is investing &#163;9.5m in the new service. It offers the traditional development and printing of film, and the option to upload pictures onto personal websites for free. Photos will be able to be copied to Yahoo UK and Ireland, so the images can also be sent around that network.Links on the Yahoo site will make it easy for customers to access Boots photo services.Francis Thomas, spokesperson for Boots, said: "Research shows that more and more people will use the technology and send photos online. It is therefore vitally important that Boots has first user advantage. New links with Yahoo gives us another strong link to the internet."The service marks a further move by Boots to diversify away from its chemist origins. The company plans to open fitness centres next year and offer advice on health.The company also hopes that this service will encourage people into their 14,000 stores, where they might be tempted to buy something else as well."It literally is clicks to bricks," Mr Thomas concluded.
The fate of America Online's &#163;80bn merger with media group Time Warner was last night uncertain after it emerged that the European commission will block the deal unless the putative partners are ready to make concessions.The EC is reported to have arrived at a negative decision which the European competition regulator's office will enforce unless the pair make fresh undertakings before September 24.Brussels fears that a deal such as that proposed by AOL-Time Warner would create a company with a near-stranglehold on the delivery of entertainment over the net.The EC warned the companies last month that the deal "would create a dominant position in the markets for online music delivery, music software, internet dial-up access, broadband net access and integrated broadband content."That, it said, would "significantly impede" competition.AOL has already offered to formally sever links with one of its joint-venture partners, German media group Bertelesmann, in an attempt to appease the EC. It has also promised not to exploit its position in the US to expand into Europe for a period of three years after the merger.The EC's competition chief, Mario Monti, is thought to want the two firms to offer rivals access to their enormous content library and to their   proprietary technology for downloading music. The EC yesterday played down the idea that it would block the deal and declined to confirm whether it had already drawn up a negative decision.The EC is also known to have concerns about a related deal - the tie-up between EMI Music and Warner Music.EMI said yesterday it had submitted a "balanced set of remedies" in an effort to calm fears that the merged entity would be too dominant but declined to provide details.There is speculation that the groups have offered to sell some record labels; one source said they had offered to dispose of interests in Spain, France and Denmark, along with other publishing interests.
The battle-hardened betting shop punter is in the process of becoming a dying breed following the internet explosion and advent of digital television which are changing the way people bet.Anyone doubting that the betting shop will eventually become a boarded-up symbol of a bygone age only needs to digest some of the projected figures researched by Lee Richardson, the managing director of Totalbet.com which the Tote operates in partnership with PA Sporting Life.The Tote has recently added pool betting to the fixed odds service already on offer and Richardson forecasts that current internet betting figures will be a mere drop in the ocean compared to the future."Worldwide online betting turnover by 2002 will be over $10bn and the estimated European market is &#163;3bn," said Richardson."To capture a share of that the Tote is setting up an international site based in Malta by early next year. We believe pari-mutuel (tote) is the major betting format for the international market.""Over 47 million households are expected to have Internet access by the year 2003. Already 30% United Kingdom households have it. In April of this year more than one million Internet users came online."The Internet betting customer at the moment is different from the traditional punter who comes from the C, D and E earnings category and is usually aged between 45 and 65. The online customer is much younger and more affluent.Online betting accounts, however, will not just be available on the Internet, but through digital television and mobile phones, and it is here that another explosion is expected.Interactive betting on television through dedicated racing channels will be very big business and with the mobile phone already penetrating more than 50% of the United Kingdom population there is huge growth potential here.With mobiles expected to be able to show racing webcasts linked to internet and digital accounts, the extent of future betting markets are of mind-blowing proportions.No doubt, however, some habituees, loving the atmosphere and company of fellow sufferers, will still prefer to write out their slips.
AOL last night stoked up the war between internet service providers, announcing that unlimited use of the web and free customer support would be available for &#163;15 a month.The company, which held back when rivals rushed in, said its decision followed British Telecom's agreement to offer flat-rate tariffs to ISPs after intervention by industry regulator Oftel.Internet analysts predict AOL's offer will be successful, despite the poor record of unmetered schemesFreeserve offers two unmetered deals; one, in conjunction with BT, offers off-peak only access for &#163;5.99; the other gives free access, but only if users sign up to Energis and clock up &#163;9.99 worth of "voice" calls.One analyst said: "There have been so many scares with poor unmetered access that people will take comfort in being with AOL as it's associated with quality customer service and good access."Matt Peacock, director of corporate communications at AOL UK, said the rise in unmetered access could help fuel an e-commerce boom. Internet users in Britain, he claimed, were reluctant to log on as metered access costs up to 4p-a-minute during peak hours. "75% of people in this country are not online and one of the reasons is they are afraid of the phone bill," he said. "The choice is now down to the consumer, not to BT."
&#149; Wired Chancellor Gerhard Schr&ouml;der yesterday announced a 10-point strategy to boost internet use by Germans, including training for the unemployed and online computers for all schools and libraries. But caution was indicated by a pledge to put all government services on the net within five years - aeons in cyberspace time - and reliance on partnerships with private firms.&#149; Shopping E-business consultancy Nettec is seeking acquisitions in Europe, chief executive Brian Gunn said yesterday in announcing the company's interim results. Turnover grew from &#163;2m to &#163;7.5m from the first half of 1999 but pre-tax losses rose to &#163;3m from &#163;375,000.
AOL UK has launched an unmetered internet access service in the UK.The flat-rate service, which costs 14.99 a month all in, is currently limited to AOL's longest-standing members.Those who have joined the service more recently will be allowed to sign up "in subsequent weeks", while everyone else goes to the back of the queue.The service uses Friaco - a telecoms deal for ISPs that allows them to buy wholesale unmetered connections direct from BT.In the past year, Friaco has been beset by difficulties, culminating in a revised deal being offered this summer. The slow take-up rate of Friaco has been blamed for the slow roll-out of unmetered access.Useful linksAOL Flat RateBT
Wireless Group, the radio business run by former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie, yesterday said the relaunch of Talk Radio as an all-sport station had proved a success.The station, which rebranded as Talksport at the start of the year, generated a 21% increase in revenues during the first six months   to &#163;5.1m. The company said male listeners now accounted for 75% of the total compared with 55% at the same time last year under the previous format.More than &#163;4m spent on advertising the relaunch contributed to losses for the station widening during the first half from &#163;2.9m to &#163;6.5m. That figure was also inflated by   &#163;2.2m spent on the acquisition of sports rights, a figure which may raise a wry smile after the station was rebuked for pretending that commentators watching Euro 2000 on a television in a Dutch hotel bedroom were broadcasting live from the games.In its maiden results as a quoted company, Wireless Group reported revenues   of &#163;13.8m up from &#163;4.2m after the acquisition of the Radio Partnership and Independent Radio Group during the second half.Group operating losses more than doubled to &#163;7.6m due to the cost of relaunching Talksport. Shares in the company slipped 3p to 263.5p against their peak of 289p in July.Wireless Group, which is   the fourth largest radio business in the UK, raised &#163;36m through its flotation in May although much of that cash was used to reduce debt and provide working capital.The local radio assets moved into the black with a &#163;600,000 operating profit against a &#163;300,000 loss last year.
British business must embrace e-commerce more strongly or run the risk of being left behind other leading industrial nations, according to one of the pioneers of India's computer industry.Ashank Desai, chairman of global e-consultancy Mastek, told delegates at the Commonwealth Business Forum: "A certain complacency and resistance to change in IT advancement have been visible in the attitudes of many of the chief executives in the UK."Mastek advises companies as diverse as Lex Vehicle leasing and bookstore Barnes &amp; Noble.Mr Desai claimed that the corporate culture in Britain was not conducive to IT. Technological advancement, he said, is restricted partly because IT managers do not sit on the board of directors of British companies.That often meant firms   failed to spot the potential of "e-opportunities".Mr Desai, who founded the e-business consultancy in 1982 with two friends in a bedroom in Mumbai, also claimed that there was an "alarming dearth of skills in Britain"."If organisations are not responding properly they will have problems," he told the Guardian. "Whole industries such as financial services and the travel industry are going to change completely the way they do business."The warning came as western governments vie to recruit computer programmers from around the globe and especially the Indian subcontinent. Earlier in the year German chancellor Gerhard Schr&ouml;der said he would relax immigration laws to let in highly trained IT staff.Britain is set to follow. Last week Home Office minister Barbara Roche called for a "debate" on immigration to plug the skills gap.Mastek, which is now worth almost $500m, has a division in Britain which is run by a "local chief executive" but is staffed by Indian programmers. "We bring people from India for the software development," Mr Desai said.A spokesman for Mastek UK said that often the mathematical ability of Indian graduates was far higher than comparable British workers.However, there is hope. Mr Desai said: "The knowledge and expertise are both available in Britain, but little is being done to use it to its full potential."&#149;SSI announced yesterday the largest cross-border takeover by an Indian technology firm, through its plan to buy US-based AlbionOrion for $63.65m in a cash-and-stock deal.Software company SSI said it would pay $20m in cash and issue 6.5m global depositary shares as a consideration for the remaining $43.65m.
First, some context. I own a 1983 Mercedes 280TE estate. Something of a classic, I was told by the man who sold me it. It's big and heavy, and if you want to go round a corner, it's best to plan ahead. It has a turning circle like the Titanic's. If you want to stop, it's best to have sent a stamped, addressed envelope several days before. It is, as the man said, a beautiful old boat, and it will comfortably sit at 95mph while three people have a fight in the back about which CD you're going to pull from the capacious glovebox. So when I slid into the bucketed seats of Alfa Romeo's new sports estate and breathed in brand new car, it was something of a culture shock.It's an attractive estate - more attractive than Alfa's 156 saloon on which it is based. It has the same creases across the sharp bonnet, a small spoiler built into the roof above the tailgate, the number plate daintily set to the side. Inside, it is on the compact side: many years of attention to car safety have compressed the interiors of cars so there are not the vast open spaces that exist in my Mercedes aircraft hanger. (This is the first Fiat Auto model to have a six-airbag option, I'm told - two front, two side and an optional two along the windows.) But it is not as small as it feels. I managed to fit a bicycle in the back without scratching too much of the paintwork.The drive is sporty. The first corner, at a lowish speed in town, was a dreamy experience in which the Sportwagon just seemed to want to go faster. And it stops very sharply and smoothly indeed.There's lots of nice detail inside the car too. The driving seat pumps up and down, and the steering wheel too. Airbags all round. The interior is made of the inoffensive grey plastic that every new car seems to have; the gauges are minimalist, classy, Italian. "The luggage floor," say Alfa, "is dual-sided and when turned over acts as a waterproof tray for storing ski boots or wet swimming costumes."The doorknobs for the back are hidden in the window frames, which makes them invisible and allows a small moment of pleasure when back   seat passengers are trying to work out how to get in. And there's a button that switches a digital read-out between odometer and outside air temperature, which seems entirely unnecessary but, hey, once you have it it seems really important to know exactly how many degrees C it is out there.But the best bit is the little whistling noise. For several days, I thought I could hear police sirens in the distance. And then I realised what it was. You might not remember the scene in Mad Max where the young Aussie policeman is shown his new toy (a V8 Ford Falcon with very large super-charger). The police chief, I seem to recall, asks the mechanic to "Tell him about the blower!" And that, in a sad little way, describes the   adolescent joy of having a car with a turbo-charger that kicks in and whistles at you while it's doing it.The criticisms are not really mine. One friend who borrowed it said the diesel engine was noisy in traffic jams. And we both managed to ground it easily on speed bumps, which meant taking them a little gingerly. Another friend said that Alfas drive "light" - at high speeds with a full load on a bouncy motorway they are less stable. When weighed down with a full number of passengers it was certainly harder to handle. Alfa says it can optionally be fitted with a "sophisticated Boge-Nivomat self-levelling hydropneumatic rear suspension system", which adjusts the suspension to the load, apparently.At first thought, a sports estate doesn't seem to make much sense. Who is it aimed at? The cheaper end of the "lifestyle estate market", according to Alfa. "Sportwagon customers will tend to lead busy, active lives." Maybe. I think it's aimed at compromise car owners like me who want to know that the motor has the capacity to transport a large number of old doors down to the dump or, say, a small coffin, or even to be able to sleep in the back. That security of size, but with it the fantasy of a speedy little number like a Z8 or MGF that goes round corners like a race car.If I had &#163;19,000 or so to spend on a car, then this would be very tempting. I didn't really want to give it back. In fact, I didn't. But then they sent a man round.The lowdownAlfa Romeo Sportwagon dieselPrice:&#163;19,285 (highest spec without leather interior)Acceleration:0-62 in 9.9 secondsTop speed:126mphConsumption:41.5 mpg (combined)Where to go:Italian AlpsWhat to put on the stereo:Ride on Time by Black BoxWho drives it:Blokes
Failure has its price. For Philip Kaplan, that price hovered last week anywhere between tens of thousands of dollars and $10m. As founder and owner of dot.com deathwatch siteFuckedCompany.com, a satire of the gung-ho business magazine Fast Company, Kaplan has discovered how to capitalise on the latest new-economy trend: chronicling the terminal decline of other websites.Visitors to the site place bets on which companies they believe will be next to fire staff, restructure or ultimately close down, and points are awarded each time the bad news is confirmed. As the rules state, "a company is officially 'fucked' when they do something that signals - or attempts to correct - impending doom", with one point awarded for minor layoffs, and 100 for "an all-out corporate slaying". Beyond the game, however, it is the 300-400 daily "news tips" from readers that have attracted almost 6m page views each week, from more than 124,000 unique users, seeking news and rumours of the latest failed start-ups.That is the sort of traffic most companies listed in the "deadpool" would have paid millions to acquire - which is why, last week, Kaplan decided to auction his site on eBay.A $10m bid later proved a hoax, but Kaplan says his whimsical decision to sell - because he was "bored" running the one-man site in his spare time - is attracting some genuine offers from serious players. "I have a few offers ranging from $500k to $3m, and am discussing terms with all of them," he says. He admits that he has moved away from his original pledge on the site that "I don't make - and don't plan to make - any money from it" and now insists that "the future of the site is very important to me - not just the money".Certainly there appears to be no shortage of candidates for inclusion in the site's message boards. The demise of boo.com, clickmango and APBnews.com may have made headlines this summer, but Kaplan's site, and a growing number of rivals, would wish to remind you that the list also includes Auctions.com, audiocafe.com, BBQ.com, beautyscene, carOrder.com, CookExpress.com, CraftShop.com, FooFoo.com, freewwweb, Gazelle.com, Hardware.com, Reel.com healthshop.com, living.com, Pandesic, Petstore.com, Pixelon, toysmart.com and Value America - followed by an ever-growing list of others.You can study a fuller list on FuckedCompany's sister site,dotcomfailures.com(motto: "Kick 'em while they're down"), whose "dead list" claims to be definitive, and whose rumour boards were last week alleging that Oxygen and Urbanfetch may ultimately be joining them. Coincidentally, dotcomfailures.com was proud last week to lead its front page with news of its own closure, "three months and $2.6m (actually it's closer to $140) later..."Ryan Nitz, the man behind dotcomfailures.com (and a friend of Kaplan), had a simple reason for closing the site: "I'm not having fun any more," he explains. "I want to contribute more positively to the industry. It's really easy to point out the weaknesses of others; learning from the mistakes of others and building a company are very difficult tasks." Now, he says, he wants "a more honest challenge", in which he will apply his knowledge of company failures to his own business "and hopefully will not make the same mistakes".That, however, will not silence the rumour-mongers. They can still post their unverified claims ondotcomdoom.com, which claims to be "the largest portal on the downturn, demise and doom of dot.coms", but in fact turns out to offer a combination of web search results and news feeds supplied by Moreover.com. More worrying for the PR departments of hard-hit start-ups isNeed to Know, the "weekly hi-tech sarcastic update for the UK", which regularly publicises the winners of its Falco award. A Falco - named after the late Austrian techno-rap singer whose greatest hit was Rock Me Amadeus - is given to those who correctly predict the demise of technology start-ups. Recent winners predicted the problems of the-bullet.com and recordtv.com, as well as a site called Flake.com, a portal for those interested in breakfast cereal. "I like breakfast cereal like the next guy," noted Need to Know's author, "but sites like these make me so angry - not to mention VCs 'venture capitalists'; who support crap like this." It currently predicts a future Falco to those who back Bango.net, "which owns what has to be the dumbest idea we've heard since Real Names. Real Names, you may recall, was the plan to replace domain names with . . . more names. Bango's ruse is to replace domain names with numbers 'for Wap phones'."So how can a company avoid being F***ed - the cautious way US newspapers refer to the practice? "Easy question, easy answer," says Philip Kaplan. "Pay your rent, pay your employees, spend less than you earn, and - most importantly - come up with a good idea, and do it first. Just like any other business." Ryan Nitz also counsels caution over extravagance: "Trim the fat and be realistic," he says. "Experience is probably one of the best resources you can purchase in this industry."They can also learn from the examples of leaked memos and press releases, archived on the sites, which could only ever hinder their companies' prospects. This one, for instance, which FuckedCompany.com calls "the best press release ever": "All of the directors and officers of US Digital Communications, Inc have resigned, effective immediately. Presently the company has no employees, officers, or directors. The corporation has no assets, no revenues, and no money to continue in business. In addition, the corporation does not have the capability to transact business in the future." Concise, if somewhat futile.Others, however, question just how helpful the dot.com death-watchers are once the joke wears off. Nicholas Hall, whose siteStartupFailures.comcalls itself "the place for bouncing back", says they provide no lasting benefit simply by showing "that someone else is worse off than you". "Society has certainly created a space for the doom-mongers, but I don't believe they make a positive contribution to our society," he reflects from his base near San Francisco, where he is president of the Silicon Valley association of software entrepreneurs.Hall's site - which resulted from his own three failed start-ups, in the web, drinks and financial-services industries - is building what he hopes will be a successful business out of supporting those who have failed. It offers job listings, "entrepreneur coaching" and discussions of lessons learned, as well as community support that battles the stigma of failure (as the site pro claims, "the only true failure is never trying"). "I believe in the spirit of the entrepreneur and want to do what I can to continue to foster that spirit," Hall says defiantly. He does not see FuckedCompany.com's current strategy as necessarily helpful. "To me, they are attempting to cash in on a hot property. I can't blame them for trying, but to put the site up for sale on eBay because they are bored..."Kaplan, meanwhile, says he has   no worries about the other competitors entering his space. "We're seeing the shakeout of day-late, dollar-short FuckedCompany.com copycats," he notes bullishly. "Ironically, FuckedCompany.com proves the point that there's only room for one. Original, well thought-out ideas will be rewarded and impostors won't last."&#149; David Rowan is editor of Guardian Unlimiteddavid.rowan@guardian.co.uk
Britain is on the verge of a new censorship debate, this time over how to regulate the content of the web.A communications white paper will be published this autumn which will set the legal framework for delivery of net to every home in Britain within the next four years through the domestic digital television as well as the home computer.Tony Blair has already said he worries about the kind of information that his three 'very computer-literate' children, Euan, Nicky and Kathryn, can find on the net."We try to keep a careful watch on what our children are getting access to on the internet. There are organisations that give advice to people, but it's very difficult if the parents aren't around watching what is going on. There are dangers. In the end I think it is more a matter for parents than for governments. We can do what we can, but it is down to parents," Blair has said.For a politician this represents a very liberal stance compared with America and Australia where attempts to impose state regulation of the net have criminalised not only porn sites but also those which talk about safe sex and abortion as they curb offensive as well as obscene sites.The Home Office insists that it is possible to enforce the current obscenity laws and ensure that "what is illegal offline is illegal online". So far ministers have been content to leave it to the British internet industry to develop its own self-regulation through the Internet Watch Foundation - a body similar to the British Board of Film Classification.The IWF is at the centre of a government-backed effort to make sure that what is illegal is not available through the main servers, such as AOL, Demon, BT internet and the others, and that includes race hate material as well as hardcore porn.Those who back the development of the rating and filtering systems that are used argue that for the first time it will give each family - rather than the state - the power to decide what kind of material should enter their home. But critics fear that the "wish of the lazy parent to allow unsupervised access to their children will reduce adult browsing to the level of suitability of a five year old." So far American and Australian politicians have not been able to resist the temptation. Will British ministers be any different?
The workings of Washington policy wonks leave most normal people unmoved. But the goings on at two US government agencies over the coming weeks are set to have profound implications for the future development of online media services.Most Brits, when asked what the FTC and the FCC were, would hazard a guess based on an association with football. Neither of these two US government agencies - the federal trade commission and the federal communications commission respectively - has done much to raise its profile outside the confines of the US business world.That could be about to change. By the end of next month, the two - which oversee fair trade in America as well as the communications industry - are expected to rule on whether the proposed merger between America Online and Time Warner should go ahead and, if so, under what conditions.At issue is how much power a behemoth that combines the world's largest internet service provider with one of its biggest media companies should have. The proposed AOL Time Warner, announced more than nine months ago, would have access to more than 24m consumers on the web, as well as the readers or viewers of best-selling products such as Time magazine, CNN and Warner Brothers films. Time Warner is also the second-largest cable television company in the US.After a decade of explosive and largely untrammelled growth, the decision over AOL Time Warner is expected to herald a new era of greater regulation of the internet industry. Partly because of this, the decision is also going to affect the shape of the industry and future mergers.The scope of the regulatory review is broad and encompasses the development of interactive television, instant messaging and the convergence between the media, telecommunications and technology industries.The issue which could have the biggest impact, however, is that of open access. Internet services to date have thrived on delivery over telephone wires to personal computers. The future, according to an industry trying to get there, will depend on delivery over broadband or high-speed access delivered via   cable connections, satellite links and wireless services as well as souped-up telephone lines.A large part of the proposed merger was predicated on AOL being able to pump its internet services over the Time Warner cable network. An even larger part of the various complaints against it is that AOL Time Warner would be able to control all access to the web over the cable connection.Time Warner's dominance of the cable television industry has become a particular issue in the US, but open access touches on how we all use the web, at what speed and at what cost. Regulators in Brussels, who have their own problems with the proposed merger, are watching developments closely. Competition watchdogs at the European Commission are also expected to rule on the merger by the end of this month.Disney, an unlikely champion of the little guy and fierce rival of the new company, has described it as a sort of Microsoft of the internet age. As the world's largest software company crushed the development of rival technologies, it argues, so would AOL Time Warner.Jamie Love, director of the Centre for Technology, a consumer campaign group, believes that the world's regulators should block the merger altogether. Campaign groups were particularly unhappy that the deal unites a company that had previously been the greatest advocate of truly open access with its biggest opponent in the cable industry.AOL once launched an unsuccessful legal case to force cable companies not to discriminate against its services. In its turn, AOL has argued that its existing pledges on continuing to let others use AOL Time Warner already "go beyond anyone in the industry". But then again, the merger goes beyond what others in the industry are doing too.Last week, the FCC, which overlooks the US communications industry, was due to launch a formal inquiry into the use of the cable television network to access the internet. One of the five commissioners asked for a delay on Thursday, however, citing the concurrent review of the AOL/Time Warner merger.The broader inquiry was prompted by conflicting US court cases over how to treat cable companies. Last week's decision, however, indicates how far the issues raised by one merger are expected to affect the entire industry. As one source close to the commission put it: "We felt that now is the time to do it, rather than after the biggest merger in history ties two-thirds of Americans to just two companies."US regulators are not expected to block the merger altogether. But their ability to win concessions from AOL Time Warner could define the future of the industry. The wonks may yet have their day.
It is the most eagerly awaited album of the year from the "best band in the world". But a month before the first CD has made it into the shops the songs are already freely available on the internet.Kid A, the album on which Radiohead have been toiling since OK Computer became the epitome of 90s cool, can be downloaded on Napster, the controversial website which the music industry is trying to shut down.All but two of the tracks on the album, which is officially released in October, were available at the weekend on the site which the multinationals and some pop stars claim has robbed them of $2.5bn (&#163;1.7bn)in royalties.Sunset (Bird Of Prey), the new single from Fatboy Slim, also turned up on Napster last week, long before it was due to be released. And in the most surprising development of all, the Smashing Pumpkins released their latest album, Friends And Enemies Of Modern Music, on the internet free as a gesture to an industry "poisoned with greed".Despite the series of multi-million dollar piracy lawsuits hanging over it and its 19-year-old founder, Shawn Fanning, Napster, it seems, is thriving.Since the first cases were brought against it in the US courts in April by the rock band Metallica and Time Warner/AOL, traffic on the site has quadrupled, while its prosecutors have seen sales drop.Guardian critic Caroline Sullivan believes Metallica misjudged the mood of their fans. "They looked greedy. Most fans see it in simplistic terms - that Metallica don't love them enough to share their music with them."Napster's democratic nature - fans automatically share all   the MP3 music files on their computers when they log on - is the secret of its popularity, allowing it to build up a library of 20m tracks while providing a free platform for the music of up to 17,000 new bands in the past year.Even if Time Warner/AOL and the Recording Industry Association of America succeed in closing it, two other sites have sprung up. Gnutella, and Freenet do not need host databases, so they are less vulnerable to legal action.Not all musicians share the views of their paymasters. A spokesman for Radiohead said: "The band are quite flattered. Obviously, you have to be concerned how they &#91;the music&#93; were obtained, but the fact that they have turned up on Napster so early shows there is huge interest. Radiohead do not think that music on the net is the threat that the industry seems to think it is. It has all got a little heavy."Fatboy Slim, real name Norman Cook, is even more relaxed. Napster's share-and-share-alike ethos fits perfectly with his left leaning politics.Damian Harris, the boss of Fatboy Slim's Brighton-based label, Skint Records, said: "The amount of time companies spend stressing about getting a record on radio, you would think that the idea of some big global listening post would make perfect sense. I don't see why we can't all live in one big happy music sharing world."Public Enemy are also fervent proponents of what they   call "free music". There was less idealism in the Smashing Pumpkins' decision to embrace Napster. Unhappy with how they see the industry sacrificing real content for "bland, packaged" Britney Spears-type pop, they put it in on the net as a dramatic gesture "to a record label that didn't give us the support we deserved".Shirley Manson, of Garbage is, with Metallica, Alanis Morissette, Elton John and Paul McCartney, among the most vocal of Napster's opponents. She said: "It pisses me off that the entire world believes it's morally OK to rape musicians of their art and their livelihood."If it were Nike, do you think the establishment would sit back and allow it to happen?"
Baltimore Technologies, the Irish e-security specialist, yesterday announced its largest acquisition to date by paying &#163;702.5m in shares for the Berkshire-based firm behind the popular MIMEsweeper email security product.Content Technologies Holdings was founded five years ago by David Guyatt and Andy Harris who make a combined &#163;180m from the takeover.Baltimore said the deal would increase its presence in the US, where Content does much of its business, and present numerous opportunities for the cross-selling of products between the two companies' customer bases.The acquisition dwarfs Baltimore's previous largest - the &#163;100m takeover of CyberTrust - and to complete a momentous day the Dublin-based firm said it had appointed a new finance director whose first job would be to raise a further $100m through a share placement to provide working capital.Analysts' eyes were however on the Content deal. MIMEsweeper has 40% of the content security market, the technical term for email applications that prevent breaches of security and the circulation of illicit material at large companies.Baltimore's executive vice   president of marketing, Paddy Holahan, said the market is growing at 71% per year and can prevent corporate secrets and malicious information from escaping from companies via email and stop pornography and viruses from being circulated within them."Every internet company needs MIMEsweeper," he said. "Whichever way we slice this deal we see huge potential for selling new products both to our customers and Content's." Baltimore has a large number of financial institutions as customers, while Content sells to numerous medium-sized businesses.Content's 200 staff serves around 6,000 customers and 6m email users worldwide through four offices in the US   and centres in Europe, Australasia and Japan. "This acquisition is about taking a leadership position in the e-security field and should distance us from any competitor," Mr Holahan added.A total of 91m new Baltimore shares will be issued at 772p per share to fund the &#163;702.5m deal. Analysts said that while the price of the deal appeared high, with Content being valued at almost 40 times its annual sales, Baltimore shares trade on an even higher multiple and it could afford to issue the new shares at this level. Shares in Baltimore fell 12p to 760p.Mr Guyatt, chief executive of Content, said joining forces with Baltimore would enable it to roll out new products faster and give it access to a wider customer base.Paul Sanders, group finance director at SSL International, will become chief financial officer in November. The 36-year-old's experience in making strategic acquisitions suggests that Baltimore will pursue further deals.His appointment follows Tuesday's resignation of the chairman, Henry Becker, who has left to devote more time to a project to give every school child in Britain a laptop computer.Deputy chairman Peter Morgan has been promoted to take his place.
Debt-laden British Telecom yesterday moved to raise the profile of its new chain of "internet hotels" amid speculation that it could spin off the unit in an effort to boost its flagging share price.Ignite Content Hosting, the corporate internet arm set up after BT's strategic reshuffle in April, now has 20 web hosting and data centres open for business across nine European countries, BT announced.The network has been funded to the tune of &#163;1.25bn by BT, US carrier AT&amp;T and Concert, the joint venture between the two. They aim to build 44 centres to give their large multinational customers worldwide access to integrated web hosting and application service provision (ASP).Internet hosting is one of the telecoms sector's fastest growing markets as businesses' internet demands become more sophisticated and they increasingly look to rent software over the net rather than install it in their computers.Analysts say web hosting has become a vogue area among investors, so many believe BT will look to crystallise the value of the venture and reduce debt by eventually floating off Ignite."It's being looked at now but nothing has been ruled in and nothing has been ruled out," admitted Ignite's Keith Langridge.BT refuses to give details of how much of Ignite's &#163;1.25bn funding it is providing or what its shareholding in the venture is. Mr Langridge said BT's commitment was to develop 
 the European centres, while AT&amp;T looked after the American build and Concert oversaw Asia-Pacific development.Internet hotels in Amsterdam, Manchester, Frankfurt and Dublin have recently gone live as Ignite vies for leadership in a market forecast to grow from $4bn in 2000 to more than $16bn in 2004.Telecity is the largest data centre specialist listed on the London Stock Exchange and has seen its shares soar since its July flotation. The firm operates nine centres across Europe and is now worth more than &#163;1.4bn.BT, by contrast, has seen the value of its shares fall by 45% in the past six months and significantly underperform the wider telecoms sector. Investors have become alarmed by the debt it has accrued.
Geoffrey A Moore, 53, believes in the net. He remained bullish during the recent "corrections" in the e-economy and, on the publication of his book Living on the Fault Line, he had a few words for the traditionalists. "Old economy companies cannot use the recent sell-off &#91;of hi-tech stocks&#93; as an excuse for writing off the internet," he told the Wall Street Journal in July.As managing director of the Chasm Group, a Silicon Valley consultant, Mr Moore has been an expert (or in its preferred parlance "guru") on the new economy since its inception. His first book, Crossing the Chasm (1991), introduced the idea of a gap or "chasm" which innovative companies must cross to reach the lucrative mainstream market. The sequel, Inside the Tornado (1995), shows how to capitalise on the potential for "hypergrowth" beyond the chasm.Before founding the Chasm Group in 1992, Mr Moore was a partner at hi-tech marketing company Regis McKenna, and in the 1980s was a sales and marketing executive at three different software companies. On his way to the new economy he took bachelor's degree from Stanford University and a PhD from the University of Washington (both in literature) and served as an English professor at Olivet college.He is a frequent speaker and lecturer at industry conferences and his books are required reading at Stanford, Harvard, MIT and other US business schools.
Most thieves get away with online credit-card fraud, according to a survey of online retailers published today.Experian UK, a credit and business information company, questioned 800 firms about their attitudes to online fraud. It found that only 57% bothered to report fraud cases to the police - and of these, only 9% of cases led to prosecution.And while 60% said fear of fraud was a serious barrier to online trading, most either did no checking or relied almost totally on manual fraud prevention measures.Almost half said they did not use external data to verify a customer's name and address, and two-thirds said it took more than a month before a credit-card crime was detected."By this time the thief has got away with it," said Richard Fiddis, Experian UK chief executive, "And not just once - but in 40% of cases, several times on the same website."In effect, the internet is becoming the first choice for thieves that, in another age, might have just been petty shoplifters or locker room pickpockets," Mr Fiddis said.Useful linksExperian UK
The Prime Minister, fresh from his hols, has reaffirmed his determination to get 100% of Government services to the citizen online by 2005, and has offered &#163;1bn to achieve it.This is a boost to the spirits for the flagging e-government workers, cast down by last week's resignation of Alex Allan, the e-envoy, to care for his ailing wife, after only nine months in the job. They badly needed this boost. The whole move of modernising government, e-government or joined-up government seemed to me to be running into the sand.I was becoming more and more convinced that the canker came from within, that Sir Humphrey Appleby was out to scupper it all.My first suspicion came from the e-envoy's monthly reports to Tony Blair on how the UK is becoming the best in the world at e-commerce and e-government. These reports, published on the web, were very bullish, with ministries announcing new e-government initiatives each month. But one of the tasks assigned to Alex Allan, when he started work in January, remains obstinately uncompleted after eight months. This was to set up a management board, "bringing together a small core group of departments with major e-commerce and e-Government responsibilities."It should have been a simple task, to find a few forward-looking fellow spirits at a very high level in the   ministries. Only in this way could he effect the necessary culture shift in the Civil Service. If he had any difficulty in recruiting, he could wave this prime ministerial instruction in their face and, one might have thought, they would have accepted this great challenge with enthusiasm. Their careers would take off if they were to join this great enterprise, and they would be assured of a knighthood.But no. After six months no one rose to the challenge, and Alex Allan was still on his own, with no board to help him hack his way through the cross-departmental jungle. He claimed that individual ministries all "bought in" to the joined-up government agenda, but I became more convinced that he was being stitched up by Sir Humphrey and his pals.My suspicions were confirmed by the absurd reason given for the task being behind schedule. This went: "The office of the e-envoy are considering further how best to rationalise the various existing groups and to involve key departments and industry representatives." This strikes me as a choice example of Humphreyesque gobbledygook. What on earth have these things to do with appointing a management board? In fact, I can't see how the e-envoy on his own can possibly "rationalise existing groups". That surely would be a task for the board, once it was set up.But then, all became clear. I saw Sir Humphrey, Sir Frank and Jumbo, deep in their arm chairs at the Athenaeum, with large brandies in their hands, discussing the threat posed by this young chap Allan to the God-given independence of their individual ministries. "The damned chap knows all about these computer thingies, and wants to put them between us and the man in the street. Where does that leave us? You won't catch me on his management board." But, because Blair has been talked into this "modernising government" nonsense by some spin-doctor, the Athenaeum Three know they had to be careful. The best strategem is the old Whitehall trick of stalling."So, let's tell Allan that we are, of course, desperate to join his show, but before we do, he really must define more carefully what all the various departments are supposed to do, and how we are all to interact with each other. That should take about nine months. That should see us out to the next election." At this, the three of them fall about laughing. So, Alex Allan remained without a management board.Imagine the glee that the three must have felt when they got the news last week that Alex Allan had resigned, and that his successor would be appointed by a public selection procedure. Another three or even six months   wasted.Two months ago, I heard a senior member of the Central IT Unit, the e-envoy's technical powerhouse, tell a meeting of the Parliamentary IT Committee that a new plan will put joined-up IT strategies "on the mental agenda of very senior people in Whitehall". But, surely, senior people in Whitehall like Sir Humphrey should have had electronic government on their mental agenda for nearly four years, ever since November 1996, when the Tory government published the "Government.direct" green paper. This first propounded the idea of putting citizens at the centre of government processes, so that if they married or went bankrupt they would only have to fill in one form, preferably on a screen, rather than several for many different ministries. At the time, I remember Roger Freeman, then minister for the cabinet office, say: "we have got Sir Humphrey terrified".After May 1997, Tony Blair accepted the message of Government.direct, and followed it up with a White Paper called Modernising Government in May 1999, and numerous strategy documents have followed. So, there are only three reasons why Sir Humphrey should not have e-government on his mental agenda. Either he is not prepared to accept it, or he, with his Oxbridge-Arts background, has not the mental apparatus to understand it.A third, more Machiavellian, interpretation, confirming my Yes Minister scenario, is that Sir Humphrey has had e-government very firmly fixed on his mental agenda since 1996, and, with his chums, has devoted his energies to stalling it for four years.To help Sir Humphrey, constant cabinet reshuffles have injected at least a year's delay, from David Clark to Jack Cunningham to Mo Mowlam. So we have had a minister who lost the confidence of Tony Blair, an "enforcer" who could not enforce, and a much-loved lady who confesses she is bored by her joined-up job. This is no way to change the   way the whole civil service operates. Ian McArtney and Pat Hewitt, the e-ministers responsible, know what has to be done, but you need a big beast of the jungle to stop Sir Humphrey messing it all up. Such big beasts, other than Tony Blair, are not around.Last Monday, Tony Blair also released Alex Allan's annual progress report and swan song as e-envoy. I note that the idea of a management board has vanished. Clearly, Allan has realised that any dream he might have had of achieving joined-up government as a partnership between the reformers and those to be reformed has gone. Instead, the report plays hard-ball. It emphasises the "strategic role" of the office of the e- envoy by "releasing funds to departments and agencies only on condition that departments have drawn up detailed, e-business strategies, and the e-envoy has confirmed to the Chief Secretary that these are   aligned with the Government's overall strategic vision". No more Mr Nice-guy. Sir Humphrey depends on the future e-envoy for his cash.This is rough stuff. But Tony Blair has still to find someone tough enough and subtle enough to play hardball with Sir Humphrey. And then, even if he/she does win the battle of educating or silencing the senior people in White hall, when will they get around to training the rank and file? In 2002 or 2003? I keep reading surveys of civil servants, which show they do not believe that Blair's target of 100% e-government by 2005 is feasible. With Sir Humphrey still at the helm, e-government could yet turn into the mother of all public-sector computer disasters.
Online thieves are getting away with their crimes, a survey published today has claimed. Almost half of e-retailers are not taking precautions like verifying customer's names and addresses before clearing transactions, and only 9% of fraud reports lead to a prosecution.That will surprise some internet consumers, who might have assumed that the very fact you are ordering via computer over a secure system would mean that it would be simple to cross-refer your details in some way. Not so, it seems.Like many surveys of this kind, of course, there is a hidden agenda. In this case the report was commissioned by Experian UK, a company which likes to describe itself as a "global information solutions company", but which will be most familiar to many of us as credit reference agency. It's one of the companies most likely to benefit if we all start demanding better "back office" checks on online transactions.But we should be thankful to the survey for highlighting, again, the potential to commit crime on the internet. It is easy for an internet user with only moderate experience, a little imagination and no conscience to defraud an online retailer. And, yes, the lack of verification that the number belongs to a valid card, in the hands of its rightful owner, makes things even easier.But is it the retailers' fault? Experian UK might be suggesting so, but really we should be looking to the source of the problem: credit-card companies themselves.Consider our flexible friends for just a second: they have barely evolved in decades, maybe a holographic anti-fraud sticker there, a fancy new bit of graphic design there, but otherwise not much has changed. The principal means of card checking are physical - one, that you actually have the card in your hand; two, that you can match the signature on the back; three, that the magnetic strip on the card is valid.Using mail, telephone or internet shopping, those physical checks are replaced by just two weaker substitutes: the card number (which can be made up by one of those number generators) and the expiry date (the simple month/year format of which can be easily guessed).As Anthony Abraham, of Canadian-based watchdog Fraud Watch, has been pointing out for years, credit cards just weren't designed to be used over the net - only between people in the same room. He still acknowledges that credit cards are still the best way to shop online, but only because because the consumer is at least only hit for the first 50 of any fraud. It's the retailers who take the financial brunt of any misuse.So what is the way ahead? Should we demand retailers take greater precautions, as Experian UK suggests? We could - but, in fact, such checks could be a pain. It's often useful, for instance, to order books on Amazon to be delivered to a friend's address for their birthday, or to buy computer parts which can then be delivered and signed for at your place of work, rather than home. Such checks could mean everything has to go direct to the cardholder.No - what we need is the credit card companies to come up with a way to modernise their old-fashioned bits of plastic. Some are trying - American Express last week announced it was creating a way to use "disposable" credit-card numbers which are valid for only one purchase. So if a retailer's security is breached, hackers will not be able to use any credit numbers they find.It is a great idea, but with retailers picking up most of the fraud bill, other card issuers are not in a rush to come up with similarly smart schemes. More simple advances could take years to arrive in our wallets.neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.uk
Luke Johnson, 37, is the founder of an investment trust, Intrinsic Value, and chairman of Belgo Group - the business behind high-profile London restaurants such as The Ivy, Le Caprice and the Belgo chain.Sometimes called a "playboy millionaire", he began investing in public and private companies in 1989 after several years working as a stockbroking analyst at Kleinwort Benson. Successes to date include Topps Tiles, the UK's leading tile retailer (the shares have risen from 50p to over 250p since the company went public three years ago) and American Port Services. The London-listed group was sold for 100m to Associated British Ports in June 1998, showing a return of more than 250% on its 1995 issue price.Johnson is a non-executive director of many companies including logistics business Nightfreight, venture capitalists VCT, internet incubator fund NewMedia Spark and tea retailer Whittards of Chelsea. As an executive he has seen the Belgo group's share value multiply eightfold since the start of his involvement in 1996 and, previously, was at the helm when Pizza Express's shares rose from 40p to 800p between 1992 and 1999.However, Johnson gives credit where it's due. In a recent column in the Sunday Telegraph he spent a week as a waiter at his group's Belgo Centraal restaurant in London. It was an "eye-opening experience," he wrote, and concluded that "the success of the restaurant is entirely down to the staff's efforts".
A group of internet bulletin board tipsters are believed to be at the centre of a stock exchange investigation after boasting online that they knew which stock would be recommended by Channel 4's Show Me The Money the next day.One poster, who appears under the cyberspace name of Wideeye, posted the message: "I fancy them to tip Screen and for it to rise by about 20% by 12.55pm. Just one of my hunches of course!!!!???"The hunch, though, could prove a little too well informed. Suspicions were aroused after it emerged that Sun business editor Ian King, who had been planning to tip shares when he appeared as a guest on the show yesterday lunchtime, was duped into revealing what he intended to pick by a phone caller pretending to be from the show.Around 2pm on Tuesday a man claiming to be a researcher for Princess Productions, the company behind the show, called Mr King asking him to pass on the company details."Somebody did ring Ian, claiming to work on the show and asked him to name his tip for the day," said Richard Hastings, series producer of Show Me The Money."He did give the tip, which of course was changed."Shortly after Mr King was tricked into naming the stock, the news leaked out to the internet and shares in Screen, which makes security products, shot up 25%. "It was amazing. The phones on the dealing desk just lit up. They all wanted to buy Screen," said one market-marker.Screen shares eventually came off the boil to close 1.5p higher at 15.5p, leaving dealers moaning that a false market had been created in the shares.Mr Hastings, however, was unrepentant: "We are quite glad it happened. It shows the lengths people will go to."
An online search engine and cuttings service hits the net today, hoping to cash in on the proliferation of media sources on the web.The tool - customised for companies, public relations groups and government departments - will allow users to go online to find out quickly what is being said about them or their clients in the press or on radio and television.Bmcnews.com, which is being launched today by the Broadcast Monitoring Company, claims to be the first high speed service that can deliver newspaper cuttings, radio and   television clips and internet articles directly to clients' computers."Clients will be able to receive online a totally comprehensive account of what has been written or said about them or their industry in print, on the internet, on radio or television internationally," said Dan Levin, chairman of BMC.The world of media monitoring is growing fast because of the exponential growth in media content from new radio and television channels and the internet. BMC already employs some 500 people.The online version of the monitoring system provides a   search facility where every word is scanned and key words picked up. The system is "intelligent" enough to connect terms where the search consists of more than one word.The system can also provide succinct summaries of news. But people will not become entirely redundant because of the advent of this system, John Gordon, chief executive of the company, says.The computer is not intelligent enough to deal with issues so there is a need for a dual service - skilled people who understand sectors and concepts will have to work alongside the new system.
PC speedI am working on a scientific project where speed and storage are the limiting factors, and am waiting to update my PC until something sufficiently attractive comes at a reasonable price. But all the Ram seems to be 100MHz only, so having a 700MHz processor doesn't seem to offer anything over my present PC. Am I right?Donald Houtmandonald.houtman@dial.pipex.comJack Schofield replies:Faster processors, faster memory chips and faster buses (for transferring data inside the PC) are on the way, but probably won't make an impact until Intel ships the 1.3GHz Pentium 4. Even then   they will be too expensive for most of us. However, memory speed may not be the limiting factor, since processors don't usually get their instructions from main memory. The core processor is fed by fast "cache memory" chips, and by cache memory that is actually part of the chip, so shop for a PC with more of those. In fact, all computer buyers should check the size of the Level 2 cache supplied: this is an area where manufacturers sometimes cut corners. If you have a bit more to spend, try looking not at desktop PCs but at a small servers with SCSI hard drives and more than one processor.Right clickingMy question feels a tad embarrassing. I use Internet Explorer (IE5), and I'd like my Favourites to be in alphabetical order, rather than in order of adding to the list. I can't find the facility to sort it. I can't be the only one.Conrad CorkConradCork@TadleyEwing.co.ukJS:Pull down the Favorites (sic) menu in IE5 or Windows Explorer and you can sort the list by clicking and holding the right mouse button, then selecting Sort by Name, which is next to bottom. You can also sort the entries by hand by selecting each one, holding down the right mouse button, and moving it up or down the list (ie drag-and-drop). This lets you put the My Computer entry, which links to folders on your   hard drive, at the top. It is always worth trying a right mouse-click just to see what it does. There are a lot of useful facilities hidden under there.UnattachedHow can I can delete an attachment from an e-mail received into my Outlook Express inbox? I sometimes want to keep the email but not the attachment.Richard Browningwintonhouse@clara.netJS:Right-click on the paperclip icon and select Delete from the drop-down menu. See what I mean?Missing iconsI have lost the line which contains the icons: back,   forward, stop, refresh, home, search, favourites, history, mail, print, edit. I am sure they still exist but I am unable to locate them.Peter McConnonCate@pmcconnon.freeserve.co.ukJS:Your standard toolbar is not showing up in your web browser. Go to the View menu, select Toolbars, and put a tick next to the Standard Toolbar option.Partition problemsMy problem is the opposite of that dealt with on August 17. When I bought my laptop two years ago, I had them load all the software for me, and for unknown   reasons they partitioned the hard drive into C and D. Now that C is almost full I'm getting concerned about how to use the D drive.Dave RobertsDavid_Roberts@ching-ford.freeserve.co.ukJS:Using another drive partition is no different in principle from using another folder. In Windows Explorer, you can right-click a file or folder, hold down the mouse button, and move it to a different drive.However, you can't simply move applications programs from C: to D: because Windows is not smart enough to change the pathnames (eg C:\Collins\Colewin.exe) that point to program files, and your apps will stop working.You could use Partition   Magic (August 17) to expand the C: drive to take over the space occupied by D:, or you could uninstall your applications from C: and re-install them on the D: drive, or a bit of both. Partition Magic 5 includes a utility called Magic Mover that will move applications without you having to re-install them. Norton's CleanSweep (originally Quarterdeck's) will do it too.I'm old fashioned enough to like partitions. I often split drives in three: C: for the operating system, D: for applications, and E: for my data. It simplifies making back-ups.Either way, it is important to have lots of spare room on C: as that is where Windows usually keeps its swapfile (a sort of scratchpad for pages of memory) and its internet   cache memory (in Temporary Internet Files). I would allow at least 150MB for each. When Windows runs out of swap-space, its performance and its stability deteriorate dramatically.Ask DocIs there a medical search engine similar to Ask Jeeves where common clinical questions can be filtered and answered in real time? For example, "what is the drug choice for condition x?", "what is the cause of symptom x?" and "what test is indicated in situation x?".Paul BowiePaul.Bowie@scpmde.scot.nhs.ukJS:I don't know of one, and given the less-than-perfect   performance of Ask Jeeves, I hope not. It is bad enough trying to answer computer queries when not everyone appreciates that they should make back-up copies of their data in case they make changes that have disastrous consequences; backing up parts of the human body is a lot trickier. Computer programs called "expert systems" have a good diagnostic record in some restricted areas but they are a long way from duplicating the performance of a good GP.
His women friends were cheating on their husbands but needed plausible excuses, so Raul Tello came up with a hi-tech solution: an internet site that provides all the excuses for a four-star affair.As a web page designer Mr Tello had all the tools to provide an anonymous communications network that would allow for Argentina's lovers to make elaborate getaways."We design invitations to conferences, provide the airline tickets and send the invitation to the client," said Mr Tello, the founder ofwww.amorios.com.ar."After the conference they receive certificates of attendance and if necessary, invitations to a follow-up conference," he added.Despite an economic slump that has hammered most small businesses in Argentina, the affair-planning business appears to be recession-proof. In the first 60 days, Mr Tello grossed &#163;25,000 and signed up 300 clients.For an annual fee of&#163;40, the clients receive a coded card   with their "identity" and an email password. The website has a complete package deal that can be used to convince not only the unsuspecting spouse but also the boss that the unfaithful party is away on business."We put a lot of effort into convincing the client's supervisor that this is a business trip," Mr Tello said.However, Amorios.com is only capable of taking on 1,000 clients. The logistics of planning an affair in Argentina are particularly complicated because so many people suspect their partners of infidelity.Cover trails are laid in elaborate detail. For example, should a suspicious spouse call the "conference", someone playing a secretary in the Amorio offices will grab the corresponding mobile telephone and read an appriopriate script. Background noise is then blasted over the office loudspeakers to simulate the atmosphere of a conference.The caller is told that their spouse "just stepped out" and the lover is contacted and told to phone home straight away.With more than a dozen phones spread out on the desk,   the margin for error increases with the number of scripts, sound effect tapes and new personnel.Mr Tello insists that there have been no major errors but some would argue it is only a matter of time before the wife of a doctor at the Mexican "engineering conference" is played the tape of the Brazilian nurses' association. "With Amorios, there will be no failures, we study every case thoroughly," Mr Tello said.The clients of Amorios.com are equally divided between the sexes. "I don't care if it is women with women, men with men, whatever. People who are unfaithful will be so with or without Amorios, I am just providing an excuse, nothing more."Due to the interest from other South American nations, Amorios.com hopes to expand into Uruguay and Peru. "We aren't sure whether to franchise this or do it ourselves, but the number of calls from Peru is huge," Mr Tello said.But his biggest market may never be realised - in neighbouring Brazil extra-marital affairs are so common that excuses are often unnecessary.
Kingston Communications, the Hull-based telecoms company, yesterday announced plans to begin offering its pay television, internet and telephony services across the country.The company, which is 44.9% owned by Hull city council, aims to be among the first to take advantage of the break-up of British Telecom's monopoly of local services from the start of next year.Kingston has applied for access to 1,000 BT local exchanges with the aim of installing equipment which will allow it to take over lines at the request of customers and upgrade the old copper wires for broadband use.The company is using DSL (digital subscriber line) technology which can transmit high speed data including multi-channel TV over the existing networks.Previous estimates from Kingston have put the cost of developing a nationwide pay-TV business at &#163;1bn. Kingston has been running a service using DSL in Hull where it has partnered with BSkyB. The Hull service, called Kingston Interactive Television, also includes video-on-demand as well as 60 TV channels, internet access and conventional voice services.The company spent &#163;3m upgrading its network in Hull which enables users to download at speeds of 256kb compared to existing ISDN line speeds of 56kb.The joint venture in Hull   was announced eight months ago but there remain question marks over BSkyB's willingness to enter into a broader partnership.Tony Ball, BSkyB chief executive, said in July that he was also talking to British Telecom as a potential partner using DSL.BT would be keen to attract the most powerful brand name in pay TV in the hope of keeping the number of customers deserting to the minimum.BT is running trials in London with video-on-demand company Yes Television.BT's monopoly of the so called "local loop" will end on January 1 - six months earlier than originally planned. Rivals hoping to take advantage of the break-up have nevertheless been strongly critical of BT for allegedly obstructing their paths.Steve Maine, Kingston chief executive, described yesterday's application to BT as "a major step forward" for the company. "We hope that BT will work with us and other   operators to make advanced services available within the agreed industry timescale," he added.Kingston will also use the exchanges for its corporate telecoms division, Torch, which is operating in six regions in Britain.The services will be supported by Kingston's broadband national network which is under construction in co-operation with Colt Telecom.The network will link the company's six existing city rings constructed for Torch as   well as the larger British Telecom exchanges.The national backbone will ensure that as much traffic, and consequently revenue, as possible remains on Kingston lines.The unbundling of the local loop took on a political dimension when the chancellor, Gordon Brown, made it known that he wanted the date brought forward. The government sees the break-up of the local monopoly as key to the widespread introduction of high bandwidth services.
Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, and rock star Dave Stewart are in talks with United Pan-European Communications, Europe's largest cable television business, about setting up a series of broadband genre and artist specific music channels.Mr Stewart said yesterday that discussions were taking place between the Dutch firm and Hospital Group, a multi-media studio complex that he   and Mr Allen are building in London's Covent Garden.They hope to develop broadband channels offering audio, video and text coverage of legendary rock bands like the Rolling Stones and the Beatles, and forms of music such as blues, jazz and reggae. "We're in deep involved talks with UPC," said Mr Stewart, who is best known as a member of Eurythmics."We think we've got a concept that will embrace new technology well and really appeal to music fans. It will also allow bands to become curators of their own material for the first time and ensure everything that they've ever recorded can be stored and retrieved electronically and never goes out of print. For the fan that's pretty exciting."Mr Stewart said music lovers will not be able to access the channels until broadband internet is widely available and that could take another two to three years. He hopes that British broadcasters such as BSkyB and NTL will carry the content and expects it to be distributed throughout the US by Charter Communications, a cable company owned by Mr Allen and the nation's third largest carrier.Subscriptions for a bundle of 12 channels would cost about &#163;80 per year. "That's like paying for half a dozen CDs," Mr Stewart said. The duo are talking to several of the world's top music artists, including the Rolling Stones, about developing their own channels.Mr Allen recently spent $100m building a 140,000sq ft rock music museum in his native Seattle to pay homage to his idol Jimi Hendrix."Paul has done it all before after negotiating to use various film and music rights in his Seattle museum," Mr Stewart said.The duo are currently trying to turn the disused St Paul's hospital into an art centre complex, complete with the latest recording and editing technology.
At the end of 1998, twoFT.comexecutives were having a drink at the bar of the Pudong Shangri-La hotel in Shanghai, lamenting the difficulties of doing business far from home.Almost two years later, Donal Smith and Jonathan Schmidt are about to launcheCountries, an internet business designed to address those complaints. As media executives wrack their brains at trying to turn their content-rich sites into money makers, eCountries may have outfoxed the opposition.ECountries is a site that provides news and analysis about 150 countries. As with most publishers, the information comes free of charge. The   site consists of profiles on countries from Austria to Vietnam, and up to date news feeds.ECountries is hoping to attract traffic by being listed on various news sites such as ABC.com and eventually would like to license its content to news outlets that have trimmed foreign coverage. But the ace up the company's sleeve is its matchmaking service for companies looking to do business on foreign turf called, appropriately enough, marketplace.Marketplace seeks to take the hassle out of international transactions, sparing companies the trials and tribulations that afflicted Mr Smith and Mr Schmidt during their deal making for FT.com years ago.   Matchmaking has proved to be a successful formula for First Tuesday and eCountries has taken the concept further by adding a global dimension."There is a large volume of international professional services that gets traded," Mr Smith said from eCountries's London HQ. "But the market is very disaggregated. The internet is a fantastic way of introducing buyers and sellers to each other."Say a British company needs a translation of Bulgarian telecommunications legislation in a hurry - an actual request that came to eCountries last week. The company fills a form at the eCountries site and eCountries will try and come up with appropriate matches. If   the transaction is consummated, eCountries takes a cut of up to 10% of the fees. Transactions are expected to range from &#163;5,000 to &#163;100,000 and eCountries is counting on commissions to make up at least half of the company's revenues.Others have spotted the potential for business matchmaking via the net.www.Business.comandWork.comare doing something similar in the US. The two American companies have constructed directories organised around business topics and plan to add partners' services and news feeds around them.But eCountries has its eye on the global market. With cross-border trade growing, eCountries believes there is   plenty of scope for its venture as companies seek out reliable professionals in the countries in which they are doing business.Building up a database of service providers from accountancy firms to law firms was tough at first. It took six months to sign up the first supplier, but then the momentum built up and eCountries now has about 400 service providers in its database focusing on four areas: legal translation and market research; recruitment; property and insurance; and financial services. When a client posts a request on the site, it will get at least a global and a regional player.Great care take is taken to vet the companies for the   marketplace. Of the 400 Russian companies suggested for eCountries's marketplace, only 50 survived the cull. In the most important part of the vetting process, a candidate that wants in has to provide references from three companies with which it has done business.Clients "are entering a walled garden for vetted suppliers," said Mr Smith, 38, who sold a broadcast monitoring business to Pearson in 1995 for &#163;4m and then went on to run the company's FT.com subsidiary. Mr Schmidt, 36, founded Asia Intelligence Wire and ran the Asian division of the FT. The company expects to break even by 2002. Investors like the look of the top team,   which includes Michael Elliott, the editor in chief, who jumped ship from Newsweek.ECountries undoubtedly has hit upon a good idea. The keys to success will be the thoroughness of its vetting process to keep out less than reputable companies from its database and whether people use the service. It could be cheaper and easier to conduct searches on the net and call up a few local companies, although there is no safety net as with eCountries.But Elliott had no qualms about joining the new venture from the safety of Newsweek. "I sort of thought, if I don't make the leap into something new now, I never will. I'm having a blast."
One of the most important consequences of the recent collapse of many high-profile dot.coms has been a back to basics rethinking of what actually constitutes a good website. What is emerging is the understanding that good website design is more than a question of aesthetics. There is a fundamental difference between a good-looking site and a good site.Boo.com, for instance, was a visually attractive site yet poor navigation and usability contributed in no small way   to its failure. We are learning that on the net, beauty is only screen deep, and not a solid enough basis for a long term relationship with a target audience. From Amazon.com to eBay, the internet success stories are surviving on more than their looks alone. To succeed, websites need to match style with substance by taking the internet on its own terms.1. Understand your site's purposeThe visual appearance of a website depends entirely on   the objectives you want it to achieve. For information rich sites, the emphasis should be on straightforward navigation rather than fancy graphics. Think of how Yahoo! and other portals present their material. If, however, your main objective is to consolidate your brand identity, it may be more appropriate to limit the amount of text on the site and concentrate on the graphics. A website is not a fashion statement, it is the starting point for your relationship with a target audience.2. Keep it humanClaude Levi-Strauss, the French anthropologist, refers to bricolage as the opportunism of those who work with their hands, creating things out of whatever is lying about. The web works the same way: there is no set way of designing a website. Designers use tried and tested images, formats and links to each other to create pages. According to the New York Times' David Weinberger, "this makes the web unpredictable, creative and always the result of human hands".3. Be imperfectDue to its vast, complex and decentralised nature, the web will always be, in the words of Tim Berners-Lee, its inventor, "always be a little bit broken". The web's frailty makes it more human and also renders perfection impossible. The politics of "being right" must not therefore be transferred to your website; rather, the aim should be to start a two-way conversation with your target audience, not to tell them, "this is how it is".4. Avoid the language of advertisingDespite the fact that, according to Forrester Research, spending on web advertising will climb dramatically from &#163;1.75bn (last year's total) to &#163;187bn in 2004, it is already being undermined by some harsh truths. Most people   now appreciate that having your page turn up in the top search engine finds is far more effective than web advertising. If the role of advertising is to present the best possible face of a company, this is made redundant by the nature of the web, where criticism will always be there: just ask Nike or MacDonalds. The speed of "word of mouth" online is restricted only by how fast people can type, so it is worth remembering that when designing a website, honesty is always the best policy. As Rick Levine of Sun Microsystems has put it, "word of web will trump word of hype every time".5. Keep it simpleThis is perhaps the most important rule of website design, yet it takes a lot of time and effort to keep thinks    straightforward from a visitor's perspective. Stephen Freeman, creative brain for Retail.co.uk, draws attention to this paradox. "Simple isn't easy", he says. "Sites that are overly confusing and filled with flashing gizmos that perform clever tricks without rhyme or reason are the ones which were created in an afternoon". Take a look atEpic HeroesandThe Organic Shopfor inspiration.6. Use straightforward navigationThere are a number of ways you can make it easy for people to find their way around your site. One way is to make sure no page of your web ite is further than three clicks away from any other. Another is to tell people where they are.   You can do this by providing a site map or by changing the colour of the current section in the navigation area.7. Satisfy itchy fingersGoldfish are said to have an attention span of five seconds, which is approximately two seconds longer than a visitor to your website. If they are visiting your site via a search engine, they may have up to 10 other sites they want to visit before they log off. The trick is to make your design stimulating while keeping it user-friendly. Slow download times, repetitive text, and lengthy e-commerce processes must therefore be avoided.8. Don't cheatLocked within the HTML code of every website is the metatag where web designers   can list keywords to help control how the page is indexed on search engines. There are a number of rogue designers out there who misuse the meta-tag in order to make their site more attractive to a search engine. Words that they know are frequently typed in to search engines will go in the metatag even though they are not relevant to the site. This is the cyberspace equivalent of genetic engineering, and can seriously damage a site's reputation.9. Less is moreAs web software has developed over the years, many web designers have felt the urge to demonstrate all these advances simultaneously on one web page. Multiple animated images, blinking text, Javascript status bar mes sages, rainbow-coloured divider bars and pop up windows may signify hard work on the part of the designer but will also result in hard work on the part of the user.10. Update your siteA week may be a long time in politics but it is a lot longer in cyberspace. Internet time is believed to move at seven times the velocity of normal time. Many people who browse (don't be fooled by this leisurely verb) the internet return to the same sites every day. Information needs to be updated at regular intervals to keep a website fresh.&#149;  Matt Haig is an internet author and director of web design and marketing firmPeppermint PR
How important is the net becoming as an educational tool?I think it's becoming vital. We're in a situation where the old learning paradigms are breaking down to an extent. Students are increasingly aware of, and fluent in, the new media and perhaps less interested in book learning than they might have been at one time. At the same time there are vast riches of cultural resources that haven't really been utilised sufficiently in the past that are now becoming available online.Can you ever see the internet replacing conventional forms of research and archiving?I think it will always be complementary. I think what will happen more and more is this idea that teachers will move from being a "sage on the stage" to being a guide on the site. It's the idea that everything has to come from the person in front of you that's changing. If that person becomes someone who facilitates learning and the learning is actually coming from interaction with high quality materials, I think that's a better learning approach.How reliable is some of the content on the net?I think complete reliability is asking too much. People talk about it as a vast digital library but it's still more like a car boot sale really! There's all sorts of stuff, some of which is good but it's a question of picking out the golden eggs from the goose droppings.Things like Scran or other portal types of organisations that have content of their own or can point to high quality approved content can guide people around the internet. It's a question of evaluating what you get and not just assuming that if you got it off the web it must be true.Is the net still firing the imagination or has it become part of the furniture?I think it is becoming very much part of the furniture. If people are looking for information then they turn to the net first. That doesn't mean that it's not still exciting or that it's not got a future. We talk about the net but increasingly there are wireless applications that, in some ways, are extensions of the same thing. The technology is likely to change but the idea of this vast network will just go on and on.How do you feel the net could be best utilised for education?I think the increasing idea of portals and other "ways in" to the net that provide some sort of filter through which you can see educational resources is a very good approach. I hope that things like the National Grid for Learning's virtual teacher centre will develop in that way.Any favourite places on the net?I'm afraid my pleasure type activities on the net are rather similar to my work ones. One of my favourite jumping off points is the Culture and Communication France site which is run by the Ministry of Culture over there and it points to a whole range of sites.&#149; Visit Scran atwww.scran.ac.uk
Putting a small business online is getting easier every day. No longer do businesses need to invest in expensive leased lines and run their own electronic commerce software. Instead companies all round the world are offering to take away the risk and pain that building an online store always seemed to entail. An online presence for an SME (Small/Medium Enterprise) is becoming almost essential, with website addresses appearing on the side of white vans and on shop awnings around the UK.So where should a small business that wants to trade online start? One approach is to use an Application Service Provider. ASPs are web services that host applications for remote users. Big businesses outsource IT to companies such as EDS and IBM all the time, and there's nothing to stop a much smaller company doing the same. Certainly a number of ASPs have thought as much, and offer everything from low-cost services paid for   with what's known as a transaction tax - a few percent taken off every transaction - to subscription services rivaling those of a big online store.One of the more interesting ASPs is a small US service called Caf&eacute;Press. This is a service that creates simple online stores for artists, by offering print-on-demand services for T-shirts, mugs and mouse mats. Just upload an image, choose a price and wait for the cheques to start coming in.The ASP handles everything from printing the merchandise to handling credit card payments and posting the goods. The available product lines may be small, but it's a simple place to start - and every pound earned is profit. Businesses use Caf&eacute;Press to sell everything from photographs of cats to comic strip merchandising. It has proven particularly popular amongst the online comic community, where a popular site means that what was a hobby now needs a business to support it.One of the biggest players in the whole IT industry runs   one of the most successful ASP web store systems. Intel purchased iCat, a software company with a set of tools for creating secure online stores, and turned it into an online service. ICat now gives small businesses a set of services that reduce the risks in building and running a web store.As well as offering a full-blown catalogue-driven store system, iCat's service also includes a separate shopping cart system that can be used in existing stores, so businesses with specific design needs can still take advantage of Intel's infrastructure.ICat's service is well designed, and works well with traditional business models. If an item isn't selling well, or is new, it can be turned into a special offer, or linked to cross-selling and up-selling services where other items can be used to promote sales.To make things easier for British businesses, iCat has a partnership with BT, and provides the tools used in BT's StoreCentre service. This is an inexpensive way of starting to sell online, as the quarterly costs vary with the   number of items you're selling. A 50-item store will only cost you &#163;114 a quarter, affordable for most small businesses.Some software packages help greatly in putting a business online. One of the most helpful is the SME-targeted web site design package   NetObjects Fusion. Version 5.0 includes an "online" tab, which is actually a web site helping with design and site hosting decisions. Fusion is also designed to plug into existing online offerings, and earlier versions included the tools to design pages that linked into the iCat system.NetObjects also offers small businesses two other online tools, GoBizGo and eFUSE. GoBizGo is an ASP that allows businesses to create web sites and e-commerce services without needing anything more than a credit card and a web browser. This is a fee-based system, with    monthly charges. It is still very focussed on the US market, but is a good example of the type of ASP service that can make putting a business online a matter of a few mouse clicks. A set of testimonials on the site show how it can be used to sell everything from bowling balls   to stained glass windows and wildflower jewellery.The closely related eFUSE is intended for a different audience: businesses that have taken the plunge into designing and running their own online presences. It is full of design tips for e-commerce service providers.Actinic's Catalog has proven very popular and has received rave reviews. It is a wizard and template tool that allows businesses to create and manage their online stores, with hosting either carried out by Actinic's ISP partners or on a user's own servers.With Actinic Catalog, businesses can work with third-party payment sites, or process credit cards themselves, with all communications between customer and store handled by heavily encrypted messages. The latest version 4.0 of Actinic's software adds many new features, including the tools for managing back orders.Virgin has recently entered this market with Virginbiz.net, an online service with information for small businesses wanting to go online, as well as web space and an online store.It has the advantage of offering a complete design and build service, taking the strain away by completely handing over the site to Virgin's team. Freeserve's small business section Clearly Business offers similar services. Freeserve's offering could have an advantage over some of the others, as it includes linking to stores from the Freeserve online mall.Clearly Business partners with the popular WorldPay credit card service. This service provides credit card clearing and authentication for online businesses. WorldPay's WorldDirect service operates in 125 countries, with nearly a million customers in the USA alone. Businesses can use this service to handle credit card payments, with WorldPay taking a 4.5% handling fee on every transaction. This may seem expensive, but is often cheaper than a new online merchant relationship directly with a bank.International stores can also use WorldPay as it can work with most currencies and   credit cards. WorldPay is now also offering a one-stop shop for starter online stores, with its new Click and Build service.The more ambitious can start to create their own online store using design packages targeted at the SME market, in conjunction with online catalogue and payment services. Using tools like these, free web space from an ISP, and a domain purchased from a service like Clicknames, an effective online presence can be put together for very little outlay.Whether it's a "roll-your-own" presence, an ecommerce package or an ASP, putting a small business online has never been easier.Of course this doesn't mean a quick path to dot.com riches, just another way of bringing customers to the door. Businesses will need to work on how they manage their relationships with their online customers, and how they will handle the trickiest part of the e-business chain: fulfilment. No matter how fancy the online presence, the goods still have to reach the customer.LinksClicknameswww.clicknames.netWorldPaywww.worldpay.comVirginBiz.netwww.virginbiz.netFreeservewww.freeserve.netICatwww.icat.comNetObjectswww.netobjects.comEFUSEwww.efuse.comGoBizGowww.gobizgo.comBT StoreCentrewww.ebusiness.bt.com/storecentre/Caf&eacute;Presswww.cafepress.comActinicwww.actinic.co.uk
The past 16 months have been hectic for Stan Laurent,QXL.com'ssenior vice president of sales and marketing. During that short period of time the online auction company has expanded into 13 European countries."It's a crazy speed because these markets are taking shape very fast. Scale within a country is important because more buyers and sellers come onto the site," he explains. "Critical mass within one country gives you a powerful barrier to block out the competition. If anyone else gets critical mass before you, it is going to be costly and lengthy to catch up."The activities and experiences of QXL are typical of plenty of other   internet companies who are now scrambling frantically at blistering speeds to grab virtual land in Europe. With the US market already saturated, many of the emerging online markets of Europe are still waiting to be taken, and every wannabe e-tycoon wants his or her share.You only have to consider the scale of the market that is shaping up to understand what is driving this virtual stampede. Jupiter Communications predicts that the number of online buyers in Europe will more than quadruple, reaching 85m by 2005, up from 20m in 2000.It is a market which is currently dominated by the Northern European countries. Analysts predict   that the UK and Germany will account for 55% of Western European consumer online spending. But they expect to see southern Europe catching up, led by growth in countries such as France, Spain and Italy.US entrants such asAmazonandeBay, traditional European retailers, and start-ups like Gameplay, Let'sBuyIt and LastMinute are all locked into this online battle, but as ever the key catalysts of this activity, lurking behind the scenes, are the venture capitalists."It is basically unattractive to back an internet business which only has a strategy for operating in one country," explains Paul Vickery, director of e-business for 3i, a leading VC firm. "Their markets are changing so   rapidly that they have to expand as quickly as possible because they are going to be under severe attack from US operators."Vickery believes that countries such as France and Germany offer better defensive qualities for start-ups because US companies are not seen as masters of adapting to the linguistic and cultural demands of local European markets. The other main reason why VCs are so keen to push expansion into Europe is because it increases the chances of an IPO (Initial Public Offering) which gives VCs "exit opportunities" meaning they can cash in their shares and make their fat profits.3i refuses to reveal actual figures but readily admits that a substantial share of its   internet investment portfolio is now concentrated on Europe. In the months ahead, it is likely that the all-powerful VCs will force start-ups in their portfolios to merge with each other if they are not moving quickly enough."Speed is of the essence. The first signs of failure in an e-business are when the pace of the execution of the plan starts to slow down," Vickery explains. "Europe is the most dynamic sector of investing. It is the area where we will see   the most dramatic successes and the most dramatic failures."Europe is not an easy market to penetrate successfully. PCs remain the dominant interactive platform in Europe with mobiles and digital TV spreading fast. But unlike the US which is largely a single homogenous market, Europe is a collection of numerous markets based in individual countries with varied languages and cultures. Although at the end of last year, only six European markets - the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden and Spain - comprised 78% of the total Western European online market.For any new web sites to reach a significant number of European households, they have to be translated into   several languages, and products and content often have to be altered to accommodate different cultures. On top of that, e-entrepreneurs have to contend with traditional business issues such as local legislation, VAT and exchange rates. Directors also have to decide whether or not to acquire businesses to gain a customer base and ready-made fulfilment services or to grow organically.Monster.com, the online global recruitment service, is steadily building up a sizeable European presence, and plans to go into Spain this month and Italy next month. Andrew Wilkinson, Monster.com's European managing director, says the amount of money spent on entering a new European   market depends on the levels of internet penetration and the rate of take up. "Our strategy has been to take the global functionality and localise it completely. We go in with a local address. The content is localised. We hire a local manager and we then build the local site around the local culture and customs. We have a completely local-focused team to ensure job seekers feel it is just right for them."There is a risk for any internet company going into a new European market that its brand name could mean something quite different. Wilkinson feels the name makes the company stand out from the other recruitment sites called jobs- something.The online market that all internet companies want to dominate is Germany. Jupiter Communications forecasts that Germany will have the most online buyers in Western Europe reaching a total of about 21.2m online by 2005.A number of dot.coms are pitching aggressively for the loyalty of online German punters but they face stiff competition from big traditional German catalogue retailers. Players such as Otto Versand also have their own warehouses and packing centres. Nevertheless, analysts forecast that the huge amounts of VC cash being pumped into start -ups in Germany is likely to change the present set up.Germany may be the largest market but the Scandinavian countries have the reputation for being the most web-sophisticated. About 40 % of households are online. Sweden is expected to have 50% of its population online by the end of 2000."The people we should be looking at in admiration are the Scandinavians," says Nick Rosen, co-author of Business.eu, a recent report on European web activities. "They have more sophisticated web sites, higher budgets and higher levels of web usage"But as the battle for Europe's online markets intensifies, industry insiders are nervously wondering when there is going to be a shake out. Just recently a group buying site, LetsBuyIt.com cut 20% of its workforce across Europe even though gross profit margins for the three months ended June 30 rose to 9.8%, up from 2.9% the previous quarter."Shake out implies that a lot of European internet companies are going to be thrown to the floor and stamped to a pulp," says John Browning, co-founder of First Tuesday, the international e-entrepreneurs' community. "We have seen this sudden eruption of start-ups in Europe and there are going to be mergers and takeovers. I think a lot of the internet companies will hook up with bricks and mortar companies."Martin Coles, LetsBuyIt.com's chief executive, denies that the decision to shed staff signals a flaw in the company's European strategy. Instead he puts the   job losses down to a need to restructure and centralise the company's services now it has developed a pan -European presence. The company based in Sweden, has expanded rapidly but competition is fierce."The UK, Germany and the Nordics have enormous internet penetration, but on the other hand, they have some of the best developed retailers. I try not to make a distinction between us and bricks and mortar retailers. We are all competing for a share of wallet," Coles says.But he adds that he is open to alliances with those competitors.It is to looking increasingly likely that the traditional bricks and mortar companies will fight back.They have brand recognition, existing customer databases, local know-how, fulfilment services and usually stronger supplier relationships.They will probably have the decisive say in the shape and nature of Europe's new online markets.
As Big Brother draws to a close, where will the viewing public get their next voyeuristic fix from? The internet, of course.I have been running a webcam site,UK Cam Girl, for more than a year now, but it has never been as popular as it is now. It has become the norm for workers to watch webcams in the office on those long, boring afternoons.I was first introduced to webcams in 1998 when I shared a student house with a webcam enthusiast. A site was soon developed which involved having six cameras in the house.Student Housewas an instant hit. Nothing like this had been done before, certainly not in the UK. The house now broadcasts from five webcams on the internet, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.Having a webcam in my room as part of the Student House site soon made me realise how popular a Girl on a Cam can be. I have a group   of regular visitors to my site who like to see what is happening in my life, how work went, or just to have a chat with someone who is going through the same experiences as themselves. I regularly update a journal which allows people to see what I am doing with my life, and also what I'm thinking, which is something that cannot be got from watching the cams.I find myself competing against Cam Girls worldwide to get to the top of the Top 100 lists, specificallyTop 100 Girls with Cams. A regular at the top of this list (and all the others!) isAimee Live!. This site is the most popular non-commercial girl cam site. Here you'll find a wide selection of features, including her Freak of the Week section where she posts up weird emails that she has received.Cam girls regularly receive abusive email from viewers. All email tends to arrive from men who do not understand that we are not   there to perform for them. When we receive abusive email we notify other girls with cams to warn them that they could be the next target. We are a tight knit community which workstogether to bring new features to the viewers.I do find it difficult when I read bad email about me. There have been times when I have wanted to turn the cam off and give up on the site. And running a popular webcam site has changed me as a person.I was camera shy until I lived in the student house. Now I don't mind, within reason, what is caught on the camera. After all, I'm only being myself, and if people don't like that, I can't change who I am. In some ways I find people are invading my personal space, but I also enjoy the attention that I get from it. I tend to feel as if the people could be just walking past my house, and looking in through the window. I spend around 30 minutes a day updating my site and checking that everything is functioning as it should.The cost of running my site is practically nothing these days. There has, of course, been the initial outlay for the cameras. I do make a small amount of money from   my site, which helps to pay for the costs.I first created my site with a Creative Labs Webcam II, but the quality of these images was not very good. I have now invested in a camcorder and a later model of the Webcam II. To allow people to view the cam pics I use a program calledWebcam32, which updates the images from the cam on to the internet every 30 seconds.Between 800 and 1,000 people visit my site every day. But I expect this to rise with the introduction of the new streaming cameras. The majority of the people who visit are from the US as they have better connections which allow them to view the cameras at a better speed.After my mum saw my site, she started worrying that I was "in with the wrong crowd" and that I was portraying myself in the wrong light. My dad and friends understand why I'm doing it, however, and hope it will help me to get a job in the web industry due to my experience in creating popular sites.I hope that in the future my site will contain more cams, and more than just my bedroom on cam. I also hope to create video archives for people to be able to see what I was doing on various days. I would like to receive more feedback from viewers about what they think of the site and why they return to it. I am curious as to what goes on in the minds of webcam viewers!
Open SorceryOpen Sorceryis dedicated to the intersection of computer games and art. Although much of the material is available elsewhere on the web,   what it has collated is something called a game patch: a hacked piece of code that subverts a commercially available computer game. A patch allows a game such as Quake or Tomb Raider to be manipulated, changing the characters or setting and altering the experience of the game.Most patches are trivial, the most famous being Nude Raider - alas, no longer available for legal reasons. But Open Sorcery has links to more subversive patches that radically alter games to promote an agenda of their own, most notably feminism.Net worthBritartis a new online gallery selling contemporary art on the web. It offers works by up and coming artists for around &#163;3,000. It has a clean interface and a front page that looks like one of Damien Hirst's spot paintings. The work on sale is of consistent quality and well displayed. It should give rivalsLondonArt.co.ukandEyestorm.coma run for their Monet.PoptasticAlan McGee, the former boss of Creation Records, has launchedPoptones, an online record label. The site looks a little bare at the moment, plastered as it is with Coming Soon signs. But there is a RealAudio channel, information on the four bands he has signed, and a request for unsigned demo tapes. When McGee left Creation last year, he claimed that the traditional way of marketing music was dead. It should soon become apparent how he intends to replace it.Also worth a look iswww.channelfly.com, an online music promoter's site. It is packed with material about the gigs they promote, supported by webcasts and free MP3s.Spread the wordThe London literature festivalThe Wordis now online, just in time for its start next week. The festival will be opened by science fiction writer J G Ballard, and includes readings from Margaret Atwood, Arthur Miller and Hanif Kureishi, as well as the Guardian's Gary Younge. There is even an opportunity to tell Bob Geldof your favourite word and why. Email:geldof@theword.org.uk.Virtual boozersEven though the bigger backpacking bars now offer internet access, websites and pubs do not seem to be ideal drinking partners. However, a nationwide directory of pubs has just been launched atwww.pubs247.com. The site relies on its punters to fill in reviews and build up a nationwide community of online pub-goers. Meanwhile, a new Wap-enabled pub and cocktail guide is available at wap2bar.com.Foil the filtersThe New Jersey-based Digital Freedom Network (DFN) has launched an online competition to expose the flaws in net filtering software. The contest encourages surfers to take to test sites, chat communities, and bulletin boards to uncover the most ridiculous examples of "censorware failure". For example, one user has already reported that   they were kicked off a bulletin board when the censorware recognised the word "whore" in the phrase "who reported".DFN is looking for more examples, both of phrases and names which pass through filtering software but should not, and of phrases which the filtering software would like to stop but cannot.Filtering software is not used just to block pornography. It is also used in countries such as China to filter information that the authorities do not like. Seehttp://dfn.org/Alerts/censorware.htm.UK backpackerThe Young Travelers website is a new portal for backpackers visiting the UK. It is a busy site packed with advice on accommodation and where to find work. There are already some busy message boards and numerous discounts on nights out and flights. Seewww.youngtravelers.com.Perfect pitchPitch TVis a New York-based site that collects animations and short films from southern Europe and Latin America. Each short is either dubbed or subtitled, and the films are shown in a little pop-up box courtesy of Macromedia Flash. There is also a notable world movie e-zine to accompany the films, but some of the shorts are, literally, poetry in motion.New and notedA new horoscope site is online atwww.future365.com. The first ever Olympic Torch is being auctioned over the net from Monday atwww.sothebys.amazon.com. The site atwww.uniquelyglobal.comoffers a selection of gifts that have been handpicked from around the world. There is a new online sports network atwww.rivals.net, andwww.e-street.comis asking users to share information about London.Six of the bestNightclubbingRising to the topwww.cream.co.ukSuper club portalwww.ministryofsound.co.ukClubbing communitywww.partypeople.co.ukInterface net radiowww.pirate-radio.co.ukFlash ticket sellerwww.nightclub.co.ukNationwide directorywww.clubsuk.com
The first record to be broken at this year's Olympics is unlikely to be on the track or field. A vast audience is expected to log on to Olympics.com tomorrow. The official Olympics site is likely to go down as the recipient of the largest number of hits ever sustained by a single website in one day, despite FBI-sanctioned warnings of hacker attacks and an anti-Olympic movement intent on disrupting the opening ceremony.Days before the start of the games, it was already the third most popular website in Australia. IBM - official internet and communications partner for the Sydney Olympics - predicts more than 6.5bn hits for Olympics. com over the next two weeks.But, despite the welter of statistics on the site and the massive number of hits, one thing will be missing: live, streaming video from the games. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has banned it all, and started pursuit of countless websites it says are breaking the law.It is already a fierce battle. The websites are accusing the IOC of being monolithic and heavy handed, and say the IOC is acting against the spirit of the games.At stake is the IOC's lucrative contracts with broadcasters, which include traditional television stations such as the BBC, NBC and Seven Networks in Australia. For the first time, the IOC has also signed exclusive deals   with "broadband" operators to show highlights of the games on the internet.To protect these deals, the IOC has clamped down hard. As well as a complete lack of live action, only a tiny number of broadband users will be able to see any highlights online, via the websites of official partners. Unofficial websites will not be able to use any audio or video from the games, and dot.com sports journalists are barred. Even competitors will be unable to write online diaries of their experiences in Sydney   - it was reported last week that this would be in breach of the IOC's code of conduct for athletes.Using the 1999 US anti-cybersquatting act, the IOC is also targeting websites that use "Olympic" language in their addresses. Nearly 2,000 domains are being sued in a class action, ranging from companies unrelated to the games, through pornographers and ticket touts to amateur athletics sites.The roots of the problem lie back in 1994, before the internet reared its egalitarian   head as a mass communications medium. Then, the IOC signed a $4bn deal with the American broadcaster NBC for exclusive TV coverage of the Olympics from 1998 to 2008. NBC wants to show "live" Olympics at prime time in the US, to maximise advertising revenue. But the time difference between Sydney and the US means NBC is going to delay all its coverage by half a day. The network fears the net could gazump it by offering video to the US audience before NBC gets round to its "live" package.But a number of the sites named in the class action have hit back, saying they never had any intention of broadcasting highlights of the games, and claiming the action is a ruse to silence outlets not sanctioned by the all-powerful IOC.Chris Jenkins is the managing director of a small internet company in Aberdeen which has been on the sharp end of the IOC and its lawyers. His company,Planet Scotland, runs websites dedicated to niche sports such as fishing and golf, and last year registered 58 domain names containing the word Olympic.The plan was to provide a circuit of sites based around a central hub called Planet Olympics - in time for the the Athens Games in 2004. But in July,the company received a letter from its net registrar, saying that its domains had been frozen. A ruling in the US courts had deemed Planet Scotland was   among those companies illegally cybersquatting on Olympic domains.Planet Scotland says it is doing no harm and is outraged that US legislation is enforceable in the UK. "We are not cybersquatting in any shape or format," says Jenkins. "None of the names has been offered or are for sale to third parties." The company has even promised to donate all profits to an Olympic charity.Jenkins continues: "It &#91;the IOC&#93; is prepared to pour a lot of money into lawyers' pockets instead of using it for the benefit of the Olympic athletes".The IOC has accused Planet Scotland of acting in bad faith, and claims that although Planet Scotland is not trading in the US it is still subject to US jurisdiction because the domain, like all other domain names, is ultimately US registered.Many of those caught up in the suit are in the grass roots of athletics - Olympics enthusiasts who have created websites around the event.Since 1998, Robert Livingstone has been runningTorontoSummerGames.com, a news and information site which monitors the Olympic bidding process. A year ago, Livingstone decided there was demand for an independent website monitoring all Olympic bids. He registered OlympicBids.com, and began developing it in time for the Sydney Games. The site was due to go live last month.He heard about the IOC's class action through friends,   but at the time of going to press was yet to hear from the IOC or its lawyers, despite his domain being included in the class action.He says: "The IOC tied up our domain name so that we couldn't change any of the information on it. We couldn't change the owner, the address information. We couldn't renew it and we couldn't change the site to another server. It was simply frozen."After weeks of wrangling with the IOC's lawyers, Livingstone has finally been told, informally, he can keep the domain name."What really disappoints me is that they landed me in a class action with a whole bunch of domains that they really know nothing about. The IOC is guilty of issuing writs and asking questions later," he says.He is still waiting for written confirmation of the IOC's agreement and, in the meantime, the site remains frozen during its most crucial time - two weeks after the IOC announced the shortlist for the the 2008 Olympics.This week the IOC confirmed to the Guardian that it was seeking to shut down websites that made use of Olympic names, such asOlympic.com, the site of a company selling wood stain and waterproofing sealant. But a spokesperson said that the legal action would not bear fruit for some time.It said it had no plans to renegotiate its major rights deals which, in NBC's case, run until 2008. But an IOC conference on new media   sports coverage in Lausanne this December could provide impetus for fresh thinking in the Olympic movement about the internet age.The IOC spokesperson said it would not be penalising fan sites run by amateur sports enthusiasts. "It's one thing to provide a photograph or comment, but it's another thing to imply involvement with the official sites." But Helen Lensky, author of Inside the Olympic Industry: Power, Politics, and Activism, disagrees, and says the IOC has used draconian tactics to protect its deals with the broadcasters.She believes that the "wider commercial imperative" is to protect the official sponsors, who have also spent millions of dollars to get exclusive sponsorship.She says what the sponsors don't want is "ambush marketing" where companies attempt to piggyback their publicity on major events without splashing out on official sponsorship deals. But she says that in its keenness to monopolise the Olympic event, the IOC is hurting small businesses not connected with the games. She cites the removal of a 30-year-old trademark from the Olympic Restaurant in Sydney as a sign that the IOC will stop at nothing to   protect its sponsors. "The IOC has shown itself determined to stamp out any voices contrary to the official Olympic message. It is not interested in any kind of coverage that might be critical to the games."It's not just the Olympics. During Euro 2000, Uefa, barred internet journalists with the exception of Sportal, the sports portal that won the contract to run the official site.Sportalwas also a title sponsor for Euro 2000, for which it paid &#163;6.6m.Internet rights for major sporting events are now very big business - and the Olympics is no different. Only a fort night ago,Optus@Home, Australia's Excite@Home high-speed cable access service, struck a deal with Australia's official Olympic broadcaster to beam its daily highlights package to computers in, potentially, 2.2m Australian homes."I think Channel Seven and us are just scratching the surface," says Chris Chapman, chief executive officer of Excite@Home. He accepts that the closed nature of Optus@Home's audience is the reason for bagging the Olympic deal, but says: "I have no doubt that sport in particular is going to drive the development of a truly international mode of broadband."Optus@Home is the first deal that will deliver Olympic TV highlights over a cable broadband service in Australia, but across the globe, other commercial bargains are being struck over the Olympics.Chello, a European internet service provider, plans to show Olympic video through a deal with a European TV station. And in the US, NBC andQuokkawill show 20-minute highlight packages to broadband users. These are all excluded from the IOC's class action.So, even though the athletes will still compete with every sinew in their bodies over the coming weeks, the battle that has already been fought over the web hints that noble notions of the Olympics as the amateur "people's games" now belongs to a pre-internet age.
OutplayedThe Russians won the Quake 3 European Championship, sponsored by Barrysworld, beating Sweden to carry off the &euro; 10,000 first prize. The English team was pushed back into fourth place by the Germans.Petrol-freeIn real life we might be saving every last drop of fuel, butLondon Racergives British gamers the chance to tear up the road to    Oxford, or race round the captivating lanes of the M25, instead of being stuck somewhere dull, such as New York or San Francisco. The game, to be heavily marketed over the next couple of months, has been created by Davilex from the Netherlands, but that's not as surprising as it   might seem. The company has already produced best-selling localised versions of the same game for Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Benelux countries.Game ideas know no frontiers. Microids, the French software house, has just produced a PC game based on   Fort Boyard, and Ben Hur 2000, the chariot racing game, has been written by Multimedia Content from the Taejon Software Centre in Korea. (Yes, trivia buffs, Colisuem was the same kind of game for the Sinclair Spectrum.)Virtual athleteDon't mention the Olympics because Virtual Athlete is not an official title. However, Games Magnet has launched this online management simulation, and it will be played alongside the Sydney event. VA sends you off to numerous commercial sites, but at least there are some handsome cash prizes.Sign up at:www.gamesmagnet.com/vaOn the waySega will launch Quake III Arena for the Sega Dreamcast before Christmas; Sierra is well advanced with a version    of Half-Life while Infogrames is working on Unreal Tournament for the same machine. Sony is developing WipeOut Fusion for the PlayStation 2 but it won't be out until March. Konami's International Superstar Soccer will be one of the headline titles for the Nintendo Gamecube. Flare Media, from Bognor Regis, is almost half way through Erotica Island, a   manga-style adult point-and-click adventure said to be in the style of the old Leisure Suit Larry series. Infogrames has signed a deal to develop a PC game based on Channel 4's Big Brother series, though players might find it more interesting to produce their own with an art package and a copy of Electronic Arts' The Sims.
'Mega now!" Boom, boom. "Rez and DaBomb to P3." "You require more minerals."Boom, boom. " Kill him! " Zigazig-ahh.Such was the bewildering cacophony that greeted all who popped their heads into the Schoolscape building at the Millennium Dome on Saturday, where the inaugural BattleTop Cyber Game Challenge was taking place.And quite a few were popping in to mill among the banks of PCs: Dome visitors, corporate flesh-pressers, journalists, PR girls, aliens, jugglers, Aleks Krotoski   (presenter of Channel 4's Bits), and well-known videogame experts Jordan and Jo Guest.Doing their best to shut out the ear-piercing announcements and thumping dance music were the gamers themselves. This was, after all, an opportunity to qualify for the World Cyber Game Challenge in Seoul on October 15; the first ever international games tournament, where the British champions will be facing finalists from 13 other countries. The contestants in the five events (FIFA 2000, Age of Empires II, Starcraft, Unreal Tournament and Quake 3) were also vying for handsome winner's cheques   - &#163;7,000 for first place in Quake 3 - not to mention a dinky trophy of a lithe-looking man in tiny pants stretching heavenward.Looking at the majority of the contestants, a more appropriate figurine might have been a paunchy teenager in a T-shirt slumped in his chair. But that wouldn't be in keeping with the day's over-riding message: the promotion of videogames as a sport.BattleTop, a Korean company that has been organising local LAN (local area network) tournaments for seven years, was setting its sights high. "We aim to hold an annual international videogame tournament on a   par with the Olympics," said Yoo Sup Oh, president of ICM, which was marketing the competition.Geraint Bungay, sales and marketing director of event sponsors Barrysworld, took the analogy further. "If chess can be recognised as a sport," he asked, "why not computer games? Some of these guys train eight hours a day."There were, indeed, some serious mouse-twitchers here. Chief among them was Sujoy Roy, at 24 one of the world's top Quake 3 players. Roy retired from his City job to become a full-time player, and now earns &#163;200,000 a year from killing people. If videogames really are the new Olympics, has he been   dabbling with performance-enhancing drugs? "Well, caffeine doesn't help at all. It makes you shaky; you have to keep your head clear."Ian Cairns's second place in the Starcraft competition was a boon to his hopes of becoming a pro-gamer. Currently an accountant with London Underground, he can't wait to quit the day job. "At the moment, though, there aren't enough tournaments to make a living. If I want to play games professionally, I'd have to win something like this &#163;700 every two weeks."This, of course, will change if BattleTop's plans come to fruition. But before they can convince the International Olympic Committee of   videogames' credentials, there's one group they'll have to win over: women. Of the 200 or so people attending, you could count the female entrants on the fingers of one of the Simpsons' hands.One of them, and at 12 years old one of the youngest in the competition, is Katharine Taylor, whose online nickname, or "nick", is   Noo_Noo. "I'm quite good," she says, "but I don't think I'll be good enough to be professional." As we shake hands, she winces. I look down; her knuckles are bloody and bruised. My God! Is this the result of a punishing schedule of Unreal Tournament training? Noo_Noo frowns. "No, silly. I fell off my bike."Amy, a 23-year-old ballerina visiting the Dome, typifies the female viewpoint. "These guys have such amazing visual and motor skills," she says. "What a shame they can't do something more useful with them."If BattleTop is to take off, there are other wrinkles that need ironing out. The pre-event publicity for the day has   not been what it could: only four people signed up for the Starcraft competition, and the FIFA 2000 contestants totalled eight.Dominic Mulroy, FIFA runner-up, brandished a giant cheque for &#163;700 and was cancelling his plans for mid-October. Given the ease of qualification, was he not worried that the British contingent might "do an Eddie the Eagle" at Seoul? "Not really. Well, the rest of the world don't play soccer much, do they?" No, just enough to stop England winning anything for 34 years.The number of entrants for Unreal and Quake were rather healthier. Unfortunately, since half the Unreal players   weren't told their competition started on Friday, a second, "unofficial" competition was hastily added to the agenda. Soon afterwards, it emerged that the live internet coverage had collapsed because of a server problem. Then ten glamourous hostesses arrived, only to find they had nothing to do. System crashes, missing contestants and over-running games meant the day ended at 11pm, over three hours late.The biggest cock-up of all, though, was saved for last. It's the Quake 3 team final: a best-of-three between Clan 9 and the QuakeArena All Stars. Favourites Clan 9 coasted through the first round, winning by 159 frags to 103 in 20 minutes. The second, though, was a tenser affair, with the All Stars ahead for much of the game. Then, just as Clan 9 edged back into the lead, the match ended - after 15 minutes. It emerged that Clan 9 (funnily enough, the team with star players Sujoy and Xenon) was told of the shortened match, while the All Stars were not. Astonishingly, the result stood.But this was, as BattleTop US president John Varley pointed out, the first event of its kind. Sure, there have been LAN tournaments before; most, however, have been parochial affairs. The few international events, organ ised by the Cyberathletes' Professional League, have tended to be elitist, US-centric, and invariably dedicated to Quake. And given that the enterprise was conceived in February of this year, admin glitches were hardly surprising. "I think, given the amount of time we've had to put this together, things have worked out remarkably well."If BattleTop does cure its hiccups in time to impress sponsors, they plan to repeat the event next year, with more games, 27 participating countries, and $500,000 in prize money. "In a way, this is a rehearsal," says Yoo Sup Oh. "Next year - that's when the real games begin."As the last tired hands shake their farewells, the consensus is that the day has been something of a shambles, albeit a good-natured, well-intentioned shambles. And what an interesting venue. They ought to turn it into some kind of tourist attraction.
More of the same old excellent stuffTOCA World Touring CarsSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Codemasters	****Reviewing games is a cruel business. On any other platform, in any other genre, TOCA World Touring Cars would get five stars. But the PlayStation has a plethora of great driving games including TOCA 2 and Colin McRae Rally (both from Code-masters), Gran Turismo 2, V-Rally, Destruction Derby Raw, Wip3out, and several Formula One simulations.For gameplay, TOCA World is up there with the best of them, but the graphics aren't. Two years ago they would have been outstanding, but as programmers have   wrung the last dregs of performance out of the aging machine, meeting expectations has become tougher than ever.TOCA World also loses a few fractions of a point for a lack of originality. It is, after all, a continuation of the TOCA touring car series, though it takes you much further afield. The game offers a superb selection of realistic tracks including four in the UK, and three each in Australia, Japan and the USA.Although there are quick race and time trial options, the heart of the game involves competing though a championship season, and winning at least one race to continue. It is much more involving than, say, Gran Turismo. And races are more exciting because more cars are involved, not just GT's five.The final few fractions of a point have been deducted for a reason that could make me unpopular: TOCA World is a    bit too easy. It is not all that easy to win races, actually, but it is pretty easy to stay on the track, even if you bash into other cars. Realism is an unrealistic goal - if you had to be as talented as Colin McRae to win, racing games   would be unplayable - but being too forgiving removes some of the challenge.Four stars, then. But it's still a cracking game, and should sell squillions.  (JS)Going for gold in Olympic key poundingSydney 2000PC, PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Dreamcast	&#163;39.99  Eidos/		 Attention to Detail   **It's Olympics time and, once again, steroids are in the news. Of course it's morally reprehensible for athletes to cheat but, such is the physical exertion needed to play this video game, anything that keeps you going should be considered. Sydney 2000 is the official Olympic game but it might as well be Los Angeles 1984 for all the gameplay advances made since then. For those without muscle aching memories of Daley    Thompson's Decathlon and the rest, your aim is to pound two buttons as hard as you can for varying amounts of time. Pressing the action button at the right moment is the only other interaction in 10 of the 12 events. The other two - skeet shooting and kayaking - offer a   welcome change of emphasis which is soon tempered by their frustrating difficulty levels.The game comes on three formats and is surprisingly similar on each. Obviously the PC version has the prettiest graphics, with some impressive animation,   although the Dreamcast isn't far behind. The real difference is in control. PC owners should prepare for some heavy keyboard abuse while Dreamcasters will rapidly realise that their chunky controllers just weren't made for this. The PlayStation dual-shock works best even if the visuals are lacking.Realising the inherent simplicity of the genre, the developers have incorporated a training mode that allows you to build up your athlete. Unfortunately this involves yet more button bashing, making it an unappealing prospect.Ultimately the only way to appreciate games like this is with friends, but enjoyable multi-player distraction or not, the limitations and lack of variety soon tell. It may look the part but Sydney 2000 barely scrapes bronze.  (GH)Having fun catching the 2D vibVib-RibbonSony PlayStation	&#163;10-15 Nanaonsha/Sony	*****Parental health warning: Vib-Ribbon could turn your child into a slavering vegetable. In fact, it's so damned strange, it could turn your vegetable into a child.What makes this game so special? A spaced-out Japanese pop soundtrack and two-dimensional wireframe graphics. Yes, wireframe graphics - as in Asteroids, as in Defender - and black and white ones to boot.To elaborate: Vibri is a white stick rabbit walking along a line. This line - the titular Vib-Ribbon, one supposes - modulates according to the music being played, offering four different kinds of obstacle. To help Vibri overcome an obstacle, all you have to do is press the corresponding button. Although things start out simple enough, before long the game   becomes more challenging, as combination obstacles appear, forcing the player to press various keys simultaneously.If you time your presses correctly, Vibri evolves into a higher life form. Miss a beat, however, and the line begins to quiver, and your 2D friend slips slowly down the evolutionary ladder and ultimately to oblivion.Fortunately, you are not restricted to the seven distressing Japanese tracks included with the game. The stroke of genius here is that you can play along to your own CDs, which the game software will analyse and convert into new ribbons. Gameplay is limited only by the size of your CD collection.Catchwise, the software is not 100 % reliable in its interpretation of music, and Vibri's relentlessly upbeat whine may have some reaching for their two-dimensional 12-bore. Otherwise, Vib-Ribbon is living, dancing proof that games don't need fancy graphics to be innovative and fun. The tie-in record and novelty dance move can only be days away.  (AB)
