Yell, owner of Yellow Pages, yesterday signed a deal with Google that will allow internet users in Britain to use the search engine to find local products and services.Yell is supplying 2m business addresses fromYell.com, its internet service, for the newGoogle Localservice. Information will also be available on Google's mobile phone service."Google Local UK combines business listings and relevant information from across the web to deliver a powerful and easy-to-use source of local information," said the company's European head, Nikesh Aurora.Although financial details of the arrangement were not disclosed, Google is understood to be paying Yell for the use of its information, which will form the backbone of the new service.Entering a search term such as "Pizza Blackburn" intoGoogle.co.ukwill bring up a separate sub-menu of local results which, when accessed, will include a map of local pizza restaurants with addresses and phone numbers.Google sees the service as a way to offer its advertisers - who pay for their listings to be placed in a prominent position in a section of the website - a way to localise advertising.Yell sees the deal as a way of increasing its appeal to its customers. Alongside the 2m business addresses it has on Yell.com the company also has 133,000 business clients who pay extra to have adverts placed on the Yell.com site.The Google Local service is currently in trial mode and some early users have reported that the maps - produced by US companies Navteq and TeleAtlas - can sometimes be misleading or wrong. However, Google is dealing with these teething issues.The search engine, which had more than 14 million British users last month, has taken the Yell.com database and adapted it to work with its existing index of more than 8bn web documents.Any company can access BT's directory of UK business numbers. But Google decided to make a deal with Yell rather than formatting BT's information itself.
Prefer Defender to Devil May Cry? Pac-Man to Pro Evo? Then you'll be interested in theClassic Gaming Expo UK.Held in Croydon this coming August, the expo will let nostalgic 30-something's and curious/bewildered teenagers play on computers and arcade machines not seen since the last time Liverpool FC did well in Europe. As well as competitions on games like Out Run there will be guest appearances from Manic Miner creatorMatthew Smithamongst others. Hmm. Now, don't get me wrong, I loved gaming in the 80s -Zzap 64was my bible back then - but isn't this all going a bit too far?There's something a little sad about gawping at ancient games when there is so much good stuff around now. Sure, there are some ancient titles that remain highly playable - Monkey Island, Paradroid - but the vast majority of "retro games" are rubbish. Once you've got over the nostalgic thrill of a tinny soundtrack or pixellated loading screen you're usually left with a game best remembered rather than re-lived. So congrats to the organisers for sorting this event, but I prefer to look forwards rather than back.Gribbly's Day Outor Grand Theft Auto 3? No contest.
Ever wondered about the identity of some of those stranger types who flog off their belongings on eBay?They could be your council:Westminster city council has auctioned a Range Rover on the UK online marketplace, eBay, with the vehicle fetching £6,600. It is now offering a 1962 Rover P5 which was owned by European aristocrat Countess Renee de Vismes and which has been in a car park for six years following her death."The countess's son who lives in New York did not want the car so we have put it up for auction on eBay," said a spokeswoman for the council.It's an interesting idea. I wonder if they'll start selling more on the web?FOR RENT:Large family house at 10, Downing Street, SW1. Lots of history, period features. Comes unfurnished, but lots of space for Cabinets.Early bidders will get a FREE POLICEMAN. Paypal only.NO RESERVE!!!
Always in search of new and exciting applications for gaming technologies, I was pleased this year to giveBlast Theory, the Brighton/London-based media art collective, theIGDA Maverick Games Developers Choice Award. The Maverick award "recognizes the current achievements of a developer who exhibits independence in thought and action while experimenting with alternate/emerging forms of digital games," and Blast Theory have been producing a mixed-media approach to interactivity since 1991. I first came across them last year when asked to explain their twice BAFTA-nominatedUncle Roy All Around Youinstallation for aRichard and Judyaudience. Unfortuantely I wasn't able to head up to Manchester where the event was being filmed, but I've been hooked on the idea of breaking gaming out of the console and putting it on the streets ever since.I managed to pry a few words out of Matt Adams, one of the leaders of the rabble, and his thoughts on game culture are definitely the maverick kick up the jacksie that the industry needs.What is this Alternative Reality Gaming genre?Well, there is a proliferation of terms for games that blur the boundaries between the world of the game and the real world. Some are high technology and use wireless networks, handheld computers and GPS; others use a simple application on a mobile phone. All of them extend in time and/or space far beyond the boundaries of what we have previously thought possible in games.Can you explain what happens in one of your projects?Uncle Roy All Around You is a search game played online and on the streets at the same time. Street players use a handheld computer to search a city for the elusive Uncle Roy. Online players search a virtual model of the same city. Both sets of players can send each other messages. Over the course of about an hour they reach Uncle Roy's office and Street Players get picked up by a limousine. It is a mix of a game, a performance (there are actors on the street and online) and a social world (32 players play at once).How did you, as a group of three artists, come to be involved with computer games?Games are a burgeoning cultural form, they are easily understood, compelling to play and intrinsically interactive. Our collaboration with theMixed Reality Labat the University of Nottingham has given us the chance to work with skilled programmers who can implement complex structures. And all of our games sinceDesert Rainin 1999 in some way violate the boundaries of a game in any case: the game is interconnected with social or political realities.What kinds of games inspire your work? What else do you take inspiration from?Nick [Tandavanitj] and Ju [Row Farr] would have very different answers but for me Sim City for its modelling of society, and Risk for the tensions it creates between players. Halo is the most immersive game I have played.Most games seem overly hermetic to me and rely on such limited imaginative scenarios. 87% of all Massively Multiplayer Online Games are in the fantasy genre!Paul Auster's novels use games in fascinating ways. Sophie Calle and Christian Boltanski make artwork that manifests absence and memorial within the urban landscape in compelling ways.At the moment Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart video is proving VERY inspirational.What lessons do you take from computer game design and what do you think you can offer traditional game designers?There is so much we have to learn:Rules of Playby Eric Zimmerman and Katie Salen is packed with insights into the stringent discipline of game design.We are part of the Integrated project onPervasive Gamingand hopefully we can offer our partners a different perspective. In particular, because we started off making performances we have a set of skills in managing live events that are increasingly relevant to computer games as they are played continuously online or on mobile devices.How does incorporating your games into the real world aim to inspire social and political dialogue?Games are an expression of the ways in which the virtual interpenetrates our lives in ever more complex ways. Desert Rain took the Gulf War of 1991 as a critical moment in this process: when it became widely understood that the killing itself was 'off screen' and the imagery of war was taking over. Soldiers themselves are taught in increasingly computer generated spaces and have less direct contact with their enemy. And many of them are avid games players. America's Army is a game funded by the US Army to bring in new recruits.For these reasons (and many more) games themselves are part of social and political dialogues. We aim to make these interconnections a bit more explicit and try to engender reflection in players as to how these interconnections take place.How can more traditional games engage in such debates - and should they?Like cinema there will always be room for empty headed sensation fests but for games to fulfill their potential they must stop pretending that these debates are outside their remit. We need games designers to push the vocabulary of games so that they acknowledge that, say, setting a game in a war zone involves a wider set of considerations than the veracity of the weapons they use.There is a long way to go but games such as911 Survivorindicate the spaces that can be opened up.Why do you think Blast Theory won this year's Maverick award? How do you feel this demonstrates a new direction for the games industry?It came as a bit of a shock! It was the first games conference I had ever been to.What I hope it indicates is a new kind of continuity between the mainstream and those at the margins (that'd be us). The established games industry needs to be challenged by those coming from outside because it is currently an extremely conservative place.
Motorola has announced that it is launching a mobile multiplayer games service via its HelloMoto portal. Owners of Motorola handsets will be able to download games then play them against other phone users in different countries and on various networks - the site is also set to support leagues, tournaments and in-game chat. Motorola has elected to useTerraplay's mobile multiplayer gaming infrastructure - the same system 3 is using for it's 3G multiplayer titles."Motorola believes immersive human-to human-applications will be key drivers for growth in the mobile industry and we are very pleased to be offering such exciting multiplayer games to our customers. As part of our 'Innovate' program we are always looking for the very best technologies, such as Terraplay, to support the considerable capabilities of our handsets, and in addition drive additional revenues for our operator customers. " says Ronan Smyth, Applications Manager, Motorola.I like the way he starts with "Motorola believes..." as though the company were a single sentient intelligence.Only two launch titles are mentioned - No Refuge by Mobile Interaction and Mole War from Digital Chocolate - but more are promised. Clearly, there's a growing confidence that multiplayer is going to be the missing element that kickstarts this mobile gaming mega-explosion we've all been waiting for. Well, some of us have been waiting for. Okay, thatI'vebeen waiting for.
EA has announced that it is bringing Sims 2 to PS2, Xbox, Game Cube, PSP, DS and mobile phones later this year. Interestingly though, there are going to be some key changes to the gameplay. As the press release explains:"Maxis-EA is redefining this highly-acclaimed franchise and will deliver the classic open-ended gameplay as well as exclusive new features. The Sims 2 on console and handheld will include a completely new aspiration gameplay and new fully customisable content giving players the most authentic Sims experience ever on a console. Players will be able to fulfill their dreams while avoiding their fears and for the first time, will be able to take direct control of their Sim without having to use their cursor. All handheld versions will feature completely unique storylines and will ship simultaneously with the console games."Direct control over your Sim? Will this transform the experience from social simulation to straightforward action adventure? And we're interested to see how the vastly open-ended and AI-intensive nature of the series works on mobile phone. Gameloft has had a pretty good bash at a Sims-style social game withNew York Nights, but this cute little plaything is very limited compared to Will Wright's creation.And what of PSP and DS? Can we expect support for the consoles' wi-fi multiplayer capabilities? I should be asking EA all this really, shouldn't I?
I'm parked at the far corner of a test track at the Hayes motor museum in Sparkford, with my seatbelt on, an instructor by my side, and an orange cone just off the starboard wing mirror. I could for all the world be preparing to execute a three-point turn using forward and reverse gears. The instructions from Declan, my teacher, however, are somewhat different: turn the steering wheel all the way to the right, put the car in first, rev the engine up to 4,000rpm, and dump the clutch. BSM this ain't.The instant I do this, the back tyres squeal and the rear end attempts to overtake on the left. The car arcs around the cone in an agreeable half-doughnut before the tyres suddenly catch and we go shooting off - on to the grass verge. "Not enough power," says Declan. I meekly reposition myself near the cone and try again.Welcome to Drifting 101, or the fine art of driving sideways - or, to be a bit more specific, the fine art of driving sideways on purpose. The history of drifting is murky, but it is said to have evolved from a form of illegal hill-racing in Japan. At some stage, the skidding became the end rather than the means, and in its country of origin drifting has grown into a wholly legitimate sport: cars career around tracks in a balletic series of controlled fishtails, in front of judges. It's like ice-driving, but on asphalt. Although the top competitors drift through turns and straights at more than 100mph, speed has never been the point. It's about how sideways you are. And it's about style.Drifting also comes with an ethos at odds with more traditional motor sports: the drivers are not prima donnas, the sport is less aggressive and the cars tend to be modest 10-year-old production models, the kind of things salesmen drive. Huge horsepower isn't necessary. Drifting is meant to be cheap, cheerful and crowd-pleasing. It is to regular racing (or "grip racing" as drifters call it) what snowboarding is to skiing: rougher, readier and completely baffling to the traditionalist.Yet drifting is starting to take off in Britain, according to John Chambers, who has set up Drift Academy to teach the basic skills of the sport. "Drifting took place in Japan almost exclusively until three or four years ago, then a bit in the US," he says. Today there are drifting competitions across Europe. And Chambers is pushing the training not just as a way of getting into the sport, but as a lesson in driving more safely in general.With the ubiquity of computer-aided handling, most ordinary drivers have never experienced a loss of traction, and wouldn't know what to do if they did. You can bring your own car if you like (virtually any rear-wheel drive vehicle can drift) or train in one of the Academy's Mazda MX5s, which have lightly modified differentials and suspension, and are equipped with drift-friendly tyres (drifting is, as you might have guessed, rather hard on tyres). One of Chambers' other aims is to drag British drifting into respectability before its reputation can be damaged by reckless boy-drifters: with its underground roots, drifting has always had the potential to flourish on the wrong side of legality. "I want to take it off the streets and put it somewhere safe," says Chambers. "And teach them properly."The motor-racing world hasn't really cottoned on to the whole skidding thing yet. At "track days", where amateurs pay to run their cars round real race courses, driving sideways is frowned upon. So drifting tends to take place at disused airfields. "In Japan they have purpose-built tracks," says Chambers. If we had venues like that here, he adds, "our standard would be up to the Americans and the Japanese in a couple of years." As it stands now, a novice drifter can train up to British competition standard in a day. Unless that novice is me.Although I've been round the cone a few times, I still can't overcome my reluctance to apply more power as the car loses traction. Declan shows me how to let the wheel correct itself as we spin out, but the compulsion to steer is overwhelming. At this rate, I will never graduate to the full figure-eight. The only way to get a taste of real drifting is to climb into the passenger seat and let Declan take over.So off we go, round the track in a cacophony of roaring and squealing, at least some of which is coming from me. We're only going about 40mph, but it feels faster because the car is perpendicular to the track, my passenger window facing forward. There's a lot of smoke and commentary from Declan about "opposite wheel lock", "oversteer" and "angle of drift", little of which registers because my helmet is banging against the car's interior.It is intensely good fun, once you accept that your driver is in complete control at all times, and isn't suddenly going to demonstrate the fine art of driving upside down. One can also see how addictive drifting could be. Driving home on the A303, it's all I can do to keep end on.&#183;Drift Academy: 08707 60 70 44,www.driftacademy.co.uk
The high street retailer Marks &amp; Spencer today enlisted the help of the online specialist Amazon to run its website while it focuses on its core business.Under the agreement, Amazon Services Europe will provide the technology behind the retailer's website, as well as its in-store and telephone ordering and customer services systems.M&amp;S will remain responsible for the management of its website, customer service operations, warehousing and distribution.M&amp;S currently has three separate systems for ordering goods in-store, over the telephone and through the internet; Amazon will create a new integrated service for all three.The revamped system will allow customers to track in-store orders over the telephone or by looking on the website. Changes to the website will include better graphics and improved search facilities.Amazon already runs bookseller Waterstones' website, but, under that deal, Amazon provides the goods as well as the technology.Steven Sharp, director of marketing and e-commerce at M&amp;S, said the company's ordering services had yet to reach their full potential.He said: "A partnership with Amazon will help us achieve this, while allowing us to concentrate on our core business of retailing."The deal with Amazon is part of a series of changes introduced by the chief executive, Stuart Rose, as he seeks to revive the company's fortunes. Since he became chief executive over a year ago, when M&amp;S spurned an £9bn offer from the retail tycoon Philip Green, Mr Rose has sold the company's financial services arm, M&amp;S Money and closed its Lifestore venture in Gateshead.Earlier this month, Mr Rose said the firm's recent sales performance was "not good enough" as the company reported the sixth consecutive quarter of declining sales. Like-for-like sales in the fourth quarter dropped 4.9%, with a particularly grim performance from homewares.
Google is launching some UK-centric new widgets today, includinglocal,mapsand an SMS service.I've been trying to find out whether people will be able to fool around with the British maps like they have done with theAmericanones(the data is supplied by NavTeq and TeleAtlas, who also did the US maps - but it's not apparent whether it's open information in the British version).This morning I spoke to Kate Burns, managing director of advertising sales for Google UK, who told me what this means to the company."Local search fits in with Google's mission," she told me. "We see this as complementing local information providers as well. We're driving information to people when they're already searching for it, answering the needs of our customers."We've marvelled at Google's maps on Onlineblog, and now we can marvel at a British version. Some of the extra gubbins (satellite imagery etc) aren't yet available, but surely that's just a matter of time. Can we expect more focus on British product from the Mountain View firm?"We take it very seriously," says Burns. "The UK is a significant market outside the US, and a lot of work has gone into localising this information. This is a comment on how seriously Google takes it."So what can you do with these UK services that you can't do with the American version?"Well, you can search by neighbourhood - Soho, Kensington etc - or by train or tube stations, or by streets, specifically London streets. People in London are much more likely to search this way than by postcode."They're fairly clear on why they're going for the local market - advertising revenue from small, localised businesses - but wouldn't give any hint of things to come.
A council has come up with a new way of disposing of abandoned cars - selling them on the internet.Westminster city council has auctioned a Range Rover on the UK online marketplace, eBay, with the vehicle fetching &#163;6,600. It is now offering a 1962 Rover P5 which was owned by European aristocrat Countess Renee de Vismes and which has been in a car park for six years following her death."The countess's son who lives in New York did not want the car so we have put it up for auction on eBay," said a spokeswoman for the council.She added: "We get a lot of cars left in car parks and we have now decided to see if internet auctioning is the best approach."We always try to track down the owners of these abandoned vehicles, but sometimes we are not successful."Around 200 cars are abandoned in London each day and the capital accounts for 40% of abandoned cars nationally.
A charity that helps battered women today launched a website giving children advice on dealing with domestic violence.The site, calledthe Hideout, provides information on the warning signs of domestic abuse and advises children what to do if their mother or father is affected by it.It also aims to help youngsters who have been victims of abuse, whether by relatives or their boyfriend or girlfriend.If children are interrupted while using the website, they can click on a special "panic button" which switches the screen to another site such as Top of the Pops.The Hideout also explains how children can delete the history of which websites they have visited in case an abusive relative tries to trace their tracks.Features on the site include a quiz which helps children recognise whether they or one of their parents is a victim of domestic abuse, plus advice on staying safe, how to get help, their legal rights and giving evidence in court.There are also games where they can explore their emotions by spraying graffiti on a virtual wall or design a leaf to add to an "emotions tree". The website gives feedback on what emotional state their drawings convey. For example, a white leaf may suggest they are peaceful and calm, but could also signify they feel cold and isolated.The chief executive of Women's Aid, Nicola Harwin, said: "Last year over 20,000 children stayed in refuges in England and we know that many more live with the daily fear of domestic violence."Children and young people can be enormously affected by domestic violence, whether as witnesses of violence in the home, direct abuse from a parent or in their very first relationships."Children and young people often feel powerless or guilty at being unable to stop domestic violence and The Hideout will play a vital role in providing information and helping them find the support that they desperately need."The website's launch follows research published last month that revealed nearly one in five teenage girls had been hit by a boyfriend and a third had experienced domestic abuse at home.The survey of 2,000 girls with an average age of 15 by Sugar magazine and the NSPCC also found more than 40% said they would "consider giving a boy a second chance" if he hit them.The Hideout was launched by pop star Will Young, a celebrity ambassador for Women's Aid, plus other stars including chef Gordon Ramsey and Jacqueline Wilson, author of the Tracey Beaker children's stories.
Sony has announced more details on Genji, a hack 'n' slash samurai adventure from Yoshiki Okamoto, the creator of Street Fighter 2, Resident Evil and Devil May Cry. This will be the first project for Okamoto-san's newGame Republicstudio."GenjiTM is a beautifully cinematic, sword-wielding Samurai adventure based on the popular Japanese legend of the same name. Acting as the historic hero Genkuro Yoshitsune or his trusted companion Benkei, the warrior monk, you set out on a mission to release the oppressed from the evil forces of the warlord Kiyomori and restore the Genji dynasty to power.Taking its visual cue from movies like "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and "House of Flying Daggers", Genji has a beautifully crafted aesthetic. Battle commences in lush Autumnal forests, grand, eastern palaces and blood soaked feudal battlegrounds, with an incredible attention to detail that really brings the legend to life," screams the press release.In this age of open-ended driving shoot 'em ups, close combat-based adventures have fallen out of favour somewhat, with later iterations of Devil May Cry and Onimusha failing to grab the attention of mainstream gamers. Part of the problem lies in the fighting mechanics which have not evolved alongside other elements of the game engine. While Onimusha 3 et allookrealistic, for most players combat can often be a case of hammering the same buttons over and over again and hoping for the best. Only a minority ever truly master the controls and/or the vaguaries of close combat in a 3D space. The likes of GTA, however, just require you to point a Mac 10 and shoot. Instant gratification.So can Genji re-ignite interest in the fighting adventure? The press release has some revealing boasts about combat mechanics:"As you would expect from the grand-daddy of Street Fighter, Genji plays as good as it looks. Execute slick and deadly manoeuvres, motion captured from a Samurai Swordmaster. Rain down combos, super-moves, parries and more onto your opponents; special features such as the 'Mind's Eye' slow time around you, allowing you to anticipate the enemies' movements with lightning precision and unleash balletic finishing moves."Hmmm, so that's Devil May Cry meets Max Payne then? Okamoto is gambling on gamers actuallywantingmore sophisticated fighting systems, rather than simple intuitive set-ups that look and feel convincing. Accurately placing attacking moves in a 3D space is tough for both the player and the game designer, especially if there are multiple combatants involved. It's easy to get tired and frustrated and just resort to button bashing. Or at least, it is for me - and my progress through these games has rarely been impeded as a result. But then, of course, we raise the whole debate about whether game designers of Okamoto's calibre should be pandering to casual buyers (or lazy gamers like me).Still, the visuals look lovely, with incredibly detailed renditions of historic Japanese architecture and gorgeous landscapes, all lit to perfection (ah, rainbows over waterfalls...). Plus, as the videogame version of Crouching Tiger utterly failed to capture the essence of the movie, perhaps this is what fans of post-modern mainstream wire-fu movies have been waiting for. I wonder if Sony'll quote that on the box?
Philips, the Dutch electronics group, added to the depression over Europe's hi-tech sector yesterday by announcing a 79% slump in first-quarter profits, which it blamed on overcapacity in chips and liquid-crystal displays.As the European commission warned of a lack of investment in the hi-tech sector, Philips said its net profit was &euro;117m (&#163;80m), compared with &euro;550m in the first three months of 2004.The group, Europe's largest consumer electronics company, said associated companies such as LG.Philips, the Korean-based flat-panel maker, and TSMC, the Taiwanese chip-maker, produced net income of just &euro;22m, compared with &euro;457m a year ago.LG.Philips lost &euro;34m, compared with a profit of &euro;215m in the first quarter of 2004. Philips has said it would sell its stakes in it as well as TSMC and other unconsolidated companies and is seeking to raise &euro;11bn.Philips reported flat first-quarter sales of &euro;6.6bn, which were affected by the strength of the euro against the dollar. It said it had made its first profit in consumer electronics in seven years, boosted by north American sales of flat-screen televisions and set-top boxes, up 29%.Gerard Kleisterlee, chief executive, said: "It's encouraging to see another solid quarter, with steady performance and profitability in all our main businesses...The cyclicality of the technology sector had a negative impact, especially on results from our unconsolidated companies."The group hopes to make up to 4.5% operating margins in consumer electronics by the end of this year but Jan Hommen, chief financial officer, said: "We see some weakness in the European market, in consumer electronics but also in appliances. We see it in a number of countries." He said he expected an overall rise of 5%-6% in group annual sales from last year's &euro;30bn.The commission, meanwhile, said eurozone investment expanded by less than 2.5% in the past three quarters after falling in real terms for more than 20 years. But senior officials said the recovery was far short of expectations.Klaus Regling, director of economic and monetary affairs, said companies making record profits were opting instead for share buybacks and increased dividends - partly because of weak consumer demand throughout the zone.He said there was evidence that a slowdown in the pace of technological progress and chronic unemployment were reducing the appetite for investment. The hi-tech sector, the supposed engine of eurozone growth, is especially badly affected.
Computer games retailer Game Group was jilted at the altar yesterday as its potential suitor dropped out of bid talks and eloped with a US rival.Shares in Game dropped almost 20%, wiping &#163;60m off the value of the business, as it admitted takeover talks announced at the end of March had collapsed.At the same time, video game retailer GameStop announced plans to buy US rival Electronics Boutique for $1.44bn (&#163;750m) in cash and shares.The merger will create a computer gaming rival in the US to retail chain Wal-Mart.The move is a major setback for Game. GameStop is understood to have been stalking it with a view to extending its operations to Britain. Instead it chose to buy Pennsylvania-based Electronics Boutique, which has more than 1,500 stores dotted across America, continental Europe and Asia. GameStop, based in Texas, owns more than 1,500 stores in the US, Puerto Rico, Ireland and Guam.Game used to be the British arm of Electronics Boutique, which bought into a small UK-listed games retailer in 1995 and under a licensing deal all the stores were rebranded as Electronics Boutiques. Under the terms of that deal the US business received an annual fee equivalent to 1% of UK turnover.In 1999 the UK-listed Electronics Boutique, with about 200 stores, bought its smaller rival Game as well as operations in France, Spain and Scandinavia.In 2002 the board of Electronics Boutique decided to rebrand as Game and change the name of the stores accordingly. In February last year Game and Electronics Boutique reached an agreement to end the licensing deal. Game paid its US partner &#163;8.3m.The collapse of bid talks leaves Game, which will report its full year results today, in a precarious position.It is facing increased competitive pressure from general retailers as well as music superstores. Online players such asAmazonandplay.comare also snatching an increasingly large portion of the games market.In its post-Christmas trading update Game said its annual sales would be down on the previous year.
Adobe Systems announced yesterday the $3.4bn (&#163;1.8bn) acquisition of Macromedia, in a deal designed to add multimedia capabilities to the document and graphics software company.The deal combines Adobe's Acrobat, which enables users to create, view, share and print documents, with Macromedia's Flash and Shockwave software. Adobe, which was founded in 1982, is the creator of the portable electronic document, the widely used PDF. Its Adobe Reader software is installed on countless personal computers.The company said it hoped to create an "industry-defining technology platform" through the merger.The deal comes ahead of the launch of the next generation of Microsoft software, codenamed Longhorn, which is due out towards the end of 2006 and is expected to beef up the Windows document features.The agreement also represents the latest example of the consolidation beginning to take place in the software business after a long dry spell for mergers and acquisitions.By acquiring Macromedia, Adobe will be able to offer a broader software mix, adding programs that display images as well as audio to its existing internet publishing products.Adobe also makes products such as Photoshop and Illustrator, aimed at the creative industries such as graphic design and advertising.Macromedia, formed in 1992 and based in San Francisco, produces the software that animates websites, used by the creative community and corporations alike. It makes the market-leading software used by website designers.The combination also drives Adobe further into the rapidly emerging market for hand-held devices including mobile phones, which Macromedia has been actively pursuing. In January, the company announced that Samsung Electronics would include Flash software in its mobile phones.Bruce Chizen, Abode's chief executive, said: "This combination is all about growth." Adobe employs 3,700 staff and has annual revenues of $1.2bn. Macromedia has 1,200 workers and last year made $41.5m on sales of $370m. The companies said there would be some cost savings but declined to offer any details.Mr Chizen will be chief executive of the combined group and Stephen Elop, Macromedia's boss, will become head of worldwide field operations.The consolidation of the business software market in particular has become increasingly evident. Oracle bought PeopleSoft in January after a tortuous battle for control and the anti-virus software firm Symantec Corporation is in the process of buying Veritas. IBM, which is jettisoning its personal computer business, last month agreed to buy Ascential Software. Adobe is paying 0.69 of its shares for each Macromedia share in the all-paper deal. At Friday's close that valued each Macromedia share at $41.86, a 25% premium. Adobe shares dropped almost 12% in early trading yesterday, falling to $53.65.
Wondering how long it might be until Longhorn arrives on the scene? Well, here's a possible hint... Microsoft have just announced a new 15-month advertising campaign to boost sales of Windows XP. According toReuters:Microsoft declined to say how much it would spend on the global television, print and online marketing effort, or how the duration of the campaign might reflect the delivery schedule of Longhorn.The massive ad campaign comes three years after the debut of Windows XP and is focused around more than a dozen different themes, including music, science, art and sports. In the main print ads, a window is displayed over a person's heart, with various images connected to the themes flowing out of the window.No surprise that Redmond's staying tight-lipped on What This All Means, but no doubt many will take it as a rough timetable for the next Windows OS? Me, I know nuuthing.
Yahoo is testing anew news page, and I like it a lot for its use of tabs. I don't have time to play with the customisation at the moment, but changing some of the souces and moving the Oddly Enough section to the top would make it very attractive indeed.
I've been trying to remember just how many companies and products Adobe has taken over in its quest to dominate the creative publishing market, where it now makes an impressive 97% gross profit margin. (Overall, it's only 93.7%.)The two biggies were Aldus (of PageMaker fame) and Frame Technology, which dominated desktop publishing on Unix platforms. It has also picked up a few other things in passing, such as Ceneca (PageMill, SiteMill), GoLive and Syntrillium (for CoolEdit Pro, renamed Adobe Audition).Adobe has also bought numerous small companies such as LaserTools, Compumation, Visualware, Hyphen, Ares, Swell, Digibox, Sandcastle, Finepoint, Attitude, Photomerge, Glassbook, Fotiva and Accellio. (Not from memory: I looked it up.)Macromedia also has a history of takeovers. It was formed from two companies: Authorware and MacroMind. Along the way, it acquired Altsys (FreeHand), Fauve (xRes), OSC Software (Deck II), Backstage (iband), Presedia (Express), Allaire (ColdFusion), and most importantly, FutureWave, the developer of FutureSplash, which became Macromedia Flash.Of course, this isn't unusual in the software industry, where companies such as Computer Associates, Symantec and Corel have similarly aquired lots of other companies directly, or their products indirectly.The big mergers attract attention, but the little ones are going on all the time....
The first UK singles chart to include songs downloaded from the internet was released yesterday, but the dawning of the digital age failed to dislodge veteran singer Tony Christie from the top spot.The singles chart almost doubled in size to about 800,000 units after legal downloads from more than 20 sites including i-Tunes and Napster were counted for the first time. Christie's charity track (Is This the Way To) Amarillo was confirmed as No 1 for the fifth week running but the chart positions of some other songs was affected by the inclusion of downloads.Elvis Presley's The Wonder of You would have been at No 3 under the old system, but was pushed to No 4 by 1, 2 Step by Ciara featuring Missy Elliott, according to the Official UK Chart Company which compiles the chart.Oh My Gosh by Basement Jaxx would have been at No 45 but made No 27 once downloads were taken into account. Stereophonics' Dakota was at No 34 in the chart instead of No 46 under the old system.The most dramatic leap was made by Feel Good Inc by Gorillaz which has only been available as a seven-inch vinyl single. It would have been at No 197 but was No 22 thanks to downloads.Paul Clifford of the Official UK Chart Company said: "The chart has always been a reflection of the most popular songs and including downloads means we maintain that."Independent labels have objected to the chart, claiming it puts them at a disadvantage because many are unable to sell their recordings in a downloadable format. But the Chart Company said there were eight indie records in the chart, one more than would have been under the old system.
The games industry has always felt a modest amount of unspoken one-upmanship becauseLorne Lanning and Sherry McKenna, co-founders of Oddworld Enterprises, left the glitz and glamour of the Movie Biz for interactive entertainment. There have been countless panels at countless conferences that have applauded them for bridging the media divide with such success that one of their creations from this side (Abe) was even celebrated on that side (submitted for consideration for anAcademy Award).However, it is with much dismay that the gamesblog has to report that the former defectors are returning to the eager embrace of movies and TV. While I can't say it's too much of a surprise (the company is in the process of moving next door to Pixar, and when I asked if the close proximity to the uber-animators was a motivation for the relocation, the folks at the GDC stand just smiled), the reasons Lanning gave theHollywood Reporterwere surprisingly damning.As game production costs rise, publishers want more sure bets because with rising costs come rising risks. What we see is an industry which is rapidly discouraging innovation because people don't want to take chances on more innovative types of titles.and more...We closed the studio because of what the realities of the marketplace are. There is currently only one financing model in the games industry, and that is that the publisher pays for the entire game; it handles the manufacturing, the marketing, the distribution, the advertising, practically everything, much the way it used to be in Hollywood pre-United Artists. But, as the film industry matured, it took on a more sophisticated financing structure. Today, for example, studios don't pay for a movie by themselves. They pay a percentage and then other parties pick up the other 66%; it's usually a three-party investment package. But not in the games industry.and that's not all....Video game systems aren't being designed to be conducive to development, creativity, or content. They're being designed to be cheaper for manufacturing. If movie cameras were made that way, you'd have a rebellion in Hollywood. But this isn't Hollywood and it isn't a movie camera; it's a videogame system and the public wants basically a $1,000 box but only wants to pay $150 for it.With one of the most innovative games companies jumping ship, surely this should be a wake-up call for the industry.All is not lost. What this means for the consumer is the realisation of the Abe movie. Thiscouldbe bigger than Lara Croft.
Trinity Mirror, which owns 240 local papers as well as the flagship Daily Mirror, is to pilot a digital edition of the Journal in Newcastle to test the market for full-price online newspapers.The move, expected to go live over the next few months, comes as the group is planning a redesign of the Daily Mirror website, expected this week.If the pilot of the north-eastern daily is a success, digital editions of other local papers in the Trinity stable will follow, including the South Wales Echo and Birmingham Post.Nearly all newspaper groups produce online or digital versions, some free. The Guardian has a free website, while subscribers to a digital replica of the paper pay &#163;9.99 a month.The Journal plans to charge subscribers 80% to 90% of the cost of the actual paper and hopes to target those who have stopped reading a local paper.Humphrey Cobbold, director of strategy at Trinity Mirror group, said: "We are quite specific. This is a pilot to test a publishing model, to see how we will make it pay. There is no   vanity publishing here." The move is part of a group-wide plan to expand its digital assets at the same time as making more money from them.In 2001, the year before Sly Bailey took over as chief executive, the company's digital business lost &#163;23m. The division moved back into the black last year, partly because of the success of the group's recruitment site, Fish4.Senior executives have said the group's digital division would be a key area of growth under Ms Bailey's "stabilise, revitalise and grow" strategy.The company declined to disclose how much investment it was making in the digital pilot, although Mr Cobbold said there was no pressure to make an immediate return. "You don't necessarily build good publishing businesses by being profitable in the first year," he said.In the past two years, profit margins at the group have improved from 21.3% to 27.6% because of cost-cutting and more centralised controls. The group aims to continue improving these, although they may never reach the 34% margins enjoyed by its rival Johnston Press.
I've been playingJade Empireand Matrix Online this weekend. Two role-playing games, but both very different. While Matrix is online only and clearly half-finished, Jade is polished and playable. Developed by Bioware, the makers ofKnights of the Old Republicand Neverwinter Nights, Jade Empire is a cracking role-playing game set in an Ancient Chinese environment. I'm only a few hours in, but the trademark story and graphics are all there. There isn't the depth of older Bioware titles like Baldur's Gate 2, which will disappoint the diehards, but for those interested in playing something with a more substance than your average first-person shooter than Jade Empire comes recommended. And Matrix Online? Give it a few months to get settled/finished before you jack in.
It is time for newspapers to embrace the internet, said Rupert Murdoch last week, adding: "This thing called the digital revolution ... is a fast-developing reality we should grasp as a huge opportunity to improve our journalism and expand our reach."For a media magnate it was a very humble speech. He admitted that he did not have much clue about where the road ahead was going but there was no denying that all the signposts were pointing towards the super highway and away from the path of print. Last month's official circulation figures confirm the downward sales trend, with minus figures once again dominating the chart below, while the use of the internet goes on increasing.According to Murdoch, the coming generation will want to choose their news rather than have it prescribed for them by editors. He also tackled the dilemma facing all newspapers with websites, asking of his audience of American editors: "How many of us can honestly say that we are taking maximum advantage of those websites to serve our readers, to strengthen our businesses, or to meet head-on what readers increasingly say is important to them in receiving their news?"Indeed, it was such an intelligent and challenging speech, rich in content, that I recommend every journalist to read it. A full text (and does this not make a point?) is availablehere.You may note that the underlying message dovetails with Murdoch's general philosophy about the operation of the free market representing true democracy, with consumer demand dictating terms to owners, but do not let this divert you from his warning about the doomed future of papers that fail to think and act more positively about their relationship to the net. He points to the fact that newspaper websites are too often merely "a bland repurposing of our print content". What is required instead is "compelling and relevant content".To an extent, an uncanny extent, the Murdoch theme was prefigured in a statement about Trinity-Mirror's preliminary results on March 3 by its chief executive, Sly Bailey. Hers was less philosophical and dealt more with advertising than editorial because she was talking to financial analysts rather than editors. But the forecast about the future direction of the newspaper industry was similar. The central plank of T-M's strategy, she said, involved the development of digital media.In our regional business, she said, our goal is to become a multi-platform local publishing and advertising business. "What we want is simple: to win strong, profitable positions in key classified markets online."To that end, T-M is one of the partners in the Fish4 website which is Britain's most visited recruitment site with 1.3 million unique users a month, making it 26% more popular than its nearest rival. In company with Newsquest, Northcliffe and the Guardian Media Group, along with three smaller independent outfits, Fish4 represents about 650 regional papers, some 60% of the entire provincial press. It was set up as a defensive mechanism in the face of encroachment by non-newspaper enterprises but it now has a strong business rationale, having persuaded advertisers to use both paper and net.More than half the jobs advertised in T-M's regional newspapers are now "upsold" to the online site, enabling two price rises within 18 months. T-M, which chairs the Fish4 joint venture, is also pioneering smaller jobs sites in Scotland and Wales. The next stage is to develop sites for property, motors and directories.T-M's move into online classified advertising has seen a staggering turnaround in revenue. Bailey says that in 2001 the company's digital turnover was just &#163;900,000 with an operating loss of &#163;23.5m. By 2004, after judicious cost-cutting and more sensible investment, the digital business generated a turnover of &#163;6.3m and produced a profit of &#163;700,000. "And we expect that trajectory to continue", she says.But journalists will ask, naturally enough, where the future lies for editorial. Was not that what Murdoch was talking about? It would appear that Bailey's company is also conducting experiments in that area too. By far the most interesting innovation was on show during the Grand National on Trinity-Mirror's Racing Post website, which was revamped last summer and has since seen its page impressions grow to a monthly rate of 51m.During the National, the Post teamed up with Racing UK, the leading racing channel on digital TV, to enable website visitors to benefit from the Post's tipsters giving their views of the runners on pre-recorded videos. It was only a pilot but it looked and sounded impressive.Another experiment has been taking place at the Newcastle Journal over the past two months with journalists producing e-editions of the morning title, though people have to subscribe to read them. Are we far from the moment when we see another stage in the multi-skilling of print journalists as they video themselves in order to tell the story behind the stories they write for their papers? That certainly seems like the next step.For the present, T-M's national titles are stuck with rather basic websites. Though the company claims that these will return a profit this year, these "companion websites" require the kind of original thinking that will complement the papers rather than lead to cannibalisation, the loss of readers from print to web which, if taken to its logical conclusion, would destroy the key newsgathering operation.Then again, who will be the new reporters? Are papers to become, in Murdoch's phrase, "the destination" for readers composing their own stories? As he says, we live in exciting times. But they are rather scary too.
I met that nice Tiger Woods the day after he won the Masters. Well, me and 300 other delegates at the Accenture Global Media Conference. He was charm itself, but reading between the lines it would seem that Tiger loves winning so much it hurts, and that team games like the Ryder Cup are for wusses. However, it was clear from this gathering that networking - in its human sense - was essential in the converged world.The theme of the conference was Convergence, Myth or Reality? - the question mark was there because, as an industry, we have only been debating these issues for 10 years, and the c-word was severely discredited by dotcommery. But the reality is that hundreds of billions of dollars have been poured into the total transformation of the consumer experience of bandwidth-hungry services, whether those are handheld monitoring devices for nurses, high-def video on demand, or the seven megapixel cameraphone.Three things stood out: first, wireless and mobile is the beating heart of convergence, second, government regulation will play a big role in sorting out the winners and losers, and third - it's China, stupid.It was no accident that each of the speakers entered through a door shaped like a mobile phone. The COO of Cingular, the US telecommunications giant, claimed that over 50% of its traffic was from mobiles, and a large chunk of that was from customers at home or in work. The president of South Korea's biggest telco claimed that its government was committed to shutting down the old PSTN telephony by 2010. The intense US-based war between cable entering the voice market, and telcos coming into the entertainment world, is driving rapid change and creating more services, better choice, personalised bundles, and always-on, always-there facilities.Regulation hovered over the conference like a dad in the back room at a teenage party. The Americans had the usual ambivalent view that government should get out of the market, while making sure their hands are deep in the pork barrel. The pressing issue for them was that the heavily regulated telecom market was being undermined by the inexorable rise of voice and data over wireless internet. Regulatory frameworks invented for 20th-century monopolies have little place in modern competition - although as mergers and acquisitions activity seems to be producing three supertelcos, competition regulation is as pertinent as ever.The speech that blew me away came from the quietly spoken Chang-Bun Yoon, CEO of South Korea's Hanaro Telecom, who outlined some major government initiatives. South Korea is the most heavily penetrated broadband country in the world, with over 75% of homes having access to high speed services. But instead of sitting back, they are spending billions to introduce eight new services (such as home networking and wireless broadcasting), three major infrastructure initiatives (such as a broandband covergence network), and nine new growth engines (telematics and intelligent service robots among them).All this is designed to create 1.5m new jobs, make South Korea the R&amp;D capital of the digital world, and maintain a competitive edge over China. Meanwhile, the UK government seems to think that it is doing a good job by turning off the analogue TV signal. We urgently need a vision for bandwidth Britain that is compelling and socially just. Turning off analogue, and ensuring widespread access to 512k broadband, are only foundation stones to the kind of innovative digital culture that the South Koreans are reaching for.I suppose if we had China on our doorstep, we might be as bold as the Koreans. Next year, the Accenture circus moves to Beijing, for one very good reason. China is the new Japan. Bizarre though it seems, China's Communist party is presiding over the biggest boom market in mobile and wireless goods and services. And Chinese companies are hammering their US and European counterparts on price. And, what's more, they are realising that they need to move to a knowledge-based economy. Chinese students are staving off the financial crisis in British universities by coming here for a business education.I went to the conference hoping never to write about convergence again and in a funny way, I suspect in a few years' time we will stop writing about convergence, because it will have happened.&#183;David Docherty is chief executive of Yoo Media
Just seen an announcement that Adobe is set to buy Macromedia for $3.4bn. A natural fit, some might say, that's been a long time coming..."Customers are calling for integrated software solutions that enable them to create, manage and deliver a wide range of compelling content and applications - from documents and images to audio and video," said Bruce Chizen, chief executive officer of Adobe."By combining our powerful development, authoring and collaboration software - along with the complementary functionality of PDF and Flash - Adobe has the opportunity to bring this vision to life with an industry-defining technology platform."I'll get some more information when it becomes available - at the moment it all seems pretty limited.Update, 1.50pm:I'm currently on a conference call with the big cheeses at both companies, where they are being relatively cagey about the future – apart from cheerleading opportunities to join together strong product portfolios.Stephen A Elop, Macromedia's chief executive officer, answered the question a lot of people might have been wondering. "Why now?" he said. "It's because thingsaregoing well that it makes sense… we are beginning to see the large possibilities."Bruce Chizen, his counterpart at Adobe, said that "the combination of Adobe and Macromedia will be a company that can more readily achieve our shared vision… especially on non-PC devices.""Some of the consolidations in the software industries are nothing more than consolidation," said Chizen. "But these are two companies both in a growth mode."He was fairly blunt about potential conflicts between different products, claiming "we don't see an issue", and pointing out that "until we get to closure, it would be both inappropriate and illegal to talk about specifics. Certainly there are many opportunities to get more of our products to work together more seamlessly."Elsewhere, they talked at length about making the most of the non-PC platforms, such as mobile devices. Shantanu Narayen, Adobe's president and chief operating officer, pointed out that Macromedia has been part of the group that's defining SVG and outlined a vision of building common software for mobile devices.Update, 2pm:Chizen has just said – rather strangely – that the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington were something of a driving force behind this deal.He said that they had been having casual conversations for several years. "Sometime after 9/11 we realised that being enemies didn't make sense because we weren't competing," he said. "9/11 was the catalyst that made Rob [Burgess, former Macromedia chief] pick up the phone and give me a call. We realised that we really don't compete, we complement one another."Stephen Elop had his own perspective. "Go back a couple of years and both companies were dealing with the end of the internet bubble, and were focused on looking inward. Now we're looking outward. Rob Burgess made a comment in one of our board meetings that it felt like we were twins separated at birth. Now we're coming back together again."
Francis Ford Coppola has disowned EA's forthcoming videogame conversion of The Godfather, according to theObserveryesterday. Apparently the legendary director has expressed fears that the game will be, "a travesty of his Oscar-winning 1972 masterpiece."Hmm, a bit like Godfather III then?Still, you have to sympathise. One of the greatest works of Seventies cinema, a complex study of honour, betrayel and identity, turned into a GTA-style shooter with a few cut-scenes lobbed in to give it gravitas and authenticity. EA will need to perform a minor miracle to get this one right. But is 'right' what they're really after?
He was hired to keep children in an AOL chat room safe from predators, but a lawsuit accuses him of grooming a Californian girl online and arranging to meet her for sex.The man is accused of beginning an online relationship with the girl when she was 15. He was 23, married, and worked in a call centre in Oklahoma.The young woman, now 19, claims to have confided in him about her parents' divorce and problems she had making friends. The conversations then became sexually explicit. The suit alleges they swapped explicit photographs and videos, and had phone sex. "The message and conversations became more and more flirtatious," the lawsuit says, "until they became downright inappropriate."The two allegedly arranged to meet on her 17th birthday, but the encounter never happened. A colleague allegedly became suspicious and reported the man.The woman has filed the lawsuit in Los Angeles against AOL, its parent company, Time Warner, and the monitor. It accuses the firms of failing to supervise the employee and of falsely advertising that the chat room was safe for children. She is claiming the company inflicted emotional distress.She had been an AOL member since she was 10, the suit says, and her mother insisted she only use monitored chat rooms."You are truly looking at a situation where you have a wolf looking over the chicken coop," her lawyer, Olivier Taillieu, told the Los Angeles Times. It had taken her two years to file the suit because "it's a very confusing and painful time for her".An AOL spokesman said the company sacked the man after learning of the allegations in April 2003 and reported them to the FBI and local law enforcement authorities, who notified the girl's family.The man has not faced criminal charges over the alleged incident.
"Intel Corp. said computer makers will start shipping PCs with its 'dual-core' microprocessors on Monday. The chips will boost performance of PCs running multiple programs at once or a single program that's been optimized to work on a dual-core system. But depending how the PC is used, some users might see a performance decrease over the fastest single-core processors," reportsAP."Intel's first dual-core chip, the Pentium Extreme Edition 840, will be available in systems from Dell Inc., Alienware and others. Intel declined to release prices, but today's single-core Extreme Edition chips run about $1,000 each nearly $400 more than the fastest Pentium 4."AMD is expected to ship dual-core chips on Thursday.
One of the problems with Windows security is that practically everybody runs in root (admin) instead of user mode. One of the problems is that, historically, a lot of software has been written to run in that mode. However, it seems MS is finally about to bite the bullet with Longhorn, according to an interview with Jim Allchin inInformation Week:[On other security matters] Longhorn will run as standard users, instead of admin [users]. Today in most installs, a large majority run as admin, so everything on the machine has full rights. Longhorn will run as a standard user, with limited user rights that can't impact the operating system or the user.For example, if you would try to access something, you'd be prompted to elevate your privileges. Beyond that we have work going on to isolate even the new standard-use level so Internet browsing can run in a more isolated environment and, as necessary, switch from intranet to Internet in a seamless way. The probability of contamination from working on the Internet and having it contaminate the intranet is dramatically dropped.
A lot of spoilt friends had parents buy them Fiestas and the like when they passed their driving tests. My parents bought themselves new cars and let my sister, brother and me fight it out over their old ones. One of my parents' new cars (both Volkswagens) was this Golf Tour. I had always had my eye on her while I was driving a knocked-out MkI Golf. This gleaming, colour-coded Golf with twin spots kept winking at me.Finally, one birthday, my dad took delivery of a new Golf GTDi and dangled the old keys. Boy did the Golf Tour get a shock, from the leafy suburban streets of Solihull and golf club car parks to the hectic, menacing streets of central London. The Old Kent Road nearly proving her downfall; extensive wing damage and a road rage attack on her (and me) with a golf club (ironic, bearing in mind her past) nearly meant the end. She survived to look after me another day.She isn't enjoying a genteel retirement - trips to Dorset, Cornwall, home and late-night clubbing are giving her twin spots a bit of red eye. Unfortunately, I don't think she has that long left. There is now a 1978 Mercedes 280SL convertible winking at me from a garage in Chelsea ...&#183;Love your car? Contact us atmy.wheels@observer.co.uk
My neighbour's eight-year-old has taken to asking tricky questions of a metaphysical nature. Rather than the usual, 'Why is the sky blue?' or, 'Do people always have babies after they've kissed?' we get, 'Would you rather eat delicious food you can't taste, or disgusting food you can?' And, 'Would you rather drive a fast car slowly, or a slow car quickly?' Well, Porsche's 911 Carrera S provides its own answer. It's the most awesomely capable 911 ever built. Its six-cylinder horizontally opposed 3.8-litre power unit takes you to 62mph in 4.8 seconds and it has a top speed of 182mph ... But with a national limit of 70mph, the Porsche driver faces a lifetime of torturous self denial. How much easier to thrash a Fiesta ...It's stating the obvious to say a Porsche is unlike any other car.In terms of performance, and price, it outstrips almost all of its competitors. However, it's also a car that requires a little getting used to. It's firm in a way that makes Super Nanny seem like a pushover. The doors close with the grim finality of a morgue's freezer, the steering is weighty, the pedals require real muscle, and the seats seem almost orthopaedic. The guttering roar of the engine is a no-holds-barred shout of environmental mayhem. Having stalled twice and developed cramp in my clutch foot, I was beginning to wonder what all the fuss was about. But, like whisky, Porsches are an acquired taste.Driving the 911 along the bleak, winding coastal road from Rye to Dungeness, the car seemed to mutate beneath me, and where once I felt unyielding brutishness, I began to see what it was all about - which was quite irritating, because at &#163;65,000 there's no way I'll ever be able to afford one.The 911 is a real head-turner. With its wide front lamps, narrow waist and elegantly curving rear, there is not a car park or lay-by in the land which would not be improved by its presence. From the inside, it's all stitched leather and rubberised buttons. For the driver, the view is incomparable. To the front, there's the double rise of the headlamps, a view unchanged since the days of the old 356 VW Porsches - which gives the strange impression of driving a modern classic. In the wing mirrors you see the bulging curves, like a pair of love handles, swelling around the wide rear wheels, and in the rear-view there's just the hint of a wing-like spoiler. Best of all are the two back seats - ideal for children or size-8 footballers' wives - these have been bought at the expense of a boot. But they transform the 911 from a hedonistic two-seater into a very fast family saloon - well, sort of.There's not enough room to do justice to the technical merits of the car: everything from braking to driving dynamics to active suspension management has been perfected over more than 50 years - the spec sheet arrives as a double CD-Rom. But the Porsche is best summed up by two gadgets. Mounted in the centre of the dash is an enormous stopwatch, and below that an SOS button - so you can alert your lawyer after being arrested for burning up the M1.martin.love@observer.co.uk
It is a task as delicate as earning the respect of Don Corleone on his daughter's wedding day. A team of software developers are turning  The Godfather, hailed as one of the greatest movies ever made, into a video game. Unfortunately, the early signs of displeasure suggest they are more likely to end up sleeping with the fishes.Francis Ford Coppola, director of the trilogy of  Godfather films, has accused the developers of failing to consult him and expressed his fear that the game will be a travesty of his Oscar-winning 1972 masterpiece.The developer, Electronic Arts, achieved a coup by wooing Marlon Brando, who won an Academy Award as Don Corleone, out of retirement to record a voice-over for the game six months before his death last year. James Caan, who played Sonny Corleone, and Robert Duvall, alias Tom Hagen, were also recruited, but Al Pacino, who portrayed Michael Corleone, refused.Coppola, however, is unimpressed. 'I knew nothing about it,' he said. 'They never asked me if I thought it was a good idea. I went and I took a look at what it was ... What they do is they use the characters everyone knows and they hire those actors to be there and only to introduce very minor characters. And then for the next hour they   shoot and kill each other.'Speaking on the US cable network show  Sunday Morning ShootOut, he added: 'I had absolutely nothing to do with the game and I disapprove. I think it's a misuse of the film.'Coppola has broken ranks with a number of directors, including George Lucas and Peter Jackson, who regard games as a vital extension of the merchandising bonanza around a blockbuster film. Actors including Pierce Brosnan, Judi Dench and John Cleese have lent their voices to a James Bond game, while it emerged last week that Sean Connery will record dialogue for a game version of  From Russia With  Love.For all its bursts of violence,  The Godfather, based on Mario Puzo's novel, is seen by critics as a supreme piece of storytelling and characterisation. Coppola's wrath is unlikely to be lessened by a recent description of the  Godfather game as 'a free-roaming,  Grand Theft Auto -style romp through New York city, spanning the years 1945 to 1955'.  Grand Theft Auto is a violent game in which players shoot cops and and steal cars.David DeMartini, executive producer of the  Godfather game, insisted that Coppola    had been broadly supportive. He told last month's  Electronic Gaming Monthly: 'We did meet with him and he embraced the project - not as something he wanted to work on, but he invited us up to his private library, where we spent many hours, and we have access to all of his notes via this library. He was very gracious.'Of the cast members, DeMartini added: 'We had an opportunity to discuss with Marlon some of the greatness that was  The Godfather and   some of his perspectives on the film. We've been working in very close collaboration with Paramount to obtain the original actors and recapture some of that authenticity of their performances.'The makers insist the game will be faithful to the plot, including Sonny's death and the horse's head in a bed. James Caan jokily observed of his participation: 'Not to be maudlin about it, but my kids can play with me after I'm gone.' Electronic Arts has also secured the rights to the   music Nino Rota composed for the film. The game is due out in November for the PC, PSP, Xbox and PlayStation 2.In recent years the video games industry has become more lucrative than Hollywood itself, thanks in part to titles such as  GoldenEye, another Bond adaptation released in 1997 on Nintendo 64. One of its British designers, David Doak, now at the games developer Free Radical, said: 'The difficulty they have is that  The Godfather is not an action film like James   Bond. There is extreme violence, but it's cathartic and secondary to the characterisation. I'm sure that's the problem for Coppola, who's essentially a storyteller.'Simon Smith-Wright of Electronic Arts said last night: 'People should reserve judgment until they play the game. Just as the film had to please Mario Puzo's readers, so this game will prove to fans of the film how exciting interactive entertainment can be.'david.smith@observer.co.uk
Ed Matts is the Tory candidate for Dorset South, a bucolic paradise with possibly more dairy cows than voters. Until last week, he was deservedly obscure. Now he is a global celebrity - and all because of a piece of software called Photoshop.Photoshop, for those unfamiliar with such things, is a wonderful program for manipulating digital images. It is used by graphic artists everywhere. I doubt that there is a web designer alive who does not have a version of it on his or her computer.Millions of digital camera users have been given a cut-down version when they bought their cameras. They can use it to touch up their photographs, eliminate the 'red-eye' effect caused by  flash and generally tidy things up. If you have inadvertently snapped Aunt Ethel with a telegraph pole apparently growing out of her head, a few minutes with Photoshop will see you right.Or, if you have recently gone through an acrimonious divorce, you can amuse yourself for hours by going through the wedding photographs and eliminating your ex from each and every one, much as Stalin airbrushed Trotsky out of photographs when the latter fell from grace. Use of the program has become so ubiquitous that, like Google, it has become a verb - 'to photoshop', meaning to alter a digital image in any one of a thousand ways.Which brings us to Matts. Some time ago, he took a courageous and principled stand in support of a local failed asylum seeker and her family who were threatened with deportation. In company with Ann Widdecombe (who in her glory days as a Home Office Minister in the Major government was known as Doris Karloff), he attended a demonstration bearing a placard protesting at the cruel and inhumane treatment being meted out to the aforementioned family.Matts's placard carried an attractive photograph of the poor souls. Karloff's placard was more forthright. 'LET THEM STAY' it declared, in large capital letters. In keep&shy;ing with the sombre occasion, the pair look rather grim. Matts looks like Bertie Wooster cornered by one of his fiercer aunts, while Karloff bears a striking resemblance to a Soviet tank commander who has just discovered that his vehicle is clean out of diesel.No matter. They were doing the work of the righteous. Besides, people cannot help how they look. But then a funny thing happened on the way to the election. The same photograph appeared on Matts's campaign litera&shy;ture. Or, rather, a photoshopped version appeared. All the other demonstrators who had appeared with Matts and Karloff in the original photograph had disappeared, and only the courageous and principled pair remained. More interestingly, their placards had changed. The touching photograph on Matts's was replaced with a simple slogan: 'CONTROLLED IMMIGRATION'. And Karloff's had evolved from 'LET THEM STAY' to 'NOT CHAOS &amp; INHUMANITY'.The intention behind the alterations was transparent - to bring the image into line with Michael Howard's dog-whistling on the issue of immigration. When the photoshopping was discovered there was a certain amount of media huffing and puffing (newspapers can be very pompous about photoshopping, though they do it all the time themselves). There were calls (refused) for the Tory leader to 'sack' the hapless Matts. The culprit himself was nowhere to be found. It was speculated that he might have died of embarrassment.Then the Guardian had a wonderful idea. It asked its readers to do some photoshopping of their own on the image. The results (see Footnotes for the link) are hilarious. One has Matts holding a placard saying 'GOLF SALE' while Karloff's has an arrow pointing to him and the legend 'I'm with stupid'. Another has Matts's placard saying 'WHOOPS, WE SHAT OUT THERE' with Karloff responding 'SURE DID, BUSTER'. My own favourite has Matts bearing a placard saying 'FAMILY TO SUPPORT' while Karloff supports a magnificent piano accordion on her ample bosom.All of which has added greatly to the gaiety of nations - not mention causing your columnist to choke on his muesli. But it also illustrates two serious points. The first is that the vibrancy of a culture depends on the freedom to 'remix' - to take the work of others and build on it. This is something that the proponents of 'strong' copyright would dearly love to stamp out.The second is that you can never, ever take a photograph at face value. This was true of images even in Stalin's time - but then it required serious expertise and resources to alter a photograph in a convincing way. Now, any Tom, Dick or Ed can do it. All you need is a few minutes and a copy of Photoshop. The adage that 'the camera never lies' has been comprehensively undermined. Better to assume from now on that it never tells the truth.www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Owners of MG Rover's upmarket cars may enjoy sumptuous leather seats but the company's bumpy ride into administration this week has left them holding worthless warranties and cars valued at up to &pound;5,000 less than a week ago. More than 230,000 individuals and companies bought a new MG or Rover from a dealer over the last three years, and at this stage it looks as though those who bought most recently are set to lose the most.By Tuesday, it became almost impossible to find a dealer to undertake any warranty work, and customers who had pre-booked work were being turned away.A day later, the administrators announced there was no money available to support the manufacturer warranty, and that customers whose cars need repairs will have to pay for them out of their own pocket. One of the knock-on effects of all the uncertainly that has surrounded Rover all week, is that it is now virtually impossible to sell, or trade in a Rover unless you are prepared to accept a ridiculously low offer.On Thursday, it emerged that MG Rover director John Edwards &mdash; one of the so-called Phoenix Four &mdash; was offering brand new cars at his own Stratford-upon-Avon dealership at under half the original list price.This might have been excellent news for those seeking a bargain, but it had the immediate effect of severely depressing the values of cars bought before the firm went into administration.In the longer term, it looks likely that some of the company's smaller dealers (there are currently 264 in total) will not all be around in the future to service your car.Most are owed an average of &pound;100,000 for sales bonuses that were due to be paid just before the company called in the administrators. Some are also owed money for warranty work carried out before PwC arrived to pore over the books. The Department of Trade &amp; Industry is looking at whether to extend the &pound;40m survival package offered to suppliers to include dealers. The dealers want the government to step in and underwrite the warranty scheme, but at this stage it looks unlikely.And if that all wasn't bad enough, there is now a degree of uncertainty about future parts supply. Rover sold its parts business to CAT last year and supplies are guaranteed in the short term.However, if parts suppliers halt production, it may be difficult to get unusual parts in future years.Here we set out the current situation area-by-area and offer a few solutions.Customer dissatisfactionAnyone wanting to know why the company is in financial difficulties should look no further than this year's JD Power customer satisfaction survey that shows Rover owners are some of the unhappiest on the road.Only four major car manufacturers finished lower than Rover in the 32-company list compiled by marketing information company JD Power and What Car? magazine.Rover got 755 points out of 1,000 for customer satisfaction &mdash; well below the average of 786 in the table based on responses from more than 20,000 car owners.Top of the table was Lexus with 848 points, followed by Skoda (847), Honda (843) and Toyota (835).The Oxford-built Mini, formerly a Rover brand but now owned by BMW, came sixth in the list with 821 points.The only companies below Rover at the foot of the table were Land Rover (755 points), Peugeot (746), Fiat (745) and Alfa Romeo (734).Rover also fared badly in the table of 124 individual models. Its MGF, which later became the TF, was in 123rd place with 70.6 points out of 100, with only the Kia Sportage (70.2 points) below it.Another Rover, the 25 which later became the ZR, was also in the bottom 10 &mdash; in equal 115th place with 73.6 points.The Honda Jazz (88.1 points) finished top for the second successive year. Second was the Lexus IS 200/300 (85.5 points) and third the Toyota Yaris (85.1 points).Three other Honda models were in the top 20, including the Swindon-made Civic. Ten Japanese models ranked in the top 20, but this was four fewer than last year.What Car? group editor Steve Fowler says: "This shows that British factories are building some of the best cars."Warranty woesWarranty work covers everything from a full engine rebuild to the fixing of an electric window that won't close. All new MG Rovers sold in recent years came with a three-year warranty &mdash; the manufacturer covered the first two years, and the dealer effectively bought an insurance product to cover any claims in the third year.On Thursday, Rob Hunt, of the MG Rover administrator team, confirmed there was no money available to honour the com&shy;pany's warranty scheme affecting between 150,000 and 160,000 Rover owners who bought cars in the last two years.This essentially means that if your car breaks down within two years of its date of registration, Rover will not pick up the bill for repairs.If it dies in the third year your dealer should stump up for the repair.The situation is slightly more complicated because a few deals done over the past few months involved the dealer assuming responsibility for the whole the warranty &mdash; if you bought a car under such circumstances you should be covered via the dealer.There is still a hope that the Department of Trade &amp; Industry will head calls by the MG Rover dealers association to resurrect the warranty scheme &mdash; but this appeared a long shot as J&amp;M was going to press.The most obvious option is to buy a warranty, although it might be worth waiting until the DTI has decided whether to step in or not. One company &mdash; Warranty Direct &mdash; has already set up a scheme particularly designed to cover Rover owners, and says its cover is exactly the same as the old Rover scheme.It quoted us &pound;300 a year to cover a one-year-old Rover 75 1.8 litre turbo &mdash; which included the 20% discount it is currently offering Rover owners.It should be noted that 75 diesel car has a BMW engine, and that engine is covered by the German firm - but the rest of the car isn't.Owners should be aware that Rover's K-series petrol engines (fitted across the range) have suffered a number of failures relating to the cooling system. If that happens, you can expect to pay in excess of &pound;2,000 to re-build the engine &mdash; although proper servicing should render this unlikely.When taking out any car warranty, you need to check the small print very closely as they can be riddled with get-out clauses.Plummeting valuesOn the day the administration order was announced, Johnathan Brown, editor of the used car bible Glass's Guide, warned Rover owners to expect the worst if they tried to sell their car in the next few weeks."The value of one-year-old cars has probably dropped several thousand pound on this week's news," he said.By the end of the week his words were looking very accurate. Rover dealers reported empty showrooms all week, although most seemed to awaiting further news before embarking on a discounting spree.At Car Giant in west London, one of Britain's biggest used car supermarkets, they sold two cheap City Rovers out of a stock of 49."We're waiting to see what happens at Rover before we start adjusting prices," said a spokesman, unaware that one of the main Rover" insiders" had already started discounting. MG Rover director John Edwards &mdash; one of the so-called Phoenix Four &mdash; must have sensed the game was up and dropped the prices of the nearly-new stock at his Stratford-upon Avon dealership.On Thursday, he was selling two Rover 75 cars with just 13 and 50 miles on the clock for just &pound;11,995.The two cars had a list price in excess of &pound;20,000. Johnathan Brown says owners should not panic and think they must sell at any price. "Once things settle down, values may start to creep back up," he said.If the other dealers follow Mr Edwards lead, owners of one and two-year-old models will have to accept their cars are worth significantly less than they were last month.Most will be better off trying to remember why they bought them in the first place and aiming to keep them for several years.Roadside recoveryRover buyers in the main were offered one year's free roadside recovery when they bought a new vehicle. This is actually offered on Rover's behalf by the AA, and a spokeswoman has confirmed that all Rover owners with cars that are less than a year old are covered at the moment, but that the situation looks likely to change if Rover goes into receivership. "As things stand, we will help any customer who breaks down. We are monitoring the situation closely and will make a long-term decision about cover when we know what's happening to Rover's future," she said.There is better news for Rover owners who renewed their MG Rover roadside as&shy;sistance policy. They will have all been sent a letter at the end of the first year of ownership inviting them to call a hotline to renew their cover, and to pay by credit card. The AA has confirmed that it handled those calls (and took the payments) and as result those owners will be fully covered for the cover that they paid for.A good deal moreRover owners may feel as though they have had a rough ride, but there will be no shortage of sharks circling around the Rover carcass trying to pick up a cheap car.Despite what you may have heard, the Rover 75 is a reliable, comfortable car that offers, in the dealer vernacular, "a huge amount of car, for the money" &mdash; particularly if you opt for the excellent diesel engine made by BMW. Once prices reach rock bottom there should be some bargains to be had, although don't expect ridiculous falls. This is a car that has already been selling well after Rover slashed prices prior to last week's events.Johnathan Brown says UK car buyers have a real eye for a bargain, and once the prices start to tumble, people will come into the market as "if they're cheap enough, someone will always buy them".Just how low a price will go will depend on what happens to Rover, and how many dealers stay in business.On Thursday, an immaculate, 2002 Rover 75 estate with a diesel engine and just 35,000 on the clock hadn't attracted a single bid over &pound;7,000 on eBay.Look's like the owner may have to re-list.
At a time when the music industry is launchingits latest round of filesharing lawsuits, EMI - the world's third-largest record group - said record sales were better than expected.Here's today'sreport in the Guardian:EMI said yesterday that its annual music sales were not as disappointing as the group had forecast two months ago.February's profits warning statement had predicted an 8% to 9% decline in sales leading to a knock-on £30m reduction in pre-tax profits, down to £138m. Yesterday EMI said sales had in fact declined at about 7.5% for the year to March 31, after stripping out currency fluctuations.The group... added that profits were expected to be £2m better than forecast in February, at £141m.
Two Intel employees have set up the first Arctic hotspot, reportsInformation Week:The hotspot, which Intel says is the first in the Arctic region, was installed at the Barneo ice camp, which is about 80 kilometers from the actual North Pole, the company said in a statement. The camp is a complex of tents north of the 89th parallel.Chilly.
Beside the knitwear and the late night, honey-tone mention on the shipping forecast, there is little to draw attention to Fair Isle. Revelling in the title of the remotest inhabited island in Britain, it is a difficult place to get to, and, in the long, blustering winter months, even more difficult to get off.A tiny fleck of cliff and moor jutting from the sea between Orkney and Shetland, Fair Isle looks, on paper, about as far removed from modern Britain as it is possible to get. But the islanders do not think of themselves as isolated."We are geographically remote, certainly, but I don't think we are isolated," said Dave Wheeler, a crofter. "We have always had visitors, from shipping traffic to twitchers coming to see the birds, but now I think the internet and broadband, in particular, are letting us be as much a part of the 21st century as anywhere else in Britain."As BT announces that 5 million people in the UK now have a broadband connection, it is not just cities and towns that are being changed for ever by high speed connections. Late last summer, a broadband connection by satellite link was established on Fair Isle. There is no telecommunication cable to Fair Isle and the link sounded the death knell for the microwave connection, which can support only a few calls at a time, between the island and the mainland. In the months that have followed, almost half of the 20 homes on the island have signed up.Fair Isle, miles from anywhere, cut off for weeks in the winter months, is the very edge of Broadband Britain."The office I have here is the same as one you would find in London or anywhere else," said Mr Wheeler, pointing to a bewildering array of screens, hard drives, scanners and meteorological equipment. "You can't survive on this island just by crofting, everyone has an array of jobs. That's how we get by, and broadband is making it an awful lot easier for us."Mr Wheeler - weather forecaster,   coastguard, airport manager, website designer, photographer, electricity company director - arrived on Fair Isle more than 30 years ago. Then he used to make around 80% of his living from crofting, 20% from outside work. Now that ratio has inverted. On the mainland, that would seem a change hardly worthy of note. On an island as isolated as Fair Isle, it is remarkable.To get to the island you must first fly to Shetland, stay overnight and rise early for the tiny Islander plane or, for those with strong stomachs, the ferry. The plane leaves Tingwall airport, a couple of small buildings a few miles from the main Shetland town of Lerwick, with its seven passengers on board. One sits up front with the pilot, seat belt on, like a passenger in a private-hire taxi.For 10 airborne minutes, there is nothing to see but deep blue punctuated by the spittle fleck of waves. Then Fair Isle appears on the horizon. An island of about 3 miles long and 1.5 miles wide, it stands alone in the sea; lighthouses at each end mark its danger to unwary seamen. The plane lands on the small, unsealed airstrip.In a white croft on the island, ecologist Nick Riddiford looks through his specimens of moths from Lebanon and Majorca."Only a few years ago, if I had wanted to do this job I would have had to live within commuting distance of London," he said. "I've got work on Majorca and elsewhere in the Balearics, a project in Lebanon, and I've been advising on a wetland in Egypt. How could I do that without the internet?"It is not, though, just the shortening of distance that the internet and broadband connection brings to Fair Isle."This is really is a sustainable community, where we are looking after our environment, where things like recycling are a necessity," Mr Riddiford said. "I can be involved in that kind of community and still take part in conservation work. People who have never been to Fair Isle may think we are mad to live here, but I'm the envy of a lot of ecologists."It is lambing season on Fair Isle. Most people keep 20 or so ewes on their croft; the rest are kept on the hill. Who owns the lambs is decided by lottery."It started about 20 years ago when we all had flu and were too ill to go up and chase sheep," said Jane Wheeler. "Now we just draw lots to decide who gets which sheep when they are shipped to the mainland."A spinning wheel lies dusty in the corner of Mrs Riddiford's croft. She used to raise the sheep, fleece them and spin the wool to hand-knit her Fair Isle jumpers. That, though, took too long and now a knitting machine sits by the table.The method of selling has evolved too. In the olden days, the islanders would row out to passing ships to trade and sell what they could to sailors. Now they use websites."We have a cooperative group called Fair Isle crafts, which some of the woman on the island are part of," Mrs Riddiford said. "We have a trademark, and a website allows us to sell Fair Isle Crafts across the world."Around the corner, Charlotte Coull is home for the Easter break. There is a single room primary school on the island, but students of secondary school age have to board in Lerwick, coming home one weekend a month, if the weather allows."It was a bit weird at first but I'm used to it now," Charlotte said. "It's good that we've got broadband here now because I can email my friends when I'm here and sometimes my parents when I'm in Lerwick."Her mother, Kathy Coull, runs the island's only guest house. There are no pubs, hotels, or restaurants. "The internet gets us some bookings but I don't see broadband as such a dramatic thing. We are no different to anywhere else, just more remote."As the afternoon plane makes its final approach to Fair Isle, the island fire engine travels the runway sounding its siren and blaring its horn. "It's Fair Isle airport's sheep scaring run," Mr Wheeler said.Perhaps Fair Isle is a little different after all.No pubs or hotels but a lot of wind&#183;Fair Isle is about three miles long and 1.5 miles wide and lies about 25 miles south-west of Sumburgh, on the Shetland mainland&#183;Most of the 70 or so islanders - there were almost 400 a century ago - live in crofts on the south of the island. The north is largely uninhabited, rocky moorland&#183;There are no pubs, restaurants or hotels. But there is a single room primary school, which takes pupils aged five to 11. After that they must board in Lerwick&#183;The winter months are characterised by storms and howling gales. Often the ferry is unable to reach the island for three or more weeks at a time. Cross winds mean planes have difficulty landing&#183;Fair Isle is not connected to the national grid, so the islanders rely largely on electricity generated by wind power. The first wind turbine was installed in 1982 and wind power generates 85% of the island's winter needs&#183;While the men of the island croft, knitting has long been an important source of income for women. Islanders would row out to passing boats to trade their knitwear with sailors&#183;In 1588, El Gran Grifon, flagship of the Spanish armada, was shipwrecked off Fair Isle. Its 300 sailors spent six weeks living with the islanders. Its wreck was discovered in 1970&#183;Fair Isle is owned by the National Trust for Scotland. They bought it in 1948 from George Waterson, who had established a bird observatory on the island
Another week, another gaggle of posts. Grab a cuppa and enjoy the ride.MondayAdverts are the new musicPSP good enough to eatMTV shows XboxTuesdayAnother one of those quick mobile roundupsWednesdayMost soul-destroying quote of the weekGossip etc (More on the Xbox...)PacMan's still got itThe lunatics have taken over the digital asylumThursdayEntertainment re-writes history?Cannon Fodder fires backReviewsFridayFuture blockedOne-switch retro gamingI-play gets stoned
Doom 3XBoxIn the past, Doom games have always been about a carnival procession of beasts from Hell popping up in front of you to be demolished in a hail of gunfire. You then find a keycard and do it again. That Doom 3 does pretty much the same thing, with the addition of beautifully used-looking textures, monstrosities that leap at you and charge through solid walls, and surround effects that make them sound as though they're breathing into your ear, should come as no surprise. Raucous, action heavy and about as cerebral as using porn, Doom 3's Xbox remix leaves you just as breathless with adrenaline as the PC version did and adds a superb two-player co-operative mode.&#183;Activision, £40Atari Flashback ConsoleIt says on the box, "20 games that defined a generation". The problem is, since they were called upon to define a generation, boredom thresholds have shifted - no longer can moving a square blob around a crudely drawn maze be considered an adventure. The result is that while the Atari VCS games we played as children still have nostalgia value, they now appear so unutterably appalling as to make you wonder how, even with only other 1980s technology available, this ever felt like fun or a good idea. Terribly, awfully, memory-defilingly bad, this is the quickest way not only to get rid of your rose-tinted spectacles, but actually grind them into a fine powder.&#183;Atari, £30
Morbidly-obese American kids are being bought PS2s in a bid to help them lose weight. But rather than plugging them into Metal Gear Solid 3 and letting the length of its cut scenes interrupt normal meal times, health officials have instead hit upon Konami's Dance Dance Revolution as a way of getting the little piglets to shed some bacon using its dance mat attachment. Supplying each with a pedometer, progress will be closely monitored over the project's opening three months to see how effective it is as a weight loss aid and at introducing regular exercise where previously there had only been super-sized hamburger meals and wall-to-wall TV viewership.
There's a whole bunch of sites to keep you up-to-date on the latest celebrity deaths includingwww.blogofdeath.com,www.celebritydeathbeeper.comandwikipedia.org/wiki/Recent_deaths. To pay your respects to the great and goodwww.findagrave.comwill help you locate the tombstone. However if news of the recently deceased Pope, Prince Rainier of Monaco or the drummer from Crowded House have left you pondering your own mortality then simply pump in a few personal statistics intowww.deathclock.comand you'll discover the date of your final day on Earth. Before you departwww.2dobeforeidie.comwill help you break down the rest of your life into a handy to-do list. Number 1 - reserve a tasteful coffin (www.kissonline.com/kasket).
Just received preview code of Skipping Stone, a masterful little mobile game from eccentric Korean developer,Gamevil. It's being released in the UK by I-play very soon, and fans of Wario Ware and its ilk should keep an eye out for it. The concept is ridiculously simple - you stand on the beach and skim stones across the sea. But the implementation is fantastic, combining Hyper Sports-style sports sim and rhythm action elements.To begin with, you select the power of your throw by hitting the 5 button when the speedy power meter reaches its highest point. Then, as your pebble skims across the ocean, you keep hitting the 5 button at the right point to maintain the height of the bounces. If you hit the perfect position more than twice in a row, you start building up combos - earn enough and you release power-ups, like whales surfacing and shooting your stone even higher.Alright, it sounds daft, but it's wonderfully presented with surreal Anime visuals, and the interface works perfectly. There are two game modes, one where you're looking to make as many splashes as possible and another where your aim is to make the stone go as far as possible before it sinks.Offbeat theme, fun graphics, compelling one-touch interface, high-score focus. This is where mobile gaming comes into its own.
"Fed up with invitations to submit papers for science conferences, three MIT students devised a software program that deliberately churned out nonsensical scientific gibberish. Now one of their computer-generated ''papers'' has been accepted by a Florida conference," reports theBoston Herald."Their fake report -- Rooter: A Methodology for the Typical Unification of Access Points and Redundancy -- is intended to show that many so-called academic conferences have few or no minimum standards. The gatherings' purpose: simply to make money."Comment:Barrel. Fish. Shoot.
Following the Google Maps posts, our friend Gary Price ofResourceshelffame has provided some Search Engine Watch links to items about satellite imagery. These include192.com, which now provides aerial images keyed to its UK telephone directory,TerraFly, andWorld Wind, a free tool from Nasa.
A mini revolution will happen this weekend when, for the first time, songs downloaded (legally) from the internet will be included in the Top 40 along with traditional singles sold on discs. This will give a new lease of life to the singles genre, which many had thought to be waiting for the last rites to be administered. It also means that downloads, far from strangling the singles industry as the manufacturers claimed as recently as a year ago, will actually save it. People have shown themselves perfectly willing to pay for legal - as opposed to pirated - digital downloads as long as the price is a reasonably fair one. Sales of single downloads in the UK have erupted in the past year from 216,000 to 4.5m thanks to the runaway success of Apple's iPod player and its myriad imitators.Independent companies in Britain may be right that it is all being done too quickly and that they are in danger of being inadequately represented because they have been unable to get their songs on to the web through no fault of their own. But that ought to sort itself out pretty quickly. They may also be proved right in their fears that record companies will start buying thousands of their own downloads (at 99p a pop) as part of their marketing budgets in order to achieve a high place in the charts. That should be easy to combat given the tracking mechanisms available on the web.These problems are a small price to pay for the beneficial effects of the explosion of music on the internet. Record shops can only stock discs by the thousands, whereas the internet can stock millions - thereby giving a new lease of life to small-selling records that may be unavailable in your local shop.This is one of the reasons why rock records are expected to make a comeback in the new lists because downloaders, who are overwhelmingly male, tend to favour rock numbers, many from back catalogues, while women - who tend to buy in shops - favour pop music. If rock'n'roll becomes the new rock'n'roll, then we may indeed be on the edge of another golden age. And the record companies may stop complaining.
Plans to revive the flagging singles chart by including sales of online downloads from this Sunday sparked claims of unfair treatment yesterday from the record labels behind acclaimed UK acts such as Franz Ferdinand and Bloc Party.The Association of Independent Music, which represents more than 900 smaller record labels with acts including the White Stripes, Babyshambles and the Killers, has submitted an official complaint to the Office of Fair Trading.Far from heralding "a new golden age for the single", as claimed by the industry when it announced the move last year, the new, integrated chart has become the subject of a furious row between the independent record labels and the company that compiles it.The independents are concerned that the chart, to be unveiled on Sunday on BBC Radio 1, is weighted in favour of the big four labels - Universal, Warner Music, EMI and Sony BMG - because their releases are prioritised by the download servicesresponsible for selling the tracks.Due to a backlog in making their tracks available through download sites such as Apple's iTunes, Aim said its members would be penalised "through no fault of their own".Because of the nascent state of the digital market, they claim that some smaller labels are disadvantaged because they are not yet set up to supply their tracks digitally.Alison Wenham, Aim's chairwoman, said: "I am astounded that the industry thinks the chart is fit for consumer use, because it disadvantages 25% of the market. I haven't heard a good reason why it should launch now, apart from people saying that if we don't do it now, the singles chart will die. That's not a good enough reason to kill the indies."Sales of singles have slumped by more than 50% since the late 90s, with online piracy, advance radio play and the disposability of chart acts all blamed. The industry hopes the growing popularity of legal downloads, buoyed by the success of portable devices such as Apple's iPod, will help reinvigorate the chart and reawaken interest among older record buyers.Aim's research states that most independent artists will see their chart positions slip by at least two or three places as a result of including online sales. "If that means dropping out of the top 40, there are huge implications in terms of marketing, radio play and press coverage," Ms Wenham said.Download sales, now around 400,000 a week, have been gaining steadily on the number of singles sold. The weekly market for CDs and vinyl stands at 775,000.The Official UK Chart Company, which compiles the rundown, rejected the complaints as "unfounded" and said it still planned to go ahead with Sunday's chart. It added that, based on sales in the week to date, the new chart contained eight independent acts, compared to the six that would have made the top 40 if it were based purely on physical sales.A spokesman for Napster, the second largest download site, said it operated a "level playing field". Others pointed out this year's biggest-selling download so far, Dakota by the Stereophonics, had been released on the indie label V2.The OFT said it would consider whether any further action should be taken.
Rupert Murdoch has admitted he "didn't do as much as &#91;he&#93; should have" to confront the threat posed to his newspapers by the internet.Mr Murdoch, whose News Corp owns the Sun, Times and News of the World as well as titles in America and Australia, said in a speech to American editors in Washington that the internet was "an emerging medium that is not my native language".He issued a stark warning to the industry, arguing that the web was "a fast-developing reality we should grasp".He said consumers wanted "control over the media, instead of being controlled by it", pointing to the proliferation of website diaries, known as "blogs", and message boards.Newspaper editors simply cannot afford to ignore this, he said, or to look down on readers or ignore what they actually wanted. "Editors too often ask 'do we have the story?' rather than 'does anyone want it?'"As an industry, most of us have been remarkably, unaccountably, complacent," Mr Murdoch said."Certainly, I didn't do as much as I should have after all the excitement of the late 1990s. I suspect many of you in this room did the same, quietly hoping that this thing called the digital revolution would just limp away."In the 1990s profitability had held up in spite of circulations falling, he said, lulling the industry into a false sense of security. "But those days are gone," he warned, "so unless we awaken to these changes, which are quite different to those of five or six years ago, we will, as an industry, be relegated to the status of also-rans."
MediaGuardian.co.uk's Chris Tryhorn reports that Rupert Murdoch admits hegot it wrong on digital media[registration only]."As an industry, most of us have been remarkably, unaccountably complacent," Mr Murdoch said. "Certainly, I didn't do as much as I should have after all the excitement of the late 1990s."In a speech to American editors in Washington, Mr Murdoch issued a stark warning to the industry, arguing that the web was "a fast-developing reality we should grasp".He said consumers wanted "control over the media, instead of being controlled by it", pointing to the proliferation of website diaries known as "blogs" and message boards.And newspaper editors simply cannot afford to ignore this, he said, or to look down on readers or ignore what they actually wanted.We talked on Onlineblog back inFebruaryabout how Murdoch was changing his mind on the internet. It remains to be seen whether he "gets it", or if he can bring in people who do to change things.
Just a quick one to point out the superb coverage of the general election that's happening over on ourElection 2005 blog.If you want tons of good reading on the impending vote every single day, it's doing a fantastic job.
A couple of Online's readers have told us they don't think we should have run a piece this week explaininghow to use BitTorrent.It's a fair view - after all, if you believe that the means of transmitting content is the same as the content itself, then you're likely to see BitTorrent as essentially illegal material. Here's the thing, though - even Hollywood studios are starting to realise the revolutionary use that they can put BitTorrent to.This is fromZDNet:Hollywood is anxious to embrace BitTorrent as a method of movie distribution, according to the father of the Internet, Dr Vinton Cerf [interviewed in Onlinelast year].Cerf, who wrote the original TCP/IP protocol and is currently chairman of ICANN, told a roundtable on Internet governance in Sydney this week he had recently discussed peer to peer file-sharing program BitTorrent with at least two interested movie producers."I know personally for a fact that various members of the movie industry are really getting interested in how to use the Internet - even BitTorrent - as a distributed method for distributing content," Cerf said. "I've spoken with several movie producers in the last month."I'm afan of BitTorrentbecause it makes dowloading easier for everybody - and whether that's legal or not is up to the user and the content providers (who are fighting the war in completely the wrong way). Look at what iTunes has done or legal music dowloading: yet still we have little in the way of legal options for movie and TV downloads.Watch this space, we're likely to follow this one up in next week's edition.
