Who has adapted best to the vagaries of e-commerce?The bubble's certainly burst a bit but the reason evenYahoodidn't turn a profit is that it is trying to "buy clients" and increase its customer base. There's no doubt it could change to make a profit in the short-term but it would mean losing market share in the long-term. In the same way thatAOLprobably isn't making much money from its &#163;15 a month unlimited internet offer, but it is going to get people for life. In my field of online learning there are companies trying to sell to individuals, expecting them to spend hundreds of pounds on online courses. That's not going to happen because we expect to get it for nothing. The winning model is companies that are selling online learning to other companies or to universities and schools. The money transaction is B2B which then happens to be passed on to the end user for "nothing".Does the UK lag behind the rest of the world in IT terms?We have some of the best IT people in the world. That's why companies such as Hewlett-Packard and Psion have their research facilities here. Where we do lag behind is in the number of people with IT skills. There ought to be some qualification in the UK for people without degrees but who are good IT programmers. In India we run the GNIIT programme which is recognised as the No1 IT qualification and we get more than 400,000 students a year. Of course theirs is a very process-driven culture but maybe here we could be more flexible in our approach to finding people with IT skills.Was the failure of Wap to capture the public imagination a surprise?I'm sure there are some people for whom it works very well but, at the moment, it's more of a gimmick. Prior to NIIT I worked for an organisation that was rolling out the earliest examples of Wap content and it was a railway timetable! The emerging Bluetooth and 3G technologies look set to deliver more of the "look and feel" to which Wap aspired.How did you become involved with computers?I had a SinclairZX81so early that when I phoned Sinclair to ask for a 16k RAM pack they wanted to know how I'd got my hands on one. I was usingHusky handheld computersin the mid-80s then progressed to a Sun Spark Station 2. I'm currently using aToshiba Satellite Pro 4300, which is a lovely bit of kit. I also use a Pentium III Packard Bell system at home with the whole electronic office and ISDN link.Any favourite websites?I like the e-learning guruEliot Masie's site. There's alsowww.peopleperformancemagazine.com and I like to check on Mr Coulthard's progress atwww.itv-f1.com.Visit:www.niit.com
Mum's wordAs a stay-at-home mother and freelance journalist who regularly uses the web, I was appalled at Deborah Bee's patronising piece on mothers and the internet (Online April 19). All the examples she gives of why mothers don't use it - such as out-of-date websites and the difficulty in finding information - apply to everyone, not just mothers. The idea that mothers are a special case - "unadventurous" in the words of one of her interviewees - is outrageous.To make matters worse, she says that mothers will soon be able to compare notes with other mothers on the web about how to "get a baby to sleep" or "give up chocolate". How insulting can you get? I've got better things to use the web for - and if I want to talk about babies, I'll go down to the local mother-and-baby group, thank you.Dr Kim Thomaskim@concat.demon.co.ukI disagree with Deborah Bee; the net fits in very well with working mothers' time-saving strategies. Women multitask better than Windows and it is perfectly possible to order groceries from Tesco, breastfeed the baby and help the 11 year old with his homework at the same time. The problem comes when you try to get the five year old's supper as well.Sue Jackson(a working mother, online since 1996)s.jackson@dial.pipex.comPogo headPogo's Tim Critchley wonders why "no other phone company or network has thought of using compression to offer faster mobile internet access before?" (Online April 19). Of course they have.Wap already uses a binary tokenisation to keep the size of headers and tags down. The Wap forum has developed a special image format (WBMP) optimised for effi cient transmission over low bandwidth networks.And this points us at Pogo's Achilles heel - images. Pogo will have transmit jpegs to give a coherent full access to HTML pages, but jpegs are already efficiently compressed so there's not much mileage they can give to the largest component of web pages. Of course, they could process the web pages into slimmed down versions, but AvantGo and others already deal with this.So what is Pogo? A mobile phone that is mostly taken up with a high-definition screen that provides HTML viewing rather than WML (Wap) viewing. At &#163;100 or &#163;150 a pop it could definitely become the handset of choice compared to Wap over GSM, if only for the better screen quality and much larger range of web pages - just don't let them think no one else uses compression and don't believe it'll be like your 56k modem.Bill Riverspowerexe@btinternet.comText onlyI think Douglas Rushkoff (Online April 19) is perhaps missing the point of the internet. While it's great to have web pages appear instantly, they do not necessarily offer good value for content. Adverts aren't the only thing you lose out on - pictures convey the news sometimes just as well as words.Complexity isn't derived by imagery, rather by bad imagery. Wireless devices don't rely on Unix commands - they use graphical menus. Graphics are generally better suited for the masses - hence the success of Windows.If you need any further proof of this look to Wap, a text-only service and all but dead - and it's not because of lack of support - it's simply not what the public wants. If all we had on TV was Teletext/Ceefax, TV too would have faced a premature death. It's the richness of multimedia that the public wants - no matter what the cost. There's a place for plain data, maybe even for the mass market - but news isn't it.Chris Hudsonchrishudson3@cwcom.netDouglas Rushkoff wrote last week: "This simple, open and accessible information architecture is the closest you can get today to the internet that those of us who were online in the early 90s keep talking   about." I still use Lynx (on Linux and Windows) quite a lot and that's pretty close as far as I'm concerned. This is quite apart from the fact that the machine is a lot more useable than most of the Wap-enabled hardware out there now. Lots of us still use text mode browsing when we want something quickly.That aside, the tone of the article is exactly right. Good sites realise the "graphics problem" and provide alternative versions of content (BBC News Lo-Graphics for instance).I just wish more knew about good web design and development so they could do the same.Darren Stephensd.stephens@dcs.hull.ac.ukDouglas Rushkoff made some good points about the usefulness of the simple New York Times and Wall Street Journal news sites. So - when will the Guardian be providing a site like that?Eric Thompsonej.thompson@btinternet.comOnline replies : trywww.guardian.co.uk/pda/avantgo/.Movie mysteryI read with interest your article E-movie (Online, April 19). Can I tell you that for some time now I have been happily copying my DV movies from camera to PC (out) and from edited Adobe Premiere timeline back to (in) DV tape in my Sony camera. The new Sony DCR-TRV30E is thus not the first Sony camera with DV "in" and "out". How is this possible? I own a Sony DCR-TRV20E and have done for some time.Tony Hilltonyhill@brit.croydon.sch.uk
Everyone who joins a new group or society knows there are certain conventions that must be observed, and the internet is no exception.One difference in the virtual world is that there are no unwritten rules. In fact, the rules are written all over the place, as guides to "netiquette". It is a good idea to learn them, even if you plan to break them.The problem with netiquette is that it is based mainly on the internet that existed 10 years ago. In those days, many people had slow connections, and computers had very little memory.Resources were scarce, so there was peer pressure not to waste or misuse them. Brief notes were good; long formal letters were bad. Long "sigs"  were bad. Chain letters and "spam" (unsolicited commercial email) were very bad - and they still are, especially if you are paying by the minute to download them.There is a curmudgeonly tendency that still wants to be economical with the content of emails and newsgroup postings. In this view, everything should be sent as plain text. However, many people now have powerful computers and fast internet connections, both at home and in the office. They don't want to be limited to a few lines of plain text. Instead, they want to use different typefaces and coloured backgrounds - "rich text" - and attach pictures or even video clips to their messages.The sparks fly, of course, when "rich texters" send their bloated encoded email and graphics to people who are diehard plain text users. Me, for example.Most email software lets you choose whether to send messages as plain or rich text - usually HTML, the markup language used to create web pages. In Outlook Express, you can set this globally. Go to Tools, select Options, and click the   tab marked Send. This shows a properties sheer with radio buttons for Mail Sending Format and News Sending Format.You should select Plain Text for both options. With mail, you cannot assume that a recipient's mail software will be able to understand HTML. Almost all mailing lists and Usenet newsgroups also run on plain text.However, you will still be able to use rich text whenever you like. When you start a new letter, simply select the Format menu, and choose the format you want.Before closing the dialogue box, click the button marked Plain Text Settings. This lets you set a line width. Most software can handle lines at least 80 characters   long, but it is better to choose a shorter number, such as 72. Long lines tend to get broken in transmission, especially when they are subsequently quoted and have angle brackets (&gt;) added to the front.While netiquette still insists on using plain text unless it is mutually agreed otherwise, it makes sense to reply to letters using the format in which they were sent.Outlook Express 5 provides exactly this option as a tick-box item on the Send sheet. America Online's latest software stupidly sends both: AOL users should read the Unofficial AOL Email FAQ (file of Frequently Asked Questions) athttp://members.aol.com/adamkb/aol/mailfaq.The other thing that causes friction is the use of   "sigs" or signature files. A sig is - or was - a piece of text that could be added automatically by the software to the end of every email message you sent.Netizens typically used a sig to save retyping contact details: name and address, job title, phone numbers and so on. Many sigs also include a brief, sometimes witty, quotation, such as: "Money is the root of all evil. Send $9.95 for more info"; or "Any really good job is one you can do in your pyjamas" (Scott Adams of Dilbert fame).Almost all email software lets you add a sig, and some programs let you have different sigs for different purposes.To add a sig in Outlook Express 5, go back to Tools|Options and click the   Signatures tab. Click the button marked New, and type or copy your sig into the lower box, marked Edit Signature.It is also possible to use a file as a sig, by clicking the lowest radio button and browsing to the file you want to add.This is useful for sending vCards or "virtual business cards", which enable recipients to load your contact details straight into an addressbook without retyping anything. The facility can be, and is, misused to send multimedia sigs that lookmuch like advertising banners.Sigs are great for people you only write to occasionally, but if you see the same sig many times a day, it becomes more than a little tedious.Large sigs can also be a waste of resources: it is not unusual for sigs to be much bigger than the messages they are attached to.As with the use of plain text and rich text, using sigs is now less a matter of netiquette than of common sense.It is a pity there is not more of it about.
The US government has launched an international database to protect consumers from online fraud, allowing surfers from 13 countries to file e-commerce complaints at one place.The site -Econsumer- is run by the federal trade commission (FTC) and will take in confidential fraud information gathered by law enforcement officials across the globe. An FTC spokeswoman said that at the moment there is no systematic way to investigate cross-border internet scams.Econsumer offers information about scams on the net and a place for consumers to file specific complaints. The FTC hopes the database will help participating countries crack down of fraudsters who often operate across international boundaries.The initiative is an extension of the FTC's Consumer Sentinel database, which covers all types of fraud, but only in English. The Econsumer site operates in English, French, German and Spanish.A notice on the site encourages users to share their experiences of online fraud: "Because the internet marketplace is a borderless one, sharing your complaint with government agencies in different countries will help keep the internet safe. It will also help prevent others from experiencing the problem you did."The UK has joined Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, South Korea, Sweden and Switzerland in signing up to the scheme.Useful linksEconsumerFTCConsumer SentinelOffice of fair trading
The days of the global email virus may be numbered. Ministry of Defence scientists have developed software that could prevent devastating, worldwide, mail-borne infections such as the infamous love bug.Amid mounting concern in government and industry about the threat from virus-laden emails, the defence evaluation and research agency (Dera) says it has produced a simple but effective way of containing malicious viruses before they get the chance to spread to other computers and cause real damage.The ease with which a well-designed virus can circumnavigate the globe was highlighted last May when millions of people received an email with the heading ILOVEYOU. Within hours the virus in the email - subsequently dubbed the love bug - caused an estimated &#163;2bn of damage as it immobilised computer systems, hitting large companies such as News International, Microsoft and the BBC.The virus, which was traced to the Philippines, was able to spread so rapidly because its first act on being opened by unsuspecting users was to send itself to every name in the users' email address books.Since then email-borne virus attacks have increased, although none has created the same chaos. The latest big outbreak was in February when millions of people opened up a virus masquerading as an email picture of the Russian tennis player Anna Kournikova; it replicated itself around the world at twice the rate of the love bug.These outbreaks have shown up the vulnerability of email systems. Even the best security   procedures can fail through computer users opening their unsolicited messages and letting loose the virus.The Dera software, to be unveiled today in London, is claimed to provide the answer. Based on research to protect highly sensitive government documents and computer systems from attack, the package turns conventional anti-virus thinking on its head: instead of attempting to stop the virus getting in, it prevents it from getting out and damaging other machines.The principle behind the software, named ::Mail, appears simple - whenever users try to send an email, ::Mail shows a box on the screen telling them what they are sending to whom, and asking them to confirm the command. If the user unwittingly opens an infected email which then tries to replicate itself, the box will appear, warning them that the computer is trying to send emails. Although their own computer will be infected, with a click of the mouse, they will be able to prevent the virus escaping.The new software is heavily protected from attack, removing the possibility of virus writers producing a code able to override the security.Simon Wiseman, who led the team which developed the software, said yesterday: "Because most of the work we do is for the MoD we're experienced at preventing confidential information from getting out when it shouldn't. This is an extension of that basic principle. While every other anti-virus company has concentrated on stopping things getting in, we are shutting down the propagation channels so that any damage is contained in the machines of those opening the infected message."
The families of several victims in the worst school shooting in US history have filed a lawsuit against companies that create violent video games and sex-oriented web sites, claiming their products influenced the teenage gunmen who killed 13 people at Columbine high school.The suit seeks $5bn in punitive damages from 25 entertainment companies. It was filed on behalf of the family of slain teacher Dave Sanders and other Columbine victims in federal court.Companies named in the lawsuit include Nintendo of America, Sega of America, Sony Computer Entertainment and Time Warner Inc, which is now AOL Time Warner, and ID Software Inc and GT Interactive Software Corp, creators and publishers of the game Doom.During the investigation into the April 20, 1999 shooting, police found videotape that shows one of the killers with a sawn-off shotgun on his lap. He called the gun "Arlene" after a character in the Doom video game.Doom is a target shooting game. Other violent video games mentioned in the lawsuit include Quake and Redneck Rampage. The lawsuit also claims Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold looked at sexually violent material on at least two internet sites."Absent the combination of extremely violent video games and these boys' incredibly deep involvement, use of and addiction to these games and the boys' basic personalities, these murders and this massacre would not have occurred," said the lawsuit filed Thursday, a day before the two-year anniversary of the shootings.Sega declined comment, issuing a statement that it had not seen the lawsuit. Nintendo said it does not comment on pending litigation.A nearly identical lawsuit filed after Michael Carneal killed three Heath high school students in Paducah, Kentucky in 1997 was dismissed last April. A federal judge there said video games are not subject to product liability laws.Useful linksColumbine memorial siteSane alternatives to the firearms epidemic (Safe Colorado)ID SoftwareMillion Mom marchNational rifle association
The world will have to wait at least four months longer for third generation mobile phone services after Japanese telecoms firm NTT DoCoMo pulled the plug on next month's planned 3G phone launch.The company had promised a Tokyo-wide launch of its i-mode internet enabled mobile phone service for May, but today a spokesman said the 3G service has been changed from a commercial offering to an "introductory" test run starting May 30. The full service is now scheduled for a September launch.The company denied that technological problems were behind the decision, saying that NTT DoCoMo wants extra time to collect user feedback and compile data on how the system worked before rolling out a commercial service.When it appears, the 3G i-mode service is expected to tempt users with a service that is 40 times faster and includes video and wider internet capabilities. NTT DoCoMo has said that users will be charged for data and voice transmission, but not for the 3G handsets.The delay will probably not threaten NTT DoCoMo's hopes to be first to market with 3G services.European companies such as BT, Orange and Vodafone have spent billions of pounds and gone deeply into debt on the promise of delivering 3G services. An auction of 3G licences pulled in £22.5bn for the UK government alone, with countries from Italy to France to Spain following suit with auctions of their own.This week British government ministers formally ruled out any change in the terms and conditions of the licences, quashing rumours that ministers were considering refunding part of the licence fees.The companies are still negotiating over the ability to share network resources, rather than incurring the cost of building separate networks. The UK government believes the establishment of four distinct 2G networks improved quality through competition.Related articles17.03.2001: DoCoMo to start 4G four years early08.02.2001: A mobile failure waiting to happen17.11.2000: Consumers pay the price in 3G auctionUseful linksNTT DoCoMo I-mode information3G portalWAP forum
You cannot walk directly into Bernard Arnault's personal office in the fashionable eighth arrondissement of Paris. A camera bears down on any visitor to the French billionaire's room and a bullet-proof glass door only silently withdraws once you have been inspected by his bodyguards.Getting in to see the owner of Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior and Givenchy once meant you probably could afford one of his company's &#163;40,000 Ebel watches or a bottle of &#163;150 Dom Perignon champagne, another Arnault brand.Then France's richest man discovered the internet. Besuited executives at haute couture house LVMH, where Arnault is chief executive and largest shareholder, watched bright young things bowl into their offices attired in jeans and worn sweatshirts. "They aren't concerned with fashion," Arnault told reporters. "They wear the Gap."What these cyber-entrepreneurs were concerned with was making money fast - something the LVMH boss appreciated. He had quietly built an impressive US portfolio of net stocks - with &#163;60m invested in music siteMP3.comand &#163;6m ineBay. These were minority stakes in the pre-flotation rounds of financing and, according to market watchers, were then worth "a couple of billion dollars".Emboldened by his American experience, Arnault prepared to grab a large chunk of European cyberspace. He set up an investment fund, Europ@web, with 80m euros (&#163;50m) of his own cash to put into an array of net ventures.The focus, initially, was Europe. A little more than 31m euros went into eLuxury, a retail site that would do for LVMH's brands what Amazon was doing for books. Arnault also owned Phillips auctioneers and considered online marketplaces a good bet. QXL and iCollector of Britain received nearly 38m euros between them, while Aucland.com in France was pumped up with 16m euros.Arnault was not just interested in moving his brands to the net. Europ@web squirted 80m euros into Zebank, which was to be the continent's premier online bank, and bought 35% of internet service provider LibertySurf for 54m euros. By the end of 1999 Arnault had holdings in 19 companies.The pope of fashion, as Arnault had been labelled, appeared intent on being the caesar of cyberspace. Europ@web sprawled over the globe. More than 17m euros went into Submarino - an online retailer in Brazil. Another 10m euros was poured into liquidation.com, a business-to-business marketplace based in Washington.Europ@web opened nine offices in Europe and the US, hired 100 investment professionals and administered a fund of 500m euros. By summer 2000, Arnault's sortie into cyberspace had netted him stakes in 42 companies.Then the campaign faltered. Just as Arnault was readying to float Europ@web for 3bn euros, fashion website Boo.com burned out. More than $135m (&#163;94m) went up in flames - $12m belonging to Arnault. Worse the Nasdaq fell, at first slowly and then inexorably into freefall."Bernard Arnault can be extremely charming but he is ruthless," said one source, who refused to be named. "He has an almost photographic memory and can recall the smallest details of bids put to him. But if he decides that he must get out of a deal, he seems to forget that he was once enthusiastic about it, too."Plans to float were first delayed and now appear indefinitely postponed. Executives in Europ@web used to a meeting a week with Arnault found that they were cancelled."We were on our own," said one former Europ@web staffer on the continent. "One of the guys from Paris said when the markets recover Bernard will call us again. In July the float was pulled. In August there were rumours of a broadband push and then by September just silence. It was more regal than arrogant. After all, he was Caesar."The air is now being let out of Europ@web's bubble - so slowly no one will notice the hiss. Earlier this month, dot.com newsletter Industry Standard closed its European office, which was backed by Arnault, with the loss of 60 jobs. Moonfruit, a website tool company, into which Europ@web ploughed 8m euros for a 30% stake, is up for sale - minus its 50 staff. Sources say Moonfruit managed only &#163;100,000 revenue for 2000. AKA Technology, a joint venture between Europ@web, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Accel, which made headlines when announced last autumn, has been quietly sidelined.The sale of assets began with LibertySurf in January. The ISP was sold in a cash-and-shares deal to Italian rival Tiscali, netting Arnault more than 280m euros. Another looming sale is that of Zebank, which started operations in France last month after a much-delayed launch. City   sources confirm it is in talks with Egg, Prudential's online bank."Europ@web have realised they cannot launch an online bank in every major European capital in the current environment and are looking for a possible partner," said a source in the Square Mile.Peoplesound, a music dot.com, received 6m euros from Europ@web two summers ago and impressed record companies with software that tracks who listens, downloads and pays for music on the web. Asked about possible offers for the company, Martin Turner, a co-founder, said: "It is an interesting perspective. Consolidation is very much the driving force of survival at this point of time. It would be negligent for anybody to neglect the opportunities provided by consolidation."In some cases Europ@web asked executives to hand back a chunk of their remaining cash. "They want their money back," said a source at one Arnault-funded dot.com. "Even if you could reach profitability by, say, cutting back on staff and offices, Europ@web are not interested because the valuations of internet companies are so low they would not recoup their investment."Much of the strategy has fallen apart in the tech market turmoil. Europ@web paid 30m euros for a chunk of online auctioneer QXL in June 1999. Today the stake is worth less than 3m euros. Another online marketplace, iCollector, received 8m euros. Europ@web's 1.5m shares in iCollector are priced at 50p, but the stock trades on Ofex in London at 8.5p.There are many in the Arnault fold who remain bullish. One darling isflutter.com. The betting site secured more than 45m euros in funding - 20m euros coming from Europ@web for 36% of the company. According to the chief executive, Josh Hannah, it has "$28m in the bank" and generated more than &#163;500,000 last year by taking a cut on each bet placed.The question is whether it can become profitable before needing extra cash. "We don't have any competition and are growing at 35% a month so I am pretty confident of success," says Hannah.There are few willing to discount the possibility that Arnault's exit route from the internet will work. In February, Europ@web closed seven of its nine offices and let go of most of its investment staff. Phillip Jaffre, the former boss of Elf, the oil company, was brought in as chief executive - replacing the 33-year-old brash but brilliant Chachram Becharat. Age and experience was in, youthful exuberance out.By now Arnault was entranced by the possibilities of third-generation mobile phones. "Arnault became infatuated with 3G," said another source. "All of a sudden it was internet bad, 3G good."Europ@web had a 300m euro cash boost in November when French industrial conglomerate Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux took a 33% stake. As part of the deal Arnault took 6% in a Suez-backed consortium, along with Telefonica of Spain, to bid for a 3G licence in France. The theory was that not only would Suez get the use of Arnault's financial muscle, but also also turn Europ@web into a "3G powerhouse".Then Suez pulled out of bidding for licences in France and Belgium, leaving it with a large stake in Europ@web and Arnault with hundreds of millions of euros. The deal did not include any stake in Zebank, cash and shares from the LibertySurf deal, eLuxury or AKA Technologies."Bernard Arnault definitely got the better end of the deal," says Matt Lewis, an analyst at research house ARCchart. "Without a 3G licence why would Suez want a bunch of at best medium-performing internet investments?"According to bankers familiar with the deal, Europ@web and the four other ventures are worth more than 1.2bn euros - leaving Arnault ahead on paper by 500m euros. As becomes one of Europe's most remarkable dealmakers, Arnault appears to be escaping from the web as quickly as he became entwined by it.Where the euros wentEurop@web's biggest investments (euros) and stake (%)Zebank| 82m | 70%LibertySurf| 54m |	35%Eluxury| 31m | 40%QXL| 30m | 10%ProXchange| 28m | 25%Sportal| 20m | 10%LeisurePlanet| 20m | 20%Source: Guardian research
Scrambled, fried or poached, egg will inevitably end up on the faces of some of the best-paid analysts in the City over the prospects of the eponymous bank.Two brokers' recommendations yesterday amply illustrated the problem: "buy," said the highly regarded analysts at HSBC; "sell," argued the team at Credit Lyonnais Securities. Both brokers used equally emotive language: Credit Lyonnais said egg was "fundamentally flawed", while HSBC insisted it "will silence the critics".Who to believe? Since egg made its debut on the stock market last year when Prudential sold 20%, the company has worked hard to prove that its business can work. All the headlines it grabbed in the early days after its flotation proclaimed the fact that the stock had fallen below the 160p issue price.Yesterday, at 154.5p, that price was still elusive. Ever since flotation, the HSBC analysts had thought that egg's shares were worth 150p. Now they put the price closer to 180p, because they believe the fundamental value of egg must be rising."At the time of the IPO, the business had an 18-month track record, an untested strategy and was losing over &#163;150m per annum," the   HSBC analysts said. Last week, egg announced that its losses had narrowed to &#163;37m and insisted it would break even by the year's end. This has done nothing to change the minds of the Credit Lyonnais analysts, who see the fair value for the shares at 130p.Egg's business model is based on selling more than one product to each of its customers and on diversifying its customer base - an imminent possibility if rumours of the acquistion of Bernard Arnault's Zebank are to be believed.But the sharply divergent views in the City reflect the fact that egg is as close as the financial services industry has a new economy stock. Even the best-paid analysts cannot agree whether this is one egg best left out or included in a basket.
Ebookers.com, the online travel firm, is braving turbulent market conditions for hi-tech stocks by joining the London stock exchange today.The London-based firm is already listed on Frankfurt's Neuer Markt and America's Nasdaq."We are better known in the UK than in any other country in the world so we would rather list in our home country," said chief executive Dinesh Dhamija.Ebookers, which was worth $730m at the height of the dot.com boom in March last year, has since seen its value drop to $63m. Its shares begin trading in London at about 100p.It had been seeking a London placing to give it access to future funding from British-based investors and to raise its profile."The move brings us closer to our investor base in our largest market," the company said. "It is expected to allow us access to institutional funds that could not previously buy Ebookers.com stock."The company will retain its listings on Nasdaq and the Neuer Markt and none of the directors has any plans to sell shares.Ebookers, which raised $45m from European institutional investors last July, said it had enough funds in the bank to take it to cash flow-positive status at the end of this year or beginning of 2002. It expected to be profitable shortly after that, said Mr Dhamija.
Arguments between football fans about controversial goals and offsides could become a thing of the past thanks to revolutionary technology that provides a unique insight into key moments of football matches.Using missile tracing technology, experts from the Israeli computer company ORADNet have been able to transform ordinary footage from football matches into three-dimensional graphic images, similar to those used in football video games, allowing the viewer to watch the action from any angle, even through the players' eyes.The system, called TOPlay, could clear up controversial incidents in a match, such as whether or not the ball crossed the goalline, as they could be observed from several different angles.The company is negotiating with a number of football clubs, including Liverpool and Manchester United, about making the system available on their official websites. Fans would then be able to view and review controversial moments on their computer, making the need to rush down to the pub for intense postmatch debate slightly less pressing.ORADNet is also negotiating with Fifa, world football's governing body, about setting up a database on the internet of all goals scored in World Cup tournaments. This would allow supporters to observe, in 3-D and from a number of different angles, every goal scored in the tournament since it was first televised in 1954.The company unveiled its new system in London last week, showing in 3-D the controversial goal scored by Diego Maradona against England during the 1986 World Cup. Although it will come as no surprise to England fans, the graphic image clearly shows the Argentine player using his hand.A similar system has been used on occasions by football experts on satellite television for their football coverage. ORADNet officials say that the attraction of TOPlay is that it would be available to ordinary fans, who could return home from a match and view controversial incidents or the entire match through their computer in 3-D form and from a choice of different angles.Aya Evan, marketing direc tor of ORADNet, said: "Technology is progressing all the time and a system like ours could lead to an end to disputes between fans over key moments in a game. It is a unique system because you can choose to see the game through the eyes of a player or the referee."It can give the fans an in sight into the game that they currently don't have. At the moment, they are relying on the broadcaster to bring them the pictures. This way, they can view a game or an incident however they want to."The technology used in TOPlay was initially developed for missile tracking systems by Israeli army engineers Ari Shahir and Miki Tamir, who seized on its marketing potential when they realised that it could be adapted for football.Ms Evan said that a number of clubs and broadcasters had shown interest in the system and Fifa was considering using it on its official website to help explain the rules of football. Using TOPlay, incidents could be shown on the website accompanied by a referee's explanation of what the decision should be and why.She added: "TOPlay would help attract users to websites being run by football clubs and Fifa."
We live in an era when TV shows are as significant as battles once were. That is why the launch of The Weakest Link in America is a British defeat that has cost us the equivalent of several regiments lost at the Battle of Yorktown. This is no heroic setback, no Dunkirk. Those who watch The Weakest Link cannot paraphrase General Bosquet at the Charge of the Light Brigade: "C'est magnifique mais c'est seulement la television." No, this is much graver stuff. Robinson's name will join those of Cornwallis and Burgoyne who oversaw defeats without glory.A harsh propaganda blow has been struck. Historians of the 21st century will point to one of the cruellest cuts against our national prestige since the debacle of Saratoga and the humiliation of Suez. This phenomenon is the special relationship in reverse, the pop-cultural manifestation of George Bush's withdrawal from the British embrace. Anne Robinson and her Weakest Link confirms all the bad things Americans  want to believe about the British: Florence Nightingale borrowing Jack the Ripper's medical-bag.Personally, I admire Robinson. I admire her as I would probably have admired General Raglan - until he went abroad in command of British interests. When NBC invited Robinson to America to present her show, the British press were pathetically grateful that the Lone Superpower actually wanted one of us, a severe, middle-aged Englishwoman, to appear on its television. So when the show appeared, even the BBC News covered Miss Robinson's arrival, as if her landing at NBC Studios-LA was as striking a victory as our first Falklands bridgehead. Weren't we all proud?But then we were slightly bewildered by the torrent of vicious reviews, as if her nastiness was  real, not just a clever pantomime. Much worse was the revelation that the American guests did not take her seriously. This is not very surprising: how could a few insults from an English nanny shame a nation inured to the trailertrash shamelessness of Springer? None the less, she was a metaphor for Britain: the bulldog with no teeth. Like the Boston tea party, the Weakest Link makes Britain laughable.No wonder the Americans lured our heroine over there, receiving her with such glee! Those in the Bush White House, who wish to distance America from the old Rooseveltian chains of the sec ond world war, need only look at this TV harridan to see Britain's insolent weakness. Where Margaret Thatcher represented iron strength, Robinson's bravado reveals weakness. Her rudeness is reminiscent of the British imperialists of the War of Independence - a stand-in for George the Tyrant, whom Tom Paine called the "royal brute", the substitute for the cruelty of Banastre "Butcher" Tarleton and "Swagger" Burgoyne.Her reviews read strangely like the letters of American rebels who wrote about "haughty, crabbed" British with their "arrogant bearing ... who treat everyone else with contempt". One American friend who watched her in her leather greatcoat told me she reminded him precisely of the Brits in The Patriot, a recent movie that completely invented a British massacre.Anyone who has lived in America knows that the English, especially women, are seen as pale, lumpy, jagged-fanged and malodorous. In the same week that the flagship of American physical triumphalism, the Sport Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, came out, Americans were delighted Robinson remained handsome in her English way.Her stentorian accent (upper class to them) confirms what they are sure they know about the British class system: it's a rigid aristocracy, impenetrable by merit. They instantly recognised Robinson as a Victorian task-mistress, if not humourless Queen Victoria herself. Robinson represents the shallow, US-psychobabble analysis of our royals - she is the queen of dysfunction, personifying emotionally crippled Britain. In dramatic terms, she is the stock Hollywood villainess. America's celluloid baddies are usually played by Brits (the cruel Romans in Spartacus, the Gestapo-esque monsters of The Patriot, the cold snobs of Last of the Mohicans, the drear imperialists of Star Wars).And finally there is sex. How Americans love to hate the dominatrix, that pornographic fantasy of British toughness. Those documen taries on the tedious rigmarole of American domin- atrixes, who spank and stamp on plump businessmen with their heels, reveal their hilarious "ersatz Britishness" - the accents, knickers and bodices, titles (Lady Strong-lance, Lady Veronica Pain). But dominatrixes are all lash and no whip.So if there ever was an argument for America First it is Anne Robinson in America. She is the best weapon of anti-British, republican, anti-imperialist isolationism in the US since Charles Lindbergh and Father Coughlin, since FDR secretly plotted with Stalin to dismantle the British Empire. The White House need only to look at her and say: "The special relationship is The Weakest Link. Goodbye!"mailto:SimonSebagMontefiore @compuserve.com
One of the great pleasures in life is to listen to Radio 4's PM programme while shaving in a Seattle hotel. How come?Simple: Radio 4 now streams its programmes over the Net.This is incredibly useful, and not just for those who are homesick in Seattle. Most of us, for example, listen to the Today programme with only half an ear while trying to locate missing socks. By the time we've twigged that an item is interesting, it's usually ended.For example, that clip on Thursday morning in which John Prescott seemed to maintain that the US had not abandoned efforts to combat global warming. Surely I imagined that?In the old days, it would have vanished into the ether. But all I had to do was log on towww.bbc.co.uk/radio4/today/and there was Prescott - large as life and still inflicting grievous bodily harm on the English language. There is also a searchable archive of sound clips. A search for 'Richard Branson', for example, turned up innumerable interviews with the great man about trains and planes and national lotteries.Radio 4's website is not only a good example of what public service broadcasting is for, but also a reminder of how revolutionary the technology of streaming audio has been. Like all great ideas, it was stupendously simple. It's always been possible to transfer audio files across the Net, but you had to wait until the entire file had downloaded before you could play it.But suppose, mused Rob Glaser one day in 1994, you could compress the file, download the first bit of it and then start to play that while the rest was downloading. He reckoned that this would transform the listener's experience of internet audio. And he was right.With some notable exceptions (for example Ireland's RTE) conventional radio broadcasters were initially sniffy about this disruptive technology. The audio quality was dire, they pointed out; more like old-fashioned short-wave radio than proper FM signals. Who would want to listen to that stuff?It turned out that countless thousands of people wanted to listen to it - especially those scattered in diasporas across the globe. RTE, for example, found that its servers were swamped on big days like the All-Ireland Hurling Final, when my countrymen in Seattle and Tokyo and Cape Town tried to hear the game live.RealAudio (as Mr Glaser's product was called) became a lifeline for those who emigrate but want to keep in touch with home.As time passed, the speed of internet connections increased and streaming software improved, to the point where the technology could   deliver good audio quality over broadband links and quite tolerable reception even over dial-up connections.At this point the objections of traditional broadcasters mysteriously evaporated and many of them began 'simulcasting' - streaming - their programmes over the web as they were going out on air.Like everything else related to the internet, the practice has mushroomed and there are now some 10,000 stations doing it worldwide. Or rather, were, until last week when some big US domestic broadcasters abruptly pulled the plug on their simulcasts.The reason? Some legal eagle had spotted that the settlement terms of the 1999 strike by the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists included a 300% bonus fee payable to voiceover artists whose commercials are run on the web. Advertising agencies, which are liable for the fees, demanded that broadcasters pull the affected commercials off the Web.The broadcasters opted to shut down their streaming operations entirely. Which only goes to show that while technology is wonderful, it still pays to read the fine print.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
They may not match the selfless altruism of traditional angels, nor the glamour of  Charlie's Angels , but anyone professing to be a business angel is proving mighty popular at the moment. 'I get about 400 emails a day from dying dotcoms,' says one high-profile angel, who preferred to remain anonymous to restrain the growth of his inbox.For thousands of early-stage businesses caught up in the funding euphoria that accompanied the tech-stock boom, cash piles are now running dangerously low. These 'Zomb-e' or 'living dead' companies know they will soon be running on empty, but equally that the prospects for funding in current market conditions are bleak.Business angels, normally the first resort for early-stage finance, have become the last resort now that the funding plug has been pulled by venture capitalists. A report last week showed the total value of private equity deals in Europe fell by 70 per cent over the first three months of this year. Venture capitalists are, for now, quite content to sit on the huge cash piles already raised for investment.But do current conditions scare off even the angels? Yes and no is the unhelpful answer. Clearly there are fewer individuals around willing to risk their hard-earned entrepreneurial wealth on the exuberant whims of a 22-year-old web programmer. Then again, those people who got sucked in by tech-stock euphoria were probably not real angels anyway.Serious, season-ticket-holding business angels are not so fickle as to be controlled by market fashions. They are in for the long haul. Julie Meyer,   co-founder of First Tuesday, the high-profile networking organisation, says: 'They are very market-neutral - they don't go on about where the Nasdaq is.'Ryan Prince agrees. He runs i-gabriel, a syndicate of high-profile angels, including Charlie Muirhead, Esther Dyson and Paul Myners (chairman of Guardian Media Group), who invest in 'enabling technologies'. 'From a number of perspectives angel investment is where you want to be right now. The IPO (initial public offering) window has closed, but angels typically invest two to   four years before an IPO, and in this market valuations are more in line with fundamentals. It's a great opportunity,' he says.So, it appears that genuine business angels have a protective halo that insulates them from the waxing and waning of stock markets. Academic studies of the informal private-equity market in the UK show that angels invest over a longer-run.'Most angels are serial investors. Macroeconomic fundamentals - the stock market, inflation, the interest rate - do not register as a significant influence on angels' invest ment behaviour. The only factor that did affect things was the tax regime,' says Professor Colin Mason of Southampton University, who has carried out numerous surveys of angel investment.The issue in the current market is more that there was a glut of over-investment in companies with flaky business prospects. This means angels have had to be more circumspect about the quality of early-stage companies that had already secured funding in the past. This may have changed now.'A lot of the frothier business plans, the me-too con cepts, have sunk. The quality of businesses and of intellectual property being built is now far better and more bankable,' says Prince.Mason estimates there are 20,000-40,000 business angels investing &#163;1 billion in up to 6,000 companies a year in the UK. This funding plays a vital role in giving the initial impetus to early-stage start-ups, which tend to be overlooked by venture capitalists. Precise figures are impossible to obtain because many angel investors do not want to volunteer their status. But it is clear they are a vital cog in the workings of an entrepre neurial culture. 'The average entrepreneur doesn't need &#163;5 million to get an idea off the ground - it's, say, &#163;100,000,' says Meyer, who now runs Ariadne Capital. And if they don't happen to have a rich uncle, many good ideas can go unfunded.Unsurprisingly, angel investment culture is very different and more developed in the US. Some $40 billion is estimated to be invested by angels over there.'Europe is dominated by families who made it in the old economy,' says Meyer, who has toured the Continent looking to connect businesses. 'They will invest if they know one or two things about it, otherwise they won't touch it. Then they give the nod to a whole network of friends across Europe and they'll all come in.'In the US there are these under-35 year olds, as new money as it comes, who are driven by recycling entrepreneurial wealth and know-how, as well as making more money,' she says.Indeed despite the cash crunch, this passing on of know-how and contacts often proves more important than the funding itself. In the US there are formalised mentoring groups from which angel investment may sprout organically. The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) is one such group, originally focused on Silicon Valley's South Asian technology immigrants, but open to all.Charter members offer mentoring sessions for young entrepreneurs with ideas and business plans. For older members who have already made their millions, it is a chance to replay the entrepreneurship game by proxy.   Young entrepreneurs get advice, access to valuable contacts, potential clients, suppliers or partners, and possibly a slice of investment.'We're not doing it fundamentally as a favour,' says Kanwal Rekhi, TiE's president. 'If you invest, it can be a lucrative activity.'But there is an all-pervading spirit of community entrepreneurship. And TiE has just opened in London. The organisation stresses that mentoring, not angel investment, is its primary purpose. But the scheme, which begins next month, will offer aspiring entrepreneurs a helping hand.Angels ganging together are not a new concept. The caricature of British angel investors is a network of Hertfordshire gentlemen farmers who will all pile in on   the nod of one of their members. Syndicates such as i-gabriel promise to bring a more formal edge to the UK.The real benefit from angel investment is that such investors are in a position to take greater risks because it's their own money, and they have a genuine understanding of the sector. Out goes ghastly due diligence and in comes gut feeling, and a few rules of thumb.Those risks don't always pay off, though. According to Mason's survey data, angels in the UK lose their money in around 40 per cent of investments and make high returns - of 50 per cent or above - on under a quarter.'It's vital for entrepreneurial culture,' says Meyer. 'Take Stockholm and Copenhagen. There's a massive difference in entrepreneurial culture in   these two cities, and it's all because generations of Stockholm people made their money in technology and digital media and then reinvested it in this community.'So what are the tricks of the trade for tempting an angel to invest?'You wouldn't speak to an angel unless you knew it was a good idea because your credibility is at stake,' says Charlie Hoult, an entrepreneur who relied on angels for his Metrocube incubator. 'The first question they ask is "Is it Eis-able?",' he says, referring to the special tax advantages on offer to serial investors under the Enterprise Investment Scheme. Should an investment go bust then it can be reclaimed against a tax liability.Entrepreneurs who make the effort to go to TiE's London meetings will also discover that they can get into legal difficulties by soliciting investment on spec from more than 50 angels. But if it's the cash you're after, there's plenty out there.'The problem is not the supply of funds, there's simply not enough investable opportunities,' laments one angel. 'The entrepreneurs who come looking are not investment-ready; they don't know how to make a business plan or to make a pitch.' And angels are unlikely to bail out the living dead.faisal.islam@observer.co.uk
Getting business to give more time and money to charity is a perennial problem but current projects initiated by the IT sector show a novel approach to solving this dilemma.Despite dot.com boom and bust and the relative youth of the sector, technology-related companies are behind some of the most innovative moves to get business to give back to the community.A good example of this is the recently launched HighTech Women Skills Bank for Society project, which aims to bring together voluntary organisations and technology companies to share time and skills. Ideas include mentoring, secondments and employee involvement schemes.The project was set up by HighTech Women, a 1,400-member network for women working in technology and related sectors.Based on the idea of "doing good and doing well", HighTech Women already encourages its members - who range from CEOs to students - to mentor and share career advice. The skills bank will act as a brokerage service between individuals or their companies, and the voluntary sector.HighTech Women managing director Lucy Marcus says a recent survey of members found that many were concerned about corporate social responsibility."The message came through loud and clear that they feel that 'doing good and doing well' is a powerful way to achieve balance, no matter where they are in their careers," says Ms Marcus."Their experiences with mentoring others and giving back to the community have been among the most satisfying and energising things they do."This ethos echoes government thinking. The Department of Trade and Industry is urging all areas of business to support literacy, numeracy and community investment projects as part of its corporate social responsibility programme.Suggestions for action include staff secondments, allowing local groups to share company facilities and acting as business brokers to attract project funding.IT start-ups are among the supporters of a national foundation designed to provide all British children over the age of four with a laptop by 2006.BenefisU, Bladerunner, Businesshr and Chalkscape have pledged donations to the fund, which will work with charities and schools to promote e-learning. It is funded by a £5m government grant and £1m from Microsoft.Bridging the digital divide is the focus of a new project by AOL UK. The company has teamed up with youth development charity Fairbridge to help disadvantaged young people to develop basic web design and IT skills.The aim is to improve their access to future education and job opportunities. AOL UK staff will work with young people to teach them about computers and the internet.Charlie Ward, project co-ordinator at Fairbridge, says the initiative will boost young people's skills and confidence. "The majority have not had any previous access to computers or the internet," he says. "This project will enable them to enter the information age on an equal footing with their peers."The IT sector lags behind other industries in the corporate giving stakes. Latest research by the Directory of Social Change shows IT companies contributed a mere £3m to charities last year, compared to the £60m given by the banking sector and £21m from the oil and gas industries.One man on a mission to change this is Shaun Orpen, Microsoft director and newly appointed member of the NSPCC's corporate development board.His task is to encourage others in the IT sector to help raise £5m for the charity's Full Stop campaign.Mr Orpen says IT companies are "incredibly willing" to share their time and skills with voluntary groups but have yet to fulfil this potential. "I'd like to see the IT industry in the UK rise to this challenge," he adds.
A US judge has turned down a request by an internet media company to broadcast the execution of the Oklahoma City bomber, Timothy McVeigh, live online.Entertainment Network Inc has vowed to appeal the ruling - by district court judge John Tinder - that its intention to show the execution is not supported by first amendment rights to free speech. Mr Tinder ruled that Bureau of Prisons was within its rights to prohibit any recording or broadcast of McVeigh's death.US courts have traditionally allowed prisons greater leeway over questions of public access, and no execution has ever been publicly broadcast in the US.ENI had requested permission to place a webcam in the execution chamber and had planned to use credit card payments of $1.95 (£1.25) per viewing in order to prevent children from watching. The company had promised all proceeds would be given to charities that benefit the families of victims.The chief executive of ENI, David Marshlack, said: "As I read Judge Tinder's decision the primary reason he is denying our request is that there is no precedent for what we propose to do. With due respect to the judge, that is the whole point - the internet is a new medium and clearly we are asking for something that is unprecedented. But just because it has never been done before is not a sufficient reason to deny us the right to transmit this momentous event in a way didn't exist when the laws were written."When McVeigh is executed by lethal injection on May 16, relatives of the victims will be able to watch the proceedings on closed circuit television feed to Oklahoma City. McVeigh killed 168 people when he placed a bomb in a federal building there in 1995.Officials in the US fear that tapes of the CCTV broadcast will be almost impossible to keep off the internet as countless numbers of would-be internet broadcasters seek to get hold of the footage. "The constitution does not require that those who wish to record courts or executions be allowed to do so," the assistant US attorney, Gerald Coraz, said. "Executions should not be public spectacles."Related articlesComment from Washington by Martin Kettle20.04.2001: The circus moves inUseful linksEntertainment NetworkOklahoma City national memorialOklahoma City victims memorial siteOklahoma City bombing archiveCourt TV
Over the coming year, the Starfish Initiative plans to parachute three 20ft shipping containers into Malawi, and Nagpur and Assam in India. Each will house one computer with six screens that will form a classroom for the girls and young women of the area.The Starfish Initiative began with a story. A young girl was walking along the beach. The tide was going out and thousands of starfish were stranded on the beach.She went along, picking them up and throwing them back into the water. An old man saw her and asked her what she was doing. "Look at the hundreds of starfish along the beach," he said. "You can't do any good." "I can for this one," she said, and threw it back into the sea.Today's launch of the Starfish Initiative at the Lord Chancellor's Residence at the House of Lords is aimed at bridging the digital divide by providing internet computer access for girls and young women in the world's poorest slums.Behind the scheme is 76-year-old Helen Taylor-Thompson, a direct descendant of David Livingstone. And the pioneering work is motivated by the same fight   against slavery. "Maybe it's in my genes," she says. "Whenever I see something that needs doing, I do it."Just how does it hope to achieve that? And why is it specifically targeting girls and young women?A 1994 report from the human rights group Jubilee Action showed that one million children worldwide are lured and forced into prostitution every year. As many as 10 million children are thought to be trapped in pros titution today. Taylor- Thompson sees prostitution as slavery and wants to see an end to it through IT education. "Slavery is abhorrent to me," she says. "And it's my job to stop it."The Starfish container schools will be run by the community leaders, including a team of nuns in Malawi.Through the computers the girls will learn about water, childcare, nutrition and disease control, as well as how to read and write.The three pilot projects will run off electricity, like any standard PC. But, in the next couple of years, the aim is to run similar classrooms of computers on wind power, solar energy, water power, or even by donkey power. After all, how much use is a computer room to a poor community that can't afford the costs of the electricity bills to run it?Internet access will be hard on the heels of basic learning techniques, but the three Rs and a sense of hygiene and   nutrition must come first, according to the director of the Starfish Initiative, Stephen Clarke.In Malawi only 42% of women are literate, in Assam, the figure stands at 43%. In Nagpur, just over half can read and write."It will give them a glimpse that things can be different," he says. "The fundamental aim is making them feel part of changing their circumstances. That kind of confidence is enhanced through knowledge   and education."In India, where two of Starfish's classrooms will go, there are an estimated two million prostitutes, 20% of whom are aged under 15.By providing an education Starfish hopes to enable hundreds of young girls to earn a living without resorting to prostitution."Prositution is also one of the very best ways of getting Aids," says Helen Taylor-Thompson.A member of the French Underground during the Second World War, Taylor-Thompson went on to run the Mildmay Hospital in London in the 1990s, then the first Aids hospital in Europe. She watched thousands of people die, and then more when Mildmay hospitals were set up in the developing world. It was on one visit to Africa that she heard the story about the starfish and the idea for the Starfish Initiative was born."I remember a woman who had died of Aids. She had five children. Three had already died of Aids. Two were still alive. There was no one to look after the children."The Starfish Initiative is my version of taking them home," she says. "This is giving them something to live for and to stop them getting the most terrible disease."
OK, I'll let you in on a secret. There's currently a way to access an internet as fast, convenient and uncluttered as it was in the old days before banner ads, animated gifs and cookie attacks. It's the streamlined, text-only world of Wap - a scaled-down World Wide Web meant to be accessed only by cellular phones and wireless handheld devices.But, thanks to a few security oversights, if you know the unpublished URLs for these sites, you can get to them through any regular web browser. You will never be the same. Check out the New York Times on the web, sans advertisements and graphics, by visitinghttp://199.97.97.184/nytimes-partners/avantgo/main.html. Have you done it yet? If you can't right now, trust me: this is the way the web looked back in 1994, before the ill-fated scheme of advertisers to turn the internet into a direct marketing platform had even been conceived.It's the New York Times, free of confusing layouts, time-consuming graphics downloads and senseless navigation. On this version of the site, intended for low-bandwidth cell phones, each   article is listed by title, followed by a one-sentence description. The title is underlined, which means it is linked to the text of the article. Clicking on the title brings you to a new page, containing the article itself - again, with no graphics, advertisements or other useless distractions.I know this description sounds a bit sarcastic, but that's only because this very obvious and logical method of creating a website has all but disappeared from today's world wide web. Wap sites like this one (or CNN's atcnnfn.cnn.com/services/fntogo/avantgo/channel.html, and The Wall Street Journal's atpublic.wsj.com/news/avantgo/wsj.html) are easier, faster, more organic to the medium, and easier for publisher and reader alike.Just look at how fast these pages load, even on a regular old modem! Experiment with how effortlessly you can move from article to article, cut and copy text, email links to friends, or use the data in any way you like. No frames, no JavaScript, no special applets to download. No tracing your pathway, no spy programs nested on to your hard drive, no compliance-inducing interface designed to pull your finger towards the "buy" button.Experience this lightning-fast, user-friendly world for yourself. Then you'll understand what it is people like me have been complaining about for the past five years. This simple, open and accessible information architecture is the closest you can get today   to the internet that those of us who were online in the early 90s keep talking about. Now you know why we whine so much. It is not that we are nostalgic for the innocence of our interactive youths. We merely have a very clear recollection of how much better early web interfaces served the needs of students, researchers and anyone looking for some information.Sure, there is a value to visual interfaces, streaming media and interactive bells and whistles. But they should be used on sites dedicated to art, gaming or technology. For text retrieval and speedy navigation, nothing beats simplicity.Enjoy these sites while you can. Even if they remain accessible to our web browsers, they won't be around in this form for long.The "wireless revolution" is pumping new air into the speculative investment bubble deflated by the dot.com crash. Venture capitalists, who only last year were touting their e-commerce incubators, have now foresworn their allegiance to the internet and are staking their entire claims on the wireless space.Their new business plans (as well as their inevitable exit strategies) will prove as fruitless as their last ones - but not before they have cluttered up and compromised the entire wireless space with new advertising schemes, methods of privacy invasion and bandwidth-hogging graphics. Just you wait.When enough of us have purchased color-capable cellular phones (there are already a couple on the market) and high-speed wireless palm devices, functions we take for granted today such as SMS messaging or text-only browsing will be frustratingly complex and opaque.We all understand that the services we enjoy have to get paid for, somehow. But online marketing did not end up paying for anything. As a means of funding web content, advertising has failed. It worked on television and radio because these are passive media experiences. Sponsorship makes sense there, but not in an interactive mediaspace where ads only get in the way of whatever it is the user is attempting to do.We would not tolerate the inconvenience of listening to advertisements whenever we picked up the telephone. We pay for our dial tones. Likewise, we pay for access to the internet and wireless content, and should not surrender ease of use to the needs of marketers or Nasdaq investors.And to all you wireless business people out there: before you make the same mistake again, take a good look at the websites I have listed. Consider for a moment whether you might want to figure out ways to make money by offering people useful, hassle-free services, rather than just taking them away.
The bloke who used to be head of IT at my old office, Pete, had a very clear idea of why he spent so much of his time trying to undo the crashes that I, or other "laydeez" had caused by trying to log on. "They just ain't compatible, girls and computers," he used to whine, as he thundered across my keyboard for the fifth time in a week. "Women just don't have the right sort of brains."The latest research studies in the US, however, show that there is now "gender parity" in internet use and at first glance, these statistics suggest that, far from being web illiterate, women are (surprise, surprise) just as competent as men.At a recent conference organised by Marketing Week, entitled Women on the Web - reaching beyond gender stereotypes online - Philip Bird from Microsoft's MSN, gave these new statistics further relevance."What is happening with the net in the US today," he stated unequivocally, "will happen here 14 months later. In the UK at present there is still a male bias - but I expect it to be a 50:50 ratio very soon." (Cue a mass pinging of braces across adland)Such conviction (or is it merely optimism?) was echoed by other speakers at the event - to the glee of the gathered managing directors and brand managers. According to Hilary Groves of iVillage UK, "Women are one of the fastest growing internet segments".Her arrival in Britain is testament to her company's confidence. Her month-old website, a translation of a hugely successful US site, has stormed into the British market.A closer study of American   statistics reveals that 60%of American women go online everyday. This research, carried out by the Pew Foundation, a charitable trust looking at the sociological impact of the net, found that US women favoured sites where they can shop, chat, download music or get health or career advice. They also discovered that over half of the group was logging on from home. Could this be the key to the explosion in female web use? Because, in the US, high-speed access is very often unmetered and usually free. Can we really expect the US experience to be replicated in Britain any time soon when, unlike Americans, most of us still have to pay BT for our home internet access?What we certainly can expect is that a large number of multinationals will take the US experience as gospel and forge into the British market, hoping to tap into the incredibly lucrative market segment that is the female consumer.Current British figures show that 36.6% of the 10m people online are women. They are ordering their groceries, making Tesco the biggest success story in e-commerce history; they are checking out their healthcare facilities through sites such as Wellbeing, an alliance between Boots and Granada; they are buying exclusive fashion through sites like Net-a-porter; they can even check up on the latest celebrity gossip.Jane Procter of Peoplenews.com has established that the majority of her users are women who are logging on from their offices."It is evident by the surge of user numbers at certain times of day that most are in an office. There is a huge push when people arrive at work and pick up their emails -then at lunchtime when they want something to read while they eat their sandwiches, and then again just before they leave. Our figures were 250,000 last month which is 30,000 higher than was projected - and we believe 60% are women.'While the figures concerning women at work are very promising, by comparison, only a small minority are logging on from home.Chad Wollen from consumer behaviour consultants, the Henley Centre, agrees that women in the home, most often mothers, are yet to be won over. "Everything about the internet is unbelievably fast," he says, "except the take-up by mums - which is unbelievably slow."But why is this fact so unbelievable, given that many mother's experiences of the web are so often bad.Take Jill. Jill is a freelance health journalist who should be swanning round the web picking up the most up-to-the-minute research. But what happens."I spend the half hour I have, before picking up my kids from school, hunting down Dr So-and-so from some university or other who appears to have done a study which is right up my street. And then I discover that the site hasn't been updated for three years and that Dr So-and-so moved on months ago. I can't afford to rely on information that can't be verified. I tend only to believe some thing now if it is between the covers of a book."And then take Rebecca. Now admittedly she still hasn't managed to get her head around email - but taking my suggestion to order a book on line, Rebecca spent two-and-a-half hours trying to track it down while her two-year-old twins had a fight on the living room floor. Eventually she gave up and found it at her local bookshop, which took her 20 minutes door to door and got the children out of the house.And finally, Liz, who is sick of her weekly shop in Tesco but is internet phobic. "You have to shop online," I insisted. "It's so simple - especially after you have done it once."Liz stumbled at the first hurdle. She tried to order baked beans and was then   offered too many choices of size, multipack, brand, etc that she gave up. Now she's even more phobic.These women aren't stupid. Neither are they technologically incompetent. The Henley Centre has made significant findings in their research into this area."There are currently 4m mums online which is up 20% in the last six months," says Wollen. "But only half of them use it every week. This betrays a complete lack of engagement. The internet has not become important to their everyday lives."There are many theories on why this is the case; that the PC is not accessible enough, hidden away as it often is, in a room at the back of the house; that the mum doesn't feel "techie" enough, particularly in comparison to her husband and offspring; that women don't trust the internet, particularly in terms of credit   card security, junk email and viruses. But the most significant finding concerns time management."Women are not adventurous," continues Wollen. "They are task driven which means they get impatient. Working mothers, in particular, are so tired and exhausted by looking after their jobs, their kids and their homes that the internet becomes yet another responsibility which ends up being the straw that broke the camel's back."With, on average, 15 hours less free time per week than their male counterparts, women simply don't have the time to boot up, download or surf. How deliciously ironic that something as archaic as the unequal division of household chores should be standing in the way of women embracing future technology and therefore multinationals embracing women.Sam Phillips believes that   lack of time has led men and women to differ on the fundamental point of the web - with men thinking of it as recreational and women seeing it as functional."From the figures I've seen - it seems true that some women don't relax with their PCs. If they don't quickly and easily find what they want, they won't surf the net like a man would - they just find it offline."Women in offices, on the other hand, are becoming more and more web literate, treating it as yet another part of their media diet. Is this simply because they can do it all on the company's time at the company's expense?One area of the net which women at home have embraced wholeheartedly, however, is email. But the key here is that email fits into a woman's time-saving strategies, because it's even more convenient than a phone.   How ideal can a form of communication be when it allows you to send and receive messages quickly, effectively and whenever you choose?The speakers at the Marketing Week conference predict that in the future, British mothers at home, like their American counterparts, will be treating the web as a new form of community. Not only will they be able to compare notes with other mothers, on how to get a baby to sleep or give up chocolate, they will also buy underwear, win holidays and get advice on health, beauty and fashion, all from the comfort of their own homes.But in the meantime, if large multinationals are going to reach this largely untapped market they are going to have to get to grips with how women behave in their homes and the time- saving strategies that they have developed there. Most often they will be doing at least two things at once - whether it is listening to the news while cooking a meal, interacting with the children while paying the bills, chatting to a friend while doing the ironing. Even a visit to the supermarket is a way of entertaining children, certainly more so than watching mum sit in front of a PC for half an hour and then fail to get any Tweenies yoghurts.The trouble with web access at the moment is that it demands 100 % attention - and many women can't afford to give that. "Technology needs to be better suited to mums," Chad Wollen sums up. "It needs to be as accessible as a PC loaded into a fridge door, always on, (so it doesn't need booting up) and non threatening in style and content."Clich&eacute;d as it sounds, it is only when the internet is full-time, online, on the fridge door that it really will   become useful. Until that time the internet is simply not smart enough to match up to women's expectations. So there, Pete.
Wear an MP3Panasonic's pair of wearable MP3 players reach UK stores this week, more than a year after they were first paraded at the CES exhibition in January 2000. The two E-Wear models, the SV-SD75 and SV-SD05 are among the first audio players to go on sale in the UK that feature both AAC (advanced audio coding) and MP3 compatibility. Devel oped by Dolby and Sony the AAC codec offers superior sound quality and more efficient compression than MP3. Panasonic says that if CDs are converted using its AAC encoding software, the player's 64MB SD (Secure Digital) card can store around two hour's worth of "better-than MP3-quality" sounds.One of the smallest players on sale, the &#163;300 SV-SD75 is designed to be worn either on the wrist or hung around   the neck. It is accompanied by a USB reader/writer and wrist and neck straps.Panasonic is also offering the &#163;300 SV SD05 - an MP3/AAC player built into a pair of foldable headphones. It, too, comes with a 64MB SD card. Neither player is Mac compatible.E-movieSony has announced the imminent arrival of a trio of high-end digital camcorders.Top of the range is the &#163;1,500 DCR-TRV30E, the first Sony camcorder to sport a new facility called E-Movie. This enables the user to store moving images as   MPEG files on the camcorder's accompanying 4MB Memory Stick card. The mini-movie can then be transferred to a PC and sent as an email.The DCR-TRV30E's digital video image quality is superior to previous Sony camcorders. It boasts a 1.5 mega pixel CCD that delivers a moving horizontal image resolution of 530 lines and still pictures of 1,360 x 1,020 pixels. The camcorder also sports a 3.5inch LCD monitor, a 120x digital zoom, Super Steady Shot anti-shake facilities, and Super Night Shot, which enables the user to shoot images in complete darkness. Connection to a PC is via a supplied I-Link connector, which, for the first time on a Sony camcorder, offers both DV in and out. Sony says that the user can   shoot for up to eight hours before they need to recharge the camcorder's battery.The &#163;1,000 DCR-TRV17E is similar to the DCR-TRV30E, but has a lower resolution CCD and has no DV in facility. A budget version, the &#163;800 DCR-TRV15E, also shares many of its siblings' features, but has a smaller 2.5inch LCD monitor and has no MPEG movie or digital still capture facilities.Toshiba joins inToshiba is also championing the AAC music format by delivering a joint AAC/MP3 player to stores this week. The tiny silver-cased &#163;230 MEA210 features 32MB of embedded memory, enough for more than an hour of quality AAC music. It also sports a slot for a SD card   which can increase the storage up to 96MB.The player is accompanied by a Toshiba Audio Manager CD-rom, which includes software that converts music files (WAV/CD or MP3) to the AAC format. The unit, powered by AAA batteries, comes with stereo headphones, a USB interface and a selection of tone controls.
&#149; Heartiest Diary congratulations to Basingstoke-based computer manufacturer Centerprise. Not only was it named Hampshire Business of the Year last year, but yesterday it emerged that the ambitious hardware firm is supplying one of Europe's highest profile online retailers . . . we refer, of course, to Letsbuyit.com. Centerprise, reports excellent website The Register, has agreed to build own-brand Letsbuyit PCs - to be labelled "Ants", after the animated creatures that appear in the retailer's television adverts.With so many former suppliers giving Letsbuyit the cold shoulder, it warms the heart to see the e-tailer receiving a helping hand after an unfortunate spell in the Amsterdam courts earlier this year. Nevertheless, the company's cynical detractors - who, to this day, unfairly liken the firm to the living dead - will doubtless dredge up allegations submitted to the court by Dutch administrators, concerning Letsbuyit's former senior executives' understanding of the "financial obligations of the company". Not us. We salute Centerprise, who appear unconcerned with Letsbuyit's background, and wish it the best of fortune.&#149; Investing in the stock market is a grave matter. This is why we are grateful for an invite, from US online financial newswire TheStreet.com, to attend "one of the premier investment conferences in the country". Delegates will be able to take advantage of 200 workshops and five panel discussions "to hone your investment skills". "You will learn how to devise a clear-cut investment strategy that shows you how to invest for the reality of wealth - not the pipe dream of overnight riches," reads the sober invitation. How long before delegates tire and turn to some of the conference's fringe investment workshops one imagines on offer at the chosen venue - the Paris hotel and casino in Las Vegas - we dare not speculate.&#149; Excitement mounts in the run up to the UK oil and gas industry's publication of its Sustainable Development Strategy next week. Whether use of the word "sustainable" anticipates the unveiling of a miracle emissionless fossil fuel, or whether it denotes a cynical hijacking of tree-huggers' jargon, it is too early to say.&#149; So to the Diary's ongoing investigation into reports that staff at Vodafone's head office in Newbury are having trouble receiving a clear signal on their mobile phones - despite claims that the Vodafone network offers 99% coverage throughout Britain. During our initial inquiries, you will recall, a woman from Vodafone's service centre assured us that reception in Newbury town centre was quite sufficient, and that any problems "could be to do with building structures, and nothing to do with coverage provided by Vodafone". Not satisfied with this baffling response, we call the Newbury office direct, employ a cunning subterfuge. "Hello, hello? Can you hear me?" we begin. "Pardon? . . . What? . . . Look, this is a very bad line - can I have your mobile number, and I'll call you back?" "Er, no. You can't," comes the reply. "If you can't hear me on this line, I'm not giving you my mobile number." And with that, the rather nervous sounding staff member hangs up. Hmm.&#149; Our thanks to Jon Rhodes who emails to point out that the Harvard Business Review - which, we reported yesterday, has been voted "most influential magazine in America by 1,700 opinion leaders" - is not only exclusively available to "an elite corps of top of top business managers", as it may imply. In fact, Mr Rhodes writes, "WH Smith in Euston definitely has the most recent copy".That may be so, Mr Rhodes but it will not stop us featuring an edited extract from HBR's impressive website tomorrow. The subject of the piece is corporate egos.simon.bowers@guardian.co.uk
The tiny monochrome screen of a mobile phone seems to offer little that would interest a budding Picasso. And yet so many artists are now taking to the humble mobile you would be forgiven for thinking that the world had suddenly run out of paint.Artists often function as new media's shock troops. They adopt new technology early, and then find uses for it that the technologists never dreamt of. Now, SMS messaging - one of the crudest and most popular forms of new media - is finding its way into the artists' canon. And that's not all: ring tones and even the vibrating alerts are all being picked apart by artists keen to comment on society's latest craze.At Cybersalon - a monthly meeting of London's digerati   at the Institute of Contemporary Art in the city - text messaging (SMS) is regularly used during live debates.  Members of the audience use their mobiles to text to a panel of speakers, questions or comments that are then displayed on a big screen. This, says Niki Gomez of Cybersalon, helps shyer members contribute to the debate.The anonymity of the system also helps to keep the speakers in check, especially if they've been plugging their products a little zealously or are simply boring the audience.During last year's Edinburgh Festival, the Unlimited Theatre Company used SMS to promote its play, Static, at the Pleasance Theatre.  Sections of the script were edited down to 160 characters and used as short teaser   pieces, aimed at enhancing the performances and adding new insights into the characters' lives. More than 400 people subscribed to the week-long project - no mean trick for a piece of fringe theatre.The theatre project was designed in collaboration with Huddersfield's digital design laboratory, TEST, which is now working on an SMS version ofwww.knowitall.org.uk- a GCSE revision site   backed by Knowlsey Local Education Authority.Meanwhile, Fiddian Warman and Siobhan Hapaska are building an SMS sculpture near Loch Lomond in Scotland. Taking their inspiration from the age-old tradition of carving lovers' initials in the shape of a heart, the pair are embedding mobile phone type interfaces into trees. The idea is to create little message boards deep in the heart of the countryside.Other artists currently developing wireless art include Rachel Baker, Carey Young and Fiona Raby of the computer related design research studio at the Royal College of Art. Even the design guru Ron Arad is rumoured to have an SMS sculpture under wraps.Of course the main stumbling block to wireless art is   access to the technology. Working with SMS usually means collaborating with the mobile companies. Companies such as Ericsson and Orange say they are inundated with requests from artists and students to work with SMS. Beyond that, another queue of artists is forming in earnest, eager to get their hands on the next wave of mobile devices such as 2.5G, Bluetooth and wearable computers.But it is not just text messaging that is drawing the attention of artists. Telephony, a recent show by Jon Thomson and Alison Craighead, consisted of a bank of mobile phones set out in the form of a grid. Visitors to the Mobile Home Gallery in east London were invited to call one of 50 handsets that would then burst into song. Through a clever call forwarding system, one phone would set off another, sometimes creating a symphony, sometimes a cocophony of rings.Artists began working with mobile phone technology even before the SMS craze took off. Back in 1999, the artist Lucy Kimbell designed a bizarre vibrating internal pager (VIP), which mimicked the vibrating alerts found in many phones, to be secreted within the body.  Once inside, users could invite people they fancied to phone a number from which they would receive a gentle vibration. This lent a whole new meaning to the phrase "I'll buzz you later."For all these crazy schemes, artists can only suggest new ways of using the mobile. The real innovators are teenagers whose appetite for mobiles seems far more irrepressible.
At least four large internet banks in Britain have been attacked by computer hackers, it emerged yesterday at the launch of a national police unit to tackle cybercrime.It is believed that in each case at least hundreds of thousands of pounds was stolen, but the banks concerned have been reluctant to report the thefts for fear it will damage the credibility of banking online.Police officers involved in operations aimed at breaking up organised crime say that they have tracked several hackers who have made successful attacks on the internet banks - despite the banks' denials.Bill Hughes, the director general of the national crime squad, explained the reticence to report attacks: "When businesses say they are not being 'hacked' they are not telling the truth."Everyone has been attacked. It is how businesses deal with it that is the question. As soon as they realise it is not bad for business, and we can do something about it, they will acknowledge it."Tracking down the cyber robbers who forge credit card details and other electronic identities to break into internet banks is just one of the tasks of the specialist police unit. To begin with the unit has 40 officers housed in a "semi-covert location" in central London. The unit will eventually have a further 40 officers in regional forces when it is fully operational in two to three years.At its launch yesterday, the home secretary, Jack Straw, said &#163;25m over three years was to be spent on countering cybercrime."Technology is already changing the way criminals operate," said Mr Straw."They look for the highest return with the least risk, and in an age where society and business are reaping the rewards and benefits of new technology, there is a massive opportunity for organised crime to exploit those new technologies."Looking to the future the equation is simple - money is going electronic; and where the money goes, so will organised crime."The unit's launch was at the Science Museum, in London, to coincide with an exhibition there on cybercrime. The exhibition features a Welsh teenager accused of downloading 20,000 credit card numbers from the net, and the hijack of the Nike.com website by anti-corporate protesters.The unit's head, Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds, said yesterday that a growing illicit subculture existed, intent on fraud, extortion, money laundering, paedophilia and race hate, as well as newer crimes such as hacking.The unit will have investigative officers, forensic experts, computer consultants and support staff to investigate serious and organised crime. Mr Hynds claimed that it would prove a milestone in policing.Officers would neither spend their time in patrolling the internet nor in reading emails, he said: "There is no intention for us to randomly intercept and read people's emails. We lack the inclination, the capability or the legal power to do so."Email interception requires a warrant that has been personally signed by the home secretary.However, Mr Straw confirmed that internet service providers would be expected to keep what were termed "communication details" of their customers' accounts so that the police could track their email recipients and the sites they have visited.John Wadham, director of Liberty, the civil rights organisation, said: "We welcome the creation of the unit, but we think at the same time they should introduce strong safeguards to ensure people's privacy on the internet is protected - unless there is a strong suspicion that they are involved in crime."HackingThe police identify three types of hackers. Recreational hackers do little more than gain unauthorised access. The criminal minded range from those who make unauthorised money transfers, to vandals who sabotage websites. The third are political "hactivists" such as those who placed anti-nuclear messages on hundreds of websites.Viruses and other malicious programmes200 new viruses are identified each month.Software piracyThe illegal copying and resale of software programmes including music and video.FraudIncludes credit card fraud and scams given a new lease of life on the net, such as pyramid schemes.Harassment, threats and hate sitesThis includes "cyber-stalking", blackmail by email, and issuing hit lists such as that in the US naming 200 abortion doctors and pro-choice judges and politicians.
Forum pages, message boards and discussion pages are the afterthoughts of most websites, mere add-on gimmicks that exploit the infinite space on the web. As such, many of them die of neglect. Unimaginative topics headings and the lack of moderators to check aggressive or egotistical postings are the usual symptoms.A few forum pages, though, take on a life of their own, often to the surprise of the website itself.It has long been popular wisdom that there is little place on the web for women and yet they are by far the most avid users of forum pages. One of the most popular can be found athttp://boards.chickclick.comwhere nine separate topic headings here have postings of 20,000 plus each. Courtney Macavinta, the co-director ofChickClick.comexplains that the web represents "a virtual slumber party for many young women. They use our message boards to reach outside their immediate world to find people who have been there, done that, and can relate to what they are going through."This success is matched in the UK at the discussion pages ofwww.handbag.com, which over two years have   already racked up 70,000 posts and often make a more thrilling read than that of the celebrity editorial from the likes of Shelley Von Strunkel, Gaby Yorath and Anthony Worral Thompson. Sheila Sang, the editor of Handbag, says: "Women tend to be good communicators and the web offers just one more way in which we can extend our networks. Whether people want to discuss the Budget or how best to paint their toenails, it is easy to find someone else online to swap views with."If forum pages say something about the way women use the web, what it says about men is disappointing. Postings on male-dominated sites often tend to read like Monty Python's famous "Argument" sketch, only less funny. Unlike the supportive environment of women's pages, men's forum pages are more a gladiatorial mud bath.The cantankerous, illiterate posts to sites such aswww.nme.comandwww.soccernet.commake for miserable reading. Something intelligent presumably could be said about the topics of rock music and soccer, but it certainly isn't here.The apparent crisis among young men in this country is all the more apparent if you compare the empathy and mutual support found on the    postings to the teen girl sitewww.razzberry.com, which has relegated editorial to the sidelines and placed discussion forums as the main body of the web page.Looking for example at the "self loathing" thread, the only time a community of men matches this level of conversation comes with old age, as is evident in the lively postings (from men and women) atwww.vavo.comandwww.senior.com.The second best use of forum pages comes from discussing taboos, which exploit the relative anonymity of the net. Online we can say what we really feel about our employers and our lousy jobs atwww.i-resign.co.uk(topics including "I have an uncontrollable urge to kill my manager" and "donkey gets my job") andwww.bitterwaitress.com.Sex, of course, is a favourite topic on most forum pages, whether it be the discussion of a favourite sexual fantasy at the hedonisticwww.liv4now.comor the surprising comments from men battling with addiction to internet porn atwww.christianityonline.com.Forum pages are also, intentionally or not, one of the great hopes of liberalism. Following the tenets of the granddaddy of Liberalism, John Stuart Mill, the greater   amount of free speech people listen to, the more likely they are to take the middle course offered.Political and news forum pages at their best can be found at the New York Times websitehttp://forums.nytimes.com/comment. To set a high standard of debate rolling, many of the topic headings lead off here with a few paragraphs of a recent article. In an extra twist, the New York Times has turned the best letters into editorials by publishing them on a separate page, along with the original article. One of the best examples is the debate on inter-racial marriages atwww.nytimes.com/library/national/race/discuss-terry.html.In the UK, the Talking Pages atwww.bbc.co.ukworks in a similar way, selecting the best readers' letters on current news and sport topics, often featuring an impressive range of international contributions. The only catch is that there is nowhere else on the site for the postings not considered up to scratch, so many carefully worded contributions are in vain.A better bet to see your letters published online is atwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/index/talk, the most active of all the UK newspaper forum pages, with current hot debates on "who to vote for at the next election" and several threads to offload your ire about the president of the USA on Politics Talk.Alternatively, if you want to find out what people are thinking in other countries, look throughwww.newsdirectory.comwhich links to major newspapers and magazines the world over.
The bloke who used to be head of IT at my old office, Pete, had a very clear idea of why he spent so much of his time trying to undo the crashes that I, or other "laydeez" had caused by trying to log on. "They just ain't compatible, girls and computers," he used to whine, as he thundered across my keyboard for the fifth time in a week. "Women just don't have the right sort of brains."The latest research studies in the US, however, show that there is now "gender parity" in internet use and at first glance, these statistics suggest that, far from being web illiterate, women are (surprise, surprise) just as competent as men.At a recent conference organised by Marketing Week, entitled Women on the Web - reaching beyond gender stereotypes online - Philip Bird from Microsoft's MSN, gave these new statistics further relevance."What is happening with the net in the US today," he stated unequivocally, "will happen here 14 months later. In the UK at present there is still a male bias - but I expect it to be a 50:50 ratio very soon." (Cue a mass pinging of braces across adland)Such conviction (or is it merely optimism?) was echoed by other speakers at the event - to the glee of the gathered managing directors and brand managers. According to Hilary Groves of iVillage UK, "Women are one of the fastest growing internet segments".Her arrival in Britain is testament to her company's confidence. Her month-old website, a translation of a hugely successful US site, has stormed into the British market.A closer study of American   statistics reveals that 60%of American women go online everyday. This research, carried out by the Pew Foundation, a charitable trust looking at the sociological impact of the net, found that US women favoured sites where they can shop, chat, download music or get health or career advice. They also discovered that over half of the group was logging on from home. Could this be the key to the explosion in female web use? Because, in the US, high-speed access is very often unmetered and usually free. Can we really expect the US experience to be replicated in Britain any time soon when, unlike Americans, most of us still have to pay BT for our home internet access?What we certainly can expect is that a large number of multinationals will take the US experience as gospel and forge into the British market, hoping to tap into the incredibly lucrative market segment that is the female consumer.Current British figures show that 36.6% of the 10m people online are women. They are ordering their groceries, making Tesco the biggest success story in e-commerce history; they are checking out their healthcare facilities through sites such as Wellbeing, an alliance between Boots and Granada; they are buying exclusive fashion through sites like Net-a-porter; they can even check up on the latest celebrity gossip.Jane Procter of Peoplenews.com has established that the majority of her users are women who are logging on from their offices."It is evident by the surge of user numbers at certain times of day that most are in an office. There is a huge push when people arrive at work and pick up their emails -then at lunchtime when they want something to read while they eat their sandwiches, and then again just before they leave. Our figures were 250,000 last month which is 30,000 higher than was projected - and we believe 60% are women.'While the figures concerning women at work are very promising, by comparison, only a small minority are logging on from home.Chad Wollen from consumer behaviour consultants, the Henley Centre, agrees that women in the home, most often mothers, are yet to be won over. "Everything about the internet is unbelievably fast," he says, "except the take-up by mums - which is unbelievably slow."But why is this fact so unbelievable, given that many mother's experiences of the web are so often bad.Take Jill. Jill is a freelance health journalist who should be swanning round the web picking up the most up-to-the-minute research. But what happens."I spend the half hour I have, before picking up my kids from school, hunting down Dr So-and-so from some university or other who appears to have done a study which is right up my street. And then I discover that the site hasn't been updated for three years and that Dr So-and-so moved on months ago. I can't afford to rely on information that can't be verified. I tend only to believe some thing now if it is between the covers of a book."And then take Rebecca. Now admittedly she still hasn't managed to get her head around email - but taking my suggestion to order a book on line, Rebecca spent two-and-a-half hours trying to track it down while her two-year-old twins had a fight on the living room floor. Eventually she gave up and found it at her local bookshop, which took her 20 minutes door to door and got the children out of the house.And finally, Liz, who is sick of her weekly shop in Tesco but is internet phobic. "You have to shop online," I insisted. "It's so simple - especially after you have done it once."Liz stumbled at the first hurdle. She tried to order baked beans and was then   offered too many choices of size, multipack, brand, etc that she gave up. Now she's even more phobic.These women aren't stupid. Neither are they technologically incompetent. The Henley Centre has made significant findings in their research into this area."There are currently 4m mums online which is up 20% in the last six months," says Wollen. "But only half of them use it every week. This betrays a complete lack of engagement. The internet has not become important to their everyday lives."There are many theories on why this is the case; that the PC is not accessible enough, hidden away as it often is, in a room at the back of the house; that the mum doesn't feel "techie" enough, particularly in comparison to her husband and offspring; that women don't trust the internet, particularly in terms of credit   card security, junk email and viruses. But the most significant finding concerns time management."Women are not adventurous," continues Wollen. "They are task driven which means they get impatient. Working mothers, in particular, are so tired and exhausted by looking after their jobs, their kids and their homes that the internet becomes yet another responsibility which ends up being the straw that broke the camel's back."With, on average, 15 hours less free time per week than their male counterparts, women simply don't have the time to boot up, download or surf. How deliciously ironic that something as archaic as the unequal division of household chores should be standing in the way of women embracing future technology and therefore multinationals embracing women.Sam Phillips believes that   lack of time has led men and women to differ on the fundamental point of the web - with men thinking of it as recreational and women seeing it as functional."From the figures I've seen - it seems true that some women don't relax with their PCs. If they don't quickly and easily find what they want, they won't surf the net like a man would - they just find it offline."Women in offices, on the other hand, are becoming more and more web literate, treating it as yet another part of their media diet. Is this simply because they can do it all on the company's time at the company's expense?One area of the net which women at home have embraced wholeheartedly, however, is email. But the key here is that email fits into a woman's time-saving strategies, because it's even more convenient than a phone.   How ideal can a form of communication be when it allows you to send and receive messages quickly, effectively and whenever you choose?The speakers at the Marketing Week conference predict that in the future, British mothers at home, like their American counterparts, will be treating the web as a new form of community. Not only will they be able to compare notes with other mothers, on how to get a baby to sleep or give up chocolate, they will also buy underwear, win holidays and get advice on health, beauty and fashion, all from the comfort of their own homes.But in the meantime, if large multinationals are going to reach this largely untapped market they are going to have to get to grips with how women behave in their homes and the time- saving strategies that they have developed there. Most often they will be doing at least two things at once - whether it is listening to the news while cooking a meal, interacting with the children while paying the bills, chatting to a friend while doing the ironing. Even a visit to the supermarket is a way of entertaining children, certainly more so than watching mum sit in front of a PC for half an hour and then fail to get any Tweenies yoghurts.The trouble with web access at the moment is that it demands 100 % attention - and many women can't afford to give that. "Technology needs to be better suited to mums," Chad Wollen sums up. "It needs to be as accessible as a PC loaded into a fridge door, always on, (so it doesn't need booting up) and non threatening in style and content."Clich&eacute;d as it sounds, it is only when the internet is full-time, online, on the fridge door that it really will   become useful. Until that time the internet is simply not smart enough to match up to women's expectations. So there, Pete.
Hacking attacks are on the increase in the UK and concerns are mounting that the country's leading organisations are not fully prepared to cope with the problem.A report published last week claimed that a third of the UK's major companies and public sector organisations had been hacked into by cyber-terrorists. Speaking in the Commons, the foreign secretary, Robin Cook, said: "Computers now manage most of our critical national infrastructure but with these new opportunities there also comes the risk of new threats. A computer-based attack could cripple the nation more quickly than a military strike."The latest government site to be hacked into was the treasury-run single currency site,www.euro.gov.ukwhich was plastered with criticisms of the Queen. A gang of hackers calling themselves Prime Suspectz claimed responsibility for the break-in.But it is not just government sites being singled out for attack. Last month Burger King's UK website was hacked and defaced by a group calling themselves Dreamscape. The hackers replaced the Burger King homepage with a mock-up of McDonald's UK website and advised visitors to go to the rival burger chain instead. And in February other major sites, including ones owned by Compaq and AltaVista, were also the victims of hacking attacks.The government's national infrastructure security coordination centre is charged with the task of reacting to and raising awareness of electronic attacks across the public and private sectors. However, it has already been severely criticised for the slowness of its response to viruses such as the love bug last summer.Iain Franklin, the vice president of Entercept Security Technologies Europe, claims that hackers are currently gaining the upper hand, and points to the sharp increase in the number of website defacements reported over the past six to nine months. He believes the implications for e-commerce sites are extremely serious as an attack could lead to a loss of online consumer confidence. But while he agrees that it is theoretically possible that vital supplies such as water   and power could be affected by hacking, he believes it is unlikely because hackers tend not to work in a coordinated way."I think the hackers are now well ahead in terms of education and knowledge," he says. "People do not understand how bad the problem is. It is very much a new field and it has suddenly grown in the last nine months. Some 80% of hackers do it for kicks. They do it because it's a challenge. About 20% are very focused and are out for some financial gain." Franklin says that once a hacker has defaced a website they usually report it to a monitoring site such as Attrition ( www. attrition.org ) so they can boast about their hacking prowess to their friends.Franklin argues that a lot of current website security is out of date. "Most people deploy firewalls as protection but they are archaic. You have to have some form of dedicated web server protection, something that sits on the server and can watch for malicious activity and identify it before   it gets started."Many leading consumer brands such as Nike are acutely aware of the threats of hacking and negative online campaigning. Stefan Olander, brand communications director for Nike in Europe, says the company takes the hosting of content on the internet very seriously. "It is very hard to get through. But having said that it is not impossible. There isn't a stereotypical hacker. They all have different reasons. Some of them might do it just to show off."Nike has been heavily criticised on the internet over allegations about the way it treats employees overseas. "It is really very hard to say what   impact it has had on the overall brand. It would be impossible to monitor every discussion that goes on about Nike," Olander explains. "We are not proactively trying to hinder discussions about our brand online. That would be impossible. What we can do is give our point of view."Andrew Coker, the head of communications for Coke in the UK, is unaware of any interference with the company's sites. However with the proliferation in media channels, he says, "you have to be far more aware of the things that are said about your company. The internet does present new challenges. One of the challenges is keeping up to date with everything that is going on."Many e-business directors point out that it is impossible to remove all risks of interference when you are linked up to the web. Chris Hogg, Intel's UK e-business manager, explains: "In all business scenarios, you make a trade-off between levels of security and the ability to carry out business."Hogg says that if e-businesses become too obsessed with security then they might not be as easy to access and trade with and that in itself can be bad for e-commerce. He does not believe that a web defacement incident is a serious problem for a company in the long term. "Typically the site gets taken down as soon as someone notices it. I believe a more serious thing is people entering your systems and removing confidential information."Nevertheless, he believes there are no grounds for UK organisations to play down reports of increases in hacking. "You have to get your sys tems up to date. If you are not updating virus detectors and security infrastructure then typically that organisation will be the first to be penetrated. People are more and more dependent on computer systems and no one can afford to get complacent about the threats."The threats of hacking can often be talked up by the web security firms with a commercial stake in the existence of such risks. But no one doubts that the basic move to outward-facing computer networks, ushered in by the internet, does create many new opportunities for unauthorised entrance.
On the Isle of Man, a BT team is working flat out to beat its Japanese rivals in the race to set up the world's first third generation (3G) phone network system.However, in London, a start-up company, while not exactly wishing ill on those pioneering engineers, certainly hopes they take an extra tea break or two.Pogo Technologies has a plan that, in its own words, promises to "deliver today what 3G promises tomorrow" using existing global systems for mobiles (GSM) networks.It hopes to help the networks recoup some of their investment in 3G licences via an easy-to-use device that offers the mobile access to the internet with go-faster stripes.Instead of downloading data at the standard GSM speed of 9.6kbps, Pogo believes its device can access data at up to 50kbps - around the same speed that PC modems deliver web pages. And while it can be used with Wap, Pogo believes its system is the ticket to offering full web pages at speed on GSM mobile devices.The key to Pogo's big idea is technology and the compression system it has developed. This works by compressing, storing and auditing information, which is then decompressed and displayed on the device as HTML web pages."Our system gives people everything they thought they would get from Wap," explains Pogo's chief operating officer Tim Critchley. "Wap was a technical solution that gave little thought to the end user. We are offering something that's been developed with the consumer uppermost in mind."The system will debut on a Pogo mobile phone/PDA hybrid that Pogo hopes will be available via at least one of the GSM networks by Christmas.Ironically the device's design has more in common with 3G prototypes than anything else currently on sale. Imagine a unit that is the same size as a Palm PDA, but turned on its side with four corners jutting out.Switch the device on and it displays a basic icon-based interface on its 3.8inch colour screen. This offers access to an address book, diary and games.Data is inputted via its virtual keyboard (there is no handwriting recognition system). However, unlike traditional PDAs,   users do not need to have access to a PC to keep their information up to date. The information is stored automatically on the network's server and updated each time the user goes online.The device also features an MP3 player and offers storage via a 32MB MultiMedia, or possibly, SD card. Owners can use the device to send and receive both email, via their existing account, and SMS messages, and also make voice calls.While its arsenal of facilities are impressive, it is the device's no-nonsense web-browsing features that Pogo hopes will turn the heads of the telephone   networks' executives."Most launches in this field are aimed at the corporate market. We are producing something for consumers," explains Critchley. "Our device will access the internet sites they are so familiar with, delivered to their handset at speeds they are used to. It really has been made very simple to use."The device has another useful trick. Central to its technology is the option of adding pay-per-view tags, which the networks can use to charge for viewing certain sites. This may prove attractive as networks attempt to develop their own service pages and websites.Pogo believes that with the usual level of subsidy, the networks could sell the device for between &#163;100 and &#163;150 - far cheaper than business-oriented rival products from Ericsson, Nokia and Trium.   The company hopes it will become a cult in the youth and student markets.It seems so sensible that it raises the question of why no other phone company or network has thought of using compression to offer faster mobile internet access before."I ask myself that question most days," says Critchley. "I can only really conclude that they expected Wap to be more successful and have made GPRS (general packet radio service) and 3G their priority."Returning the discussion to GPRS and 3G underlines the one major obstacle Pogo faces - time. While Critchley   believes the system will work well with GPRS and take advantage of the format's always-on facility and even faster download time, he acknowledges that the technology will be largely made redundant by 3G.If 3G networks are up and running in the UK on schedule by the end of 2002, and in widespread use by 2005, that doesn't give Pogo much of a window of opportunity.Critchley agrees, although he believes that 3G networks won't completely supersede GSM for a few years yet, but points out that his company's business plan extends beyond the UK. "There are some countries only just getting GSM networks installed. Others haven't even got that far."The 3G world is a way off. Whether it is far enough away for Pogo's compression technology to help GSM bounce back as a 3G-on-the-cheap system remains to be seen.
Blast offThe Nobel Prize is 100 years old this year, and although the awards will not be announced until December, celebrations are already under way (seewww.nobel.se/nobel/events/schedule). A centennial exhibition opened this month in Stockholm, and, in the US, theSmithsonian Institutionis holding a Nobel Week of exhibitions and lectures starting on April 21. The SI's Lemelson Centre has also opened a populist website, Innovative Lives (www.si.edu/lemelson/centerpieces/ilives) to tell the stories behind a number of inventions from Kevlar to windsurfing.BitstreamsAnother great museum, the Whitney Museum of American Art, has produced Bitstreams, an exhibition of digital art (seewww.whitney.org/bitstreams). It does   require non-trivial resources including Macromedia Flash 4, RealPlayer G2 and the Adobe Acrobat (PDF) plug in. However, some of the works are worth the effort, though the site runs with glacial slowness even on a broadband DSL line.New viewsThe desktop is dead, according to David Gelernter, Yale academic, Unabomber victim, and author of the influential Mirror Worlds. The book spawned a company, also called Mirror Worlds, which has developed Scopewear: software that lets you organise your information by time (seewww.scopeware.com/products/products_whatis.htm). Although it offers many different views, the basic idea is of an expandable sequence of index cards. The good news is that a single-user personal version of the software is expected this summer. However, if you want to try a new way to find your data now, tryEnfish.Red hotOver the past year, since the department of justice won its anti-trust case against Microsoft, the Nasdaq exchange has become best known as the home of plunging tech stocks. What better time to offer a real-time    pictorial representation of the board, with green showing price rises and red showing falls? The idea is to help you spot trends. The "heatmap" of the top 100 stocks is athttp://screening.nasdaq.com/ heatmaps/heatmap_100.asp.Web stacksThe British Library'scurators and bibliographers have been developing pages of resources covering the humanities, sound and music, rare books, and science and technology. The resources include a virtual reference library or index of external links. It isn't Yahoo, but it provides a good way in to the BL and related topics.UnloadedAmmo Cityhas been launched with a range of promotions designed to attract 18 to 24-year-old members of "youth culture". They include painting graffiti at secret locations, club nights    with notable DJs, Ammo City road signs, and hitchhikers (actually, drama students and actors from the Wide Theatre Group) with Ammo City scribbled on bits of card. Parental discretion is advised: the latest efforts at www. ammocity.com include an emailable clip from "Add N to X's latest experimental/ pornographic music video". The site's awful design is all part of manufacturing a "lifestyle brand".Pop gameRobbie Williams has launched a platform game to help promote his latest single, Let Love Be Your Energy. You can either download it or play it online. The aim is to pick up as many girls as possible. This exercise in animated ecstasy can be found atwww.robbiewilliams.com.Ice timeThe Stanley Cup play-offs are one of the sporting highlights    of the year, as North America's professional ice hockey teams fight their way through best-of-seven series to the ultimate team prize. Although the play-offs are now covered in depth on Channel 5, you can also follow events on the web. And this year, the NHL and Virage are publishing highlights and a searchable video database atNHL.com.Chain cutterThe tens of millions of newbies coming on to the internet each year are sometimes deceived by the hundreds of chain letters circulated by email. Many contain truthful information but most are junk. TheBreaking the Chainis a good place to check their contents, and provides a useful companion toSnopes, the Urban Legends Reference Pages. Remember, all chain letters are bad for the net, even if they claim to be in a good cause.New &amp; noted&#149;  Two net crazes in a single site:www.amiallyourbaseornot.&#149; Two crazes in a spoof video:www.parkwars.com.&#149; If you missed Underground, Suelette Dreyfus's book on hacking and computer crime, you can download it fromwww.underground-book.com.&#149; AskTog on Replay TV:www.asktog.com/limit.html.&#149;AltaVista's Babel Fishtranslation system now supports Asian language characters and translates Chinese, Japanese, and Korean to and from English.Six of the bestNetiquetteIn a nutshellwww.darkmountain.com/netiquetteThe definitive guidewww.dtcc.edu/cs/rfc1855.htmlNetiquette homewww.albion.com/netiquetteBusiness netiquettewww.bspage.com/1netiq/Netiq.htmlUseful linkswww.cochran.com/start/guide/Netiquette.htmlEmily Postnewswww.templetons.com/brad/emily.html
A big thanks to the thousands of readers and others who entered Online's pioneering interactive text message poetry competition. The competition, done in association with our web site, Guardian Unlimited and Consult Hyperion, ended last Friday. Since then our specialist team has been sifting the entries down to 100 to present to our expert panel which meets today (April 19).The panel - poets U A Fanthorpe and Peter Sansom accompanied by Guardian Unlimited's books editor, Justine Jordan - will winnow them down to the best seven entries.What nextOn Sunday, April 22, every entrant will be sent a text message to remind them that the interactive stage is about to begin.April 23 to April 29:Each day every entrant will be texted one of the final seven poems to their phone. They will be asked to give a mark out of 10 for each one (numerals, please) and send it back as soon as possible. Only entrants who have replied to the first entry will be sent subsequent poems.May 3:Results and samples from the final 100 entries will be published in Online.Details:www.guardian.co.uk/mobilepoems
Patent greedSoftware is not like Albanian (Bob Young of Red Hat, quoted in your Free Agents article on open source/free software, April 12). Software is like a story written in Albanian. And if I wrote stories in Albanian, I would like the right to protect them. That is not to say that everyone who read them would have to pay, but that if someone made a blockbuster Hollywood movie out of one of them, I would at least like my name on the credits.I take the trouble to stake that small claim in the context of Linux/GNU because my suspicions are aroused whenever big business announces its support for anything, as it has for Linux/GNU: I suspect the dollar signs are flickering before its corporate eyes.When the lawyer Justin Watts so angered Richard Stallman by suggesting patents for the free software movement's work, perhaps that was what he had in mind, particularly as we stand, gobsmacked, watching big business being allowed, effectively, patents on human beings, in the form of DNA sequences. I plan to consult Mr Watts about the possibility of patenting a system of blood oxygenation by muscle-powered thoracic intake and expulsion of air via the nasal and oral passages.Martin Hillmanmarthillman@yahoo.co.ukDigital delayDigital radio may or may not be "on the move" (Online April 12) but if the new generation of digital baseband chips and   digital receiver modules are to make a difference, they will have to be produced in greater quantities than the industry has yet been able to manage. Over the last few months, one major retailer in central Manchester has managed to have two different varieties of digital audio broadcasting tuner more or less continuously on display, but while Classic FM continues to run promotional commercials for "Digital radio - tomorrow's wireless!" few specialist hi-fi retailers have the equipment available for purchase. There are two specialist retailers in central Manchester who only occasionally have DAB tuners and the best hi-fi outlet in Bolton simply can't get equipment from the manufacturers. Are there problems on the production side? I think we should be told.Peter Johnstonpeter.johnston@bolton.gov.ukNo substituteI feel I must comment on Andy Howell's letter regarding his experiences with Telewest's interactive TV. He says he is pleasantly surprised. I have NTL's digital TV system - it is appallingly slow and unreliable. And unless it is much improved, I cannot see myself being able, never mind willing to use it instead of a PC.Lee Yarkesslee@brierfield.co.ukPoor serviceAs a Telewest Active Digital subscriber for some time, I had to read Andy Howell's letter twice to make sure I hadn't dreamt what it said.Was the service I had tried and given up on really "clearly reliable and useful"? In case they had upgraded it in recent weeks, I tried it out again.No. It's still incredibly slow, with each "page" taking between 5 and 30 seconds to refresh. Many pages still fail to appear at all and the content is usually less useful than either teletext or the internet.For a while, Telewest had us   in a stranglehold as, when they persuaded us to move from analogue to digital, they assured us that the suddenly absent teletext service for terrestrial channels would be restored "very soon". I think that the fact that these have only just reappeared is because their substitute Active Digital info pages still don't bear comparison for speed, reliability or usefulness. If it's just my region that is affected (the South West), I await a visit from a Telewest engineer with eager anticipation.Colin MalsinghBristolSound tradeoffOn page 5, April 12, Ashley Norris wrote: "...digital tuner... with sound quality that is superior to FM transmissions.." The alleged superiority of DAB over FM is highly debatable. But don't take my word, look at Hi-Fi News (May). Just one quote: "Even more than CD, digital radio has a thin, cold character. The original studio-quality sound has been considerably reduced before transmission, to around the level of the MP3 music traded on the internet."The potential of the technology is being wasted to maximise use of the transmitting bandwith. As with CD, "the perfect sound forever" which only now is being finally improved, with super compact audio disc and DVD-Audio, commercial considerations will give us a poorer product than the existing analogue one.Roger Perryroger.perry@tesco.netRadio requestYou report on the availability of new Digital Audio Broadcasting chips to fit handheld devices. Most of us waiting to switch to DAB radios would be happy for one of the long promised portable radios to appear.Michael Pritchardmpritchard@cix.co.uk
When did you first use a mobile?In 1986 in Hong Kong just after I joined Hutchison. It was the world's first true portable, the Motorola "brick", which really took off there. But it wasn't until I came to the UK for Hutchison &#91;which originally funded Orange&#93; that I saw how mobiles would change everyone's lives.Did Orange overpay for its 3G licence?No. The price operators paid will ultimately be seen as conservative, once the true potential of mobile services is clear. Penetration growth curves could reach 300% and beyond.What will 3G be used for?One of the biggest uses to begin with will be voice. In Scandinavia, more than 50% of all calls are made on mobiles, and within five years 50% of all UK calls will be made from mobiles. Buying the licence gives us lots of extra radio spectrum, so we will be able to promote mobile harder as a replacement for fixed telephony .Are mobiles the new wallets?Yes, and this will create a major new revenue stream for 3G. Mobiles will become like a Mastercard or Visa card, enabling users to buy things in shops or online. With the addition of Bluetooth, the short-range radio technology, they will even be able to read the barcodes on products. Charges of less than 1% a transaction will let people buy low-cost items such as newspapers, but with trillions of transactions we will still make money.Will mobile data take off?It already has. Text messages now account for 8% of Orange's revenue and 3G will give users the ability to be constantly online. So if I like the music I'm hearing on an online radio station, I can get an SMS saying what it is and asking if I want to buy it. With 3G's higher data speeds, email will increasingly be used on mobiles too.So, will data replace voice?No. I see voice as being at the centre of what we do. We already have a voice-activated assistant, Wildfire, who can answer the phone for you. But the plan is to combine that with the search technology we acquired when we bought the virtual newscaster Ananova from the Press Association. That will turn Ananova into a personal assistant, so you'll be able to say: "Ananova I'm going to the US next week, I want details of flights." Or "I want the business headlines." She'll search the internet and come back with what you need.Will 3G spell the death of the newspaper?I think people still like the tactile quality of a newspaper. But eventually you'll have a sheet of plastic that you project the news on to using Bluetooth. Video over 3G will be useful too - for travellers wanting to catch the TV news or Jennifer Lopez's barely-there top at the Oscars.What kind of mobile do you have now?A Motorola Timeport with a silver, metallic finish. I travel a lot so it's useful having a phone that can work on any European mobile phone network and on some US networks. It's also a Wap phone. It's a bit flash, but I'm not really.
BurnedJudge Bray at Leicester Crown Court put the boot into the British games software industry, though he did sentence a pirate to 30 months' imprisonment for defrauding BT by "chipping" mobile phones.The judge said: "Counterfeiting of games is now so   widespread and the reason is the public feel that there is gross overcharging by manufacturers of discs."Another defendant in the case was ordered to do 150 hours of community service and pay &#163;5,500 compensation: he admitted selling several thousand games discs to friends for &#163;5 each.Terry Anslow, the chief inspector of the Elspa (European Leisure Software Publishers Association,) crime unit, said: "Many of the remarks made by Judge Bray were uninformed, his know- ledge of the games industry is not what it should be."Great British"A New Britannia shall rise!" Lord British, the game name    of Richard Garriott, plans to get some of his old team together and start coding, according to an interview inComputer Games Online. Garriott's company, Origin,   was taken over by Electronic Arts, but it was not a happy experience. EA recently dumped Ultima Online 2 and its development staff."We will pick up the pieces and start again. I believe that we have the right idea, the   right time, and the right people to do it again," said Garriott. The American games guru also claimed to be "the world's only private owner of an object on a foreign celestial body". He bought Lunakod 21 from the Russians. It is on the moon.The movieFinal Fantasy, the movie, will reach UK screens in August. The film is a photo-realistic animation based on the series of role-playing games, and is being puffed as a "cinematic breakthrough &#91;that&#93; heralds a new era in digital storytelling".It "raises the standard by which all other animation films will be judged". The plot concerns the efforts of the few    surviving humans to hang on (this is Earth, 2065). For a brief synopsis and a tiny trailer in QuickTime format, go towww.finalfantasy-themovie.co.uk.Nose newsDigiScents, which planned to add smells to software, closed its offices in California last week.The two-year-old private company has not shipped a product and has been unable to raise more capital, though it still plans to license its iSmell technology. Synthetic smells could have added a new dimension to a number of video games, including SimFarm and Sega Bass Fishing.
Shadow of MemoriesSony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Konami	**Poor Eike - he can't turn his back without someone sticking the knife (or dagger) in. Luckily, he has a digipad - a time-travelling gadget that lets him go back through the ages and prevent his recurring murder.Yes, for once we can forget about aliens, orcs and racing cars - Shadows of Memories is set in a German town full of ageing museum owners and shy waitresses. But it is not only the characterisation that is refreshing. SoM's time-travelling mystery premise is nothing if not original.For example, one level sees you transported back to the 16th century to prevent the planting of a tree that will be used as cover by your assailant 400 years later. Everything you do in the past has an impact on the future   and some lateral thinking is required to succeed.However, keeping such a tangled plot together means there are a lot of cut-scenes, which while beautifully animated, don't involve interaction. You'll often feel like you are watching a film or reading a book - not exactly what you'd bought your PS2 for.Then there is the incredibly linear progression of the game. You are often told where to go to find the next clue (and cut-scene) and although your choices do influence the ending, the handholding quickly becomes irksome.Konami has described SoM as a digital novel, which isn't too far off the truth, and it is   likely the title will appeal to the type of non-action games player who enjoyed Myst.An admirable attempt at offering something new, Shadow of Memories' narrative is engrossing, it is graphically impressive and genuinely different. What it isn't, alas, is much of a game.  (GH)Unreal TournamentSony PlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99  Epic/Infogrames	 ***The bloodthirst that made gladiatorial fights the sport of choice for ancient Romans hasn't abated, it has merely become digitised.In Unreal Tournament the gladiators chase each other around futuristic arenas, medieval castles suspended in space and dark coliseums of steel, with high-powered pistols, rocket launchers and laser rifles.And although their deaths often leave splashes of gore on the walls and chunks of flesh on the floor, they are instantaneously resurrected until a victor achieves a certain number of kills or frags.Like the faster Quake III and the more sophisticated Counter-Strike, Unreal Tournament was originally a huge PC success. On a computer you can take part in colossal battles with dozens of other players, as part of a team or in a vicious and relentless contest where everyone is your enemy.But the PlayStation 2, designed as part of your   living room's entertainment centre, can never hope to recreate that online experience. Sure, you can invite your mates over to share a small portion of the screen or even link a couple of machines together, but it's not quite the same.The single-player game is shortlived and the fun of shattering a bot's skull with a well-placed sniper shot is virtually removed by the auto-aiming system. And let's not forget that playing a fast and furious multiplayer first- person shooter with a gamepad is like eating tomato soup with chopsticks.The PC's mouse and keyboard combination has evolved into a perfect interface in the hands of experienced players, allowing a degree of control that is swift, natural and accurate.Unlike Quake III, UT allows you plug in a USB mouse and keyboard, but who wants to sit in front of the TV with that sort of office furniture?Amid constant talk of the battle of the consoles, with Microsoft still hard at work on the Xbox and Nintendo yet to raise the portcullis on the Game Cube, it would be good to see some imagination poured into the Sony machine rather than polished but unnecessary conversions.  (MH)Banjo TooieN64 £44.99 Rare/Nintendo ****It is fitting that this game should be released so close to Black &amp; White. If
   Peter Molyneux is Britain's finest games designer, then Rare is certainly the best development team, having churned out
   impressive titles since the days of the ZX Spectrum. Banjo Tooie is the belated follow-up to Banjo Kazooie, released a
   couple of years ago to favourable reviews.Kazooie fans will be in seventh heaven, as the game features most of the old
   characters, moves and locations plus a truckfull of new ones. In describing the plot, suffice to say that Banjo and Kazooie
   are still a bear and a bird who travel and work together but now have an increased tendency to separate and develop their
   powers independently. Between them they have around 80 moves and attacks, a baffling number of options that are easy
   to execute and never available at the same time.Predictably for an N64 game, collecting some kind of token is essential
   to making progress - in this instance "jiggies" - which are randomly strewn across every level. As you might expect from
   Rare, everything looks and sounds terrific. Vast sugar-coloured 3D levels, intelligent and imaginative enemies, a
   smattering of puzzles and breathtaking set-pieces.The platform game setting is merely a shell for cramming in as many
   genres as possible, from shooting games to driving, flying and racing. Be warned, however, that some of the puzzles are
   fiendishly cryptic Despite the technical magnificence, BT remains an acquired taste. I find the two main characters
   strangely charmless, especially compared to other platform- poseurs such as Zelda, Mario or even Sonic. Yes, the game
   rewards persistence with a constant supply of challenges but the controls remain fiddly, the camera angle sluggish and I
   was content to play the game for just an hour or so - hardly my definition of a true classic.If you love arcade adventures,
   check it out, if you're expecting the next quantum leap in platform gaming wait and see what Rare are planning for the
   Nintendo Gamecube later this year. (MA)
The government will today launch a £25m internet policing group devoted to stamping out paedophile gangs and cyber-criminals.Law enforcement agencies and members of the IT industry will make up the group, dubbed the national hi-tech crime unit (NHTCU), which will concentrate on trapping members of paedophile gangs, such as the Wonderland Club. A coordinated police effort on the Wonderland case resulted in seven of the group's members being jailed earlier this year for their part in the world's largest paedophile ring.The NHTCU's 80-strong group of officers will also crack down on people using the internet for fraud and other crimes.The home secretary, Jack Straw, said the group will include experts from the national crime squad, the national criminal intelligence service, HM customs and excise, police forces and the IT industry.The director general of the National Crime Squad, Bill Hughes, said the group would also be focusing on financial crime on the internet."Looking to the future the equation is simple - money is going electronic and where money goes, so will organised crime," he said. "Therefore, as we have learnt from our colleagues in the US, the only way to tackle this type of crime is by using a joined-up approach."Mr Straw said: "The government is committed to ensuring a safe and secure online environment for internet users in the UK, by tackling hi-tech crime and ensuring our law enforcers have the tools to deal effectively with online crime."New technologies bring enormous benefits to the legitimate user, but also offer opportunities for criminals, from those involved in financial fraud to paedophiles. We are determined that the UK will be the best and safest place in the world to conduct and engage in e-commerce, and that our children receive the full protection they deserve online so they can surf the Net in safety," he added.Civil liberties groups have expressed concerns that increased policing of the internet could compromise people's privacy if the government does not produce stronger legislation to protect personal information held on computers.Yaman Akdeniz, head of Cyber Rights and Cyber Liberties, said the NHTCU will need to be "open, accountable and transparent" to allay fears that police will spy on citizens online.He said: "You have to ask what the real problem is that the government is trying to address. The most pessimistic view is that this is the beginning of an Orwellian initiative from the government now that they have such wide powers under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act."But it is good that law enforcement agencies are getting organised in the field of cybercrimes. That coordination on a national and international level is important," he added.Related articles26.02.2001: 'Super bobbies' to go on the beat13.02.2001: Internet paedophiles jailed11.01.2001: Global porn ring brokenUseful linksHome Office crime reduction unitNational crime intelligence serviceInternet Crime ForumCyber Rights and Cyber-Liberties
PSINet, the US internet service provider, stepped closer to bankruptcy yesterday after reporting net losses for 2000 of $5.03bn (&#163;3.5bn) - up from $433m the previous year.The company, which has warned that it could go out of business as its cash position worsens, lost $3.2bn in the final quarter compared with $223.5m at the same time in 1999 and said it had defaulted on some equipment leases.The company, which provides web hosting services to run larger corporations' internet sites, reported revenues of $996m for the year, almost double the $534m it had in 1999, with a sharp rise in the fourth quarter.PSINet, which is based in Virginia, said these indicators of growth were more than offset by "rapidly changing circumstances that are negatively impacting the company".It is expected to reorganise under US bankruptcy laws although the auditors questioned its ability to survive or "continue as a going concern".This prospect hastened when PSINet disclosed an estimated loss of $1.13bn on the disposal of discontinued operations and a charge of $2.59bn for the write-down of assets, following the decrease   in the valuation of e-services companies.The company said it had approximately $520m in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities on April 10. It had $4.3bn in debt or lease obligations at the end of last year.This reserve, even when combined with the cash it expects from asset sales, is unlikely to be enough to meet its cash needs.PSINet has hired Goldman Sachs to help it weigh up a series of financial and strategic options and has enlisted Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein to explore ways to pay its creditors.However, the company said: "Even if we implement successfully one or more of such alternatives, we cannot assure you that we will not run out of cash."The company's reorganisation under bankruptcy laws would probably result in the stock having no value.A pioneer business in providing internet access services to companies, PSINet is said by analysts to have foundered because it took on too many companies too quickly in non-internet areas.Trading in its shares , which have lost 99% of their value, were halted on April 3 at a price of $3/16.
Loudcloud, the web-hosting firm set up by Netscape founder Marc Andreessen, yesterday announced partnership agreements with Accenture, formerly Andersen Consulting, and iFormation in an effort to expand into the corporate marketplace.The company, which made its debut on the US stockmarket early last month, will be able to provide internet infrastructure to Accenture clients.Its internet outsourcing service will also be available to iFormation - a joint venture of Boston Consulting, Goldman Sachs and General Atlantic Partners - and its partner companies."They are offering our services to their customers," said Ben Horowitz, chief executive officer and co-founder of Loudcloud.Mr Horowitz would not comment on the financial details other than to say: "Money is changing hands."These deals enable us to go into the corporate market place which expands our potential customer audience ten-fold. We are aggressively moving into this market."Loudcloud, which is based in Silicon Valley and aims to be a one-stop shop for internet infrastructure, recently raised $150m for research and development and sales and marketing through its flotation. The IPO was initially priced at between $160m and $180m.The loss-making company, which aims to be profitable in 2003, announced in February it had been chosen by the Post Office to run its internet operation. The firm, which has more than 40 customers, provides the internet infrastructure used by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation.The company also launched yesterday its Opsware 2i technology, which allows customers to use Loudcloud products within their own data centres, and its Smart Cloud integration service.Loudcloud was co-founded by Mr Andreessen in 1999. He led the dot.com boom when he earned &#163;120m from the initial public offering of Netscape, the web browser business. Netscape was bought by America Online in 1998.
Newsquest, the second largest publisher of regional newspapers in Britain, yesterday said advertising revenues were "still holding up" despite a slide in the performance of US parent Gannett.Jim Brown, executive chairman of Newsquest, said the foot and mouth epidemic had begun to make an impact on revenues in agricultural and tourist areas but maintained the effect was still small. "We keep looking at the softening market in the US and wondering if it will wash over us but we've had a good first quarter. The recruitment advertising market is still holding up strongly and April is also looking good."Recruitment advertising was 25% higher for Newsquest during the first quarter while property advertising also showed double-digit growth. The US group said it was "feeling very good about the UK".Gannett, which owns US newspapers including USA Today and a number of television stations, reported a fall in comparable revenues of 3% in the first quarter and warned   the second quarter would also be down on last year.The group does not break out figures by country but blamed the like-for-like fall in revenues on a slide in the US advertising market. Gannett highlighted a fall in recruitment spend in its domestic newspapers while USA Today had taken a particular hit from the fall in dot.com advertising.USA Today advertising revenues fell 20% in the first quarter. The newspaper recorded 1,332 advertising pages in the quarter compared with 1,684 in the same period of 2000.On Monday, the New York Times group reported a 7% drop in advertising revenues for the first quarter to $544m and warned that revenues for the year would be flat at best.Operating revenues from continuing businesses at Gannett were 19% up at $1.6bn while pretax profits for the first quarter fell 14% to $288m.Newsquest has been one of the main players in the consolidation of the regional newspaper market in Britain and owns more than 300 titles. It said yesterday Paul Davidson would move up from group managing director to chief executive.
Yahoo!, the world's most visited internet portal, yesterday appointed a veteran film studio boss as its chairman and chief executive, prompting speculation about a change of direction for a company founded by two students.The appointment of Terry Semel, former co-head of the Warner Brothers film studio, marks a departure for the once high-flying internet company which has suffered from the sharp downturn in online advertising over the past year.Mr Semel, 58, will replace Tim Koogle, the former communications industry executive who announced his decision to step down a month ago.Mr Koogle, known as TK in the company, had intended to remain as chairman but yesterday's statement said that he would take on a "transitional role" of vice-chairman until August. The 49-year-old executive, who joined Yahoo! in 1995 and was named one of the world's top 25 executives by BusinessWeek magazine four years later, will remain as a board director.Analysts said yesterday that the appointment of Mr Semel underlined Yahoo's desire to become a mainstream media company. It could also presage further acquisitions and alliances for one of the few profitable internet businesses.Jordan Rohan, analyst at Wit SoundView, said the choice of "somebody ... ingrained in old media for so long" was surprising. "It does suggest a different direction for Yahoo!, one where they create content."Shares in Yahoo!, which attracts more than 57m visitors to its site each month, edged down in a weak market to just over $17 (&#163;11.85) yesterday. They have fallen more than   90% in value over the past year as doubts about the internet were followed by fears of a slowing economy.A 24-year veteran of Warner Brothers, Mr Semel was credited with increasing earnings at the studio from $100m to more than $1bn by the time he and his partner, Bob Daly, left in 1999. The film studio was profitable in 19 of his 20 years in charge and ranked as number one or two in terms of box office takings.He and Mr Daly left after several years of expensive box office flops such as Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Mr Semel subsequently founded Windsor Media, an advisory business.In a statement yesterday he said: "Yahoo! is a company with incredible potential ... The opportunities for combining traditional marketing and media with the interactivity of the internet are extraordinary. I look forward to applying my background to help Yahoo! successfully leverage both."One analyst said Mr Semel's expertise in the entertainment industry would propel it into looking more closely at delivering new types of media over the internet.The details of Mr Semel's pay package were not revealed yesterday. He bought 1m shares as part of his agreement to join by May 1. Mr Koogle earned $310,000 in salary alone last year.Founders and "chief Yahoos!" Jerry Yang and David Filo have an 8% stake in the company.Yahoo has been rocked by several executive departures in recent months, including the head of its European operations. President and chief operating officer Jeff Mallett and chief financial officer Susan Decker will continue in their roles, reporting to Mr Semel.
The demise last week of the techy business read Industry Standard Europe coincided with the merger in the US of the two companies which provided commentary on the new economy, Powerful Media (owners of Inside magazine and the Inside.com website) and Primedia, owners of Brill's Content.The individuals mangled in this pile-up of content catastrophes reads like a Who's Who of the new economy. Steve Brill, owner of Brill's Content, Michael Hirschorn and Kurt Andersen of Inside and John Battelle of the Standard were all in the vanguard of spreading the electronic word. They were not the callow fools who cratered Boo.com but seasoned professionals whose very business was second-guessing the market.Indeed, in Kurt Andersen's overlong byte-buster of a novel, Turn of the Century, he introduces the neat joke of a character made redundant by News International after Rupert Murdoch's great dot.com disaster. A masterful piece of prediction, but an irony which will not be lost on a journalist as sharp as Andersen.Inside.com and Brill's Content will now merge and produce a "media industry (print) bible" entitled Inside Content, while the website becomes a paid-for only service. The Industry Standard Europe has rather reversed the equation by folding its glossy mag, but sticking with its core US publication and website.The unhappy circumstances of these forced marriages and measures are the alarming economic downturn in the US and the dot.com crash in Europe. The fact that the publishers which were part of the story they reported are retrenching is apposite and will no doubt be interpreted as a further piece of evidence that the web don't work. Whereas in fact their lessons, particularly the Industry Standard's lesson, is that media doesn't work full stop. In a downturn, the overheads of a magazine are far scarier than those of a website and the revenues are no more secure.What is blighting the publishing industry at the moment is the fact that there is a recession just around the corner. It is the economy, stupid, as the maxim runs. But because the seeds of the recession were sown in Silicon Valley,   the issue surrounding dot.com viability has become clouded to the point of opacity.On the one hand, we are assured that the advertising model for the internet does not work - advertisers report low "click through" rates, banners and buttons are not the panacea, we are told. Yet open the FT last Wednesday and there was the plain fact that, with more than 2% of all ad spend going on the net, it has overtaken cinema as a medium.Obviously there are far more websites than cinemas, and herein lies a problem. But to crack 2% within five years is an astonishing achievement. Until recently, US research company Jupiter was predicting that online advertising would increase by 2005 to $16.5bn, which represents 8% of national ad spend, with 73% of advertisers claiming they would increase their online advertising within the next 12 months.Undoubtedly this figure is revised downwards on a daily basis. But let's look at the alternatives. On the same page of the FT which featured the internet overhauling cinema, there was a quaint report about the Telegraph shrinking by four cm. Telegraph CEO Dan Colson, the cheeky monkey, pays homage to earlier editors with shrinking papers - resurrecting the old joke that a smaller paper will make it easier for women to read owing to the shorter length of their arms.But in fact, it is a measure which reflects the imminent 11% rise in the price of newsprint. Couple this with the fact that the most exposed newspapers have seen a 40% drop in parts of their advertising business in the first quarter of 2001 and it is tempting to suggest that newspapers don't "work" either.But of course we know they do, because we have 200 years of experience which proves it. If the portable printed word had been invented two years ago, then given a blank piece of paper now, you wouldn't think in a million years that putting ink and pictures on it would make a viable business.Powerful, Primedia and the Standard do not prove that the internet is a bad place to be at the moment. They prove that publishing is a bad place to be at the moment.The business cycle has always been thus. Johann Gutenberg invented the amazing moveable type printing process in 1436, but later incurred such a huge cost in the process of developing the technology that he was eventually sued by his partner Mr Fust. Fust and his son-in-law made a fortune from printing. Gutenberg died in poverty. It is a lesson every dot.com disaster victim can take some heart from, though sadly allegories do not pay the wages.
If you believe Robin Cook, the main threat we face from computers is "hacking". Cyber-terrorism, he warned his parliamentary colleagues, can "cripple Britain faster than a military strike".It seems that Cook, like Ronald Reagan before him, has been reading too much Tom Clancy. Or, more likely, he knows that if you frighten the pants off us we may not ask awkward questions about the bill for &#163;2.5bn that MI5, MI6, and GCHQ is presenting to British taxpayers for the privilege of having their email spied on.There have been other recent warnings about the dark side of the net. Yahoo's confirmation that it is selling hardcore pornography videos and DVDs (to make up the bankrupting shortfall in advertising revenue) is seen as the opening of those floodgates about which Mrs Whitehouse and Lord Longford have been warning western civilisation for so many years.The real and imminent danger of universal popular access to the net is less dramatic. Not from computer literate fundamentalists with their cyber-bombs or Levantine porn merchants offering us their sisters online, but gambling.Every democratic society has discovered the hard way that controlling gaming by prohibition doesn't work. It simply cheeses off the electorate (who see nothing wrong in a "flutter") and it encourages crime. The only thing that does seem to work is keeping the level of inconvenience high.OK, America says. You can gamble. But you have to fly to Nevada, or bump your way over some dirt road to an Indian casino to do it. OK, says the UK. You can gamble; but you have to queue up in a shop and do   things with fiddly bits of paper. And, if you lose money (which you will) it'll take long enough to have second thoughts. Above all, if you gamble, the treasury will skim off a chunk as sin tax for good causes.Gambling on the web is something else. Games of pure chance and part skill - slots, blackjack, poker, and roulette - are perfect for computer graphics. The action is magnitudes faster than in the slickest casino.There's no need to shuffle the cards, or wait for the ball to bounce, the cherries to land, or for other players to get off the pot. Once you've downloaded and registered (most casinos will give you between $10-$100 starting bonus by way of hook) you can log on in seconds: 24/7.You don't need chips: just a credit card number. Your winnings will come, by mail or wire, in five days (you'll need a double dose of luck to collect. Some 35% of net casinos welch).As one dotcom casino puts it: "The comfort of playing in your own home makes online casinos a very attractive betting place." It comes to you, it's private. Not even your spouse or kids will know - until you give them matching Mercedes from your net-gotten gains.For addicts, net gambling is the great rock-candy mountain. It's like an alcoholic being given a bathroom in which the taps run with iced vodka. It's growing explosively. Of the 90m web users in the US, some 5% have gambled online. A million do so every day. The turnover is estimated at $1.5bn annually - rising to $5bn by next year.In America, net gambling is illegal by federal law. You can't gamble down telephone wires and that's where the digitized pulse travels. But the web is world wide. Some 1,500 online casinos have established themselves (by domain name) in the Caribbean. They can suck money out of plastic with no problem at all. And they pay no tax. Overheads are minimal. No need for all that expensive Las Vegas glitz.Washington is powerless to control them, any more than it can control the Central American drug cartels. It's the poor, uneducated, lonely and elderly who are most susceptible. The nice old lady who would once enjoy a cheap night of bingo can now max out her credit cards in half an hour.A few states (led by Nevada) have made it illegal to place bets online. But not one of the million who gamble every day has been prosecuted. Some credit cards won't pay gambling debts - but, as with porn ("discretion is assured") it's impossible to know what is a gambling debt.The National Gambling Impact Study Commission (set up by Congress in 1996) firmly recommended that all forms of "convenience gambling" be banned. But there's no convenient way of doing it.
The past, someone observed, is another country. So is Disneyland, Paris. In a (shamelessly successful) attempt to earn brownie points with his children, your columnist journeyed there last week expecting to be bored and found himself instead attending a fascinating masterclass in brand management, image manipulation and the exploitation of a certain kind of intellectual property. And he came away wondering about the difference between virtual reality and its 'real' counterpart.It's a commonplace that Disneyland is a virtual world. It is a subtly controlled, all-encompassing environment in which millions of people pay lots of money to subject themselves to sophisticated methods of crowd control. It is efficient, safe, well managed and clean. Most of the customers seemed satisfied. The most extraordinary thing was that while the majority consisted of families with young children, there were also a good many adults on   their own. (The other striking thing was the number of people from Eastern Europe, for whom a trip to Disneyland clearly represented the fulfilment of a lifetime's ambition.)Brand management was everywhere - mainly of Disney properties, but also of those of a small number of corporate 'partners', notably American Express, McDonald's, Nescaf&eacute;, Kodak and IBM. When lifesize models of Tigger, Eeyore, Gepetto and other cartoon characters suddenly appeared, they were besieged by autograph hunters and amateur photographers in the kind of scrum that normally forms only around David Beckham. And although there was no overt huckstering, the marketing and selling operation parted customers from their money   like a high-powered vacuum cleaner sucking up dust. Nobody, but nobody, left the Park without at least one souvenir. Many departed clutching dozens of trade-marked or copyrighted articles.But although Disneyland is a virtual world, it is firmly rooted in the real one of rain, fences, motorways and security guards. Its success as a commercial venture demonstrates the power of American corporate culture in what John Perry Barlow calls 'meatspace'. Disneyland shows how the mass media can be used to transform customers into enthusiastic consumers of whatever Disney chooses to pump at them.But switch to cyberspace and this aura of invincibility dissolves. Two years ago, Disney forged an online strategy which involved replicating what it does so successfully in meatspace - harnessing its brands to achieve a dominant position. To do this it created a new subsidiary, the Disney Internet Group, with the intention of eventually spinning that off. The company decided   that a key requirement was to build an all-encompassing portal, and created Go.com by cobbling together assets (such as the Infoseek portal) it already owned. The idea was that Go would eventually become the parent for all of Disney's online activities.Many analysts assumed that the traditional Disney mixture of magic and muscle would eventually make Go.com a serious rival for Yahoo! and the like. After all, Disney has rarely, if ever, failed to achieve its commercial ambitions in meatspace. But it didn't happen, and two months ago the company closed its loss-making internet subsidiary, absorbed the Disney Internet Group into the parent company and abandoned Go.com with the loss of 400 jobs.The contrast between this humiliating reversal in cyberspace and Disney's overweening dominance in the real world is very striking. What it suggests is that consumers are less controllable online than offline and that the power of real-world brands doesn't translate on to the net with anything like the efficiency that cynics expected. Which, of course, explains why the corporate world is so baffled by the net. Long may this bafflement continue.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Amazon.comwas last night accused of operating the worst of old economy working practices at a giant warehouse dispatching books, music, DVDs and other goods bought over the internet across Britain.Staff working for the world's biggest e-commerce trader at its Marston Gate depot near Milton Keynes have made a series of complaints to the Guardian about wages and conditions in the company.The singer-songwriter Billy Bragg is threatening to organise a boycott of Amazon and the GPMU print and paper union, which has launched a recruitment drive at the site, will next week ask Acas, the advisory, conciliation and arbitration service, to intervene.Union organiser Peter Lockhart said: "Behind the shiny facade of Amazon and the internet are poor pay, poor conditions, poor communications and poor management. It is anything but 'new age' inside that distribution centre."The US firm, trading in Britain as Amazon.co.uk, yesterday strongly denied the allegations and said pay rates were comparable with those of other firms in the area."We are a hugely open and democratic company and we believe we do the very best for our employees," a spokeswoman said.But GPMU officials believe the discontent explodes the myth of a groovier dot.com capitalism behind the technological slickness of online shopping with its discounts and home deliveries.A number of workers who spoke on condition that their identities were not disclosed were highly critical of conditions in the giant green and white depot 200 yards from junction 13 on the M1.According to employees, supervisors known as "leads" and managers continually clock-watch staff. One employee claimed that they shout at those who fail to meet demanding targets.Staff say strict quotas are imposed with a "picker" forced to select three items a minute from the warehouse's shelves and a "packer" to parcel an average 2.5 orders a minute.One employee claimed they were required to push a trolley for what felt like up to 20 miles in a night to fill it with books and CDs named on computer-printed lists. The company said the distance was "nowhere like that".The 11-hour night shift stretching from 7.30pm to   6.30am includes an unpaid one-hour meal break at 1am and Marston Gate has no canteen, staff taking in their own food or using vending machines. Two shorter rest periods, however, are paid.The union said a standard 23 days' holiday included bank holidays, and the pay rate is &#163;5.50 an hour plus a &#163;1 hourly bonus for night staff who are rostered four shifts a week."They offer the minimum needed to hire people around Milton Keynes and don't seem to care about the turnover," said Mr Lockhart.An employee claimed that ethnic miniority staff felt they were frequently overlooked for promotion, an allegation denied particularly forcefully by Amazon which said in recent months two black or Asian employees had been appointed to management posts.Managers recently took handwriting samples from staff after a note criticising the working conditions was sent   out with an order by a disgruntled worker."They are looking at you all the time. It is not pleasant," said one employee.Another said: "I need the job but I would not advise my friends to work there. It's not good. If they say I am valued, they have a funny way of showing it. They don't care about us."Union leaders intend to make Amazon a test case to break into the unorganised dot.com sector and the GPMU, which had four members at Amazon last October, has signed up 92 out of an estimated workforce of 270 after a recruitment campaign.The union said that last autumn Amazon rebuffed GPMU overtures to secure bargaining rights but Mr Lockhart said the union has since passed the 10% threshold in law to trigger a recognition ballot. The company said it had met the union   but had received "no formal communication".Another option the union is considering is to continue recruiting with the aim of enrolling 50% of the workforce plus at least one other since that would guarantee automatic recognition.Amazon, which has its UK head office in Slough, said yesterday wages were competitive "within the bands" around Milton Keynes and staff were provided with private medical insurance and share options, although the options have plunged since the collapse in the value of internet firms.The spokeswoman said: "There are obviously two sides to this. We really believe that we do the best for our workforce and the feedback that we have is positive."Amazon has a company council, including representatives of the workforce, which the dot.com maintains allowed open debate and the GPMU insists is dominated by management.Sales at the world's biggest online supplier are projected to reach &#163;3bn this year but losses remain huge.
Brace yourself for an outbreak of quite bare-cheeked double standards.The announcement that Yahoo!, the web portal, is to offer hardcore porn videos and DVD disks through its popular shopping service has caused quite a few ripples across the internet pond.The move is being interpreted as a big, once family-friendly internet name suddenly getting down and dirty in the middle of the street: anything in the pursuit of those dot.com profits.There were plenty of quotes from Yahoo!'s appalled rivals to back up the image. One was from Amazon, which said it wouldn't offer anything pornographic, although it does sell a few good sex guides and photographic compilations that would be regarded as pretty racy in many circles. Best of all, a spokeswoman for AltaVista said "I think our shopping site is meant to be a family friendly arena."AltaVista? Family friendly? That policy must have not reached prissy old AltaVista's better known search engine. Type in the word "sex" there and - even before you've even begun to explore the results of the search - AltaVista's halo is falling, tarnished.A banner ad for a porn site appears at the top of the screen, featuring a pretty blonde model and a bare bottom. A family would have to be pretty long in the tooth, and pretty liberal with it, before "Scandinavian hardcore" and "teen sex videos" - two offers that lurk one click away via that banner ad - became "family friendly".Indeed, by those standards, Yahoo! has been ultra-cautious: visitors cannot access the site's Adult and Erotica store without parting with credit card details and personal information. That must put enough barriers in the way, one would think, to cause inquisitive children to look elsewhere for their adult material.And there are plenty of other places where interested surfers can get their porn, of course. Online sex has been big business since the early 1990s, when up to 80% of net traffic was thought to have something to do with nookie.Since the commercialisation of the web in the late 90s, "respectable" research houses have produced far fewer surveys on the popularity of the online sex industry than they used to, but the numbers that do exist are interesting.We have to look back to 1998 for the last set of figures from Forrester Research, which estimated the US online adult entertainment market to be worth around $1bn, and around a tenth of the whole e-commerce market.There are no estimates of the size of the European market, although Jupiter MMXI says Spanish net users are the greatest consumers of online porn in Europe, with 34.5% of surfers there logging on to blue sites (against only 24.7% of users in the UK).Worse of all, of course, the kiddies could always access the Yahoo! web directory where, since the dawn of internet time, users have been trawling through Yahoo! lists of sex sites for somewhere to visit.There's no credit card or personal information needed there: type "sex" into Yahoo! and you are given a choice of 469 categories and 3407 sites, along with another banner ad; "Live Now: Nikki! click to meet Nikki!" (click to meet Nikki, by the way, and you get landed at a warning screen urging minors to go away).And that is perhaps the most obscene thing about this tiny extension of the internet porn industry: that this is actually a move by Yahoo! into the adult business. In fact it, like many other respectable online names, has been using sex to add to the bottom line for a long time.Were they really concerned about making their websites puritanically family friendly (and that would be a shame, wouldn't it?), they'd have to turn them off and start again.neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.ukUseful linksYahooAmazonAltaVistaForrester ResearchJupiter MMXI
One of the world's leading internet companies, Yahoo! Inc, confirmed yesterday that it has entered the porn market, one of the most profitable sources of online revenue.In a written statement Yahoo!, which is based in Santa Clara, California, confirmed it had launched an online store which sells hardcore pornographic videos and DVDs.While pornography has been offered for sale online almost since the internet began, the   companies providing it have usually been small-scale outfits, with major internet firms unwilling to associate themselves with such material. But financial concerns may have made the vast amount of money at stake too attractive to resist.In the statement, Yahoo! said that "under stringent control, adult products have been available through Yahoo! Shopping". The company added that it had extended its efforts to block underage users from accessing the material.Buyers have to provide an email address and credit card   number which, Yahoo! says, is checked to ensure that the customer is not a juvenile.The company would not discuss the financial implications of the move.Yahoo!'s website is visited by 185m people a month and is one of the best-known internet firms. But it was expected yesterday to report a loss for the second consecutive quarter, a victim of the current downturn in the online economy.Yahoo! may be hoping that that the rise in revenue from its share of video and DVD sales will offset any fall in advertising because of its   decision. Advertising on Yahoo! had already fallen badly before the decision to enter the porn market became public.Yahoo! currently offers 469 categories of sex on 3,407 sites. The site also offers a variety of porn films and fetish sites.Other major internet firms have been wary of entering the explicit porn market. America Online said yesterday that it had no plans to change its current policy. Amazon.com does not promote porn material, although customers can find it if theyalready know its title. Blockbuster Video, which sells its products online, has also   stated that it has no intention of moving into the field of hardcore porn.The US porn market is already worth some $20bn (&#163;14bn) and is growing fast, and the internet allows customers who would otherwise be too embarrassed to enter a porn video store to purchase material.The pornography market in the US already accounts for the sale of some 185m DVDs each year and the market is expanding.Related articles11.03.2001: How search turned to destroyUseful linksYahoo!Yahoo! business partnership opportunitiesAnti-porn resource centreSex and the internet
Q: We know who will win the election, so how are the broadcasters going to make it interesting?Firstly, we don't know who's going to win. That's what makes it interesting right through election night and into the next day.   And one thing we can be sure of - one of the parties is going to have a pretty horrible campaign. So as soap opera, we can all enjoy that. If Labour do win, and Blair is as quick as he was last time, we'll also have a reshuffle to look forward to, although I think he'll want to reorganise Whitehall departments too, so that may be further down the line.Q: What advantages, and disadvantages, does television have in covering the election?I think television and websites like your own are the new civic spaces, where people can challenge politicians. A news resource like the web, where huge information resources are constantly online, is a great boon for democracy.I personally think we should have A levels in current affairs, as one way of keeping debate alive and countering apathy, but until then the internet is an incredible tool for an informed public.Similarly with live, rolling news, we have the space to keep a civic consciousness going - whatever's going on, you can be there through the TV. What we can't do, which the papers can, is run on the "lobby terms", ie unattributed comments and remarks. I can, of course, put these to politicians myself.There is the "CNN factor", whereby more saturation news coverage, as during an election campaign, does make figures sag, but the interested, regular viewers tune in more. No one watches Sky by accident, in the way that you see the BBC or ITV news come on after watching a soap or serial, so we're very pleased with the figures we get.  But in some ways there will be less political coverage than ever before in Britain this time around; with the two main channels clashing at 10pm, there will be less audience share than ever before for news.There'll  be plenty of coverage on Sky - I'll be hosting "The Boulton Report" twice a day, six days a week, where we will interview the leaders and wrap up all the day's events.We are also developing "the worm" - our polling tool we used during the budget to gauge public reaction to what's going on. It's something we've been planning for five years. There will also be animated party leader graphics reflecting how they've fared during the past 24 hours - should be fun.What's great for broadcasters during an election campaign is that for once we set the agenda rather than the newspapers. We'll be covering the three main parties election news conferences live every morning, which will set the ball rolling for the whole day.In fact, if I could claim anything for Sky, I think broadcasting press conferences live, which the BBC was loath to do until we came along and did it, has made one of the biggest differences to broadcast journalism in the past decade.Q: As a journalist, obviously you have no view as to who will win the general election, but what's your prediction for turnout?I'm optimistic it will keep above 70%, for three reasons:&#149; There's a big, live controversy - foot and mouth - which is a major national news event&#149;  Recently Blair and the Labour party have come under some pretty heavy fire: that should get out both angry Tories and disaffected Labour loyalists&#149; You get longer daylight hours for a June election, which should help keep people voting.Q: Are there still politicians who get nervous about appearing on TV, or refuse to appear, or are they a dying breed now?Gordon Brown is famously reluctant to appear on telly, and Alan Milburn and Stephen Byers both dislike shows where the public can ask questions, although I noticed Byers was on Question Time last week.MPs can be their own worst enemy sometimes - running in late to show how important they are, then getting sweaty under the lights because they're in a rush and haven't had the make-up.With the party leaders there's always a little game-playing. They'll come on, but you have to go to them, they won't come to the studio. Or, they will, but then the night before there's a call, and all plans are changed. It's part and parcel of the whole thing.Q: What about televising the lobby briefing given to political journalists by Alastair Campbell - presumably you're in favour?Actually, I'm quite cautious about that. It would change the nature of political reporting forever. There's a danger that ministers, and in particular the prime minister, would appear less and less before the cameras if we had footage of their press spokesman or an unelected civil servant answering questions every day, and that would be a bad thing.Secondly, like prime minister's questions in the Commons, it would probably be reduced to once a day, which doesn't help accountability.And thirdly, it would make political journalism more hierarchical. At the moment, the reporter from the Wolverhampton Star is in there with everyone else. If it were televised, there'd be less access for the smaller players.Mind you, my sources say if Blair does win a second term, there is likely to be another look at the whole issue of press relations.Special reportElection 2001Related article12.02.2001: Sky News boss clashes with BBC's HallUseful linksSky NewsBiography of Adam Boulton
Digital radio on the moveTwo key players in the digital radio industry have developed a technology that will shrink the size of DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) tuners so they can be fitted into small devices like handheld computers.Imagination Technologies has teamed up with Digital One, which owns the UK's commercial, digital radio multiplex, to work on a new digital baseband chip and digital receiver module.DAB tuners featuring the system will be on sale by the end of the year priced at around &#163;150. The two companies are in talks with PDA (personal digital assistant) and mobile phone makers to add the technology into their devices.Incorporating a DAB tuner not only adds radio functionality with sound quality that is superior to AM/FM transmissions, but enables the device to receive location-specific data like news, weather and traffic reports, at up to 1.7megabits per second.Wash and goLG Electronics has announced the next phase in the development of its connected kitchen. Following on from its recently launched online fridge, the company is about to unveil a washing machine that also hooks up to the internet. Unlike the fridge, which sports a screen that enables   web browsing and video messaging, the washing machine uses the net for the more mundane tasks of downloading washing cycles. LG claims that this allows it to keep abreast of the latest and most advanced washing programmes. The washer, which debuts at the ERS show at the NEC in Birmingham later this month, is expected to go on sale in the UK next year.At ERS the company will also parade a collection of more conventional products including a new personalised MP3/Windows Media Audio (WMA) player, the MF-PD370. Due to go on   sale later in the month, the tiny player comes with one 32MB MultiMedia card, although it features a slot for a second card.LG will also unveil an MP3 personal player which features an MP3 encoder, so tracks from CDs and tapes can be archived on to its storage card without having to first be transferred to a PC.Other new LG products for 2001 include a host of plasma TV screens, and a portable DVD player.Friendly macWant to know what the fashionable tech-heads will be wearing to keep the rain out this spring? Well, they wouldn't be seen dead in anything other than the new Sanyo Fashion House Raincoat. The reason is that the clothes maker has launched a new range of macs that sport a dedicated pocket for the owner's Palm PC.The pocket features a   waterproof liner and static shield lining material to protect the Palm and keep it from moving around.It's not the first time Palm has entered into an alliance with the fashion industry. Last year it launched a limited edition Palm designed by German supermodel Claudia Schiffer.Sanyo Fashion House produces a range of clothes under several brands including Burberry, so look out for new PDA-friendly macs that sport that famous check design. The coats have just gone on sale in the US. Prices range from $185-$695.www.sanyofashionhouse.comhas more details.  (AN)On its wayThe Blackberry, a portable email device so addictive US executives have dubbed it "the crackberry", is to be sold in   Britain by British Telecom.Research in Motion, Blackbarry's Toronto based manufacturer, said 175,000 units would be made for BT Cellnet to sell from July.The devices incorporate a screen and tiny keyboard, and will be targeted at business users, costing around &#163;400 plus &#163;40 per month line charges.Companies will also have to install software costing around &#163;2,000 per user. (JS)
A warning shot was fired across Napster's bows yesterday by the federal judge in charge of the online song-swapping service's fate.US district judge Marilyn Hall Patel warned Napster it could still face closure if the website does not speed up its efforts to remove copyrighted songs from the service. She said it was "disgraceful" that copyrighted material could still be downloaded and told Napster: "You created this monster, you fix it."Napster lawyers, Jonathan Schiller, pictured left with Robert Silver, argued that the firm has spent millions in the past five weeks filtering such copyrighted songs off the network.A court-appointed expert will review claims from the music industry that songs can still be accessed.Berteslmann, the German media group which owns the BMG music business, said talks with others in the industry aimed at hatching a peace deal with Napster were "progressing well".
Amazon.com has managed to take out one of its leading American competitors, agreeing yesterday to take over the internet operations of Borders, the second-largest bookseller in the US.Some 70 jobs will be lost at Borders.com, which is being revamped and relaunched in August as a co-branded site. Amazon will run the site, which will feature Amazon merchandise, while Borders will promote both Amazon and the new internet offering through in its own bookshops.No financial details on the agreement were released, but the news was enough to spark a fresh rally in Amazon's badly damaged share price. Neither was there any information on how the firms might deal with the problem of customers overlapping on the internet.In March, as Borders announced that fourth-quarter profits had almost halved, the company said it would be cutting costs and seeking out new partnerships for its online operations. The agreement with Borders is similar to deal struck by Amazon with Toys R Us, the toy retailer, in the autumn covering Toysrus.com. Under that venture Toys R Us provides the products and Amazon handles fulfilment and customer service.Amazon said the agreement with Borders demonstrated the attractions of its e-commerce platform.
I'll come clean: for most of the year, I'm a scrooge. Maybe you are too. You may have been tempted to respond as I did recently, when a friend forwarded the fifth well-meaning email in a day, about the suffering of Chinese bears kept in tiny cages all their lives. "You should see my flat," went back the reply. I haven't heard from her since. (Actually, I have: "The bears are strapped down and milked for their bile!" she persisted. "You should meet my landlord," I wrote back. Then - nothing.)But in this, the year of Jesus' 2001st birthday, perhaps even I should make an exception. At the moment, the spread of foot and mouth disease means you are doing the country a favour just by staying indoors; but what about all the other good deeds you had in mind this Easter? Not to worry: these days, charity begins at your homepage.AtAmnesty Internationalyou can read about the latest human rights campaigns, lobby for tougher arms controls, and write postcards of festive support to    "prisoners of conscience". You can also give money, or join the organisation online. The Rwenzori Projectwww.rwenzori.orgensures 100% of money raised goes towards helping improve the lives of people in Uganda, through funding schools, conservation and Aids care work.If you have a favourite charity, it is bound to have a web presence: track it down atwww.idealist.org/is/org_search.html.As useful as these sites are for those who already give to charity, the web also presents radically new ways to contribute to good causes. Atwww.free2give.co.ukyou can shop at a wide range of online services - from the AA to HMV - in categories from books to beauty, toys to travel; and the site will give a percentage of your purchase to the charity of your choice.I decided to send my father his Easter egg and help the mentally ill at the same time (no connection, honest): with gift wrapping and P&amp;P, an Easter Eggstravaganza from Thorntons came to &#163;13.95 - 70p of which went to the National Schizophrenia   Foundation. For the bigger purchases possible through Free2give, such as a new car, the contribution is even more significant.After the success of free2give, other shopping portals are getting in on the act. BlueCarrots, an online shopping community owned in part by its members, last year decided to "put the dot.com into community" by joining forces with Hope HIV to help build a community for Aids orphans in Africa. You can download their action pack atwww.bluecarrots.com/community/hopehiv/. The Carrot-o-meter is looking unhealthy as yet, but you can make donations here too.If you think giving money to charity isn't always the right way to contribute,www.getethical.comoffers shoppers a more holistic worldview: the site guarantees any purchases made will be "healthier, free of exploitative labour and good for the environment". What's more, 73% of Getethical's sales proceeds go to "social and environmental causes".Still feeling like a scrooge? According to theHunger Site, one person worldwide dies from   hunger every 3.6 seconds; nearly two acres of rainforest disappear every second; and every day, 1,800 children are infected with HIV. The Hunger Site is now famous for its central premise: you give no money, just a click, and the site's sponsors club together to make a charitable contribution for you.Your click can donate food to the hungry (1 cup); vitamin A to help children fighting blindness (1 capsule); even rainforest land (incredibly, 14.4 square feet per click). Take care of your daily good deed by making the Hunger Site your home page.If even a few clicks seems like too much effort, you can do your "lot of work for charity" while doing nothing at all. Atwww.popularpower.comyou can sign up to donate your spare processor power to their clients. Thereafter, whenever your computer is left idle, it will beaver away on a small part of a larger computing task and return the results to Popular Power. You could choose to make money for yourself - the site says it may soon pay up to $5 a day for use of your PC by corporate clients - or you can support a good cause, currently non-profit research into flu vaccines. I know which one I'm going to choose.Boy scouts might not yet be helping old ladies silver surf across it, but the straight-and-narrow section of the information super-highway just got more lanes. Now you can sign, click, donate, shop, or even loaf your way to a better world. What are you waiting for, Christmas?
EasterThis Easter Week, find out what kind of Christian you are if, indeed, you are one at all, atwww.beliefnet.com. Results range from the non-Christian through to the more extreme George Bush Sr "right-wing traditionalist," or Jerry Falwell Christian "Historicist".And if you want to learn more about the background of the various Easter traditions, secular or otherwise, pop along towww.holidays.net/easter, which takes you from the pagan festival right through to chocolate bunnies.Online saviourAn interesting internet experiment begins today. Freeserve, the internet service provider, will attempt to charge users for content on its portal. It will be offering exclusive video footage from Lennox Lewis's training camp   in South Africa leading up to his world title fight against Hasim Rahman on April 22.Boxing fans will have to stump up &#163;1 a day, per device, to watch edited daily highlights of training, including sparring, interviews with the boxer and a scheduled meeting with Nelson Mandela.Access will be gained by dialling a premium rate phone number and obtaining a special code. Vodafone users will have the option of sending an SMS message to pay for access.Freeserve will use the experiment to see if users are willing to pay small amounts regularly for content. These "micropayments" are seen by many as being the potential saviour of online content, so the experiment is sure to be closely watched. Seewww.freeserve.com/sport.Good splashJust sometimes, it is worth persevering with a website beyond its unnecessary splash intro. The Refugee Council's site is an example. Get past the designer's self-indulgent GIF atwww.refugeecouncil.org.uk, and you'll find a wealth of information - a diary of   events, background information and a debunking of what they call "press myths". Hang in there - it's worth it.CensusThe next nationwide census takes place in only 16 days. With forms being sent across the land, find out more about this mammoth headcount at   a series of websites.The main site for the English and Welsh count is atwww.statistics.gov.uk/countmein/. As well as information on how foot and mouth is hitting the survey, you will find information on what you are going to be asked, details of the huge number of languages into which the forms have been translated, and even if you can get a job helping with the count.There is a Welsh translation atwww.statistics.gov.uk/nsbase/countmein/windex.html. Details of Scotland's first census under its new parliament can be found at http://wood. ccta.gov.uk grosweb/grosweb. nsf/pages/ censushm. Northern Ireland's details are atwww.nicensus2001.gov.uk/home.html(although the site appeared largely broken when Online visited).EliteRemember Elite? The intergalactic trading-come-battle game was responsible for millions of years of lost youth among 1980s BBC Micro users (and, later, owners of a host of other systems).Now Need To Know, the irreverent geek newsletter, is selling T-shirts that will bring back many happy memories, atwww.cybercandy.co.uk/ntk/."A Cobra Mk III swoops   majestically into view," says the description, "as an unsuspecting Orbital Transporter falls victim to your front mining laser, jettisoning fragments in the shape of the letters N, T and K."If that's not enough, check out the iMachiavellian and sarcastic e-commerce T-shirts. They're certain to be this summer's geek wear of choice (unless those Urban Girls get to you first).Good FlashFlash is also allowable if it is doing something funny, I have decided.Well, given, it's a Flash intro for former Mafia hitman turned informant Henry Hill, it probably pays to be polite, but his site -Goodfellahenry- "the only REAL hit on the web") is quite entertaining.As you enter, you are asked if "you packin?". Click on "No, I'm clean," and you will be allowed into the site, which tells his story and offers a guided tour of old mob hang-outs. Click on "You're a dead rat," and you are packed off to an anger management site.Inside, there is the "How to be a mobster guide", which includes the memorable disclaimer: "This guide is meant to be a humourous take on the subject, not an actual guide for killing, robbing, intimidating,   maiming, or causing discomfort to yourself and others."New &amp; noted&#149;  Fight cancer with peer to peer networking:www.infobeat.com/fullArticle?article= 406638385.&#149;  Find holidays with a touch of class atwww.dreamClick.com.&#149;  Find yet more ring tones, logos and games atwww.yellphone.com.Six of the bestMoving homeFind a mortgagewww.charcolonline.co.ukHome hunting with Auntiewww.goodhomes.beeb.com/propertysearchMoving checklistwww.yournewhome.co.uk/2000/moversclub/moverschecklist.cfmIt's all about locationwww.upmystreet.comCapital movewww.underoneroof.comFind itwww.streetmap.co.uk
