"The timing and scale of the assault fueled speculation that pro-US tech vigilantes pulled off a cybercoup: derailing Al-Jazeera, a rising media outlet, just as it was moving to extend its pro-Islamic news coverage to a wider audience," saysUSA Today.
At 7. 45am on a Saturday morning the  much talked-about  business of war  being foggy began to  make sense.  In a rare  stint trying to keep the front of the  Guardian website up to date and  relying on four wire feeds, two  rolling-news TV stations,  half a dozen  websites,  a radio and any of our own  correspondents who called in,  I wondered whether it might be a case of  too many sources spoiling the story.   Umm Qasr had fallen to the Anglo-American forces, 8, 000 Iraqi prisoners of war had been taken,  two helicopters had collided,  and a fierce  battle was raging to the west of Basra.Updating electronic news,  whether  it's a television station or a website,   carries with it the problem of having  to be both immediate and accurate.   Looking from one wire service to the  next,  the Sky News ticker whirring  under a split screen of indeterminate  dust,  underlined how challenging it is  in this war to meet both criteria. You  can have instant or, if you are prepared  to wait, you can have accurate. But you  cannot always have both at once.In the case of the Saturday morning dilemma over the fall (or otherwise) of Umm Qasr,  the sequence of  events and sources was as follows.Thursday March 20: at least two  wire services and all major television  outlets say that the important port of  Umm Qasr has been taken at  7. 33pm. That evening, however,   news services including ITV 's News  Channel challenge the claim:"Iraqi  troops deny anyone has surrendered. " There are early reports also of  an American flag being raised only to  be taken down again.Friday March  21, 11. 35pm:"Umm Qasr has been  overwhelmed by the US Marines and  now is in coalition hands, " says  Admiral Michael Boyce. Saturday  March 22, just after midnight:  Donald Rumsfeld confirms that US  forces have taken Umm Qasr.   The following morning, both Sky  and the BBC say that there is still  fighting in Umm Qasr, which raises  some doubt. A rifle through Google  news - the automated news search  that compiles a random list of stories  from every online newspaper, broad-caster and magazine - shows that  confusion on the taken-or-not front  is worldwide. The fighting is undeniable - and on Sunday morning forms    a four-hour centrepiece to Sky  News 's rolling coverage.   The journalistic rule of thumb is  that you seek two reliable sources  before a story is firm - and ideally  one of those sources is an eyewitness.In the absence of a reporter on the  ground, verification falls back to official statements and reputable news  sources - BBC,  al-Jazeera, Reuters,   AP - but one of the expectations of  this conflict has been that electronic  sources would be able to deliver a  higher level of hard information.   One quick turn through the many  weblogs sifting, signposting and  occasionally telling the war story  shows that this is not necessarily the  case. The most valuable new source  for the western press is the al-Jazeera  TV station and its English-language  website, which only a matter of days  after becoming fully operational was  reported to have been hacked and  disappeared from the web.So far the "unofficial" news sources  on the web, particularly the weblogs,   have served as a great filter for the  pro- or anti-war lobbies, whether it's  instapundit.com or blogsofwar. But  apart from the now globally famous  Iraqi blogger Salam Pax, very few of  these sites actually give us new information - they simply edit what  already exists. Take, for instance,   Iraqbodycount. net, a voluntary site  which is trying to compile a list of  casualties inflicted during the war.   Inspired by the example of Professor  Marc W Herold, who conducted a  similar exercise during the conflict in  Afghanistan, it is a network of professionals and academics who try to  source and verify all loss of civilian  life in Iraq on a daily basis. One of its  founders, John Sloboda, wrote about  it for the Guardian website last week,   explaining that the sources used  "were available to anyone with an  internet connection ", but again relied  on the same sources of news to which  we all look.By Friday afternoon the Iraq Body  Count counter showed a spread of  minimum civilian casualties of 253  and a maximum of 333. Something  like Iraq Body Count is a very welcome exercise, but it too has to rely  on on-the-ground reports from the  major news outlets.   The wire services, broadcasters and  newspapers have the most journalists  closest to the fighting and are able to  file instantly through TV, radio or the  web. And this is perhaps where electronic media have made the biggest  difference. The BBC 's very successful  rolling weblog of all correspondents in  the Gulf and the US carried a mention  of the missile hitting the Baghdad  marketplace before it made it to air.The Guardian and other newspapers  have made an effort to put dispatches  from correspondents online before  they file longer articles for the next  day's paper.   Unfortunately, there have also  been reports that one American  wire service was datelining its  reports "Baghdad " when it seems  that they have no journalists currently stationed in Baghdad. It would  be nice to name and shame the  service involved, but, at time of going  to press the reports were - predictably - unverified.
So many bodies lie mouldering in the sand this last fortnight that Rachel Corrie's mangled corpse is probably already forgotten. She was the American student bulldozed into the dirt while trying to prevent the destruction of Palestinian houses. G2 published a selection of her emails. Whether or not one agreed with her and the International Solidarity Movement to which she belonged, Rachel emerged as a woman prepared to put her body where her mouth was.Barely had her body cooled than Rachel was promoted on the Palestine National Authority website as a heaven-sent martyr ("Israel killed another Angel").Martyrisation demands retaliatory demonisation. Having been bulldozed to death, Rachel was duly blogged to death. The front-page news stories came out on March 17. By the next day, sites such as the aptly-named SharkBlog (hosted by Stefan Sharkansky) were in full mephitic flow. The Shark himself led the charge with a riff on "The Prime of Miss Rachel Corrie", casting her as Mary MacGregor, the idiot girl in Muriel Spark's novel. She had committed "suicide by bulldozer" as deliberately as her Palestinian buddies with their body bombs.Accompanying emails were less literary. J Lichty, for example, posted his opinion that, "This deluded harpie did not want peace, she did not want human rights, she wanted victory. Victory for the enemies of America, victory for the enemies of the Jews, victory for the enemy of civilisation."Jack Rich emailed his assent to this analysis: "Yeah, you've got it exactly right: this poor dupe sacrificed her life so that her poseur profs back home might preen for the cameras.""What was she protecting?" asked Mickey: "Terrorists and a building used to make bombs to   murder innocent civilians; she should burn in hell for an eternity." (The theology, as elsewhere, implies Christian fundamentalism rather than Judaic zealotry).On another site, Rachel's parents were blackguarded by blog. It was they "who more than likely taught her these bizarre values; they must have been members of the same pot-smoking hippie commune as John Walker Lindh's mom and dad".Pictures had accompanied the news reports of Rachel's death, megaphone in hand, standing in front of the menacing bulldozer. A pose inescapably reminiscent of Tiananmen Square. Another picture showed her fallen in front of the murderous blade. Questions were asked as to whether the images had been "manipulated".Two days later a contrary photograph of Rachel appeared, first in the Seattle Times (the article accompanying it has since been removed). It depicts her snarling, shawled and in a Palestinian street demonstration, tearing up a paper US flag. The provenance given for the photograph (a mysterious snapper called "Khalil Hamra") led nowhere. Where, then, had it come from? Paranoia suggested the Israeli secret service, which monitors such events. This picture also looked, to some expert eyes, doctored.None the less, the damage was done. Americans are hypersensitive about desecration of the Stars and Stripes. Rachel was not a human shield protecting innocent Palestinians but a traitor and a terrorist sympathiser. It didn't help that her mother announced that "Rachel was opposed to this war on Iraq."The insult to the flag provoked an even more savage blogguarding campaign. "Tom", for example, who declared that, "Anyone who would burn an American flag deserves to be bulldozed to death!!! Hopefully the US government will aim some bulldozers at the next group of war protesters, those anti-American motherfuckers."What have we come to? The speed with which this kind of devil's advocacy can now (thanks to the net) be mounted, its sheer unbridled violence and its moral irresponsibility are, to the thoughtful mind, more frightening than any of those WMDs for whose (dubious) existence Britons are, at this moment, laying down their lives. Stop the world: I want to log off.
The New York Times Magazine[free reg req'd] takes a look at the high-tech kitchen.
"The failed Presidential contender is a business novice whose board nomination raises more questions about Apple's governance," saysBusiness Week's online Mac column.
Did you pay too little for your mobile phone? Why are games consoles sold at a loss? And isn't it strange that cheap printers don't cost much more than their ink cartridges? These are all examples of price manipulation in controlled markets, and it is curious that most governments show so little interest in them.Of course, every consumer knows that a "free" mobile is not really free. It's just the bait on the end of a cellular fishing line: once you bite, you'll be reeled in. The phone company will retrieve the full price of the phone from your pockets by overcharging you for the line rental and/or for making calls. It will certainly have calculated the average payback period, and if you make more calls than expected, or keep the phone longer than average, it will make very nice profits.This approach only works if you have some sort of "lock-in". Network operators do not give away phones that can immediately be used on any network: there would be no guarantee of a payback. But whichever way you rationalise this approach, it is still a way of distorting the market. It seems to be acceptable to governments because consumers have a choice between network operators: they can choose company A's way of distorting the market, rather than company B or C's way of distorting the market, though actually these tend to be much the same.In a truly open market, consumers would be able to use any phone on any network, without the problem of subsidised phones distorting market prices. Then there would be open competition between phone manufacturers, and the price of phones would soon reflect the cost of manufacturing and marketing them. Consumer choice would then depend on real benefits - the perception that one phone was better value than another - rather than it having a bigger subsidy.So well done South Korea, for making subsidised mobile phone marketing illegal.Phones are not the only products that may be sold at less than obviously commercial prices. The traditional example is razors and razor blades, but in high-tech electronics, printers and games consoles also qualify.With printers, the lock-in is incompatibility, while the "consumables" are ink cartridges and, to a lesser extent, paper, rather than minutes of talk-time. The cheap printer is the bait. You pay for it in the long run, by paying over the odds for ink cartridges.It would be perfectly straightforward to have an industry-standard cartridge interface, so that any type of ink or toner could be used with any kind of printer of the correct type.It would be even simpler for each individual printer company to standardise on its own preferred cartridge interface: alas, they don't even do that. But if there were standard, open interfaces, competition would drive down the cost of cartridges, and manufacturers would no longer be able to subsidise the price of printers.Printer suppliers don't have as much lock-in as telephone networks: there is a market for third-party cartridges, and it is possible for consumers to refill some cartridges themselves. Both of these eat into printer manufacturers' profits. However, you can expect them to emphasise the undoubted benefits of vertical integration - using their ink and their papers with their printers - and to "defend" their interfaces whenever possible.For example, Lexmark, formerly part of IBM, went to court to get Static Control's "unauthorised replacement cartridges" taken off the US market.The point was that Lexmark included a chip in its printer to control access, and third party cartridges had to get round that. The case was brought under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and last month, a federal judge in Kentucky found in Lexmark's favour."The court has no trouble accepting SCC's claim that public policy generally favours competition," wrote the judge.  "The court finds, however, that this general principle only favours legitimate competition."Public policy certainly does not support copyright infringement and violations of the DMCA in the name of competition."In other words, the court found against competition on the grounds that the DMCA made competition illegal.However, in the electronics industry, computer games consoles are the most noticeable example of consumer lock-in, and one of the few remaining examples of a vertically integrated market segment.Consoles are usually sold at the lowest possible prices and, at some times in most cases, at a loss. The profits come from the sale of games, so the most important number is what the industry calls the "attach rate": the number of games the average console owner buys.Although console companies do encourage third parties to create games, they charge them license and/or royalty fees. I'm told that at one time, a console company could tell you whether or not you could sell the game you had written, how many cartridges it was willing to manufacture for you, and how much you had to pay for those cartridges.Cross-subsidies make it virtually essential for a games console manufacturer to have a large share of the market for games for its own console. That's why Microsoft has spent the past couple of years buying hot games developers.The console business model also makes it impossible to have a proper platform market. Microsoft has tried to set up a games market like the PC, PocketPC and Tablet PC markets, with several companies making compatible devices. Competition between the different manufacturers would then encourage innovation, drive down prices, and deliver other consumer benefits, such as a wider choice of games.However, manufacturers can't possibly compete in this way if consoles are already being sold at a loss. Eventually, Microsoft decided it had no choice but to copy Sony's strategy, which was an improved copy of Nintendo's strategy. Hence the Xbox.With phone companies, there have always been arguments for vertical integration and price manipulation. Phone networks tend to be "natural monopolies" because most people will only have one phone line, served by one company.It can be easier to deliver a service if the phone company controls the whole operation: designs its own switches (telephone exchanges), lays its own cables, makes its own phones etc. Also, building a telephone network represents a huge "sunk cost": you have to invest a lot of money before you get a penny back. These sunk costs could never be recovered if charges were based only on the marginal cost of running the service, which is the way competition would drive prices.However, it is difficult to justify what is usually called "value pricing", or "functional pricing", in the IT industry, because the costs of parts are now too well known.Ideally, all companies want to charge for the real or imagined value of what they deliver, rather that the "cost plus" of the parts. Swanky restaurants will have portion control in the kitchen - how many servings from a kilo of potatoes - but they don't want diners making the same calculation and trying to negotiate a lower price. (Indeed, the diners may be making their own calculations, discounting the price of the meal against the chances of a favourable business deal, or sex.)One great advantage of vertically integrated computer companies - the ones who manufacture the whole system, install and maintain it - is that they have much greater freedom to manipulate prices. Customers could never know how much IBM's disk factories and chip factories charged its computer factories, or how much its operating systems cost to write. Lacking transparent pricing, they would be encouraged to think about the product's unique value to them.In other words, if a computer saves a customer $1m a year, say, it must be worth $1m, regardless of the fact that the manufacturing and programming costs might only be a tenth of that. This is a far more lucrative proposition than adding 20% to the manufacturing costs.In the great days of "functional pricing", customers could buy "field upgrades" that doubled the speed of their printer (an engineer moved the drive chain to different sprocket), or doubled the capacity of their disk drive (an engineer undid screws that blocked the read/write heads from accessing all the platter), or doubled the speed of their processor (an engineer removed delay loops from the software). It's hard to get away with that kind of thing in a free market, where prices reflect costs.Today, the retail price of most computer parts is easy to find on the web, and practically everybody uses the same parts. Even Apple, which looks like the only surviving vertically integrated company in the personal computer business, is changing to adopt as many standard Wintel parts as possible. These include Intel's PCI expansion bus, and USB ports that were partly developed by Compaq and Microsoft and sponsored by Intel.The more visible the cost of parts, the harder it is to charge a premium price. Indeed, Wintel/Unix PC buyers have the ultimate sanction against price manipulation by hardware manufacturers: they can build their own machines from standard parts, without asking anyone for permission. The internet has made both the parts and the information readily available on a global basis, reducing the information cost almost to zero.A couple of years ago, James Skilling put it succinctly in an interview in Internet Week magazine. "The whole theory of vertical integration is that the information cost, the cost of coordinating it all, is very high," he said. "And so if you could own it all, control it all, you could reduce those costs. That argument just doesn't work anymore. Now, the inflexibility you've created by vertically integrating more than offsets the efficiencies of that coordination."Of course, he was president and chief operating officer of Enron at the time.
Over at theCommand Postweblog, one contributor alleges that in the last few hours the BBC World Service has broadcast a number of personal details about Salem Pax, the Baghdad based author of the now-famousWhere is Raed?weblog. There have been fears among some people for a few days now that enough details about Salem's real identity have been up around on web, even if not published on his weblog, to enable his identification. Now it's being alleged the BBC has gathered this information together and broadcast it. Salem hasn't posted since Monday although - of course - this could also be down to the intensive bombing of the city, which continues. The story also assumes the Salem we "know" really has ever existed. We still don't know for sure if he's for real - although if this is a hoax, it's been quite brilliantly done.
With the war in Iraq barely nine days old, a Republican congressman has begun campaigning over the country's postwar telecommunications network.Darrell Issa, from southern California, has introduced a bill calling for the US government to adopt a mobile phone network in postwar Iraq that, if introduced, would benefit the American economy at the expense of the Gulf state's ability to communicate with the outside world.Mr Issa has appealed to anti-European sentiment in an effort to gain support for his legislation, which would also benefit a mobile communications company based in San Diego, which he represents.He has called on the US government to develop Iraq's mobile network using US-developed CDMA technology, rather than GSM, which has been recommended by the US defence department and is the standard system across Europe and the Middle East. The GSM network has been adopted by around 70% of the world's mobile users.After the state department issued a directive that specified the use of GSM technology, Mr Issa introduced a bill requiring the use of CDMA mobile phone technology, developed by California-based Qualcomm. His bill, HR 1441, also calls for all contracts to give preference to American companies.In an open letter to the US secretary of defence, Donald Rumsfeld, Mr Issa said: "If European GSM technology is deployed in Iraq, much of the equipment used to build the cell phone system would be manufactured in France, Germany, and elsewhere in western and northern Europe. Furthermore, royalties paid on the technology would flow to French and European sources."He claims that more than 50 congressmen have so far agreed to support the bill.Mr Issa is critical of the GSM technology, claiming that it is inferior to CDMA. He says the US government had chosen the "European" system because it was easier to eavesdrop on users' conversations.This, he says, was proved last month when the US secretary of state, Colin Powell, presented taped conversations between Iraqi soldiers to the UN security council.On Mr Issa's website,issa.house.gov, the section devoted to this issue is entitled "Parlez-vous fran&#231;ais?".He also refers to GSM as standing for Groupe Speciale Mobile, emphasising its French origins. For the last 10 years, GSM has been recognised as standing for Global Service for Mobile communication.The GSM Association, a European-based industry body, has dismissed Mr Issa's campaign as politically insensitive and ill-informed.The association's chief executive officer, Rob Conway, said: "Congressman Issa's intervention that GSM is an 'outdated French standard' is as ill-timed as it is misinformed. At the moment, our first priority must be to offer our support and sympathies to the people putting their lives on the line to liberate Iraq."The right time to debate the technology will be when the real conflict is over. And at that time we should look at the real facts, not the congressman's ill-advised opinion. To suggest that GSM is simply a European or French standard is, in the current climate, quite outrageous."Industry experts dispute Mr Issa's claim that the CDMA network would be of greater benefit to Iraqis than GSM.Marek Pawlowski, of mobile market intelligence firm PMN, said: "The prevalence of GSM technology in the Middle East region, where CDMA is virtually unknown, and the greater economies of scale it offers, would suggest the US department of defence was correct in recommending its usage in postwar Iraq."Issa's attempt to politicise the issue in the heat of the conflict could result in higher costs and the exclusion of Iraq from future advances in mobile communications technology."Telecommunications company Qualcomm, which holds the patent for CDMA technology, is based in San Diego, California, represented in Congress by Mr Issa. It is involved in a worldwide battle for mobile phone coverage with those companies that use GSM.Mr Issa has expressed his concern that, were the US government to give the go-ahead to GSM, it would send a signal to other countries that it is the industry standard.The congressman insists Qualcomm was not responsible for his letter to Mr Rumsfeld or the legislation he has introduced. Qualcomm declined to comment.Qualcomm donated $5,500 (£3,500) to Mr Issa's last election campaign, making it one of the top 10 donors outside individual contributions.
Over the years, the London tube map has become more than just a travellers' guide. Recognised around the world, it's been put on a pedestal by design pundits, re-imagined by artists and adapted by advertisers.But its latest makeover has come courtesy of the weblog world and Cal Henderson, who spends his days working as technical director of special web projects at Emap Consumer Media.  Towards the end of last year, after "a discussion with another blogger about mapping virtual spaces on to physical ones," Henderson created hisLondon Bloggers tube map."We knew there were quite a few webloggers in London - we sometimes meet up - but no one knew    how many or where they were," he says.  People do know now - or at least they know to which tube stations the 350 bloggers who have added themselves to the map are nearest.Henderson says his map "seemed like a fun thing to do". But there is a serious side. The Bloggers' tube map puts a sense of place back into cyberspace. By doing so, it has the potential to help a group of people doing things online recognise themselves as a real world community and build closer links.It does more than reveal who's blogging in Brixton. The Bloggers tube map also shows one of the key directions for the development of the web.  When the net first went mainstream, people talked up cyberspace as some sort of alternative global space, a new frontier where    distance was dead and you were free to associate with like minds around the world. Where you were in the real world wasn't supposed to be that important.Now, things are beginning to move in the opposite direction.  People are beginning to see that location is important and that linking the net to the real world may open up all sorts of interesting possibilities. A location-enhanced web will get people out of the house and give them new ways to interact with the world around them. The net might be a tool for localisation as much as for globalisation. That's the dream.The corporate sector is taking a more prosaic approach. Attention is focused on ways to extend the traditional commercial approaches of geographic information systems (GIS) on to the net.Much effort is being put into "geolocation" - working out where individual net users are in the real world - and "geosearch" - creating ways to search more efficiently online according to real world proximity, for everything from plumbers to Thai takeaways.In contrast, at grassroots level, a number of programmers are trying a more people-driven approach, adding geographical data to the web in different ways to create tools and services that might help ordinary users link up with their real-world neighbours.Straddling this divide isUpMyStreet, a company that specialises in bringing GIS-style tools to ordinary users. The site lets visitors access information about local schools, house prices, crime rates and more.Since January, via a new feature, Conversations, users have been able to enter their postcode and chat with neighbours about everything from good local restaurants to problems with the council.UpMyStreet always planned to get users talking at a local level, explains chief technology officer Stefan Magdalinski. "It's been a long time coming, because for it to work we needed a large critical mass of users online, and on UpMyStreet that's only happened in the past 12 months or so."Magdalinski is experimenting with ways of representing the discussions. "One of the neatest things about geocoding every postcode is that you can plot a discussion on a map," he explains. So, in an extension of the London tube bloggers map, soon you might be able to access a map of your area and see what your neighbours were talking about."Flame wars might appear as hot spots," says Magdalinski, who links UpMyStreet Conversations to a wider trend. "People are realising that while the earlier generations of internet applications were alternative in many senses to the everyday world, the next wave will augment or be tightly bound to it."It's a sentiment echoed by Joshua Schachter, whose credits include the collective weblogMemepooland whose current project isGeoURL. Developments in this area are, he says, "just the natural outcome of the web being integrated, or perhaps disappearing, into everyday life."Schachter calls GeoURL a location-to-URL reverse directory. "It allows users to add geographic markup to their web pages, indexes those web pages, and allows people to search for pages by proximity, " he explains.The idea is that people link their pages to a particular location: their home if it's a personal page, or, if the page is about, say, Stonehenge, then that place. GeoURL contains advice on how to find the right longitude and latitude coordinates and tips on how to add the right tags to a site.As the database gets bigger, people can search it in various ways, via a global map interface, looking for sites their neighbours are doing or for nearby restaurants or clubs."GeoURL is both an experiment in geographic information systems and an experiment in social software," says Schachter. "The value of the system is that    people are in it."He's hoping something interesting will be done with the GeoURL idea. "I'd like to see the information become integrated with a PDA &#91;handheld computer&#93; of some sort."As Schachter suggests, linking information on the web to real world coordinates points the way to a future of wireless-enabled location-based services. So far, the corporate vision of the location-based world has been under-whelming. Being able to access maps on the move or find pubs will undoubtedly prove useful.Getting location-based spam is another matter entirely.  But things could develop in a different way, suggests Ben Russell, of theHeadmap collective.Global positioning system (GPS)-equipped mobiles with high bandwidth wireless internet and powerful chips represent "a new potential computing platform, which is about more than a way to get on the internet or phone, or play a game," says Russell.Over the past two years, Russell has been thinking about this via a series of zines, a website and, more recently, a weblog. "The real possibilities for location-aware phones are predicated on contribution and sharing rather than centralisation and broadcast," he says.Drawing out the implications of projects such as Geonotes, a method of attach  ing digital notes to real world locations, Russell says things will get interesting when people can "annotate space": attach digital graffiti to real places via a location-tracking technology. Someone kitted out suitably would then be able to see these notes and add their own.These notes might be available to a wider public, though they might be more useful if they were filtered by recommendation/reputation systems such as Friend of a Friend. In other words, as you moved around a city, you'd see notes left by people you know and their friends. You might also be able to hook up with friends of friends and get help or advice in person.Headmap's primary focus has been an attempt to broaden the discussion about location-based services. But recently Headmap has released a prototype that tries to demonstrate some of these ideas in a more concrete way.Blogosphere, a Java-driven globe interface you can add to your own site, lets users display a list of locations as points on the globe and attach them to a URL.It also lets bloggers geographically index their blog entries and share them with other users.  Created byJo Walsh, spacenamespace  shares some of the same aims as Headmap and is an experiment in " collaborative mapping", an   attempt to create models of real-world locations online that people can then use to access and add data about places."I'm hoping to help develop standard vocabularies for describing and talking about space and time on the semantic web," says Walsh.  However, people looking to experiment with geodata and webmapping face significant barriers, she adds."The Ordnance Survey is protective of the lucrative Crown copyright of English mapping data; the Post Office similarly guards its location model. It costs from a few thousand pounds a year to lease any of these services: affordable for small business, prohibitive for volunteer-built internet services. Is there an analogy with open source software? Definitely.""It might be a good idea for all of us if volunteers were free to experiment in this area, but adding geographic data to the web opens up tricky issues. If individuals start digitally annotating real-world space, they should be able to do so without endangering their privacy. They should be able to keep control of who has access to the data they create and where it is stored.As Headmap's Ben Russell says: "I hope this will wake people up to the extent to which people are being tracked already."Out goes the cyber-chatterA few years ago, "cyber" was the prefix of choice for cheerleaders who delighted in talking up cyber community and culture. Now that cyber-chatter is out of favour, will it be replaced by geo-babble, as in:Geolocation:a catch-all term for attempts to allow websites to figure out the physical location of users, and so tailor content and services appropriately).Geosearch:Searches that look for stuff online on the basis of proximity - eg, find me the nearest plumber.Geonotes/Geomarks/ Geograffiti:Terms referring to the idea that users might be able to associate information/webpages etc with a real-world location, so that when others visit, they can access that information.Geotags/Geocode:Terms for the geographical information that would be added to webpages to enable geosearching.Geocaching:The name of choice for the GPS-assisted game in which handsets are used to look for a cache hidden in the real world.Geoencryption:Information is encoded in such a way that it can only be unscrambled if you're in a particular location.BlogsThere are several blogs devoted to tracking new ideas in adding geographical data to the web, building collaborative maps and developing alternative location-based services. Keep tabs on new ideas withWebmapper:www.webmapper.net.Created by Dutchman Ed MacGillavry, who has a cartographic background and has created a theme-based blog focused on developments in web GIS (Geographical Information Services) and location-based services.Headmap Blog:www.headmap.org/blogMore idealistic and speculative than Webmapper but with a similar focus. This covers new ideas in location-based services, social software and wearable wireless access, in particular.General Eyes:www.generaleyes.comThe blog maintained by Jason Harlan, one of the people behindBlogmapper, which lets you associate blog posts with locations rather than times/dates and display the results via a map.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Aibo was a success, but Sony's two-legged humanoid version is finding the going harder, asReutersreports from Tokyo.
Has anything happened to Salam Pax?
"Microsoft's Windows Automotive 4.2 software is designed to operate telematics devices. Telematics is an emerging technology that enables motorists to download information from the Internet, send or receive e-mail and make phone calls," reportsAP. It's a version of Windows CE (PocketPC/SPV smartphone etc), and coming to a road possibly near you in a Honda Accord 2003, etc.
Almost two years after promising an online service that would have "a profound impact on the China internet industry", AOL Time Warner and Chinese computer manufacturer Legend have put their joint $200m (£148m) joint venture on hold.The two companies cited increased competition in the Chinese internet market as the reason for putting the service, known as Flying Dragon, under review.Legend and AOL Time Warner announced the venture in June 2001, but never rolled out a commercial service. A trial version, which was started in August, ended earlier this year.Mary Ma, Legend's chief financial officer, told Reuters that, since the two companies had announced the venture, China's largest fixed-line phone companies, China Netcom and China Telecom, had launched internet access services."The industry has changed in China. We have to think about a new partnership, otherwise it will be tough," Ms Ma told Reuters.The venture had been launched, amid much fanfare, in Beijing, where the then chief executive of AOL Time Warner, Gerald Levin, described it as "a major step towards fulfilling the promise of the internet around the world".It was 51% owned by Legend, and each company committed $100m over time. It is still possible that the plan will go ahead, possibly with new partners brought in.
I will never forget my first encounter with a London beggar. I was in Clapham when a well-fed, kempt guy approached me with his hand outstretched. I looked in his hand to see what he was offering me. You have to forgive me, but I'd never seen a beggar in Adidas trainers, Levi jeans and a Gap fleece before. That get-up would have cost me three months' wages back home in Cape Town.A friend, who has recently moved to Sweden, told me: "That's nothing. In Stockholm, I was rummaging in my pockets for some change, when I heard my phone ringing. It took me a few seconds to realise that it wasn't my mobile, it was the beggar's."Moving swiftly up the sublime-ridiculous scale, in America there is a new class of diamond-encrusted bum, called a "cyber-beggar". Do you need to pay off your Porsche? Want some extra cash for that much needed holiday in St Vincent? Then do like our cousins across the Atlantic, and set up a begging website.Cyber-beggars, e-panhandlers, call them what you will, these are the people who are too ashamed to busk for a facelift, so they sign up for HTML 101 and open aPayPalaccount.   The woman who allegedly started the craze is a 30-year-old, ex-TV executive, Karyn Bosnak. Thanks to generous donators, Bosnak has now paid off her $20,000 credit card debt - mainly owed to Prada, Gucci and Bergdorf. Aside from her accessories habit, Bosnak also has a "horrible addiction" to lipgloss. The message on her website read: "Please help me pay my debt. I am nice. I am cheery. I didn't hurt anyone by spending too much money. I was actually helping out the economy. If you help me, then someday someone might help you when you need it."Bosnak is currently writing a book about her experience of fleecing saps like you. In a flurry of magnanimity, Bosnak showcased the best cyber-beggars on her website (the now defunct http://savekaryn.com ). One of those was Ed Mayhall, a 29-year-old web developer in Dallas, Texas. And what is Mayhall's plight exactly? He needs a Hummer. A Hummer - or Humvee, to use its proper name - is a pig-ugly, off-road vehicle developed for the US army. They retail for about $120,000. If you're feeling frivolous, you can give Mayhall a couple of bucks atwww.edneedsahummer.com.So far, he has made $200. That's $200 more than he deserves.   Another worthless cause isKent. He says his hair is falling out, although the photo seems to suggest that Kent has a relatively minor case of widow's peak. At 31, Kent is not ready to face the ignominy of being a slaphead. He is looking for $9,858 for a hair transplant, and he gives 10 "good" reasons why you should give him money, one of them being because "I'm a really nice guy". Well, that's me convinced.Most of the cyber-begging websites are of the "give me a few bucks to help me pay off my credit card" ilk, but there are a few that are more creative, bizarre and sometimes even worthy. Take Penny, for example. She wants you to help her leave her husband (www.helpmeleavemyhusband.com). She needs $12,000 to train as a nurse. This will give her the financial independence to help her start on her own.Or there's Jennifer Glasser from Canada, who has Lyme disease and wants you to help her pay her medical bills. Glasser has made more than $8,000 (Canadian) since she created her websitewww.helpjennifer.com. Most of the money has come from a friend of a friend whom she's never met.Glasser is keen to prove that she's not another    Teresa Milbrandt (the woman who faked her daughter's leukaemia to raise cash). She even posts images of her medical bills online. It's almost enough to make me grateful for the NHS. If you're an opera buff, you may take pity on Elaine. She racked up $40,000 in student debt and she wants you to help her pay it off and fund her opera-singing lessons - a snip at $50 per hour (seewww.saveelaine.com).After all these heart-breaking stories, you might need a light diversion. Take a look at theonline squeegee merchant. He'll clean the inside of your computer screen for spare change. "Princess" Natalie's spoof cyber-begging website is also good for a laugh (http://egomania.nu/causes/indexsoc.html). "When I am purchasing overpriced lingerie or firearms I might think of you," she says. I'm sure that's more than enough inducement for most would-be benefactors.For all its apparent ridiculousness, cyber-begging is becoming a well-entrenched industry. There is a website,www.savemesites.com, which offers e-panhandlers tips for selling banner advertisements and getting listed on search engines. And cyber-begging has now become so common there's evena directoryto help you navigate them.  But, if you really want to put your money somewhere useful, my favourite cyber-begging sites are stillwww.shelter.org.ukandwww.oxfam.org/eng. At least they're tax deductible.
Videogames have never been known for their political correctness. Traditionally an industry dominated by males (developers and purchasers), the motifs of big weapons, G-strings and destructible landscapes are never far from the charts.Whether videogame violence or sexism encourages the real thing has been debated somewhat lethargically for more than 20 years, with the industry understandably maintaining it does not. More recently, however, it is not the body count    provoking concern, but the colour of the bodies.In October, Eidos, the publisher of Tomb Raider, ran into trouble when 10,000 Sikhs signed anonline petitioncriticising the game Hitman 2 for a location suspiciously similar to the revered Golden Temple in Amritsar in Punjab.Although Eidos apologised for the unintentional offence and removed Sikh references from later versions of the game, it has not deterred other publishers from rushing into similar hot spots. We have since seen wargames set in Somalia (Delta Force: Black Hawk Down), Kuwait (Conflict Desert Storm) and several in Vietnam, including Platoon, a bizarre reinterpretation of an anti-war movie, and the imminent Vietcong, that promises to "bring the atmosphere, intensity, fear, panic and the adrenaline rush of jungle combat to your home".And now we have Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, a supposedly fictional game where US forces arrive in Kazakhstan packing pre-fabricated detention camps and trainees are instructed to "Destroy anything not American". Boasting that "the best weapons in the world have USA stamped on their side"    you can take on the Chinese ("armed with a simple rifle and adequate training, a Chinese man can be turned into a fighting machine for very little cost") and the turban-wearing GLA - who are described as "relying heavily on the dedication of fanatics" and, predictably, attack you with suicide bombers.Is all this supposed to be tongue in cheek, darkly satirical, or the kind of racial insensitivity that games publishers have overlooked for long enough?  The industry has two traditional defences. Firstly, that there has never been a proven link between games and violent behaviour or racial intolerance, a belief which carried more weight before the US military used its own free videogame (America's Army) to entice young males into signing up.The second is that all entertainment media strive for greater realism and once you release a game based on a real scenario, it has to be ethnic warlords (rather than generic space-robots) that get shot. You can question the taste but surely not the accuracy. And of course, there are movies, books and documentaries galore on the same subjects. Should they be condemned too?This, however, is where the defence crumbles. Movies    and books earn the right to tackle sensitive subjects because they attempt to tell the story fairly, with varying degrees of success. A videogame is there to improve hand-eye coordination and for the accumulation of a high score - indeed the background story is usually confined to cut-scenes which players can skip in order to get back to the action as soon as possible.Not only does the interaction invariably trivialise the subject, but if you cannot see the difference between turning a page and pulling a trigger, then you have lost sight of videogames' one unique selling point.Of course, by questioning the morality of such titles we could be falling into the oldest trap of all. Games publishers are past masters at inciting tabloid outrage and then laughing all the way to the bank. With the biggest titles taking up to four years to develop, it is unlikely anyone intended to deliberately cash in on current East/West   sensitivities. Nevertheless, getting mauled by the Daily Mail, even accidentally, has projected more than a few sub-standard games higher up the chart then they ever deserved.Meanwhile, serious gamers tend to take the opposite stance, dismissing talk of political correctness as a paranoid reaction to a totally harmless pastime. They maintain that games like C&amp;C: Generals are intrinsically no different to Tom and Jerry. There are Goodies and Baddies, and no offence is intended or taken. Furthermore, Caucasian scumbags get dispatched in equal numbers in these and many other titles - why should their virtual deaths be any more or less controversial?Perhaps it's just a question of fairness. If Vietnam and Mogadishu really are acceptable subjects for videogames, then why not Northern Ireland and Waco? It's the hypocrisy of deeming one too sensitive to touch while turning the other into banal, interactive fiction that should concern us most. Fighting our wars in somebody else's backyard may sound like fun, but if the locals start complaining, shouldn't we listen?&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Lopped offI recently visited a site that claimed to have free MP3 files, but in fact seems to have inserted a cookie somewhere in the set-up files of my computer. Every time I restart, it sets the internet home page to wfix.com and then appends the proper address to the end. It also adds a toolbar to adult, gambling and other unwelcome sites.Caroline BrownJack Schofield replies:You have fallen victim to a widely hated piece of scumware usually known as Lop.com (for Live Online Portal), though it also appears under more than 40 other names from    aavc.com to wflu.com. It can usually be removed by Spybot Search &amp; Destroy software, which you can download free fromhttp://security.kolla.de. For more details of Lop.com, seewww.doxdesk.com/parasite/lop.htmlandwww.spywareinfo.com/articles/lop.Also, go to the security section of your browser - Tools|Internet Options| Security in Internet Explorer - and make sure it is not set to Low. If you have a Custom Level setting, you can change the settings for Active X controls are set to Prompt or Disable. With the Prompt setting, websites will find it harder to install this kind of parasite without asking - though you may well have been asked in this case, too. A quick visit toDoxdesk's parasite pagewill automatically detect common parasites that may be installed in your browser but, ironically, it uses an Active X control to do this.NewDotNetWhen I start Windows, a message appears saying: "error loading c:\PROGRA ~1\NEWDOT~1\NEWDOT~1.DLL - the system cannot find the path specified". I think it may have been caused through accidentally deleting a .dll file, and it seems to affect my Internet Explorer program, as it cannot find any servers.Mark OldhamJS:You have become the victim of a another common piece of scumware, NewDotNet. This Internet Explorer plug-in changes the way your DNS (Domain Name System) works so that it can access internet addresses that are not official top level domains. NewDotNet's "new domains" include .shop, .xxx and .mp3 addresses. If the software is not removed correctly, you can lose access to proper domains such as .com, .net etc. Both Spybot andAd-aware 6can remove NewDotNet. For further information, seewww.doxdesk.com/parasite/NewDotNet.html,www.cexx.org/newnet.htmand the Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q302463.TheNewDotNet sitealso has removal instructions. At various times, NewDotNet has been distributed with numerous applications including BearShare, iMesh, KaZaA and Go!Zilla. When installing these and similar free applications, watch the options to make sure you do not unintentionally install NewDotNet, Comet Cursor, Gator, Lop, TopText, WebHancer and similar parasites.Any port?Reading about internet security, I often come across advice to close particular ports. What are they?Sam NasrallaJS:In this case, a port is just the end-point of a logical channel or connection that is made between software running on your computer and software running on another computer. Many ports are assigned to specific applications.  For example, HTTP, the protocol used to carry web pages, uses port 80. Andrew Daviel has a web page athttp://andrew.triumf.ca/cgi-bin/portwhere you can type in a port number and find out which applications use it. However, some file-sharing applications are now using a port-hopping technique to make it harder for ISPs and others to stop them from working by blocking specific ports. Robert Graham also has an excellent but technical FAQ (list of frequently asked questions) about the various ports atwww.robertgraham.com/pubs/firewall-seen.html.If you run a firewall such asZone AlarmorSygate Personal Firewall, this will help you understand what it is telling you.  Bear in mind that computers often send messages to one another: it doesn't necessarily mean someone is out to hack you.No gamesHow can I delete or disable Freecell, Winmine etc from Windows 2000? When I try    deleting them from System32 in WinNT, they reconstitute themselves within minutes.Andy NorthedgeJS:Recent versions of Windows try to protect and replace their files, because users have been known to delete essential files. The real problem is that the games - and several other components of Windows - have been made invisible to the Add/Remove Programs applet, so you cannot uninstall them. In Windows 2000 and XP, you can make them visible by changing the sysoc.inf file. For an account of the process, seewww.cdc.state.ca.usandwww.winsupersite.com.PicturesThere are eight .jpg files associated with Windows Me stored in the folder My Pictures (cliff in clouds, diagonal sand, etc). I've tried deleting these, but they keep returning quite quickly.John G GriffithsJS:Curious as it may seem, these wallpaper backgrounds are also part of the Windows operating system and are therefore protected by the PC Health feature, System Restore. Since they are harmless and take up a negligible amount of disk space, I'd ignore them.Backchat&#183;Keith Arrowsmith wanted a UK-oriented replacement for My BBC, a news service that allowed users to select subjects from pre-defined panels, until it was discontinued. I suggestedYahooandNews2you, and appealed for advice. Alan Pagett responded: "News junkies can do worse than try the newspaper reading-room at theInternet Public Library." Chris Pogson favouredwww.thebigproject.co.uk, saying: "If they don't have a link available, then tell them and they'll add it." Ed Hynes from Pennsylvania, USA, suggestswww.refdesk.comas being "content-rich and easy to use". All have merits, but Yahoo News still looks like the closest alternative to My BBC.
Metroid PrimeGameCube		&#163;39.99 Nintendo	 	*****With retailers muttering about unsold stock and Microsoft's Xbox comfortably outselling it, Nintendo's GameCube    would appear to be struggling in the UK. But it would be nice to imagine that state of affairs altering radically in the near future, as Nintendo lines up an impressive array of games.First out of the blocks is Metroid Prime, the first 3D take on the classic shoot-'em-up. Here, Nintendo has performed a masterclass in how to turn a 2D game into a    full 3D, first-person version without fudging anything.It has preserved the original's format: genetically enhanced heroine Samus must once again make her way through enormous levels, acquiring new weapons, negotiating tight passages enclosed in her Morph Ball and dispatching some gloriously freaky monsters and    bosses.The first stage, set on a pirate space station, acts as a tutorial (the control system is complex but well thought-out) yet swiftly has you facing a boss monster and operating under time constraints. Subsequently, gameplay often involves finding power-ups (exploring the complex levels is a joy), and squishy aliens and bizarre bosses abound.The oddly garish graphics are very distinctive and add a joyously surreal air - yet the game feels remarkably familiar to devotees of Metroids of yore. The one downside of the game is that it is sure to launch a tedious debate between GameCube and Xbox owners regarding whether it deserves to steal Halo's crown as the best console first-person, shoot-'em-up ever. I reckon it does.  (SB)Crash Bandicoot 2: N-TrancedGBA £29.99 VU Games/ Vicarious Visions ****Crash Bandicoot      has done extremely well in the bid to secure a large slice of gaming pie in an arena that had      previously been dominated by an Italian plumber and a certain blue hedgehog.N-Tranced is      Crash's second outing on the GameBoy Advance, the first being Crash Bandicoot: The Huge      Adventure. This time, the orange marsupial is trying to thwart his old enemy Dr N Tropy and      the evil floating mask Uka Uka, by collecting those items guaranteed to stop all nefarious      plans - crystals and Wumpa fruit.Along the way through the 40-level game, he has to attempt      to rescue his friends, who have been hypnotised by Tropy's new recruit N-Trance, the master      of hypnotism. All of this requires much exertion, including a lot of Crash's classic slam, spin      and slide moves, which are later enhanced into super moves. As with the previous title, there      is a concerted effort to break up the monotony of the side-scrolling gameplay with isometric      and faux-3D levels.The smooth graphics lend themselves perfectly to levels where you'll find      yourself rolling around inside your Atlas-sphere globe and riding a jet ski while being chased by      ravenous sharks. The learning curve is slightly steeper than the previous incarnation, with      increasingly frustrating levels, which require precision jumping and a good memory. A link-up      mode and timed levels add to the longevity of a well-established formula that makes for an      ideal pick-up-and-play platformer. (RP)Devil May Cry 2PlayStation 2 £39.99 Capcom ***Something's gone a bit wrong here. The      original Devil May Cry was a stylish gothic romp that borrowed the rigid Resident Evil template      - fixed-view graphics and numerous puzzles - and gave it a kick up the backside. Its ballsy,      gun-blazing action was a welcome respite from the ammo conservation and fiddly controls of      the RE series.Sadly, Devil May Cry 2 throws away this heritage, opting for a fairly charmless      action game. As before, players need to weave a trail of destruction across numerous      environs, gaining points for stylishly despatching the enemy. All good fun, but it isn't long      until the lack of storyline and regular combat becomes tiresome.The ability to play as a      second character adds variety, even if the potential differences aren't emphasised enough.      The weapon upgrade system - a treat in the first game - is also under-utilised, with little of      the imagination seen previously.At least the stunts are as insane. Both characters can leap,      somersault and cause acrobatic mayhem. This is undeniable fun, even if the wayward camera      wipes off some of the grin. These wonky viewpoints become especially problematic when in      combat.Shooting at an assailant off-screen is an infuriating, and often fatal, experience. It's      a shame, too, because at its visceral best, Devil May Care 2 is a braindead stress reliever      that will satisfy newcomers to the series. But for dumbing down, and failing to build on the      original, Devil May Cry 2 is a disappointing missed opportunity. (GH)
There used to be a simple opposition between cheap Palm handhelds and pricey but powerful multimedia Pocket PCs, but today there is a lot of overlap. The Palm side has ramped up the power by adopting ARM-based processors similar to those used in Pocket PCs, and introducing a new version of the Palm OS. Meanwhile, the Pocket PC players have launched smaller and/or cheaper models such as the Hewlett-Packard iPaq H1910, ViewSonic V35 and the Dell Axim X5.In fact, Palm OS devices now cover a wider range of the consumer market. At the low end, there is the naff but cheap Palm Zwire, which uses the old Dragonball processor. At the high end, there are ARM-based machines such as the Sony Cli&#233; NZ-90, which not only offers Pocket PC-style multimedia, but trumps them by including a 2-megapixel camera.Dell's Axim has made the biggest impact of the new Pocket PCs, mainly because of its price. The Axim X5 comes in two variants: a 300MHz machine with 32MB of memory for &#163;197, and a 400MHz device with 64MB of memory and a cradle for &#163;267. This compares with about &#163;300 (reduced from its original &#163;386) for an ARM-based Palm Tungsten T with 16MB of memory and a 174MHz TI processor. However, the Tungsten T has the advantage of built-in Bluetooth for wireless connection to a mobile phone.There is much to like about the Axim. It feels solid, has a good screen, and packs in a large CompactFlash II expansion slot as well as a standard SD card slot. While the Axim feels somewhat utilitarian, its cradle is a substantial and remarkably shiny piece of high tech engineering. The cradle lets you synchronise the Axim with a personal computer, recharge the battery, and recharge a spare battery in an extra slot at the back.Although the Axim is bulky by today's standards, it is slightly smaller than a traditional iPaq complete with a CompactFlash expansion sleeve, and much cheaper. I can foresee companies that have developed applications on a couple of iPaqs rolling them out on a couple of hundred Axims.However, when it comes to style-conscious buyers, the Axim is trounced by HP's new H1910 version of the iPaq. This is smaller, sleeker, and has a brighter screen, though it is also more expensive at &#163;299. It comes with stereo earphones (its voice recording works better than Dell's) and a synchronisation cable but no cradle, which is an optional extra. If you have already acquired a CompactFlash memory card and/or IBM hard drive, Ethernet networking and Wi-Fi cards and so on, tough: they won't fit.Size does make a difference. The H1910 is 4.46in tall, 2.75in wide and half an inch thick, and weighs 4.23oz (120g). On every dimension, it is smaller than Palm's Tungsten T, and is more than an ounce lighter. The Dell Axim, by contrast, measures 5.04in by 3.21in, and it is 0.71 thick, which makes it larger all round than the Tungsten T; at 6.9oz (196g), it is also 1.3oz heavier.The major drawback with the iPaq H1910 is the memory. Only 46MB of the 64MB fitted is available to the user, and that is without either Transcriber (the excellent handwriting recognition program) or Windows Media Player loaded. So to use those, you not only have to install them from the companion CD, you have to load them into memory that you intended   to use for other things.Other applications that have mysteriously gone missing from the iPaq H1910's built in memory include Microsoft Reader, the electronic book software, MSN Messenger instant messaging, and the Terminal Services client software, which is important to corporate users. Pocket Word and Excel have survived, but this is not impressive for a &#163;299 machine. The Pocket PC sales pitch has always been "look how much more you get built in". In this case, it should be "look how much we've left out".In fact, the current prize for packing the most in should probably go to Sony for the Cli&#233; NZ-90, which includes a 2-megapixel (1600 x 1200 resolution) camera and electronic flash. In other respects, the NZ-90 is much like last year's NR70V, with its 0.1mp (320 x 240 resolution) camera, but with a 200MHz ARM-style processor and the new Palm OS 5.However, the NZ-90 has some significant drawbacks, including the measly 16MB of memory. This makes it impractical for multimedia, unless you add a Memory Stick, and they are not ideal for storing large amounts of data. Also, the camera is not very flexible, and is not well placed for video conferencing unless you want to advertise your multiple chins.Another problem with the NZ-90 is the camera's battery consumption. You think you have many hours left, but when you switch to the camera, the system does a quick recalculation and decides you don't have enough juice to use the camera, or just the flash.Finally, although the NZ-90 has lots of neat features - including Bluetooth, a swivelling screen, a small keyboard, and a CompactFlash slot for a Wi-Fi card - it is a bit of a monster. It measures 5.6 by 3.0 inches, bulges to almost an inch thick, and weighs 10.3oz (292g). Much as I love the idea of a PDA (personal digital assistant) with a proper camera, the &#163;600 price of an NZ-90 is better spent on two separate devices.
How long have you been using a computer?I wrote my first few short stories longhand, and had a brief flirtation with a thermal typewriter, but soon transferred to the Macintosh. I started with aMac Plusand have bought almost every new and groovy machine Apple has produced, usually about a week before it is superseded! My life is divided between an 866MHz Titanium PowerBook running OS X and adesktop Cubewith 17-inch flat screen running OS 9. The Cube is my favourite computer of all time - I can't understand why everyone hasn't got one!Other than writing?I worked as a graphic designer for a few years, so I havePhotoshop) andQuarkfor prettying things up. I have various bits of information stored inFileMaker databases, and a few pieces of slightly buggy software that I wrote inREALbasic. I useDigital Performerto write and record music, andiCamMasterto watch scenic views around the world. My CD collection is on a 20GB iPod, and I have hundreds of pictures organised iniPhoto. When someone comes up with iShower and iBreathe, I'll doubtless be using them, too!Stephen King's experiment selling his work online?The very first attempt, the short story, seemed to go very well. But for whole novels I think the problem lies in the fact that we don't feel that electronic data has inherent value: you can't hold it in your hands! We like objects, and are not yet ready to covet the virtual or see it as a worthwhile exchange for hard cash. The echo of the early cry that "information wants to be free" is still just audible, and I remember the furore the first time someone sent newsgroup spam and started turning the web into a commercial space. I'd say we're nearing the dessert stage of the free lunch.Ebooks?Ebooks can be useful in giving someone a taster of a novel but, personally, I don't want to spend hours squinting at small print on a personal digital assistant that will run out of battery. There's a novelty value, I suppose. Perhaps we're just waiting for the right kit, an ebook reader that brings enough of the paper-book experience while adding new things, like the facility to quick-access favourite passages, or have the book read aloud.Broadband?I gotTelewest broadbandabout a year ago and it's completely changed the way I use the net. Not having a meter running is much more relaxing - and it's a lot cheaper, too. Combined with wireless access from anAirPort, which is beamed all over the house, it brings the internet much closer to being a part of everyday life. I love it.Websites?www.theonion.com;www.ebay.co.uk;www.resexcellence.com;www.macosxapps.com;www.iconfactory.com;www.macoszone.com;www.cliesource.com;www.lostdestinations.comVisit:www.michaelmarshallsmith.com
War diariesBefore the Crimean war introduced the civilian war reporter, British newspaper editors used to employ junior officers to send letters and diaries from the front. Nearly 150 years later, a new kind of war diary is emerging as one of the most compelling and immediate forms of war reporting: the warblog.The BBC has a warblog for its pool of reporters, and it is updated every hour or so. The Seattle Intelligence Post has two reporters aboard the USS Lincoln posting a daily warblog. Fascinating as they are, the trouble with these sites is that, like other forms of war reporting, they remain subject to military censorship.Kevin Sites, a correspondent for CNN, had been posting his own private blog about the war. But last Friday, CNN asked him to suspend it until further notice. Sites had gathered a cult following, styling himself as a one-man unit, using portable, digital technology to report, write, edit and transmit his stories from conflict areas around the world. He says he will continue to document his experiences and hopes to come to some agreement with CNN in the near future.www.kevinsites.netnews.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/seattlepi.nwsource.com/lincoln/journalWar gamesIf, as Vladimir Nabokov once wrote, "satire is a lesson, parody is a game," what are we to make of some of the animated political cartoons of Don Asmussen or Idleworm? Part game, part animation, both update the art of the political cartoonist for the age of the internet. Asmussen, an editorial cartoonist for the San    Francisco Chronicle, produces a bi-weekly cartoon for the web. His two-minute film, Operation: Terrortubbies, satirises western Hollywood's glorification of war. Idleworm is a game that pokes fun at our fascination for info graphics.www.dontoons.comwww.idleworm.comInfested waterThe Saatchi Gallery is famous, or notorious, for showcasing a generation of young British contemporary artists. The gallery has been without a home since it moved from its old light-bulb factory in north London. Next month, it is to open permanently at the more salubrious location of County Hall on London's South Bank.  Amazingly, the Saatchi has not had an internet presence until now. The new site is little more than a smartly designed brochure at the moment, but it will give you a taste of what will be on show. Despite the fact that many of the artists Saatchi has bought and shown have made work for the internet, (Tomoko Takahashi and Bob and Roberta Smith, to name but two), there is no net-specific work on show.www.saatchi-gallery.co.ukMeet upMeetup.com, which is already being used by supporters of US presidential candidates, offers to facilitate events for anyone who wants to suggest a topic. At the site, which is free, you can start your own group or join ones around a given interest. The themes are as wide-ranging as the conversation down the local pub. The site lists gatherings in London, for example, for groups as diverse as ex-Jehovah's Witnesses and devotees of Wi-Fi. Some 545 cities are listed, 10 in the UK, and more than 200,000 people have already signed up.Meetup.comVirtual petsHave you ever owned a robot like a Sony Aibo, or have you ever kept a virtual pet? If so Sherry Turkle, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) wants to hear about it. Send your stories by email and the results will be published, anonymously, in a book and on the web. Turkle's earlier books include The Second Self: Computers and the Human Spirit, and Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet.http://web.mit.edu/ sturkle/www/vpet.htmlPost RhizomeAfter years of being free, Rhizome, the community-based net.art portal, began charging a $5 subscription last month. Some of its members were angry to be charged a sub  scription after contributing much of the site's content for free for years. One, Vladimir Kovacevic, was so incensed that he posted a rather personal attack on Rhizome's founders. The site is a bit of a rant, but towards the bottom there is an excellent list of alternative net.art sites that remain free.www.rhizome.orgwww34.brinkster.com/afterrhizomeSeconds outDo you have a couple of minutes to watch 10 movies? The prize for the best 10 Second Film will be announced today. Even better, submit your own film for the next round of prizes.www.tensecondfilms.comNew &amp; noted&#183;The latest mobile news:www.mobitopia.com&#183;Read and publish short stories online:www.otherpeoplesstories.com&#183;Web designers opposed to war:www.futurefarmers.com/nowar.html&#183;The first Gulf war:www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/gulf
Illogical spamI don't know if anyone has mentioned Bayesian spam 
filtering. Mozilla's 1.3 alpha release contains a mail program that filters spam by Bayesian spam filtering. This is a statistical approach based upon the content of an email. Paul Graham has written about this method used in Mozilla on www.paulgraham. com/spam.html. Words are given a spam probability and a selection of words from the email are used to discover if the message is spam, using Bayes' rule. The probabilities change depending upon how you mark messages coming in. You can change the status of a mail from spam to genuine and this alters the calculations for the next email processed.
Effective spam filtering is here, it's free and it works on most platforms. And, in a couple of months, it might just be stable!Richard Fletcherrichard@going2.fsnet.co.ukMore screensI am the Variety correspondent for China and I can confirm that Dodona's figures on the number of digital screens in China are at least six months out of date (Reel change, March 20). The number 13 was current mid last year when the Chinese government had only just started investing. Current screen numbers total at least 35. My figures also suggest that the US now has more than 100 screens.Arthur JonesVariety correspondent, China
andarthur@yahoo.co.ukOS X is great!Am I using the same operating system (OS X-rated, March 20)? It seems David Murphy has a prejudice. You wonder about someone's computing skills when it takes "four weeks of unmitigated hassle" to get the most beautifully crafted (and simple to use) OS to do the things you most want a 
computer to do.I could spend the rest of the section listing the flaws of PCs. They have their uses. But there are problems most of the time. I breathe more easily on returning to my Mac. And remember, OS X has just arrived really. I use it for everything personal - Photoshop, Illustrator, surfing - and six million other things.
You don't like bouncing icons? Ditch the Dock if you wish. You can customise left, right and centre. Use your brain. But please don't moan. Not yet. Buy yourself a PC first and report back. We'd love to hear from you.Kathy Lovekathylove@macmail.comIt is usefulDavid Murphy's tale of woe with Mac OS X seemed eerily similar to tales of woe I have heard from colleagues with Windows XP. My experience with Mac OS X couldn't be more of a contrast, with only the occasional problems with Microsoft Word. I'm also finding a growing number of really useful applications and utilities from the Unix inheritance that have been transferred to Mac OS X.Networking with a Windows 2000 machine couldn't have been easier from the Apple side (check a box that says "Windows Files Sharing"), though it was a bit more fiddly the other way round. I doubt that I am unique in this, any more than are the people using XP that are delighted with what they see as a big leap forward in their computing experience.In other words, the computer gods do seem occasionally to throw up complete lemons where the combinations of settings/uses/hardware/software of a particular user trigger a major bad hair day. Just as different owners of the same car model can have vastly contrasting experiences, owners of different models can have very similar experiences with their cars. Computer users similarly can also find that problems aren't confined to any particular operating system - though it does seem to be more prevalent in the latest versions from both Apple and Microsoft!Steve Lepper(email withheld)And it's easy!I have been using Macs for about 10 years, and while I agree the earlier versions were pretty frustrating (mine seemed to have a special "crash" programme installed, primed to operate just as I completed two hours of layouts. I save as I go now), they are so much better now and experience few problems.But I must spring to the defence of OS X. Since installing it on my G4 almost a year ago, on the recommendation of my service engineer, I have experienced just one freeze. I have found OS X stable, easy to use (once you get used to the new interface) and very versatile. However, I am sticking to 10.2.3 for a while, having read so many tales of woe about 2.4. 
But I do have one question. Why do I have problems sending JPegs to PCs?Martin Mallinmartin.mallin@lbbd.gov.ukTrial overI was surprised to read about Geraldine Murray's experience (ISP trials, March 20). I converted to BT Broadband over Christmas and have had no trouble accessing my AOL email. I still have the old dial-up modem files on my Windows XP system and am able to access BT Broadband without difficulty.Mahomed Hajatmhajat@aol.com
We are here to helpIn our regular look at readers' IT woes, Business Solutions' panel of experts look at data backup, disposing of old computers, automatic shutdown software, and secure access for remote workersThis month the panel sorting out your IT worries consists of Michael Keefe, managing director of Surrey-based computer dealer Wizard Solutions; Dino Wilkinson, solicitor with Kimbells LLP; Phil Wilcock, CTO, 1E Consulting &amp; Software; Graham Arthur, counsel to the Business Software Alliance; and Gary Jones, security analyst for MIS Corporate Security Systems.Business Solutions welcomes queries from readers with IT difficulties. If  you have a problem you would like to be considered in the next issue of Business Solutions, then email online.feedback @guardian .co.uk or write to Business Solutions, Online, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We will endeavour to publish as many answers as possible.What with everything from the threat of war to the increased risk of flooding in our area, can you tell me more about data backup? All the systems I read about are aimed at (and priced for) corporate users backing up terabytes every night. I want to find something more suitable to my business, an independent estate agency with 10 employees.Michael Keefe:I refer to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) as the forgotten 99%. According to the DTI, 99% of UK companies are SMEs, yet 99% of disaster recovery, off-site storage and business continuity services are aimed at enterprise-level and corporate users. But there are various options available to you. Backing up to tape has traditionally been popular. Financial outlay is minimal, but it does require a member of staff to have the onerous task of managing the nightly backup, taking the tapes home with them, and so on. Consider OnStream (www.onstream.com). Another common occurrence is for small offices to have a separate, dedicate external hard disk drive (Maxtor are worth a look at:www.maxtor.com). They can just drag-and-drop the files which have been updated before they lock the office door at night. Of course both of these options are susceptible to Murphy's law. The night you forget to run the tape of hard drive backup and take them home is the night your office floods. I personally recommend DataFort's "off-site" system; your data is backed up via your phone line or broadband connection to their own secure server farm via an automated interface. Have a look atwww.datafort.co.uk.I run a small office and we need to upgrade all our computers. How can we dispose of the old ones without demolishing either the environment or our finances?Dino Wilkinson:Electronic waste is the fastest growing waste problem in the world but there are alternatives to dumping. Specialist recyclers can remove and dismantle old equipment at varying cost. Alternatively, there are charities such as Computer Aid International (www.computer-aid.org) that refurbish unwanted computers for schools and community organisations. The disposal of hard disks containing personal information can have data protection implications, so you must ensure the data is erased. New legislation should come into force in the UK next year, making it illegal to simply destroy unwanted IT equipment and placing more responsibility on manufacturers to recycle their customers' obsolete stock.Recently I spent a small fortune on a contractor who charged by the hour to install some new software in my company. The cost almost doubled from the quote he had given. He said the extra time equated to that that he had spent logging people out of their PCs, despite the fact that I had told my employees that they must turn off their computers at the end of the day when maintenance is planned. Is there a way I can ensure they do this short of brute force?!Phil Wilcock:There is software available that can take care of user logoff/shutdown automatically. I would also suggest that you consider automating your software installation. There is no reason these days to visit every desktop every time you want to update some common software. Automation of this type can save you money, not only on the cost of the contractor but also in the pure energy savings associated with good power management practices. This saving can be as high as £100 per PC per year.We've recently bought a batch of second-hand PCs and are using the software that came with them. Does this constitute an infringement of copyright, and is so, what can happen to us as a result?Graham Arthur:Most software applications are supplied with a licence so they can be installed on a computer. When a PC is bought second-hand, licences for the software installed on the PC must be transferred to you also: you should receive all disks, packaging, manuals etc, for the software on the PC. If you do not, the safest bet is to delete all the software on the PC and purchase the software you need. Using software without licences constitutes copyright infringement. Unlicensed use can result in having to pay costs and damages, and can also constitute a criminal offence.There are a few remote workers within my company who use ADSL to access the corporate network. How can I ensure secure access for these users and protect my network?Gary Jones:This is an important issue right now with the advance of ADSL and the rising number of remote and home workers; and many smaller companies don't realise that they may be just as much at risk as the enterprise companies. Fortunately, there are two easy ways to ensure secure remote network access. One way to extend the security of a network to remote users is to install a firewall/intrusion detection system (often referred to as serverware). These systems are available for as little as £300 to £500, and offer an easy to manage security solution for remote workers. Another solution for secure remote working is to ensure that each remote worker has a personal firewall installed on the system that he or she is using to access the network.
It hasn't been an easy few months for Eurostar. Two bouts of exceptionally bad weather brought the network to a complete halt. The first left passengers stranded for up to 24 hours in France. ("They didn't even try to get us on to a flight to London," one frequent traveller complained to me.) Then came the cold snap at the beginning of February, when the sharp rise in air temperature as trains entered the tunnel defrosted the snow and ice clinging to the trains and caused electrical failure.To make matters worse, passenger numbers fell 5% last year as travellers chose cheapness over convenience and headed for airports instead of Waterloo. Many found the fare structure complex and the price of a last-minute booking prohibitive.In fact, says Mark Smith, Eurostar's punctuality is no worse than before. Smith - who works for the Strategic Rail Authority and in his spare time edits the extremely usefulSeat61.com, a guide to rail travel abroad - says about 85% of trains arrive on time, which compares favourably with, say, Heathrow, where more than a quarter of flights are late.Eurostar insists the condensation problem is a rarity. "It's happened literally a handful of times since Eurostar's been in service," said a spokesman. Efforts are being made to sweep the trains of snow before they enter the tunnel. The Gare du Nord terminal in Paris, infamous for its long check-in queues and lack of seats, is currently being rebuilt. And the journey time to Paris will be cut to 2 hours 35 minutes in the autumn when the first section of the Channel Tunnel rail link (www.ctrl.co.ukhas the plans) opens.By 2007, when the second section opens, another 20 minutes will be knocked off the Paris journey and Brussels will be only two hours away.But even if the reliability is improving, what about the cost? It pays to be judicious about your travel times, according to Eurostar. While walk-up fares are cheaper and most of the advance purchase restrictions have been lifted (see the fares section ofEurostar.comfor the new structure), catching one of the two early trains to Paris on weekdays (05.15 and 06.19) or leaving London between 09.23 and 13.53 tends to be cheaper. Peak trains start again at 14.43 on the return leg and run until 20.43.Watch out, though, for the new Value Business fare, which doesn't let you into the new Philippe Starck lounges in Paris, Brussels and London. And peak travel is still not cheap. A Thursday return to Paris in April comes in at £299 on Eurostar and £76 on BA, with EasyJet's first flight from Luton even cheaper.There's nothing to stop you booking tickets from, say, Paris to Geneva on the very good French railways site (www.voyages-sncf.com- click on the Union flag on the left), where a single costs 69 euros (£47).Meanwhile, the new Rail Europe website (www.raileurope.co.uk) offering through-tickets from Britain to the continent is a big disappointment, not just because it's incomplete (tickets to the Netherlands still have to be booked over the phone), but because the fares are sky-high. No wonder the government knows it can levy a "green" tax on air passengers when a standard return ticket to Ghent costs £310.
It's hard to imagine a world without Windows. Although Microsoft's operating system has never inspired anything like the devotion enjoyed by its Apple counterpart, it long ago achieved something even more important: critical mass.Kit out your office PCs with Windows and you can sleep safe in the knowledge that with few exceptions your business partners, customers and suppliers will have done the same. They're probably also using many of the same applications, which means that mailing a Word or Excel file to another office is unlikely to cause problems. Windows may be far from perfect, but the fact that everyone uses it makes life a whole lot easier.So what are the chances of Linux raining on Windows' parade? Already established as a secure, stable operating system for servers, Linux is now being touted as a serious alternative to Windows in the desktop market. As an open source product, it's certainly cheap.You can now buy a PC running a Linux variation (the contentiously named Lindows) from Evesham Micro for around £250 and specialist distributors such as SuSe and Red Hat are actively promoting their own desktop-friendly Linux packages at prices significantly lower than Windows. This should make Linux tempting, but only if it is also possible to acquire the additional software necessary to run a business. So what is available to Linux users?The good news is that when it comes to office basics, Linux users are well catered for. If you buy Linux from a distributor rather than downloading a free version from the web, the chances are it will come bundled with Open Office, a suite of applications that includes word-processor, spreadsheet and presentation tools. Like Linux, it's an open source product and you can load it on to as many machines as you like without paying for additional licences. It is also available as a free download fromwww.openoffice.org, but support is limited to an email response service and online documentation.Abandoning familiar applications may not be popular with staff who have grown comfortable with Word or Excel, and this has long been a barrier to the widespread adoption of Linux (or any other operating system) on the desktop. But opting for Linux does not necessarily mean that you have to throw away Windows applications.  Crossover Office (download for $54.95 fromCodeweavers.com) will enable you to run a wide range of Windows software, including Word, Excel, Powerpoint (the 2000 rather than XP releases), Lotus Notes and Quicken.Jasmin Ul-haque, UK director of Linux distributor SuSe, argues that the launch of Crossover Office represents an important step forward in positioning Linux as a viable desktop product. "People are aware that Linux can reduce their software licensing costs, but they are concerned about training and migration costs," she says. "Crossover Office reduces the barriers." SuSe is currently making a concerted effort to promote Linux as an alternative to Windows and it includes Crossover Office in its own Office Desktop package, priced at £89 with 25 user licences.Crossover Office is built on technology developed under the umbrella of Wine, an open source software project aimed at building a workable means to run Windows-compatible applications on Linux-powered machines. You can download free Wine software fromwww.winehq.org, but you won't get the support offered by Codeweavers, particularly in terms of telling you accurately which Windows software works and which doesn't.If you have no great desire to hang on to your Windows applications but find Open Office a tad under-specified, you could try Sun Microsystems' Star Office, a commercially released product costing between £16 and £32 per user, depending on the size of the order. In fact, both office suites are based on the same core software (with development funded by Sun) but the paid-for version has enhancements such as a calendar, mail client and database. According to Mru Patel, head of desktop solutions at Sun, Star Office also appeals to business users who require "support, bug fixes and a roadmap for upgrades". It is, he says, cheaper than Microsoft Office, while being fully compatible in terms of sharing files. Each user can run it on up to five machines.At the meat and potatoes end of the office software market, you generally have a choice between free open source products, which work perfectly well provided you have a certain amount of technical expertise and don't require support, and enhanced commercial counterparts that you pay for.  However, if your business requirements run to multi-user groupware products, the bills begin to mount.For instance, SuSe's Open Exchange Server offers the kind of functionality that you'd expect from Microsoft Exchange and Outlook, including email and coordinated calendaring. It's a proprietary product, costing £1,400, with the cost inclusive of 10 groupware users licences and unlimited email. Similarly, Sun Microsystems has just launched Small Office Solution, combining Star Office with a server package that permits groupware functions and remote access to the office network via PDAs, smartphones and laptops. It costs £9,000, with 50 user licences.Once you get into the heady realms of customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning and accountancy, the server-based products that dominate the Windows environment have also been retooled to run on Linux. For instance, SAP's various MySAP applications (which include CRM, ERP, supply chain management and accounts modules) run on Linux servers, as do the components of Oracle's all-embracing E-Business suite.  These companies haven't yet produced applications for Linux, but according to Oracle director of product marketing Gary Pugh, the operating system is rapidly becoming irrelevant: "Applications are moving from the operating system to java-equipped browsers. That is opening up the desktop to Linux."The upshot is that while Linux can cut your operating system costs to virtually nothing, the chances are you'll still be paying significant sums of money for business-critical applications.Help panelWhat is Linux?Linux is an operating system that can be used on servers and desktop computers. It is an open source application, meaning, in effect, that no one can patent the software or impose licensing restrictions on it.If you download a free copy from the web, you can load it on to as many machines as you like.However, most business users tend to buy so-called distributions from commercial vendors such as Red Hat or SuSe. These vendors can't charge for Linux, so you pay for added value services such as support, easy installation routines, documentation and bundled software.These extras may be the subject of licensing restrictions, so read the small print.
Any business owner would be able to tell you how much his or her company turned over in the past year. The same person might be able to say how much they hope to turn over in the immediate future. But how many can handle something like a proper cash flow forecast for further away than that?The answer is quite a few, but they aren't necessarily doing it in the most efficient way. One software seller, Dr Geoff Bristow of Cashflow Wizard, has done some research on the subject: "Of the 1.2m small businesses in the UK with more than one employee, 95% &#91;1.15m&#93; do some sort of forecasting," he says. "Of these, 14% use forecasting software other than Excel, and the rest (approx 1m) do use Excel. Of the 2.5m companies with one employee, a smaller proportion will do forecasting, but I would say 60% use Excel and very few of them will use any other programme."This, many people will claim, is a bad thing. Not because Excel is a bad product - far from it: it's the market leading spreadsheet and a lot of people have a lot of reasons to be pleased with it. Jan Hilenaar, project manager of REL Consulting Group, says: "When off-the-shelf software such as Excel is used, companies often find that they do not have the right processes in place and have difficulty configuring the software to their specific market environment."The answer is to use something more tailored, he suggests. "Cash flow forecasting software needs to be used as part of an overall cash flow management process, including collections of payments from customers and making payments to suppliers. If this is not achieved there will be little benefit in implementing cash flow forecasting processes and systems."So, as always, the answer isn't to get some software out of a box, load it up and hope for the best: not too surprisingly, this doesn't work. Gail Polkinghorne, financial director of Poole Audi, discovered the limitations of the ordinary Excel system very quickly: "I had a basic Excel spreadsheet that I had developed myself, but this didn't allow me to look at projected cash flow or the balance sheets," she explains. "What I needed was something that allowed me to create models for different situations and assess the impact of a variety of variables on each of these scenarios."She opted for Cashflow Wizard, one of the pieces of software designed for the purpose, which cost £49 but paid for itself extremely quickly.Polkinghorne found it was possible to model a professional-looking cash flow report without calling in an external agency. "The real impact came in a meeting with our bank manager. As we were sitting there I was able to change aspects of the model to demonstrate the impact of different questions that he had. In this way we were able to show him, in great detail, the thinking behind our decisions and the rationale behind our funding requirements." The result was agreement on the overdraft, very quickly.It's still possible to conclude that it's OK buying more software, but that Excel, for all its "neutral" status as a piece of software, would have suited the job just as well. Polkinghorne suggests, however, that the time-saving aspect of the software makes having it more than worthwhile. She hasn't actually measured the time it would take to write something as complex as the product, but given its functions and its internal checking she wouldn't go back.It's notable that Polkinghorne bought the product - and didn't spend much - because she needed it for a particular purpose. As always with IT purchases, it needs to be done after thinking and putting the product into a strategy rather than thinking "this might work". Without the right management controls around it, the product would be useless.The last word can go to REL Group's Hillenaar. "Good cash flow management is always difficult to measure," he admits. "But you should never ever forget that you can lose money year after year, but you only run out of cash once." And in company terms that "once" tends to be pretty final.Help panelWhy plain Excel won't cut itMany business owners will use Excel for their financials, and there's a lot to be said for the product. Which is why so many of the cash flow offerings under discussion are based on that product. The reasons it isn't always good enough are as follows:&#183;It's not designed for the task: it's a "vanilla" spreadsheet that needs adapting for something as specific as cash flow projections.&#183;The person who tweaks it for you can move on, and the replacement won't necessarily understand what has been done to the spreadsheet to make it work.&#183;If they don't move on, this person may be the only one in your organisation to understand how the spreadsheet does the cash flow, and will thus have a lot of power, particularly when it comes to pay negotiations!
A printer is fundamentally uninteresting. You stick it on the table and - oh look! - it prints. Or, at least, so I told a printer product manager at Brother just over a decade ago. With more politeness than the assertion merited, he explained, as if to a small and particularly stupid young boy, that they weren't all the same: companies needed printers of different sizes, network printers, large format printers. He didn't say photo printers at the time but there's a good chance he'd have done so had we been talking days rather than years ago.Indeed, many people regard the printer as an essential but dull add-on to a system purchase, and small businesses, and home businesses in particular, end up paying too much per printed page. The fact is that a printer is as much a piece of a system as anything else and it needs selection with as much care. It's a strategic investment, after all. And the key to getting it right is in thinking about the application it's going to be serving.The standalone printerEven what might be considered the basic, standalone printer that simply prints the page and is attached to a single computer, comes with a number of options people may consider confusing. The temptation is to go for the cheapest, but in the case of printers more than in any other computer component the total cost of ownership will bear little relation to the cost of acquisition - otherwise nobody would buy laserjets.And the reason they buy the more expensive equipment is that the running costs - the frequency with which the toner needs replacing being only one - are lower for laser printers. Never mind that they cost at least twice as much as the heavier-duty counterparts. One company that is acutely aware of this is Sharp, which has just launched its AR-C260, which is colour and mono and aims to bring down the cost of colour printing if not of colour printers (it costs £13,495). Sharp's belief is that high quality colour printing has been restricted to marketing and design departments, whereas the new average cost per page makes it affordable more widely. Optional add-ons enable the customer to network it if they wish and it's designed to be a low-maintenance model.The networked printerThere are two views on network printing. The first is that if your company's computers are going to be networked and then all switched on at the same time, then any printer can be a network printer. Just install the software on each computer, or get the network administrator to do it, and everyone in the network can print from one computer as long as their system knows to which computer the printer is attached. The other view is that not all of the computers will be on all the time, and if the one with the printer attached breaks down, the other computers looking for "Laserjet on Fred's PC" will fail to find it and you'll get a bottleneck of data.The answer to this difficulty is addressed by most manufacturers by putting a network interface in the shape of an ethernet card and port on to the back of the printer. The Oki C5000 series makes the most of this idea; the router on the network then recognises the printer as another PC, and you don't have to worry about which computers are on or otherwise. The cost differential means that if you have a network of only three or four PCs, you'll be just as well off with a standalone printer and software drivers on all of the other systems.Large printingAll of the above are fine when your basic need is for what we might call "ordinary" printing: that's on to A4 paper, which would account for most of the print workload in most offices. But not all departments work in that way. Requirements for A3 and larger print jobs exist, which is why Hewlett-Packard spent a lot of its time at the CeBit computer show this year making a noise about its DesignJet 120. This is a large-format printer that boasts the ability to print anything a company's going to want, from postcards to posters. It has an ordinary paper tray for the postcards and A4 stuff but it will happily run to printing A2-sized documents as well.As you'd expect from a printer aimed at this sort of environment, it has a lot of other bells and whistles: a fast ethernet connection for attachment to networks, high-resolution colour settings that are proprietary to HP so that the posters will come out looking professional, and calibration so that the colour output is consistent. And of course you'll pay for it: the price is £955. But looking on the bright side, it means you can work right up to deadline on a design project for a client and just print the samples on demand.There are other innovations appearing in the printing world. Ordinary networking isn't exciting enough; there are printers with wireless Bluetooth networking that can accept data from a hand-held computer - perfect if you're on the road and using an iPaq or Palm to present to customers.Frequent users of digital cameras, such as estate agents, will no doubt gladly pay the extra for a photo printer. This doesn't refer to the quality of the print, more to the fact that you can plug the camera straight into it. Image quality will depend on the paper as much as the printer.And the space-conscious will continue to note the developments in the multifunction area: printers that double as faxes, scanners and photocopiers, and sometimes answering machines as well. The downside of these used to be that they would use technology that was a year or so out of date and combine them into one machine. For most purposes, looking at the quality of print that was available a year or so ago, this doesn't matter as much as it used to.Mind you, it's equally true that, getting back to where we came in, if you get a printer and stick it on the table, it'll print, which isn't desperately interesting. But then "useful" doesn't always mean "radically different".All printers mentioned above are intended as examples of what's available rather than recommendations of the best on the market.Help panelChoosing the right printer&#183;Ask yourself what it's for. The portable, wireless printer looks great and works well but will cost more than its desk-bound, equally efficient counterpart.&#183;Think about the volume of pages you'll be producing. If you're writing books, for example, a laser printer will be a better workhorse than a bubblejet, in spite of the ticket price.&#183;Look at the price and durability of toner cartridges before buying the printer. Opting for the sub-£50 printer - and they do exist - can lead to disappointment when the replacement cartridges end up costing £17 a shot and you need four in the first year.&#183;Don't worry too much about dots per inch and resolutions. They're all impressive and even the most basic printer, given good quality paper, will make a letter look reasonable.
Someone, one day, is going to come up with a convincing reason as to why payroll isn't a standard part of an accounting or book-keeping system. Very few businesses get away without paying people, but the complexity of keeping up with all legislative changes and tax alterations means that a lot of companies regard it as part of the HR function and leave it to the more difficult, enterprise-wide systems and keep the books to a simple profit-and-loss accounting system.This leaves the way open for a number of third-party suppliers to add payroll as a separate service, and indeed companies such as Moorepay do very nicely in providing precisely this.One customer is London-based communications company JD Marketing. "We just don't have the time to understand tax changes and rely on Moorepay to provide our payslips," says JD's Jacqui Freeman. "It takes all the hassle and worry away from us." Moorepay also answers queries and reminds the company to get its returns in. For a seven-strong company like JD, it's an admirable solution.Other businesses would rather handle their own payroll, but are still concerned about the complexity. What they need is a halfway house between doing it all in-house and getting a specialist, whether this means one of the Moorepays of the world or their accountant, to handle it.Solutions to their problem are emerging: MyBusiness is a book-keeping and accounting system that works using an internet connection where available (details atwww.mybiz.co.ukand its Payroll product works by taking your employees' gross salary, squirting the details down a secure internet connection and applying all of the current NI and PAYE details on the spot. The customer gets the P60 back and writes the cheques, and has a weight taken off his or her mind.Fear of the unduly complex is what keeps a lot of customers and suppliers alike away from payroll systems. It's not that they're not available inexpensively, but people spending under £100 can be excused for not expecting too much in the way of technical trickery to support an area that needs updating so often.Simon Smith, general manager of MYOB, confirms that all customers who pay for tech support are updated with tax tables at the beginning of every financial year as a matter of course, and stresses the importance of keeping products up to date if payroll is going to be among the functions used.Unlike a number of the competition, he believes payroll belongs at the heart of a good accounting system. "It's something the customers have to do," he says. "It is part of the accounts and although a lot of people do look at it and decide they'd rather their accountant did it, those who embrace it and do it end up liking it."If anyone starts thinking payroll systems are still for the larger enterprise then consider that MYOB serves the market for 10 employees and under, and its product MYOB Accounting costs £243 including VAT and delivery. The update and support service is just over £100 per annum.Tellingly, Smith believes the main issue keeping customers away from payroll system is fear. "There's a lot of fear involved," he says, and he's right, although much of this is needless.There are many programs on the market that should help make it painless for any business of any size, and the extra costs involved are minimal for the time and money savings that can be achieved. Sage Instant Accounting costs £109.79 plus VAT, while Instant Accounts Financial Suite - the basic package plus payroll - costs £152.34 plus VAT; TAS Payroll costs £99 plus VAT with another £99 per annum for the support contract, and you can then download updates from the company's website whenever you wish.Ultimately it's a question of trust. Payroll is a vital element of any business, and nobody's going to survive long if it doesn't work. User errors aside, however, there have been remarkably few horror stories in the press about people's pay getting screwed up by computers. Given the minimal costs involved in upgrading, particularly for people already using IT to run their finances, it's a surprise that more small traders don't take advantage of it.Help panelHints on automating payroll&#183;As with anything financial, keep a backup of your data.&#183;Ensure that your information will be readable by your accountant&#183;Don't regard updates and upgrades as optional extras. Whenever that nice Mr Brown changes the tax or NI regimes your product will need to change with him.&#183;When trying to computerise payroll for the first time, do the figures manually as well. If they come out differently you'll know you have a problem.
If the summer is known as the "silly season" then there's probably a good case for calling the end of March and the beginning of April the deadly serious season. For it's at this time of year that the financials have to be put into order for the Inland Revenue and Companies House for most organisations, and a substantial number of companies are still not using technology to assist in this. That can seem a little crazy given the time that can be saved, except for the following awkward facts:&#183;VAT inspectors won't look at computerised records - so you'll need paper copies of everything when they call.&#183;The legal status of electronically held documents is clearing but there are grey areas - so simply scanning in every receipt isn't going to satisfy every auditor.&#183;Many accountants will work with different systems to those of their clients and will therefore not be able to take simple emailed copies of the books.These are bona fide queries but are pretty much defeated by the suggestion that you can print everything out as you go, which satisfies just about everyone. The fact is that most small businesses would benefit from automating their accounting systems and the end of a financial year is a good time to start.You need a number of things: the first being computers of course, the second being a small budget and the third being an idea of the scope of the job. If you're self-employed or in a very small company, there are a number of packages out there to help for well under £200 plus VAT, and the field gets more expensive as the number of companies you're managing increases. We'll look at those in more depth later, but the following procedure is common to them all.You'll need your latest bank statements for every account you wish to manage with your system. Likewise you'll want credit card details and balances for every account you wish to handle with the software, plus all of your outstanding bills, plus amounts you are owed by your customers if you're a credit-based, rather than cash, business.Then sit down, install the software, wait for the prompts as to where to set up the accounts and put the figures in. And make sure you have some coffee next to you - this can be a long process. But, crucially, as long as you keep your electronic books up to date, the time savings will become apparent very quickly. Specifically:&#183;Closing a financial quarter and filling in a VAT return becomes a task taking minutes rather than hours or even days.&#183;Closing a financial period likewise can be made to happen automatically.&#183;Most packages will allow you to link direct to bank accounts so reconciliation can be automated.&#183;Cheque runs can also be automated - and managers can get a good idea of where the company is financially without taking the accounting staff's time.The inroduction of the web page language XML (eXtensible Mark-up Language), means that the forms that leave someone's desk electronically from a supplier will be able to hit your desk, pick up your company layouts, fonts and anything else, and display it as if you'd done the tedious retyping already.More importantly, XML files at the upper end of the market will be active rather than passive, in that elements of them will be able to attach to elements of the receiving company's system. So instead of someone having to put an invoice into the purchase ledger, the invoice will find its way there automatically, subject to security checks.For the smaller trader this is a way off, but the benefits of automation are still plentiful. Some of the products available to the start-up company include:Sage Instant AccountingInstant comes from Sage, which is the market leader in small business accounts in terms of volume sales. Instant represents the simpler end of accounting although since it uses a number of accounting codes for different products and services, it's still made with the accounts department (or single person) in mind. Sage will be able to supply upgrades to the system as a company grows, since its products go all the way to the medium-sized company.www.sage.com.TAS BooksTAS benefits from clear layouts and ease of use - it will happily print out your VAT return so all you need to do is post it. Separate versions are available for people who want to be able to invoice or to do payroll.www.tasbooks.co.uk.Simply BooksSimple layout, simple manual, looks exactly like a spreadsheet with very few bells and whistles. Many businesspeople used to looking at spreadsheets all day will like this.www.simplybooks.net.MYOBA number of different versions of this are available; the MYOB First Accounts system offers a diagram of what you need to do to make your money work, and an easy setup wizard to boot.www.myob.co.uk.QuickbooksIntuit, maker of personal finance software Quicken, offers a simple-to-use wizard for setting up all of your accounts, then offers an "accountant's copy" so you can send the technical stuff to an expert for analysis.www.quickbooks.co.ukOmniOf course, not everyone needs stock control (in a service industry you won't need it at all). And not everyone will want to invoice if they have a cash business - but they'll still have to pay for the functions. Unless they go for Omni. The basic version is free to download, then if you need more functions, such as invoicing, VAT return, extra reports, you tick the box and pay a few pounds only for what you're going to use.www.omniaccounts.co.ukAs companies grow and needs become more complex it's worth building a relationship with a good dealer. Some are better for stock control, others for time billing, for instance, and advice can be invaluable.Finally, for sole traders, personal finance packages Quicken and Microsoft Money have versions with invoicing and business accounts in them. They can however be cumbersome when it comes to receiving supplier invoices.Always remember, of course, that if your books are truly easy to write down then a copy of Microsoft Excel will handle much of what you need.Start up with a free downloadGworks is a property maintenance facilitator which started in November. Managing director Tim Starks decided to computerise the accounts almost immediately. "Basically we knew we wouldn't be able to deal with all the accounting maths manually," he says. He started looking for something to encompass all the needs of a start-up immediately, and his IT supplier spotted Omni as a free download. "We spoke to our accountant about what it could and couldn't do and asked around, and all the reports we had were extremely good."Probably the most appealing thing about the software was its structure: you only pay for what you need, so there is no wastage. "The database behind it was perfect for our needs," says Starks. In spite of the modular structure, the thing came together as a single download from the website.It has been running since the company started it and - although the accountant has yet  to come over and see the information the system is generating -all seems to be running well. Like most of the software on the market, it will output to Microsoft Excel, and the results can be mailed to the accountant at will.Starks, as a new user of accounting systems, has a few issues with the way the software works overall at the moment. "There was no manual; all the help is online in the system," he says. He acknowledges that this is commonplace enough. "It's not something I'm used to personally, and to find it was a bit of a shock."Overall, however, the time spent installing the system and setting it up was minimal and the benefits have outweighed any reservations.Help panelElectronic book-keeping&#183;If you're undecided about which software to use, ask your accountant what they have. It'll save time and money if you can simply email your accounts to them at the year end for checking.&#183;Print everything out for the statutory authorities. Yes, electronic submissions of returns are happening but if there's any checking to be done you're still better off with paper for the moment.&#183;Think ahead: if you buy something that won't handle multiple currencies, what happens if we enter the euro or if you simply start selling abroad?&#183;Keep your existing book-keeping running for a few months at least until you're comfortable with and confident in your new accounting system.&#183;Don't trust your accounts system to the point of not paying an accountant for checking: you can make mistakes on screen as easily as you can on paper and they need checking!
&#183;Sun Microsystems has launched its latest assault on the Microsoft-owned small business software market, this time with its Small Business Server competitor, Small Office Solution. Aimed at companies with 50 employees and slightly above, it delivers all communications including email and SMS on to the user's desktop. If your staff don't want to change their desktop applications then it'll work in the background while they use Microsoft Outlook or whatever else they want. Sun believes it will undercut Microsoft in terms of running costs by about 50%; if you don't already use or have a need for the Microsoft server offerings it's probably not worth starting now, but if you did then this Linux-based system should be worth a look.&#183;By now many smaller traders have websites. That's good, but on the other hand it means that competition for attention from the search engines, through which many prospects will find the sites, is getting pretty fierce. Web specialist WSPS is among the companies trying to help, which it does with its BidBuddy, an automated system to submit web addresses and indeed keywords to search engines. This is happening at a time at which search engine submission is an increasingly complex process - there are paid-for search engine placements and those based on the amount of other websites linking to each other to measure popularity and relevance, so it is nowhere near as straightforward a process as it used to be. WSPS is designed to help with the former: seewww.wsps.co.uk.&#183;New research from printer manufacturer Lexmark - conducted before the Iraq crisis flared up, mind you - suggests that the majority of small businesses in Europe were optimistic about prospects for growth during 2003. But it also stressed that people's spending on IT was nowhere near as methodical as perhaps it ought to be. Of companies across all geographical markets, 16.5%admitted they had no idea what the cost of ownership (as contrasted with the retail price) of their technology actually was, while this figure rose to 30% in the UK. Among European companies, 23%didn't know how their IT contributed to their profitability or otherwise; rising to 32% in the UK.&#183;So, how do you announce changes of policy to your employees? This could be a salient question for business managers facing the changes that will be put in place as the Employment Act comes into force on April 6, forcing companies to make provision for flexible working where a request for it can be deemed reasonable. A survey from corporate policy and compliance specialist PolicyMatter suggests a lot of companies are using email, which makes sense: 65 % of companies are disseminating information in this way, but only 22% are actively recording their employees' acceptance of such policies. This is serious because failure to implement a flexible working policy will allow employees to take their boss to an industrial tribunal, which will want more than "we sent an email to the line manager" as evidence that the policy is in place.&#183;Time spent on commissioning and ordering business cards can be a major pain for small traders who'd rather be focusing on getting more business. This is the very reason why online company the Big E@sy has set up an ordering system which will store your corporate templates and designs as well as lists of names and job titles. It joins businesses including VistaPrint (www.vistaprint.com) which offers a similar service for sole traders, supplying free colour cards if you don't mind having a Vistaprint logo on the back and paying (cheap) delivery costs from the US.&#183;IBM Global Financing has launched two new financial products to enable small businesses to make realistic investments in IT - and don't be fooled by the name, they don't tie you into buying IBM kit. SuccessLease is aimed at smaller companies wanting to acquire up to £50,000 worth of equipment while Easylease is aimed slightly upmarket at businesses wanting up to £350,000 worth. Leasing is a good option in terms of getting updates automatically and enjoying tax breaks after the current reliefs expire: seewww.ibm.com/financing/uk/programmesfor details.&#183;Related to the above, anyone considering spending anything on IT would be well advised to do so before the weekend, if that is at all an option, since the opportunity to get 100% tax relief on business IT costs expires on Monday. There has been some confusion in the market as to what this actually means; it won't make people worse off in the longer term but it will mean that costs are written off (and tax relief offered) over three years rather than in one hit. So if you want immediate tax breaks, now is the time to act - after double-checking any tax-based decision with your accountant!
Police officers carry a lot of equipment on their belts - handcuffs, CS spray, a baton, radio, a      mobile phone, perhaps. In North Wales, some officers are finding room for another gizmo: a      personal digital assistant (PDA).North Wales police is one of the first forces in the UK to      issue officers on the beat with PDAs permanently connected to the force's main IT systems.Other forces will watch closely to see how the technology copes with front-line policing. In      general, police IT systems, like those in the rest of the criminal justice system, are in a mess.Over the years, each force has built up an individual mix of legacy systems, few of which      communicate. The result? Officers spend large amounts of their day re-keying data between      different systems.This does not sit well with government targets for more officers on the      beat. Mobile computing should help by allowing officers to sort out their paperwork when they      stop and search a suspect, or make an arrest, rather than later. Mobiles also open the way      for applications such as "video witness" - showing electronic mugshots of suspects to crime      victims in their homes.North Wales, which covers a huge area including large cities as well as      Snowdonia National Park, has a special need for mobile computing. As part of an IT strategy      that involves replacing about 30 legacy systems, it has issued PDAs to about 50 officers. The      plan is to issue 1,000 over the next three years to its 1,500 officers. Others will have tablet      PCs. The device will depend on the job, says Mike Hughes, project manager."A town-centre      community officer who spends a lot of time on foot may be best served by a PDA, whereas a      firearms team in a vehicle would be best served by data tablets."Both types of terminal      communicate with head office via general packet radio service (GPRS), an always-on service      operating across GSM mobile telephone systems. Like other police forces, North Wales is      introducing the national Airwave digital radio service - one of whose selling points was the      ability to carry data as well as voice messages.The problem is that Airwave doesn't have as      much bandwidth for data. Hughes sees no problem with a "mixed economy" of complementary      mobile data communications: Airwave for messages, GPRS for integration with headquarters IT      systems.Inevitably, there are other technical and practical problems to solve, quite apart      from finding room on police officers' belts. And as always, the big issues are what consultants      call cultural - how will police officers on the front line actually use the devices?One worry is      that officers will be physically overloaded. Another burden could be on the way - new fixed      penalties for loutish behaviour may require officers to add portable printers to their kit.      Computers also need look ing after, and may themselves be targets for criminals.North Wales      has found that the way to get constables to take care of their computers is to issue them as      personal kit, rather than leaving them on a rack for general use. So far, the main effect of      the mobile technology has been to reduce the amount of time officers spend in stations."You're in and out of the station quicker when you're dealing with prisoners," says Inspector      Rob Kirman of North Wales police. The real gains will come later, if and when criminal justice      systems are integrated. An officer will fill in an electronic form with the suspect's essential      details at the time of arrest.Assuming that information is correct, the information would not      have to be re-keyed during the entire process. In theory, the data would be re-used by the      courts, the prison service and probation.Already, the system is saving an officer 15 minutes      to an hour on every shift, Kirman claims. "It's about reducing crime, reducing fear of crime by      putting people out on the streets."See:www.north-wales.police/uk
It all started because I wanted to be "root" - the generic log-in and general term for the all-powerful person who rules computer networks using any of the Unix-based computer operating systems. If you are "root", you have unlimited privileges on the network and can change settings at will. As a popular system administrator T-shirt states: "Root is God." I wanted, just once, to be root.Given my lack of programming skills and dismal knowledge of systems administration, I had only one hope - Linux. Linux is the Unix-alike, "open source" operating system whose development is still overseen by its progenitor, Linus Torvalds. Because Linux is widely recognised as being stable, reliable, versatile and cheap, IBM and Oracle have Linux strategies.Analysts think Microsoft should be worried. But that's the corporate market. The picture for home users is different. Until recently, Linux was thought of as too difficult for the average user. Now, some of the commercial vendors of Linux argue that the situation has changed. New consumer-targeted packages from companies such as Red Hat and SuSE have comforting printed manuals, graphical user interfaces (GUIs) that allow users to interact with the operating system in a familiar, Windows-like way, and - importantly - access to helpdesks. If Linux is ready for the desktop, I mused, it was ready for me.Red Hat does a good job of making the install process informative and amusing in its manuals, and easy to follow on screen. If you want to learn how a computer really works - and for me, that was a key objective in installing Linux - it cannot be beaten. After reading the manual, you could address conferences on the subject of disk partitions, important to Linux both technically and, as the manual says, "philosophically".The problem comes when you actually create them, which is when I realised that I needed more help than Red Hat's disk "druid" (the Linux version of a Microsoft wizard) could give. While I wanted to create more than the basic requirement of three partitions, the druid offered too many options and, despite a full day rereading the manuals, I was still confused. This was to be a recurring theme.Another challenge is the amount of information one is supposed to gather about the hardware system before the installation commences - on sound and video cards, type and model of hard drive, and "IP, DHCP, and BOOTP addresses", among other things. "Four numbers, separated by dots," is the only guidance offered with the latter.Then, I began the installation. This is truly very simple, as long as things go well and you can let Red Hat's installer program, Anaconda, make the choices for you. The installer zipped along - then halted, displaying several lines of code. Checking the manual, I discovered I had a "Python compiling error" and I was supposed to copy the code and submit it to Bugzilla, Red Hat's bug-tracking system. Eek! But the process had given me the courage to install Red Hat into a disk partition on my Dell desktop system.Again, I struggled to understand how best to get Linux into the free partition without overwriting the XP partition, but got it right. And this time it ran without a glitch. Well, almost. It couldn't find my soundcard, and it didn't know how to connect to the internet using a USB DSL modem.So I used Linux's best resource - the vast army of Linux people out there on the web where I found instructions on the modem issue. Unfortunately, I'd have to go in as root, add lines of code to the kernel (core of the OS) and recompile it. I cannot imagine an average PC user ever attempting this. On the other hand, Linux people jump at the chance to be helpful through Linux users' groups or other discussion forums. I'm having a blast learning about how my five-year-old HP laptop works and about the powerful things you can do when you can modify to your heart's content.I love the beautiful Red Hat GUI, called BlueCurve.  And  I get to be root. The verdict? Linux is still not ready for the average desktop. But if you have a high comfort level with PCs and want to understand more - and you want to join a community which will amaze with its genuine goodwill and helpfulness - you'll love Linux, and no longer need to be a sysadmin to use it.Linkswww.linux.org.ukwww.linux.co.ukwww.linux.iewww.linux.eu.org
Apple is upset, and has toldMacWorldmagazine that ""Apple stands by our (sic) claims that our latest Power Mac systems perform equal to or better than competing PC systems." This rattle-throwing incident goes back to a piece headed Mac vs. PC III: Mac Slaughtered Again, which appeared lastNovemberin the Mac-friendly Digital Producer Magazine magazine. It was simple stuff, based on running After Effects 5.5 and Photoshop 7.0 benchmarks, and the reuslts surely couldn't have surprised anyone who really uses both types of machine. But what seems to have pinged Jobs's reality distortion field is that Adobe has now added aPC Preferredpage to its Web site highlighting the results. Perhaps the real problem is that Jobs uses Adobe software in his keynote speeches to "demonstrate" that dual-processor Macs are in reality much faster than single-processor PCs, not just faster at the same clock speed. The supersalesman doesn't like anyone undercutting his sales pitch. However, it would be a more convincing demo if Jobs took a couple of hundred standard applications off the shelf and compared those on both platforms, including a $499 PC. I'm sure Microsoft would be happy to send him a copy of Virtual PC....
Adam Osborne, best known for the Osborne 1 luggable computer, died recently in southern India after being ill for more than a decade.Reuterswas first with an obituary, though I'd recommend the one in the New York Times [free reg req'd]. Mine could appear in the Guardian tomorrow (Thursday). Osborne was also discussed onSlashdot. Before he became a computer manufacturer, Osborne was a chemical engineer and a technical writer -- his name lives on inOsborne/McGraw-Hill. He also wrote a column inInfoWorld, which only seems to have republished the Reuters obit. The column was called, with characteristic modesty, From the Fountainhead, and Osborne also used to give out annual White Elephant Awards -- neither of which I could find room to mention. His writing experience helped make Osborne the ideal interview subject: he not only talked sense, he talked sentences, so all you had to do was write it down and print it verbatim. In fact, if you were less alert than he was, he'd ask himself the right questions, too. Anyway, suffice it to say that, like David Tebbutt, the outstanding editor of Personal Computer World at the time, I"found him to be a thoroughly good egg".
'Hi there knackeredmom, poor u! My ds just the same, up 3 or 4 times every night. Have u tried star charts? Worked for us. Good luck! mum2joe"Move over, Miriam Stoppard. Hang up your boots, Penelope Leach. What's written above is parenting advice, 2003-style, and guess what? It is not from a guru - though it is the most expert advice there is; it is not in a book - but anyone can access it; and it is not general information - in fact, it goes one better: it is tailored exactly for you. Welcome to the world of baby advice on the internet, which is fast on the way to making a laptop compact enough to fit into your nappy-change bag  the must-have item on your pre-birth shopping list.When the pioneers of parenting websites conceived their electronic babies six or seven years ago, they thought they were setting up information exchanges where people could swap advice on where to get the best buggy or where to go for a family holiday. They were right... but also wrong. What parents needed websites for, it transpired, was to pour their hearts out. About bringing up their kids, yes, but also about how to get pregnant and what to do if you think your partner is having an affair, or worries about war with Iraq.Now the website chatrooms look set to challenge, and perhaps, in the long term, change the field of parenting advice for good. It is not that books laden with useful information will not continue to have some place, but the whole way that parents seek out, and then use, advice is undergoing a revolution.In many ways, it is a hi-tech-driven return to basics, because the internet is enabling parents (mothers in particular) to go back to the most traditional source of support of all: other mothers. This was the way it once was historically, but from the industrial revolution onwards and the rise of the nuclear family, it has become harder and harder, in the developed west, to pop round to your mother, sister or neighbour to find out what to do if your nipples hurt while breastfeeding, or if your two-year-old has tummyache, or your six-year-old still wets the bed.Today's parenting websites put a world of other parents just round a virtual corner: post a message at 9am on a site asking what to do about your baby's colic and you will have a score of replies within a couple of hours.What is more, says Daphne Metland, editor-in-chief ofbabycentre.co.uk(which gets more than 1,000 postings a day on its bulletin boards), the parenting gurus should ignore this huge barrage of information at their peril. "It has to be a two-way thing from now on. In the past, gurus handed down information from on high, but what you see on a site such as babycentre is the receivers of their advice coming back and saying what works and what doesn't. The internet is making parents much more critical of parenting manuals, and that is changing the way they will be written in the future."Metland, herself the author of many books on bringing up children, says the book she is currently researching will be "much more women-focused, much more what I have discovered they want to know about" than previous books.Some argue that there are dangers of parents doling out advice to each other, but those who run the sites deny this. All say they virtually police themselves, since if someone says something silly it will be questioned within minutes, and there are moderators who sift through the message boards and dispense caution where needed. On the upside, the anonymity granted by this method means that parents can come forward with their problems without embarrassment. Which is probably why it is the "trying for a baby" and "actively trying" areas of websites such as babycentre, babyworld and mumsnet that are among the busiest message boards."You can't exactly go bleating around the office with your worries about whether you're having sex in the right position," says Metland. "But you can log on to babycentre in your lunch hour - we find that is when our boards are humming the most - and get plenty of advice on not just how, but when to do it. People go into extraordinary detail on the trying boards, and you can see why - trying to conceive a baby is a very lonely time. We have women who team up and call themselves "cyclebuddies" because their menstrual cycles tally and they can keep in touch about how they are feeling as the month goes on, when they are targeting making love and so on."Websites also enable parents to open up and express their real feelings about a child without having to bend the truth. "Parenting is so competitive - no matter how lovely your friends are, there is still an element of what you can and can't say about your child," says Carrie Longton ofmumsnet. "On a message board you can be honest with no strings attached."As well as advice, what you get - crucially - on the internet is empathy. "People want this at least as much," says Longton. "There are times when what you want most of all is to know that there is someone out there who is in, or has been in, the situation you are in now." In other words, sometimes it is enough to know that you are not the only mother whose four-year-old screeches every morning at 2am or that your six-year-old isn't the only child who still refuses to eat all vegetables.Internet psychologist Adam Joinson, of the OpenUniversity, agrees: social support, he says, is a strong element in parenting websites. "The internet works best where you have isolated communities and a specific diagnosis or issue, and in these cases websites can be not just valuable but invaluable. Given that parenting is a chronic condition, I would say the need for information is likely to continue. Today's first generation of parenting net-users are likely to carry on logging on, and in time I imagine there could be a big growth in the number of sites dealing with, for example, adolescent issues."So do gurus feel threatened? Penelope Leach is "a bit affronted" to be asked: all her work, she points out, has been about giving parents enabling information, so why should she fear a channel that allows more of the same? She does make the point, though, that one downside to internet advice is that it is not always research-based. "You might be being given the latest information or someone's barmy idea, and it is not always clear which is which," she says. "The trouble with chatrooms is that you don't know who you're talking to and they are not always who they claim to be."Sheila Kitzinger is enthusiastic about the information exchange the net has opened up, but she says she fears for the mothers who end up spending so much time online that they forget the importance of being with their children. "We need to remember that the people we learn most of all from are them," she says. "If chatrooms become a distraction from our children, then that's not a good thing because interacting with them is vital."For parents, though, there is another bonus: besides being on the receiving end of all this wisdom, there is the fact that you are also in a position to dispense pearls of wisdom. While researching this article, I posted a message on one site about my VBAC (vaginal birth after Caesarean) to a pregnant woman hoping to have one herself, and another about my daughter's first days at school to a mother who is dreading her own child's entry to reception class this September. The internet has made experts of us all: just click on a mouse, and you too can join the ranks of parenting gurus.&#183;Mums on Babies by Rachel Foster, Carrie Longton and Justine Roberts ofmumsnet.comis published by Cassell at £9.99. To order a copy p&amp;p free, call the Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979.&#183;Stop press... Family days at the NewsroomVisit the Guardian and Observer archive and visitor centre, Wednesday April 22 to Friday April 25.Fancy being a newspaper editor for a day? Got a son or daughter who is a budding young journalist?Book a two-and-a-half hour session in the Newsroom, the Guardian's education centre, and create a newspaper front page with your family. Using that day's actual news, encounter the real-life experience of researching, writing, editing and selecting photographs.Sessions are free but places are limited; advance booking is necessary.Please contactthe education department on 020-7886 9898.
Civil liberties campaign group Privacy International has been attacked by the Home Office and by London mayor Ken Livingstone's staff, for what they see as unfair criticism of their records on privacy.Privacy International last night held a party to mark its fifth annual Big Brother awards, given to people and organisations it judges to have invaded privacy.A representative of the Home Office attended the event, but did not take the special award for David Blunkett: a (fake) dog poo on a stick. The home secretary has been a long-time target for privacy campaigners, as a result of his support for schemes such as entitlement cards."These are silly and malicious awards which have rightly been ignored by most people," said a Home Office press officer. She pointed to Mr Blunkett's introduction to the consultation on revised plans for government access to communications data, such as telephone bills and email headers. The original draft order drew heavy criticism last summer."In withdrawing the Order, dubbed a 'Snooper's Charter' by its critics, I admitted that we had got it wrong and said that we would have to think again and consult widely before returning to Parliament with any new Order,"writesMr Blunkett.It remains to be seen if Privacy International has damaged its credibility with the Home Office through its attack, despite Mr Blunkett's admission of error and revised plans.In another controversial move, the group gave two Big Brothers - its standard award for those attacking privacy - to those involved with London's successful congestion charging scheme. London mayor Ken Livingstone won worst public servant award for introducing the scheme, as well as for his plans for an integrated transport smartcard.Ian Brown, one of the judges, said the award was given because every vehicle number plate is recorded by camera. The scheme could have used a prepaid transmitter system, Mr Brown said, with cameras recording only the plates of vehicles without such cards."Their data protection notice says you have no privacy, and they can use the data for any crime-related or revenue purpose," he added.But a spokesperson for the mayor defended the scheme's privacy record. "Images of vehicles for which the congestion charging has been paid are only kept for a maximum of 24 hours. Data used for monitoring random movements is kept for a maximum of one week unless scrutiny suggests that further investigation should be carried out."He added that requests from the police or other investigators must be specific, and only for prevention and detection of crime.Capita won the most invasive company award, for its involvement in congestion charging and also the Criminal Records Bureau - which took weeks to clear staff for sensitive jobs when opened up last year.The Association of Chief Police Officers was branded most heinous government organisation, particularly for its promotion of data retention by telecoms and Internet service providers.The Cabinet Office's Policy and Innovation Unit won most appalling project, for its proposal to link government databases. Tony Blair scooped the lifetime menace award. "His government has, for so long, been pushing these privacy-invasive measures," said Mr Brown. "He has to take responsibility."Privacy International gave a Winston, aimed at recognising those who campaign for privacy rights, to Marion Chester, head of legal services for the Association of Community Health Councils of England and Wales.Ms Chester said health may be used to introduce identity cards by the back door, through schemes such as those for joined-up mental health services. "We will have an identity scheme that is not called an identity scheme," she said.Terri Dowty, joint national co-ordinator of the Childrens Rights Alliance for England, also won a Winston. She said the same tactic is being aimed at children, through schemes such as the school census, the Connexions advice service for teenagers and schools' use of biometric data.Ms Dowty said children should have privacy issues explained, then have the choice not to consent to their data being used. "I'm worried that young people are getting used to having their privacy invaded from such an early age, they are being softened up, so they will accept huge invasions of their privacy later," she said.Media activists Undercurrents, fellow privacy campaigners Stand - who run the FaxYourMP.com web-site - and Richard Norton-Taylor and Stuart Millar of the Guardian also received Winstons, along with a posthumous award for Dr Roger Needham.Privacy International has previously held the Big Brother awards in a lecture theatre at the London School of Economics. But this year it threw a low-key party in a London pub.Ian Brown said this was because, last year, representatives of a rival campaign group attacked two winners of Winstons at an open post-event party. David Shayler, the now-imprisoned MI5 whistleblower, got a custard pie in his face, while Stephen Robinson, of the Daily Telegraph, had a drink poured over him."We weren't going to change who we gave the awards to, to satisfy some small group," said Mr Brown. Instead, the organisers increased the privacy of the event.
Picture this. I'm standing on a wobbly chair - one of those cheap, gold-painted banqueting chairs you find in hotel ballrooms. The chair is right in the middle of the dance floor of the legendary Rainbow Room, on the top floor of the Rockefeller Center in midtown Manhattan,  way above the studios of the NBC network (I saw Conan O'Brien in the lift).I think it's around 1996 but I guess it could be even earlier.Through the panoramic windows I can see the Empire State Building, the whole of downtown, the Statue of Liberty and Staten Island in the bright morning sunshine (I've been here an hour but it's still only 8 o'clock in the morning).I would love to stand and stare from this oddest of vantage points butI can't. I have two minutes to present my business to the assembledventure capitalists, fund managers, lawyers, accountants, relocation consultants, recruiters... and quite a few stationery suppliers. Behind  me is a queue of maybe 20 entrepreneurs. Ahead of me 10 or 15 people have already stood on the plush-upholstered chair for a chance to pitch this crowd - a weekly gathering of people they suspect might have what they need - a couple of million dollars of cheap capital for their start-ups.Two minutes isn't long so I gabble and repeat myself - I have no script and I didn't plan to do this. I came to schmooze, to find some useful New York contacts, to find a possible American launch partner for our little London-based web design studio but I definitely didn't anticipate joining the line for the chair.Something came over me I suppose - ambition for my business, a bit of greed maybe - but I think it was mostly just curiosity and amazement. Coming from distant, cool London, the idea that people might meet (paying good money too) at 7 o'clock in the morning for this kind of torture - open mike capitalism - was so stunning that I just had to try it, to find out what kind of lunatic would do it, what it would feel like to climb onto the chair...In the end, a combination of my English accent, adrenaline-fuelled panic and total lack of chutzpah meant that no one in the room even understood what I was saying, let alone reached for their cheque book.When I got down from the chair the crowd applauded and cheered just like they did for all the others but their faces said: "Huh?". On later trips - on the East Coast and in Silicon Valley - I would make more presentations like this - and with the same degree of success.In the trendy, inky black interior of a hotel in the shadow of the World Trade Centre I presented to another group of money minders in their standard issue Chinos and blue shirtsleeves. This time no distracting views of New York and no wobbly chair. I had a 20 minute slot, printed "leave-behinds"', about 1,000 business cards and the obligatory Powerpoint presentation.The format was cruel: at 15 minutes a green light changed to amber, at 18 to red and at 20 minutes the microphone went dead and the next guy started to unpack his presentation. That's it. Sudden death.The worst part was still to come, though. I packed up and went to my "break-out room", a conference room with a white board - Perrier and pretzels provided - and waited for the stream of eager investors. No one came. Not one. The door opened once: "sorry. Wrong room."Torquemada could hardly have put on a crueller show. After 20 minutes the next guy came in and we chatted while he waited for his audience. No one came. Later we learned that the people selling a cool "push media" concept down the corridor pulled a big crowd. We failed the basic test - we just weren't glamorous enough.Looking back on those strange meetings from the other side of the bell curve of boom and bust, on each occasion my main motivation wasn't the money or the likelihood of getting a US foothold for my business. I think I was falling in love with this exotic and utterly alien way of being, with the whole business of American optimism, openness and self-creation.In those strange meeting rooms I took a crash course in the American way and learned that I liked it. I don't like everything about America - America in times of war is a particularly unlovable place and Oscar ceremonies could just as easily come from another planet as from the other side of the Atlantic - but there's no going back now.America is still unshakably the centre of the world economy and when the recovery comes I'm pretty sure they'll be setting up that chair in the middle of the ballroom again and the next generation of mega-IPOs and killer products will be lining up to climb onto it.
Richard Norton-Taylor and Stuart Millar of the Guardian have won Winstons (named after the hero of Orwell's 1984) in this year's Big Brother awards, organised by pressure group Privacy International. The prizes are for their coverage last year of the government's plans, later scrapped, to hand information about your internet activity to all sorts of public agencies. Most of the other awards, to be presented tonight in London, go to those who have done most to damage the cause of privacy in the last year. Take a bow, Capita, for being most invasive company; David Blunkett takes the less-than-coveted Dog Poo On A Stick award.The Registerhas the full story.
All new homes will be fitted with the infrastructure for broadband access, under a government proposal aimed at boosting the public's use of the internet.The proposal, which would cost the house building industry around £70m a year, was outlined in a consultation paper on changes to the building regulations published last Friday.The change would help the government meet its target of ensuring that everyone who wants it has access to the internet by 2005.A survey of house builders carried out as part of the consultation found that only between 1% and 10% of new homes are fitted with the infrastructure for broadband. The consultation aims to find out whether the lack of infrastructure in homes is a barrier to the take-up of broadband.The most recent figures show that only 1.1 million of Britain's 26 million homes have broadband access.Under one of the proposed new regulations all new homes, and buildings converted into homes, would have to be fitted with internet ducts, which would ease the installation of cable-based broadband technology.The consultation paper stated: "If the lack of ducting is a barrier to the take-up of internet services, particularly broadband, this could make the biggest contribution to the government objectives to make sure everyone who wants it can have access to the internet by 2005."The paper estimated that the regulation would add £460 to the cost of building a new house, and £325 to the cost of a new flat.The paper also suggested making the installation of ducting only voluntary. But it warned that this could reinforce the digital divide between rich and poor households because, given the choice, house builders would be likely to install internet ducting only on new luxury homes.
Apple has, famously, urged Wintel users toswitchto Mac. But this week PC Magazine columnist John Dvorak speculates that the company could be about to make a switch itself, from Motorola/IBM chips to faster Intel ones. Thescenariohe outlines is quite complex, and you can't help but feel he does a poor job of explaining some of the complex changes that would have to take place, both in terms of the company's technology, and its business plan. Take, for instance, his single-sentence explanation of how Apple would work out how to run Intel and Motorola chips (which have completely different designs) side by side in the same workstations: "Apple is adept at creating dual-processor architectures, so this won't be too radical". Humm... even if I think it's a good idea, which (I think) I do, I'm not so sure it would be that straightforward: Apple create dual processor architectures, yes, but both processors are the same make and type. But Dvorak insists it all makes sense and could begin to happen as early as this summer. One to revisit, perhaps?
Apple is all set to launch its own music download service, according to rumours sweeping the net, probably started by a blabber-moused record company executive.The announcement is likely to be delayed while hostilities continue in Iraq - wartime is not a good time to be announcing a new entertainment product. But when it finally arrives, it could be accompanied by a new version of the company's market-leading iPod music player.If, or when, it arrives, it will be up against at least half a dozen music services run by the music labels themselves, and some third party offerings too. How will the new Apple service distinguish itself? Well, it will help that it will be the first to work properly with Apple Macs. But the new service could also distinguish itself by offering some features music lovers really want.Here is a little wish-list of features that this iPod addict will be looking for in the new service.-- What's the top priority? A huge catalogue? Relaxed rules on what you do with the downloads? Neither. Instead, let's see a bit of Apple's customary ease of use, and elegance of design. That's because this new service won't be up against the other legit music download services (which don't work on the Mac platform, and which are not hugely popular anyway). It'll be up against peer-to-peer sharing software - much of which is a spyware-poisoned, advertising riddled, nightmare to use. I suspect plenty of users be willing to stump up a little just to avoid those systems' tortuous procedures for finding, then downloading, pirated music. If the system is fast, elegant and simple then users will begin to worry about the next thing...-- Music: we'd like lots of it, please, including bands we've heard of - and their back catalogues too, thanks. Remember, Mr Jobs, we're interested in bands and particular pieces of music - not record labels. So searches need to work across catalogues, seamlessly. I don't want to have to find out which label the Turin Brakes are signed to - I just want their last single, quickly.-- Do inventive things with the catalogues, and the integration Apple can provide across its iLife suite of software. Have the online service give us suggestions for good tracks to put in our iMovies, or some ideas for something to accompany iPhoto slideshows. And plumb the purchasing process into the iApps, so we're not having to fiddle around with credit cards or username/password combos every time we want to buy a 99 cent single.-- Give us a choice of subscriptions, or one-off purchases. Online music has the opportunity to be the net's second biggest impulse buy (after, I suspect, porn) and it could even become number one. Take top spot by taking a tip from the web's greatest entrepreneurs: make it easy for punters buy now. Make sure the rumours of 99 cents a track come true. If subscriptions are a must, tie them to, or throw in gratis, membership of the otherwise overpriced .Mac service.-- Make sure it works well with the iPod - and that we can burn our downloaded tracks to CDs. This might seem an obvious one for the company that brought you the line "Rip.Mix.Burn.", much to the chagrin of the record labels. But if Apple inflicts hefty copy protection on its users, it'll be an indication the record labels still don't really get it - and Apple has had to abandon standards to pacify the suits. The simple fact is, when people download tracks, they want the same feeling of ownership they get when they buy a CD. They've bought the song: don't stop them transferring it to another computer, or iPod, or a CD for the car or the commute.-- Finally (and this one is for the music labels): go on, let go. Accept that a background level of piracy is always going to exist. There will always be people who - because they're cheapskates, or because they're poor students using university computers, or because they're simply a bit dishonest - want to copy music. Their ancestors were probably busy with twin tape decks in the 1980s, and they don't represent a great loss (although some may graduate to become big music buyers in the future). An attempt to force draconian copy protection measures, through operating systems or any other method, will harm the law-respecting, music-buying majority. And it won't work anyway: all it will do is temporarily annoy a geeky minority who'll likely have the time and inclination to crack the protection pretty quickly.Of course, record company execs would say this wish-list is a recipe for disaster. They would argue that they will quickly see their back catalogues free for all under such a system. The trouble for them is, those back catalogues are already there. Luckily for them, the peer-to-peer systems for distributing that pirated material are so unreliable and unfriendly only a minority of net users use them regularly, for now. But this situation won't last forever. Before the developers get their acts together, the labels would be well advised to ensure they've got something much more compelling. There's still time to persuade the normally law-abiding majority to get back on the straight and narrow.Got another item for the online music wish-list? Email neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.uk
Just plug in and go, or not, thanks toDreams come true co. (Thanks toBrian's Buzznewsletter for the link.)
The New York Times [free reg req'd] has a story about Gordon Bell's project at Microsoft Research, which first came to notice last November (below). The NYT piece is called Memories as Heirlooms Logged Into a Database, which is reminiscent of Sam "Chip" Delany's award-winning novella,Time Considered as a Helix of Semiprecious Stones.
Microsoft codenames
"The Los Angeles Police Department plans to install 27 wireless local area networks at police stations throughout the city," reportsPCWorld.com. The LAPD will use 1,500 ruggedised handhelds from Symbol Technologies running Microsoft's PocketPC version of Windows CE.
PC Magazine has reviewed a bunch of the first wave of Tablet PCs and, perhaps surprisingly, finds themReady for Prime Time. Battery life varies and machines with Transmeta Crusoe processors are dog slow ("The PIII-M ULV machines outpaced the TM5800-powered tablets by up to 83 percent on Business Winstone"). But even if you are mad keen on the idea, there doesn't seem much point in buying a Tablet PC until you can get one with a Centrino chip set and software with pen support, if only a copy of OneNote from the next version of Microsoft Office.
If you long to play those Atari VCS or 2600 console games from the late 70s/early 80s, you can now get them packaged on a joystick: theATARI 10 in 1 Classic Arcade Joystick. Titles include Pong, Missile Command, Centipede, and Breakout (presumably the one written by Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak). Pity it doesn't offer the 8-bit Atari versions from the 400/800 etc home computers, but still, handy nostalgia for those of a certain age....
BigDigit Inc sponsored the World's Smallest Film Festival this week at the annual Cellular Telecommunications &amp; Internet Association wireless conference. The idea was to showcase films made specifically for mobile phones, reportsRetuers. "This is a new medium, and we want to explore what the new rules and the new content are going to be," said Beau Buck, chief executive of BigDigit. The company is planning similar events in Mexico City and London later this year.
"You could soon be saying goodbye to having several different chargers for all your handheld gadgets like your mobile phone or MP3 player," says theBBC. Plug SpashPower's mat into the mains, plonk down your gizmos and they are charged by magnetic induction.
Britain's appetite for digital television is growing so quickly the medium will overtake the internet in terms of penetration by the end of this year, according to the independent television commission.The ITC said more than 10 million homes - 40% of the population - had digital TV at the end of last year. In comparison, 11 million homes were connected to the internet."If current growth rates are sustained, digital TV take-up is on target to exceed internet penetration in the UK later this year," said the ITC.The TV regulator said the increase in the number of digital households was the result of a better than expected take-up of Freeview and the continued growth of Sky Digital.Sales of the boxes used to access Freeview, the BBC service that replaced ITV Digital last autumn, reached 300,000 at the end of last year.Freeview now broadcasts to an estimated 1.3 million homes, comprising those that have bought Freeview boxes and those that still own the estimated 1 million ITV Digital set-top boxes, which still operate despite the collapse of the service.Sky Digital added a further 227,000 subscribers in the last three months of last year, taking its total customer base to 6.3 million.However, the number of homes using services that supply digital TV down high-speed phone lines, such as Video Networks' Home Choice, fell by more than 27%.Just 12,000 subscribers now use such services, according to the ITC.The regulator predicted most UK homes - including those with analogue cable services - would have access to multichannel TV within eight months.
Cisco, which dominates the commercial networking equipment business, has snapped up Linksys, the market leader in home networking, for around $500 million, saysAP. Cisco is well known for being acquisitive, and the article says: "between 1993 and December 2000, it acquired 71 companies before the tech slump battered Cisco's stock price". During the boom years it was swallowing about one a month.
