We've got five copies of the updated Midway arcade titleArea 51to give away to lucky gamesblog readers. The console shooter features X-Files front man David Duchovny breaking free of conspiracy theory typecasting, acting as infected trooper Ethan Cole trying to unravel the enigma of the alien-laden underground bunker. A top trigger happy option for the Bank Holiday weekend.To get a piece of the action, all you have to do is clickhereand answer a blindingly easy question. Check out the reviews for the gamehereand choose your weapon.
For the enfant terrible of contemporary British art, even a text message could be art. Now Tracey Emin's words are being tested by a London art dealer who is selling photographs of a message sent to him by this contemporary British artist - on eBay for &#163;20 apiece.The message reads: "Twat.""I consider it a very interesting conceptual artwork," said David West, who is selling 100 "limited edition" framed copies of the text through the auction website and internet marketplace. Mr West, 30, of Stamford Hill, north London, copied Emin's phone number from posters she had put up around east London in 2002 when she lost her cat.Many of the missing posters Emin had made to find her pet, Docket, were torn down at the time and themselves claimed as original artworks.This April, Mr West texted the artist, along with "quite a few people in my address book" a summary of an article he had found in the London Evening Standard newspaper and appreciated.Emin apparently responded with a four-letter reply, and Mr West posted copies of the text she sent him, on the internet site eBay last week."I was wondering what to do with it," Mr West said. "I thought it was an interesting concept. I don't think it's been done before. As far as I know no one else has done anything similar."He denied that he was exploiting a private message that had never been meant for the public domain."I don't think I'm exploiting it. As Tracey says, a text message could be art. I know a number of people in the art world who thought it was a brilliant work and should be shared with people." He said he thought &#163;20 was "a reasonable price for something which is completely new and has never been done before"."It's completely genuine," Mr West added. "I can prove it because I've got Tracey Emin's number stored in my phone. The sender &#91;is identified on the text as&#93; Tracey Emin. Tracey Emin could not refute it." He said he had not yet sold any of the copies - which he says will be signed, numbered and presented in an A4 frame - but "I've got about 11 people interested".The message provoked some sceptical responses on eBay. "I see why she sent you a text saying 'twat'," one user wrote."I'm interested in the concept of buying a text - can I text you &#163;20?" offered another.Mr West said he was a fan of Emin's work. "I think it's very good. I like a lot of her early work." He was planning to write a children's book to go with the text. "Kids like texts," he explained.In a recent advertising campaign for BT and the Tate, Emin claimed: "For me art is everywhere. A text message could even be art."There was no reply at Emin's studio when the Guardian tried to contact her for comment last night.
There's a very positivearticlein this week's Observer Review about games, penned byEverything Bad is Good For Youauthor Steven Johnson.Far from relying upon the usual schtick (and it's good schtick but it's nice to see something new), Johnson suggests that one of the reasons the general public don't take games seriously is because they have no idea what it's like toplaya game.... we rarely hear accurate descriptions about what it actually feels like to spend time in these virtual worlds. I worry about the experiential gap between people who have immersed themselves in games, and people who have only heard second-hand reports, because the gap makes it difficult to discuss the meaning of the games in a coherent way.He makes no reference to how games should be covered, but perhaps "NewGamesJournalism" is reminiscent. What he argues is most important to get across to the uninitiated is that games are hard. Ah, challenge.He does a great job of explaining that they're hard, literally spawning the Walkthrough and FAQ industries, that they're able to make hard concepts accessible to players and that they're hard to break.The interesting question here for me is not whether games are, on the whole, more complex than most other cultural experiences targeted at kids today - I think the answer to that is an emphatic yes. The question is why kids are so eager to soak up that much information when it is delivered to them in game form. My nephew would be asleep in five seconds if you popped him down in an urban studies classroom, but somehow an hour of playing SimCity taught him that high taxes in industrial rates can stifle development. That's a powerful learning experience.More press like this in the mainstream, please, particularly as the article points out that the baby bible,Dr. Spock's Baby and Childcarecalls them "a colossal waste of time".I'm looking forward to the book when it's released on Thursday.
A torn-off cover of Fortune Magazine is pasted to the wall outside the cafe in building number 40 of the Google campus in Silicon Valley. The issue from December 2004 poses the question: Google - Is this company worth $165 a share? The headline must bring a wry smile to workers as they line up for their free lunch, prepared until recently by the Grateful Dead's former chef.The shares, which floated on Wall Street at $85 last August, have since climbed further still to $239. The flotation has made a lot of people in Google very rich. Founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, both 31, are worth about $9bn apiece. "I don't know if it has changed the culture but it has allowed a lot of people to buy houses," said chief executive Eric Schmidt.Google opened its doors on Thursday for what it billed as the factory tour, a chance for the press to cosy up to the world's most popular internet search firm. The door though was only a little ajar - the tour was confined to the lecture theatre. Visitors at least got a view of the reception, a pastiche of a dotcom with its lava lamps, big inflatable balls to sit on and black leather massage chair.Schmidt, 49, hired in 2001 to give the firm some gravitas and business sense, wandered on stage, lightsabre in hand to celebrate the launch of the latest Star Wars film. Staff were getting a free screening that night. Members of the senior management team told anecdotes about each other, like the time one of them got married at lunchtime and then came back to work in the afternoon.PrototypeThe latest initiative launched at the presentation also demonstrated the deadly serious side of Google. In a move that will have sent a chill across Yahoo! and Microsoft, Google unveiled its personalised homepage.The prototype allows users to display their Gmail - the firm's recently launched email service - local weather, local cinema times, headlines from the BBC and the New York Times, stock quotes and other services all on what looks like a standard Google search page.   The company said it expects to rapidly introduce more news feeds and other personalised features. It also plans to phase in advertising.The page pitches the company directly against Microsoft's MSN and Yahoo.com. Marissa Mayer, director of consumer web products and one of Google's first employees, said the homepage was not a direct attack on the company's rivals. Rather, she said it had emerged from an internal project called Fusion, in which the company has been looking at ways of bringing together the roughly 50 disparate services it has launched in the past few years."We were responding to users saying Google does all this great stuff and every time I talk to my friends someone mentions something else that Google does that I didn't know about," she said. "We have all these compelling products like email and news. This is just the first step of what we hope it will become."Google watchers were left in little doubt of the significance. "It's a huge deal for Google because it's an acknowledgment that they have portal features and that they want to be a place where they hope people will stick around," said Danny Sullivan, editor of Search Engine Watch.Yet another product unveiled on Thursday was Google Earth, a service that allows users to locate parts of the world, zoom in via satellite pictures and then plan routes using 3-D digital technology. Like most of Google's new products, the idea comes first and they work out how to make money later. "Don't be surprised," the firm warned at the IPO "if we place smaller bets in areas that seem very speculative or even strange."Google's growth has been astonishing. Its two young founders famously created the business in 1998 while at Stanford University. Brin, who was present on Thursday, still looks improbably young, and yes, a little geeky. The firm now employs 2,700 people. It is easy to forget the criticism that the company faced in the run-up to its flotation. The company is attracting high-level talent (including one of the architects of Windows, Marc Lucovsky, a Microsoft veteran who decamped to Google in March) and has become more professional and less disorganised.It has consistently outstripped Wall Street expectations. In the most recent quarter, it posted revenues of $794m, (&#163;434m) more than twice the previous year, and profits of $396m, up from $64m in the same quarter a year ago. The company now has a market capitalisation of $66bn. General Motors is valued at $18.5bn and Amazon.com at $14.6bn.PornographyThe many features added include Google Scholar, allowing users to search scientific, medical and technical journals; Google Print, which searches the text of books; Google News, which aggregates news services and the Froogle shopping search. It is digitising 15m books from the collections of Harvard, Stanford, Oxford, the University of Michigan and the New York Public Library and is planning to do the same thing with images of world heritage sites.Some features have spun out of Google's policy of allowing its engineers to spend 20% of their time on any project that interests them. "It produces some very surprising insights," said Schmidt. Around 70% of time and resources go into the refinement of the core search service, incremental improvements in reducing spurious pieces of pornography in search results to increasing the number of pages indexed and the speed with which they are updated.Brin maintains that the search quality is still ahead of Microsoft and Yahoo! "We of course are biased but we think we have a significant advantage in search quality over the others. Historically Yahoo! search was powered by Google so we feel the difference in quality between us has expanded a lot."Google has 8bn pages copied and indexed on its servers. Results are ranked by a complex formula, depending on things like popularity - the number of links from other sites; the importance of referring sites, the New York Times carries more weight than a minor blog; font size and the location of a word on a page.Sullivan says Google and Yahoo! are "probably on parity" in the quality of results but that Microsoft still has some catching up to do. "But in reputation and brand recognition, Google is still way ahead," he says. "People think search, they think Google."Small adsThe core revenue spinner for Google is the small advertisements that appear alongside search results. The company now also sells advertising for web publishers directly relevant to the page being viewed. A reader looking at an article about coffee will see ads for coffee shops.There is still a big market to go for. Total US advertising spend this year is expected to be about $280bn. Spending on internet advertising is expected to grow at 25% this year but will still only be a fraction of the total, some $12bn.At Microsoft's annual meeting, chief executive Steve Ballmer insisted, "We will catch up and we will surpass Google." Microsoft, ploughing hundreds of millions of dollars into search can never be discounted. The biggest threat right now though seems to be Google's own size and spreading influence, the larger it gets the more criticism it attracts. There are concerns about Google's power to decide what information is viewed. The French have accused the company of cultural imperialism, imposing the US world view.The company claims to believe in higher principles than the pure search for profit. It included the mantra Don't Be Evil in its guiding principles. In keeping with the Star Wars theme, there are those who fear Google could go over to the dark side.
Mobile TV has been talked about for ages, probably since the first mobile phone with a colour screen became available and certainly since the launch of 3G, the faster networks that allow video to be accessed at a reasonable speed. Now, Orange has announced a &#163;10-a-month service offering nine channels to its 3G customers, while NTL Broadcast and 02 have announced the first batch of channels for a service to be trialled in Oxford later this year.Orange is offering CNN, Fashion TV and a sports channel as "live services" available on customers' phones at the same time as they are broadcast on TV. The O2 and NTL trial, involving 350 people in Oxford, starting in September and running for six months, offers the Cartoon Network, Discovery Channel, Sky News and Sky Sports News. After that, the range of channels and the availability of the service will increase as quickly as the participants can make it happen. The 3 network promises it will provide live footage from the Big Brother house to its 3G mobiles.There is no doubt that the technology is now in place to offer a mobile TV service. Any debate will be over whether people actually want to watch telly on their mobile phones.Mike Short, vice president of research and development at 02, believes they will, although he stresses that they may not be watching the same things they would on an ordinary television. "A business traveller might want to watch the highlights and goals of the latest Arsenal match when they're away from their usual time zone and their home TV channel," he says. He points to precedents including customers increasingly dialing Wap connections for local information and news, and sees the new service as an extension of that. "People will snack rather than watch an entire programme."NTL Broadcast, which has broken away from the rest of NTL and will soon be renamed, is equally bullish. "Last year we did some research with 450 mobile-carrying customers. We asked what they watch in the home at the moment, and if they had a mediaphone that could receive TV, what sort of brands they'd expect," says Terry Howard, the head of media business development. Most consumers said they would use the service to kill idle time in the office, or during a business lunch, and would   watch clips lasting 10-45 minutes. "Over half the survey said they thought it was a great idea, and a quarter of those thought they'd adopt the service in the first year."The Oxford trial will offer some sort of reality check to those figures, and will also give the operators some information on how customers will use the service if it proves worth launching to a wider audience. Any broadening of the service will have to overcome more than the market, however; more frequencies, known as "spectrum", will need to be made available by Ofcom before the logistics of getting the service to everyone's phone can be overcome.Dario Betti, analyst with research company Ovum, believes the mix in the Oxford experiment is right. "People in trials around the world are looking at things lasting five to 15 minutes, generally news, sport and cartoons," he says. "Even 15 minutes looks quite demanding to me, though - how many times in a day would you have 10-15 minutes of downtime?"Viewers aside, the other area in which the medium will need to gain acceptance is among the advertising community if it is going to be viable. "If you put a TV screen in the hands of people who are mobile, it does two things," says Howard. "It supplements the stationary TV market, so that's highly attractive to content providers who want to reach customers they don't reach at the moment, and you can target customers you haven't got to before." He adds, though, that whatever business model emerges for mobile TV it will not be wholly dependent on advertising revenue - the dotcom bust taught new media companies that much at least.The phones in the trial, Nokia 7110s, are typical of the larger phone that will be necessary to watch a decent picture, and they are unlikely to make particularly riveting viewing. Ovum's Betti believes the trial will end up as proof of concept rather than the shape of the service that eventually emerges: "If you go back and look at the other media introductions, radio, TV and so on, people took something that existed in another medium, say theatre, and put it on to the new medium." It never stays as it originally was, though - TV now looks less like a theatre performance for the camera than ever before. "In the same way now, people are just trying to fix TV to a mobile screen. It's probably not much like what we're going to have in a few years' time."
Humble text-based email newsletters might seem a million miles away from the catwalks of New York and Milan, the glossy pages of newspaper weekend supplements and entertainment listings magazines such as Time Out. But having already virtually killed off the style magazine, there are now signs that the internet may now have a similar debilitating effect on listings, shopping and fashion titles.Urban Junkies, a London-based daily email newsletter and associated website, launched in 2003, and has built up a devoted following among its 20,000 subscribers with daily tips on what to see, where to go and what to buy.While its name would not sound out of place in Chris Morris's Nathan Barley satire, it is much more inclusive than some of the style mags whose readers it has inherited. It hopes to replicate that success in other European cities, starting with Barcelona, and will also shortly launch a mobile phone version and a more traditional online travel guide.Meanwhile, its highly regarded US equivalent Daily Candy, described as "the ultimate insider's guide to what's hot, new and undiscovered from fashion and style to gadgets and travel", is coming to London in June.Daily Candy already produces six US city-based editions for New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Boston and Dallas, plus a national version and one aimed at parents. Featuring the kind of self-consciously trendy, snappy prose and insider's shopping tips associated with Sex and the City, it has already caught the eye of American investors since launching in 2000.In perhaps the most successful of several similar launches in the US, former AOL chief Bob Pittman invested in Daily Candy through his Pilot Group vehicle last year and it has signed up Kinvara Balfour, the former style editor of the Daily Telegraph's Saturday magazine, as London editor. US analysts believe that it will be the acid test of whether it is really possible to make serious money from email publishing.Both Urban Junkies and Daily Candy, while aiming at different audiences, follow a similar model. Eschewing the directory- and listings-based   approach of larger sites, the sarcastic bite of Popbitch and Holy Moly! and the community model of the blogging fraternity, they are much closer in spirit to traditional publishers.Both Dany Levy, the US founder of Daily Candy, and Taryn Ross, the co-founder of Urban Junkies, came from a fashion background, and turned to the internet after becoming frustrated with the long production schedules of glossy magazines."I was working as a fashion PR and was getting pretty frustrated with long lead times; you end up working months ahead and everything seemed to be so late," explains Ross. "So we try and make it really topical - here's something that you should go and see today and here's the link to buy tickets. If you rely on Time Out, by the time you get round to buying tickets, it's sold out."Inspired by the launch of Daily Candy in New York, she rounded up a team of 10 regular contributors and 25 freelancers who "really know their subject areas", including refugees from style magazines such as Jockey Slut, the Face and Sleaze Nation, which at the time were toppling like dominoes.The content of Urban Junkies is aimed at a young, mixed audience, says Ross, who will check it first thing in the morning when they get to the office. "It can be anything that comes on to our radar. We're enthusiastic and pointing people in the right direction. We're not reviewing a restaurant, we're saying 'Gordon Ramsay's protege is opening a restaurant here, go and check it out if you want'," she says.Both Ross and Balfour emphasise the sharp design of their illustrated emails and the quality and brevity of their editorial, believing that their publications will take on the "trusted friend" status that the best magazines possess."Daily Candy tells everyone first; if   it's been in a magazine or newspaper then it's too late to go in Candy," says Balfour, who is in New York finalising plans for the launch. "Even when I was on the Telegraph magazine, the lead time was about three weeks. If we hear about something the day before we can get it straight out to people, whether that's fashion, restaurants, culture, art or beauty," she adds.Both newsletters are free to subscribers and while Urban Junkies is aimed at a mixed audience, Daily Candy is unashamedly female in its focus. Balfour believes that they will co-exist quite happily. But with the low entry costs, it will not be long before the market becomes even more crowded. Dazed &amp; Confused and Vice, two of the last style mags left standing, have recently launched email services.Even though both are free, they will have to work hard to maintain their relevance and retain reader loyalty. But Ross believes that the fact that Urban Junkies has built its readership through word of mouth, as Daily Candy did in the US, means it retains an affectionate place in people's inboxes. "There is a limit to how many people want to read. But because we offer 'insider information', as well as highlight the best events, hopefully we are the one that people will continue to open first thing in the morning."She also makes the point that because email is intrinsically more personal than a magazine, and offers an audience that cannot be easily reached elsewhere, advertisers are finally coming round to the idea."We are completely self-financed, which has been a struggle but is now definitely paying off. Up to a year ago I'd have to explain to advertisers why they needed an online budget. Now, people are coming to us," she says. Brands such as Diesel, which are desperate to reach the kind of young, metropolitan audience that Urban Junkies attracts, are particularly interested, adds Ross.Despite her cut-glass vowels (and being the Duke of Norfolk's niece), Balfour insists that there is a reverse snobbery to email publishing that also appeals. "I'm quite sick of seeing pictures of handbags of which there are only four available in the world and which are sold out by the time the magazine goes on sale."
The last entries from our three diarists, covering the final day of E3 2005. Dave Amor is back after going missing for the day on Thursday (and he has some interesting insights into EA's game development set-up), David Braben has a nightmare flight from LA and Tony is fed up about our captions for his Day Two photos. Sorry Tony!Tony Liviabella SN Systems(day one|day two|day three)The day starts badly as I read my blog from the day before and see the editors comments under one of the photos. Two emails from SN colleagues giving me grief confirm my thoughts and I have to explain that the captions under the photos are written by the editor and nothing to do with me. Believe me, "I've been as sweaty as the rest during this show", I proudly reply.It's an impressive 55 minute journey in today and I'm thinking maybe our luck has changed.  As we've got nearly an hour before the first meeting I offer to get some coffee from Starbucks, to get the blood flowing ready for the day. I should have seen it coming as I'm forced to queue for over 40 minutes just to get three lattes and a bottle of water. Fortunately, I have my DS in my bag and I play the GBA version of Advance Wars to kill the time. It's a title perfect for the handhelds and one of the best I've played. Finally, I get my drinks and head off to the meeting room. On my way back I'm greeted by a booth babe. Standards really have dropped this year.Booth babes - by day three, the pressure often begins to show.Today's been another day of meeting after meeting and I've no time for any 'playtime'. I mention in one of the meetings to EA how impressed I was with the next gen Fight Night demo, especially the final punch that crumples the boxer's face. They tell me it was created by the guy that did the Matrix and that he now works for them.Finally, I get a break unlike poor Steve who's locked in the meeting room all day. As I walk around looking for the smallest queue to join, I'm reminded that the LA gang culture is never far away. Even at E3, you come "packin' a piece" if you want to make it through the halls.Packing a piece - because you never know when you may need to fight for your place in the Legend of Zelda queue.Three meetings follow with Ubisoft, Sony and Pandemic. Bang on 4pm, a trumpet is played over the speaker system to signal the end for another year. By 4.05pm, carpets are already being pulled up and the hall starts to feel cold and empty. E3 is over for another year and there's lots I didn't get to see and do. Tomorrow I head back home as I'm back to work in the Bristol office on Tuesday.For my sins, I've treated myself to a shiny PSP. I couldn't wait any longer, Wipeout and Untold Legends will keep me occupied on the flight home. Luckily I have my trusty DS with me as well so I'm covered for the entire flight. So until next year, it's been tough but fun.Tony "Thumbs of steel" Liviabella SN SystemsDavid Amor Relentless Software(day one|day two)A late diary entry as yesterday was pretty busy.As a friend pointed out to me yesterday, the show is about hype. With so many games on the show floor, to make your product noticed you really need to shout loudly. Without doubt, EA know how to shout loudly. Most of their booth this year is a semi-enclosed 360 degree cinema complete with vibrating floor, which plays incredible CGI videos of forthcoming products. It's more impressive than anything I've seen at Universal Studios or the Trocadero. There's not a piece of real gameplay footage in sight and they make no apologies about it. Pure unashamed hype.Despite being a massive business, it's a pretty incestuous industry and a lot of what makes E3 interesting from a personal and business sense is running into old friends and acquaintances. After a deafening on the EA booth I ran into an old friend who emigrated to Canada and is now line manager for EA's FIFA franchise. Most of the work we're doing is on current generation systems, so it was interesting to hear his production experiences making FIFA next generation. He spoke of the 130 man team with sub-teams to do player heads, and then artists hired to do sweat maps to give characters realistic perspiration effects. It's clear that the step up in production from current generation to next generation is going to be a large one, at least if you're working on an EA product.Thursday night is Sony party night, and fortunately our second party status with them means we can secure tickets. Sony know how to throw a party and have been setting the benchmark since they hired Pulp to play at their first PlayStation party in 1995. This year was no less impressive: coaches take party goers to Dodger's Stadium where supergroups play loudly, wrestlers wrestle and burlesque dancers entertain a crowd of thousands. A great night, but a night that is bound to cause a hangover the next morning. My head hurts.David Braben Frontier Developerments(Day one|Day two|day three)At last, the show is over and I'm sitting in Los Angeles airport, waiting to board the 8:50pm flight home in the sprawling, disorganised main Los Angeles airport. This is the worst part of the trip by far; on arriving, the queues for customs can last hours; in departures there are almost no facilities (and no WiFi, hence the lateness of this piece) - which seems a surprise given how big a city it serves.Looking back at the show, obviously this one will be remembered for the launch of the big three new consoles - despite the fact that none of them were officially unveiled at the actual show itself – although there was really very little that wasn't already expected long beforehand. For me the surprise of the E3 2005 was the buzz about the PSP; I think this will do very well for Sony this Christmas, and frantic wireless battles (eg Ridge Racer) will be seen in bars and bus queues all over the country, like we were doing in our hotel bar only yesterday. I look forward to it!PS. Our flight was delayed two hours by a passenger refusing to fly (a mother and son), meaning baggage had also to be removed. They had apparently become hysterical. Incredibly, they boarded the flight, but changed their minds as we taxied to the runway. The collective 'hate-rays' from the remaining passengers who had to endure the wait was palpable.
Almost no one would ever have heard of the Polytechnic University of Valencia UPV in Spain, and even fewer would have heard of Jorge Cortell, if they hadn't tried to censor him.The problem was that Cortell was "invited by the ETSIA Student Union and Linux Users' Group ... to give a conference in one of the university's buildings. During that conference I was to analyze the legal use and benefits of the P2P networks, even when dealing with copyrighted works," he reports.It seems the university tried to block thetalk, then forced Cortell to resign.Cortell has posted background information athttp://jorge.cortell.net/,and the case has naturally been taken up by Spanish newspapers andhundreds of bloggers. Now it is going to reach the rest of the world as well."Upon the request of various foreign media that would like to cover this story, and would like a link tothe source in English, here is a recap of my ordeal," writes Cortell.Due to what looks like the Spanish university's crude and stupid attempt at censorship, an event that would have passed without notice will now reach tens of millions of Internet users -- as was entirely predictable, given the subject.And whatever the rights and wrongs of the case, the Polytechnic University of Valencia's reputation has just gone down the tubes.
"Das Keyboard is an enhanced 104-key USB PC keyboard equiped with 100% blank keys mounted on precision and individually weighted key switches," says theWeb site.Type up to 100% faster in a few weeks!Since there is no key to look at when typing, your brain will quickly adapt and memorize the key positions and you will find yourself typing a lot faster with more accuracy in no time. It is amazing how slow typers almost double their speed and quick typers become blazing fast!
Darth Tater
You can't get much more conventional than the conventional wisdom that kids today would be better off spending more time reading books, and less time zoning out in front of their video games. The latest edition of Dr. Spock's Baby and Childcare - 'fully revised and expanded for the new century', as the cover reports - has this to say of their video games: 'The best that can be said of them is that they may help promote eye-hand co-ordination in children. The worst that can be said is that they sanction, and even promote aggression and violent responses to conflict. But what can be said with much greater certainty is this: most computer games are a colossal waste of time.'I have no doubt that playing today's games does in fact improve your visual intelligence and manual dexterity, but the virtues of gaming run far deeper than hand-eye co-ordination. Even when I read ostensibly positive accounts of video games, they strike me as the equivalent of writing a story about the merits of great novels and focusing on how they can improve your spelling. It's true enough, I suppose, but it doesn't do justice to the rich, textured experience of novel reading. There's a comparable blindness at work in the way games are covered to date. For all the discussion of gaming culture that you see, the actual experience of playing games has been strangely misrepresented.We hear a lot about the content of the games: the carnage and drive-by killings and adolescent fantasies. But we rarely hear accurate descriptions about what it actually feels like to spend time in these virtual worlds. I worry about the experiential gap between people who have immersed themselves in games, and people who have only heard second-hand reports, because the gap makes it difficult to discuss the meaning of the games in a coherent way. It reminds me of the way the social critic Jane Jacobs felt about the urban neighbourhoods she documented in the Sixties: 'People who know well animated city streets will know how it is. People who do not will always have it a little wrong in their heads - like the old prints of rhinoceroses made from travellers' descriptions of the rhinoceroses.'So what does the rhinoceros actually look like? The first and last thing that should be said about the experience of playing today's video games, the thing you almost never hear in the mainstream coverage, is that games are fiendishly, sometimes maddeningly, hard. The clearest measure of the cognitive challenges posed by modern games is the sheer size of the cottage industry devoted to publishing game guides, sometimes called walkthroughs, that give you detailed, step-by-step explanations of how to complete the game that is currently torturing you. During my twenties, I'd wager that I spent somewhere shockingly close to $1,000 buying assorted cheat sheets, maps, help books, and phone support to assist my usually futile attempt to complete a video game.My relationship to these reference texts is intimately bound up with my memory of each game, so that the Myst sequel Riven brings to mind those hours on the automated phone support line, listening to a recorded voice explain that the lever has to be rotated 270 degrees before the blue pipe will connect with the transom, while the playful Banjo-Kazooie conjures up a cheery atlas of vibrant level maps, like a child's book where the story has been replaced with linear instruction sets: 'Jump twice on the mushroom, then grab the gold -medallion in the moat.' Admitting just how much money I spent on these guides sounds like a cry for help, I know, but the great, looming racks of these game guides at most software stores are clear evidence that I am not alone in this habit. The guidebook for controversial hit game Grand Theft Auto alone has sold more than 1.6 million copies in America.Think about the existence of these guides in the context of other forms of popular entertainment. There are plenty of supplementary texts that accompany Hollywood movies or music chart-toppers: celebrity profiles, lyrics sheets, reviews, fan sites, commentary tracks on DVDs. These texts can widen your understanding of a film or an album, but you'll almost never find yourself needing one. People don't walk into cinemas with guidebooks that they consult via flashlight during the film. But they regularly rely on these guides when playing a game. The closest cultural form to the game guide is the august tradition of York Notes marketed as reader's supplements to the Great Books. There's nothing puzzling about the existence of York Notes: we accept both the fact that the Great Books are complicated, and the fact that millions of young -people are forced more or less against their will to at least pretend to read them. Ergo: a thriving market for York Notes. Game guides, however, confound our expectations: because we're not used to accepting the complexity of gaming culture, and because nobody's forcing the kids to master these games.Why do these games need guides in the first place? Video games differ from traditional games such as chess or basketball in that the entire game environment is created by a computer. Explicit rules are a crucial part of that environment: you learn that you only have three lives, or that you can't build a marina until you have 50,000 residents, or that you can't open the gate on the third level until you find the key on the second. But some of these rules can't be learned just by reading the manual; they have to be discovered by -playing. And the computer is doing more than just serving up clearly-defined rules; it's concocting an entire world, a world with gravity, light, economies, social relations, weather.So why does anyone bother playing these things? Why do we use the word 'play' to describe this torture? I'm always amazed to see what our brains are willing to tolerate to reach the next level in these games. Several years ago I found myself on a family vacation with my seven-year-old nephew and on one rainy day I decided to introduce him to the wonders of SimCity 2000, the legendary city simulator that allows you to play Robert Moses to a growing virtual metropolis. For most of our session, I was controlling the game pointing out landmarks as I scrolled around my little town. I suspect I was a somewhat condescending guide - treating the virtual world as more of a model train layout than a complex system. But he was picking up the game's inner logic nonetheless. After about an hour of tinkering, I was concentrating on trying to revive one particularly rundown manufacturing district. As I contemplated my options, my nephew piped up: 'I think we need to lower our industrial tax rates.' He said it as naturally, and as confidently, as he might have said: 'I think we need to shoot the bad guy.'The interesting question here for me is not whether games are, on the whole, more complex than most other cultural experiences targeted at kids today - I think the answer to that is an emphatic yes. The question is why kids are so eager to soak up that much information when it is delivered to them in game form. My nephew would be asleep in five seconds if you popped him down in an urban studies classroom, but somehow an hour of playing SimCity taught him that high taxes in industrial rates can stifle development. That's a powerful learning experience.Playing one of these games is all about probing the physics and rules of the world, detecting subtle patterns and tendencies in the way the computer is running the simulation. Sometimes these have to do with mass and velocity: you can't jump across the canyon if you're wearing your armour; the rocket launcher is the only weapon that can shoot far enough to attack from the rear of the fortress. Sometimes they have to do with physiology: you'll lose more blood if you're wounded in the chest than in the legs; you can jump from any height without injuring your character. Sometimes it's collective behaviour: your neighbours stay longer at the party if you have a jukebox and a lava lamp; invading robots tend to swoop in from the right when you first land on the planet.Probing often takes the form of seeking out the limits of the simulation, the points at which the illusion of reality breaks down, and you can sense that's all just a bunch of algorithms behind the curtain. I suspect most hard-core gamers would acknowledge that part of the pleasure of their immersions comes from this kind of pursuit, searching out the points where the system shows its flaws - because there's something strangely satisfying about defining the edges of a simulation, learning what it's capable of and where it breaks down. Some people find this kind of exploration appealing in ordinary life: they're the sort that actually enjoys looking under the hood of the car, or memorising Unix commands.But video games force you to speculate about what's going on under the hood. If you don't think about the underlying mechanics of the simulation - even if that thinking happens in a semi-conscious way - you won't last very long in the game. You have to probe to progress.&#183;Steven Johnson teaches Interactive Telecommunications at New York University. His book Everything Bad is Good For You is published by Allen Lane on Thursday. Do you think video games are harmful? Write toreview@observer.co.uk
Hollywood and video games have for years had close links, with popular movie franchises being translated to computer screens around the world. But at this week's Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, the premier event in the games industry's calendar, there was evidence that the two worlds are fusing.While the movie industry still dwarfs games thanks to sales of DVDs, television rights and merchandising, the latter is becoming more difficult for cinema to ignore. Games are worth an estimated &#163;6bn a year, and big titles such as Halo and Grand Theft Auto can pull in first-weekend sales that put them on a par with blockbuster movies. As a result, video games are exerting an increasing influence on the business of cinema."I think creatively that gaming is moving towards movies, but commercially movies are moving toward gaming," says Ian Baverstock of Kuju Entertainment, which is working on a game based on the work of the cult horror director George A Romero, famous for movies such as Night of the Living Dead. "Studios are realising that games can add value, that they're not just a licence."For the games industry, linking more closely with the film world has mainly been a technological process. The development of new, more powerful platforms - such as Sony's PlayStation 3 and Microsoft's Xbox 360, both unveiled in the past week - means games developers are now able to produce high-definition, photo-realistic graphics comparable to anything seen on the big screen.And, while interactive titles are becoming more cinematic, consumers are demanding more from their movies: bonus material, extra footage and commentaries are now standard for DVD releases.Some developers have decided the best option is to resurrect movie classics for the gaming generation. A title based on Francis Ford Coppola's Godfather trilogy will appear in the autumn, while   Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry series is also making the transition. Some top-selling games, such as Tomb Raider, Street Fighter and Mario Bros, have been transferred in the opposite direction, though nearly all have been considered flops."We're seeing that going away, that sense of slightly tacky marketing," says the veteran games designer David Braben, whose company, Frontier, is working on Wallace and Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit, a game based on the popular animated characters. "We're now talking about looking at a whole story - starting with an idea and making a film and a game out of it."Forward-thinking developers are creating single entities rather than translating from one format to the other. One blockbuster franchise that has been pushing the envelope is The Matrix, the science fiction epic starring Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne. During shooting of the movie and its sequels, the directing duo, the Wachowski brothers, filmed not only for the movie but also for the forthcoming games. More recently, they launched The Matrix Online, an internet-based multiplayer version of the films which allows subscribers to roam freely around the Matrix world - and even interact with the virtual cast, played by actors."Essentially what we did was build The Matrix," said Jason Hall, senior vice-president for Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment. "The only difference between The Matrix Online and what you saw in the movies is that you can't access it through a jack in the back of your head."Transition between the two industries is still not as common as many would like. One company that has made the jump is Oddworld, a California games studio set up by two former film industry workers. After a decade in gaming, co-founder Lorne Lanning recently announced that the company was going in a new direction, operating much more like a Hollywood studio. Oddworld is also looking to work on its links with film and television producers in order to bridge the gap between entertainment forms."This is a choice, not a necessity," he says. "We see the excitement of what can be. We think that requires a new model. We want to stay focused on the creative content and taking that to new levels."Hollywood's bigwigs, too, are plugging into the benefits of gaming, and high-profile talent agencies such as CAA are starting to represent top games developers such as Will Wright. He created the world's best-selling game, a family management simulation called The Sims, and is now developing a sitcom based on the game.Some fear that the "Hollywood effect" could end up with too much money concentrated in too few areas. "The games industry believes it is following the Hollywood model, but they're not," says Gonzalo Frasca of the games website Watercoolergames.com."They're just seeing the glamour. What they don't see is that movie studios fund independent films, knowing that just one Blair Witch Project would pay for all the rest. That still doesn't happen in games."An assortment of challengesThe E3 show in Los Angeles is the major showcase for new games, and sets the trend for games that will be hitting our screens for the coming year. Titles unveiled this week include:SporeVirtual worlds are no longer   enough ... now you can take an amoeba, evolve it over millions of years into a race of sentient beings, and then - hopefully - take them into outer space.BullyPlayers try to survive life in a dingy boarding school in this   playground simulation from the makers of Grand Theft AutoKillzone 2The lifelike graphics wowed the crowds, and Sony is hoping this shooting game will be a must-have for its PlayStation 3Trauma Center - Under the KnifeThis quirky title lets you play doctor and perform virtual surgery on a number of patients through poking and slicing a touchscreen.
Despite the proliferation of rap, guns and cars there were a few examples of gaming innovation tucked away in the darker corners of the E3 show-floor. One of these was Wizard of Funk, the world's first, get this, EyeToy RPG. Players have to physically cast spells and move the avatar using the EyeToy – all in a musical fantasy environment. Yes, the developers are Dutch and yes, the plan for the game was probably hatched in a cafe, but the demo showed serious potential. Wizard of Funk is certainly worth keeping an eye on if you want a little more depth from your EyeToy. Elsewhere Sony's innovative camera was getting a more prominent push with Kinetic, the upcoming keep-fit game that makes you burn the calories by following and interacting with the aerobics or yoga moves. Who knows – if Kinetic catches on the average size of an E3 attendee may plummet to 18 stone by next year.
Friday afternoon is a good time at E3. The crowds have thinned out, making it easier to get hands on time with the games, while the demob happy stand stuff fling freebies out in a desperate last attempt to get a business card. So it was today that I finally managed to get a satisfying ten minutes on We Love Katamari – the sequel to the cult classic Katamari Damacy. The roll-em-up was as engagingly bizarre as ever, with the 2-player co-op a genius inclusion. The Katamari on Namco's stand was looking pretty good too – see piccie - although most attendees were distracted by the booth babes, of which there seemed to be even more this year. I'd love to know what they are thinking when they stand there posing with rapidly perspiring writers from GameHickOnline. Probably not, "I'd love to play that new Katamari game".
XBOX 360Microsoft chose to unveil its next generation console on television ahead of this week's E3 games expo in LA. Disappointingly, the MTV Europe show was approx 97% live music (from the dreary Snow Patrol and the Killers) and 3% info, and by the time it was aired here the details were on the internet anyway. The salient points in brief: the Xbox 360 is more powerful, better looking and, yes, much smaller than the Xbox. It's very customisable. It uses wireless controllers. It will come with a removable 20GB hard disk as standard. It will be backwardly compatible with "best selling" Xbox titles. A special button will take you directly to Xbox Guide online services including music and movie downloads. You'll be able to stream media from MP3 players and PCs. Pricing is TBC. And it's due out before the end of the year. Microsoft says it wants to "revolutionise the way people think about fun". Hey, we'll be happy with some well-crafted and original next gen games.
Forza MotorsportXBOXSony's Gran Turismo series has dominated the world of driving sims in Schumacher-like fashion for the past seven years, but finally faces some serious competition. Forza Motorsport isn't as polished as Gran Turismo 4 and doesn't offer nearly as many licensed cars, but it surpasses the PlayStation 2 game in three key areas - the 230 or so cars are damageable, opponent drivers are intelligent, and there's full online play with up to eight drivers per race. Brilliantly, it also features more than a thousand real-time leaderboards, covering every single track and race type. We were ranked 11,343th in the world after our first effort. Still, that's something to work on isn't it?&#183;Microsoft, &#163;40Championship Manager 5PC, PS2, XBOXIt's Championship Manager, but not as you know it. Following a boardroom divorce, Sports Interactive, the creators of the multi-million-selling series, kept the all-important data and know-how and went off to make the excellent Football Manager 2005 on PC and Mac. Meanwhile, the suits at Eidos Interactive retained the Championship Manager name and handed the ball to a brand new development team. Its debut effort, Championship Manager 5, was released on PC back in March (several months too early, judging by the state of the game), and received a critical mauling. The new console version - independently produced by yet another company, but still cheekily tagged "The world's No 1 football management game" - isn't nearly as bad. In fact, aside from inaccurate player data, most of the faults can be attributed to the limitations of the hardware. But don't take that as a recommendation.&#183;Eidos Interactive, PC &#163;35, PS2/Xbox &#163;40
It has been, quite literally, an exhausting week. Before you run out to see Return of the Sith, check out what's been going on in Gamesblog's galaxy. And have a good weekend on us.SundayOff to E3MondayRevolution video is Nintendo's pipe dreamMobile games stake a claim at E3Three new 360 games announced todayNurse, my scalpel!PlayStation conferenceTuesdayPlayStation3 unveiledXbox: Microsoft fights backThe future of pop is next genWomen gamers wanted for Frag Dolls UKNotes from E3Nintendo conferenceWednesdaySony and the ShadowE3 diaries: day one, Tony LiviabellaE3 diaries: day one, David BrabenE3 diaries: day one, David AmorPS2 and 360 battle it out in the specs department: what on earth do they mean?Top ten pre-E3 games?ThursdayCall the SporeBan this sick filthE3 diaries: day two, Tony LiviabellaE3 diaries: day two, David BrabenE3 diaries: day two, David AmorRetro at E3Has Sony's PS3 really beaten Xbox 360?Revolution in designAnd now for something completely differentEIDOS board resigns after takeoverFridayZelda and the planktonIt's almost too weeThe E3 diaries: day threeNokia extends N-Gage brand to smartphonesFramed againRumours of Xbox 360 non-backwards compatibility explainedTaxi Driver: the unlikely videogameOregon Trail creators interviewedGirl gamers wooed at E3More retro fun from E3
Go tohttp://www.google.com/igand you can create a personalised home page with links to Gmail, BBC news, local weather, a Word of the Day, stock quotes, Slashdot etc.This is another Google Labs effort, and of course, if you don't like this taste of the New Google, you can still useGoogle Classic.Another Google novelty isAdSense for feeds.
Here's something to put a smile on the face of veteran gamers this friday evening: Bust-A-Move is coming to DS. Developed by the strangely named Happy Happening, this new take on the classic bubble-busting puzzler features a five player Wi-Fi mode that allows competitors to attack, defend and counter attack via the touch screen. It's due out this winter. Have a good weekend.
"The president of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd said on Thursday it is up to Toshiba Corp to yield its position in talks on a unified format for next-generation DVD technology, making clear that Matsushita and its partner Sony Corp won't budge," reportsReuters.At the core of both formats are blue lasers, which have a shorter wavelength than the red lasers used in current DVD equipment, allowing discs to store data at the higher densities needed for high-definition movies and television.Blu-ray discs have a memory layer only 0.1 mm from the surface while HD-DVD discs write data on a layer 0.6 mm from the surface, the same depth as the current generation of DVDs."There is still a chance to create a new format, but we will not waver on the 0.1 mm point," Nakamura said.Comment:It's obviously very profitable to own a standard like this, because you can collect pots of money for licensing your technology plus a tax -- sorry, a royalty -- on every disc sold. Sony and Philips have been trousering the profits that come from owning the CD format for a couple of decades now, and no doubt will make many more millions in the future.The catch is that lots of formats fail, and it becomes very unprofitable when consumers stop buying because of the resulting format wars. When the DVD format battle was fought behind closed doors, the two sides agreed a common format to avoid that risk.Today, however, Sony and Matsushita must reckon they can win, and therefore have no need to compromise. In Sony's case, it helps to own some music and movie studios. Also, Sony can ship millions of Blu-ray drives by using it in its proprietary PlayStation 3 games console.This is, of course, good capitalism, and you'd expect nothing less...
'Obey the speed limit," says the sign on the outskirts of the village of Millbrook. On any other day, I would. But not today. Not when a banana-yellow Vauxhall VXR Monaro with a brain-curdling V8 engine is fuelled up and waiting for me on the test track on the other side of the village. Today, I am going to travel at 159mph, faster than I have ever travelled without putting my tray table in the upright position.The speed is significant, of course. It is the velocity reached by PC Mark Milton when he decided to "familiarise himself" with the capabilities of his Vauxhall Vectra on the M54 near Telford, Shropshire. His little training drive landed him in Ludlow magistrates court on Wednesday, where he was cleared of six charges of dangerous driving and speeding.How does it feel to travel at almost 160mph? Graham Millar, senior test engineer at the Millbrook Proving Ground - a two-mile banked circuit in Bedfordshire - is about to show me.For some reason, Vauxhall was reluctant to let me take the wheel of a car capable of "170mph plus", according to the brochure. A car that "draws blood" when it "bites the tarmac" according to Autocar. Perhaps it is just as well. I am an appalling back-seat driver, allergic to speed, and always pump an invisible brake pedal when I travel in the passenger's seat.Luckily, Millar is cucumber cool as he  swings up to the security gate in the Monaro. The engine chugs and throbs like a Harley-Davidson, but despite the aerodynamic body - not to mention the lowered sports suspension, air dam, side skirts and bonnet scoops - it looks surprisingly like a family saloon, albeit one on steroids. There's even a CD player and back seats for 2.4 kids with a need for speed.Millar hands me a crash helmet, but sadly, there is no leather jumpsuit like the one Tom Cruise wears in Days of Thunder. If I get nervous, he says, it might be best to prearrange a hand signal which says, "Stop, I'm going to  be sick." He tells me he has driven at 170mph on this track - 159mph will be no big deal.So would he let a rookie like me get behind the wheel? He gulps. "Erm, no," he says. "We'd need to assess you to see if you're capable of driving a car safely at that speed, that you're aware of the hazards and how to deal with them. Say a piston breaks through the crank case and you lock the wheels on the car and it sends you into ... well, it's difficult to describe." Wind gusts and burst tyres are no fun at 160mph either, he points out.Fair enough. I buckle up, dig my fingers into the side of the seat and prepare for a wild ride.Millar pulls out on to the circuit and presses down on the accelerator. The 5.7-litre engine roars into life and the speedometer needle jumps to the upright position. Within seconds we are in the top lane of the track, which has a neutral steer speed of 100mph. That means you can take your hands off the wheel at 100mph and the car will float around the circuit as if guided by an invisible hand. And Millar does just that. For several seconds I am travelling through the Bedfordshire air at 100mph with nobody's hand on the wheel."Right," shouts Millar through his open-face helmet, "let's go for it."His hands return to the wheel, the engine roars like a wounded lion (I've never actually heard a wounded lion, but bear with me) and 400 horsepower are unleashed. It takes us just 23 seconds to accelerate from 100mph to 160mph. It could have been faster, but Millar is taking it easy. We are at PC Milton speed. Millar is concentrating now, and the outside front right tyre is taking some serious force. The cement track races towards us at a speed I have only ever seen from the cockpit of a light aircraft. It is impossible to imagine overtaking, swerving or parallel parking at this speed. It is exhilarating and terrifying all at once.When Millar drops back down to 100mph, we seem to be at walking pace. The difference between 160mph and 100mph is staggering.I'm talking absolute rubbish now. "Whoo!" I say. "Yeah! Can we do it again?"We can, and the Monaro is soon back in the top lane, whipping round the circuit. "Obviously, some cars are better at high speed stability than others," says Millar. "But you need concentration and skills. It is a buzz, yes, but if you're doing it every day it becomes just part of the job."Ah, but what a job. For a few glorious minutes I have been fast and furious, and loved it.
It really beggers belief that the videogame industry is still being criticised for not doing enough to engage the elusive female demographic - especially with games such as Girlzz debuting on the E3 show floor. Here is the invigorating press release:This is a real-time sim all about girls and all about lifestyle. Accompany your protagonist through the Californian high-school scene: Will you succeed in outdoing all the other girls? Or at least in out dressing them?... Will you be able to stay popular with the goths and cheerleaders alike? A game for girls by girls.Buy, wear and trade clothes, shoes etc.Visit over 10 locations (Disco, Mall, Cinema, Café etc.)Date boys, have parties, meet over 250 NPCsOh dear..."Oh Brad, this has been the perfect girly videogame night. Romance, dancing, perhaps a stolen kiss. And at no point have you taken out a Mac 10 machine pistol and gratuitously gunned down several Hispanic gang-land stereotypes to an ironic '70s slap bass soundtrack""Babe, I'd never do that. Although the guy in the flowery shirtisreally asking for it..."
I don't know if UK schools had the early graphics gameOregon Trailfor their students (it was, after all, about the population expansion to the West Coast of America), but my elementary school in California did, thus cementing a passion for games and teaching me something at the same time. Mostly I learned that I was rubbish at keeping oxen alive and couldn't stop dystentery from wiping out my party as we trekked across the huge expanse of America with only a wagon and a well-managed system of vittles.Well, for those with soppy memories like mine, check outthisinterview with the creators over at College Humor by kids under the age of 14. My favourite question, from Brandon Berkenstein (Age 9): What are the dirtiest words you've ever used for your team names?(viaboing boing)
Yes, this is a screenshot from Papaya Studio's Xbox and PS2 conversion of seventies movie masterpiece, Taxi Driver. And of course, Scorsese's devastating study of a marginalised figure descending into paranoid madness has become... a third-person action adventure!Taxi Driver puts you in control of the volatile and fearless Travis Bickle in a true to life recreation of late 1970's New York City. Through a combination of driving and on-foot combat missions, you must rid the streets of devious characters and put an end to their shady activities throughout the city.Game Play Features:Take out the opposition with a vast array of weapons, including the Colt 25, .44 Magnum, Mac 10, Shotgun, and M-16Fire pistols and SMG's as duel weapons for double the carnageTrack down enemies and complete missions throughout New York City in Bickle's iconic taxiExecute a multitude of grisly finishing movesI'm having one of those moments of clarity in which it becomes clear just how utterly ridiculous this business is.
Responding to thestoriesthat Microsoft's next generation Xbox 360 won't be as backwards compatible as the announcements on last week's MTV special and at games industry 'do E3 suggested,Larry Hryb, the Xbox Live Director of Programming, has posted an explanation on hisblog:We're not sure where this came from, and is incorrect. At launch, Xbox 360 will be backward compatible with the top Xbox games. Our goal is to have every Xbox game work on Xbox 360. You will NOT need to purchase a new 'version' — your original games will work on Xbox 360.According to insiders, apparently how it really works is that rather than have a tiny Xbox inside (which is how the PS2 plays PS1 games), Xbox360 will run an emulator which emulates Xbox. This does however mean that some games, which do funny things with Xbox hardware, might catch the emulator out and so not work. Microsoft will try their hardest to make sure this doesn't happen, at least with high profile games.cheers M!
Tennis on the helipad of the Burj Al Arab hotel. Photograph: Getty ImagesA couple of days ago I watchedImagineon BBC1, which saw Alan Yentob explore the strange world of skyscrapers. Yent's TV persona doesn't quite match up to his self-image of a witty raconteur, but the subject matter was enough for me.Exploring the immense buildings on display, the above picture of Andre Agassi and Roger Federer came to mind. This picture's like glimpsing the future (or at least some psycho hybrid of tennis andSpeedball); two gladiators atop a gleaming skyscraper, brushing with danger every time they move. But move they must, for the crowd demands victory... VICTORY!!!Sorry, lost my train of thought there.Anyway, I'll cut to the chase. I'm impressed by theGherkin, and there's a charm about theLloyd's Building. But Yent showed me the likes of theJohn Hancock Center. Like the helipad tennis match, it just looks like a slide from the future to my little eyes.What's the most techno building you've ever seen?
Hurray, a sequel I'm actually excited about! It's Fatal Frame III the latest in Tecmo's superior supernatural adventure series, which has so far given me more sleepless nights than my mortgage payments. I've been a bit lazy and pasted the entire press release below - the highlight for me is the bit about the more detailed ghosts, who now feature, "hideous facial expressions and creepy eye movements". Lord help us, it's attack of the Tory leadership candidates!"Taking the popular Japanese Horror theme to a whole new terrifying level, Fatal Frame III: The Tormented is a complete Japanese Horror interactive experience as the player takes on the role of Rei, a cursed young woman whose overwhelming guilt and tormented dreams lead her into a formidable world where the lines between reality and nightmares are blurred and the only way out is to solve the mystery of the tattoo. What the player will see in Rei's dreams is only the beginning of the nightmare, making Fatal Frame III: The Tormented the most terrifying virtual experience to date."Features:Multi-Playable Characters: Using strategy and skill, the player must choose between 3 different characters with unique special abilities in order to complete each terrifying mission.Two Haunting Worlds: The game takes place in 2 haunting worlds: the nightmare and the real life. As the player moves deeper into the game, the line between the two worlds becomes blurred, creating fear and uneasiness in the player.In-Depth Storyline: The story of Rei's torment will consume the player as they move deeper and deeper into the mind-bending world of Fatal Frame III: The TormentedCamera Obscura: The Player will use the camera obscura not only as a weapon but as a guide by taking pictures of the ghostly inhabitants and creepy objects within the "House of Sleep" in order to solve the mystery of the tattoo and rid of the curse.Evolved Ghosts: Most terrifying ghosts to date as hideous facial expressions and creepy eye movements have been refined. Ghosts will stare at the player while morphing into a scarier ghost, increasing fear in the player as they confront the apparition.New Characters: A new female heroine, Rei Kurosawa, and a young journalist, Kei Amakura, bring new special abilities and their own stories to Fatal Frame III: The Tormented.Returning Characters: Miku from the original Fatal Frame is back and playable in Fatal Frame III: The Tormented, using her strong spiritual powers to help Rei solve the mystery of the "House of Sleep", as her haunting personal story from Fatal Frame continues...Disturbing Sounds and Visuals: Eerie sounds, unexpected movements, and psychologically disturbing visuals all add up to the most terrifying Japanese Horror interactive experience to date.
That's not me, obviously. Photograph: Time Out...reading Steven Johnson'sEverything bad is good for you, an analysis of how modern popular culture - videogames, TV, the internet - is actually making people more intelligent rather than dumbing them down.Jack mentioned SJ's piece in theNew York Timesa couple of weeks ago, and he's been getting a lot of play in the US.I don't agree completely with his premise, although it's certainly compelling. His best case, I think, is in the developing ability of people to find their way around new systems, to explore unknown rules and (that covers everything from playing a new game, watching The West Wing and programming your VCR).A lot of the book seems to be aimed at the rather closed minds of those who sniff at pop culture, gaming and the like... and I'm not sure he's ever going to convince many of those.Pointless trivia:My middle name's Steven. We might be related or something.
As expected, Nokia is making its latest high-end smartphones N-Gage compatible, so they'll be able to run the machine's back catalogue of titles, as well as the new stuff shown at E3. Games will be available on MMC cards or via download from a dedicated portal, and the handsets will be compatible with N-Gage Arena, allowing multiplayer gaming.It's a sensible move for the company - the latest handsets, such as the promisingNseries, are actually more powerful than the N-Gage QD, and of course, they will sell better. N-Gage has proved something of a cult item so far, despite some excellent releases, including The Sims and Pathway To Glory. However, the projecthasestablished an effective gaming brand for Nokia, which can now benefit the advanced handsets coming out later this year.There's a press releasehere, which also lists the games showing at E3. It's a pretty varied and interesting bunch that will be much more easily available from now on...The screenshot, by the way, is from forthcoming strategy RPG, Rifts: Promise of Power.
Everybody's been getting very excited about Voice over Internet Protocol this year. Few technologies have got as many tech headlines this year as Skype, Vonage and the estimated 1,100 other VoIP providers.With all this talk of ditching your landline in favour of an internet solution, it was only a matter of time before people started getting worried about the emergency services.And America's Federal Communications Commission has now decided that VoIP providers must offer full 911 services to consumers. Here'sRed Herring:FCC Chairman Kevin Martin called the ruling an action "to remedy a very serious problem—one quite literally of life or death for the millions of customers who subscribe to VoIP service as a substitute for traditional phone service."Before ruling, the commission listened to the testimonials of families affected by faulty emergency service access. The largest VoIP provider, Vonage, is being sued by the states of Texas and Connecticut.I suppose it's a moot point to wonder how you call the fire brigade on your softphone if the power's gone off. Or wonder if the wide penetration of mobile phones makes all this a bit redundant anyway.But no doubt some media will paint this as government reining in those crazy technogeeks. But what concerns me here is that these guys have let themselves get behind the news cycle; surely providing emergency service support should be one of the major priorities of any serious telco... and even if it takes significant investment, it lets you break good news stories.Beat the curve, and look good doing it.
One of our diarists, Dave Amor, seems to have gone awol - it was bound to happen as the pressures of demo-ing all day and attendingfree booze partiesimportant meetings at night began to mount up.Today, I've put the surviving E3 chroniclers in a single post - first up is Tony Liviabella fromSN Systems, the Bristol-based company that designed the key development tools for PSone, PS2 and PSP and is - I suspect - now working with DS and PS3. Below that, we've got David Braben, co-programmer of legendary space trading game, Elite, and founder ofFrontier Developments.Dave, where are you?Tony Liviabella SN Systems(day one|day two)"The day begins with another nightmare trek across the city. One and a half hours to do less than 15 miles isn't the best way to start your day. On arriving, I'm greeted by two fellas who haven't quite grasped the concept of portable gaming. Still, at least they look happy.The government's cruellest Asbo community service order yet."So into the halls I venture, for another day of razzmatazz. I go in search of more unseen footage – West Hall is my destination where Microsoft, EA, Ubisoft, Activision and a whole host of other big guns are positioned."I head straight for EA at the front of the hall and enter their booth to see the biggest 360 screen I've ever seen. Running is a "next gen" demo with titles such as FIFA, Madden, Tiger Woods and Fight Night. They all impress big time but Fight Night takes the crown, if that's the future then get ready for some serious fun."Onto Microsoft, where demos of the 360 are on show and the crowd is also just as big. Rare's Kameo is running and it looks nice. The only downside I've ever experienced is that the noise and lights can distort the atmosphere of many games as it can be tough hearing effects and music, so judging a game solely on a play test at E3 can be a bit harsh. In saying that, some titles just jump out at you, oozing quality and fun the moment you pick up the controller."Before I know it, I realise I have to be back at the meeting room for another demo. This place is huge and getting from A to B can take time. On my way I think about getting some food - but I take one look and think otherwise.A crowded, stuffy E3 food hall, serving toxic burgers and warm, flat soda to portly young men who haven't showered for three days. The very definition of glamour."I'm out here with Steve and Alex who are heading up our US office and the owners of SN Systems, Andy Beveridge and Martin Day. They're old school games programmers who set up SN back in the '80s, they still sit on the shop floor of SN with all the other developers coding away like they did back in the day."They love to code and it's a passion that's not exclusive just to the development team at SN but widespread in all the games developers I get to meet. We're all tired from the battering of visting South hall and glad to be back in the relative quietness of Kentia Hall as you can only take the noise for so long. As we head to our meeting room we pay homage to a Korean booth, I like the name and I like the idea.Probably the best software company name in the world"It's the Sony party tonight but I just don't have anything left to give. E3 can do that to you, if you let it."Tired and Weary."David Braben Frontier Developments. (Day one|Day two).Today (Thursday) was a good day for me - I finally managed to get a long enough "snatched" time to see some more of the show, and it was very interesting. On the EA stand was the most amazing giant cylindrical display, mounted above the heads of the visitors to their stand (I'm a sucker for technology). No joins were apparent - it was a coherent whole, displaying a single 360 degree high quality animated image, a render relating to their much touted Godfather game. I'd have thought the 360 degree nature of it all to be more something Microsoft would do, given the name of their newly conceived baby."Speaking of the Xbox 360, I also got to get more of a look at the titles touted for release on the machine. As I said inyesterday's piece, this is only really a graphical showcase, but I was astounded at the range of quality on show - and not astonishing in a "good" way."Quality ranged from impressive - the best on public show (at least that I saw) I think was id Software's Quake Wars, showing as video of in-game graphics on Activision's stand - to suprisingly poor."The worst I saw was EA's Need for Speed: Most Wanted. This astounded me because of the ways it was poor - framerate was low, pauses were evident, and the render and model quality, apart from what looked superficially like high dynamic range lighting effects, were not significantly different to what is already readily achievable on Xbox. To give them credit, it was a playable version; but the impression that was left was one of discredit."To finish on a positive note and after a good meal and some very nice wine at a meal hosted by a good friend of mine, Jacqui Lyons, before writing this piece, my impressions overall were pretty upbeat. We're in for a great rollercoaster ride with the opportunities these new machines offer, and despite the obvious hiccups that always seem to happen, I'm looking forward to it."
Is this man a giant?Perhaps I'm getting older, but my eyes - which have never been good - ain't what they used to be. What is Nintendo thinking releasing a new console with a screen smaller than acracker??the big people atEngadgethave this and more images
I spent some time on the Nintendo stand this afternoon. And after a blissful few minutes playing the new Zelda game, Twilight Princess, I felt like I'd been reacquainted with an old friend.Despite young Link's rather unnerving resemblance to Elijah "Frodo" Wood, I do like the new look. Let's hope they make something similar to Ocarina this time rather than artificially pad out the length like they did in Wind Waker.Elsewhere the Nintendo stand was home to the incredibly striking Killer 7 by Capcom - which I plan to get a go on tomorrow - and a DS oddity called Electroplankton (pictured above).This is a music/game hybrid that lets you create sounds by interacting with various "plankton" with the touch-screen. The results are surprisingly powerful – fans of early Orbital will certainly appreciate the basic, but warm, electronica you can make.So no sign of the Revolution, then, and far too much evidence that the Gamecube is drifting into child-console obscurity, but Nintendo still throw up the gems that make them hard to ignore.
The ability to trace your ancestors - and, possibly, their dubious professions - back through the 19th century via a home computer has been extended by the National Archive.The full text of the 1861 census went online this week, revealing a penchant among certain data collectors for salacious and defamatory details.Five consecutive censuses, spanning the years 1861 to 1901, have now been made available on the internet. They have proved extraordinarily popular. Three years ago, when the 1901 census appeared, the system crashed after three hours because a million users had logged on.The latest addition includes the curious entries recorded by a gossip-prone enumerator, Isaac Norris Hunt, who filled in the forms for his neighbours in Stow-on-the-Wold in Gloucestershire.Hunt, a railway manager, appears to have revelled in local scandals.His descriptions of the professions of some of his fellow citizens involved an unusual degree of speculation and denigration.Several are listed as prostitutes, including Emma Cook, 19, and 64-year-old Mary Newman. Another neighbour, Eliza Williams, was said to be "kept" by her "paramour" William Clapton.The unfortunate Hannah Cokey is described as a "pauper, syphilitic", William Shall was an "absconding bankrupt" and Elizabeth Wixey was said to "cohabit with a man". Mr Hunt also branded as "bastards" the two young sons of Lavinia Collicott - whose employment was described as "very doubtful".The online census includes the complete name, birthplace and occupation of residents across all 52 counties of England and Wales in 1861. But it is not free. Those logging on can buy pre-paid credits at the cost of &#163;6.99 to view 20 pages fromAncestry.co.ukwhich works with the National Archives on the project.Successive governments have held a national census every decade since 1801, apart from 1941 when the exercise was abandoned because of the second world war.National Archives researchers have tracked down several historical celebrities recorded in the 1861 record. Queen Victoria was shown living at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight with Prince Albert and seven of their children, including the 19-year old future King Edward VII. Uniquely she is listed as the head of the household.The young Thomas Hardy, then 21, was living in his native Stinsford in Dorset with his parents, Thomas and Jemima. Thomas junior's occupation was given as architect's clerk - an experience which would crop up in his work.
Back at home,Gamesindustry.bizreports that the entire board of directors at British game publishers EIDOS has resigned after the takeover bid by rival UK company SCi was accepted last month.At a time of increased British games industry employment flux, this certainly won't put the workers at ease.
Incredibly, not every one of the ten thousand games on show at E3 is a sequel, movie tie-in or new adventure for an ageing corporate mascot (Yoshi's Nursing Home, anyone?). Our roving photographer Jon Jordon spotted this wacky concept while staggering through gangs of nerds with his camera equipment. "This is a Game Cube game by Yoot Saito, the creator ofSeaman. It's called Odama and is a voice-activated pinball strategy game based in ancient Japanese history. You have three Odama balls which you fire like pinballs into the advancing enemy. At the same time, your troops advance toward the enemy carrying a large bell. To win, your troops must get the bell through the enemy's gate."You can only direct the bell carriers using voice commands - which don't work very well in the loud E3 environment. Anyhow, the only thing everyone seems to shout is "More Troops! More Troops!". The whole experience is surreal"And yes, before you type that comment, weknowit was at E3 last year as well, but it's still a fun concept and I'll leap at any chance to feature a microphone-driven military strategy pinball sim.
There has been a lot of chatter about the chance of an "iPod tax" being imposed on digital music players in the UK. Thanks to Dutch approving plans to bring in a levy on iPods and other players, there is increased interest in such a system.The reason is fairly straightforward: advocates say a surcharge for digital players would help compensate for "seepage" by those who copy tracks between multiple systems, or give them to their friends for free. Many countries already have such charges on cassette tapes, and Germany even has ahotly-disputed copyright levyon PC hard drives.But some see it as a "filesharing tax", used to compensate people for what they claim is a lack of revenue from songs which are illegally downloaded. Is that fair? Well, certainly the impact on profitsis far from crystal clear- and in any case, should those who want to buy legitimately be forced to pay for the transgressions of pirates?As Doug D'Arcy, formely of Chrysalis and Dedicated, points out:"Strictly speaking, a home copying/fair use right does not actually exist in the UK. So a token levy on MP3 players would be a practical and sensible way of compensating for this kind of 'seepage' - similar to how blank tape levies work in various countries. [But] I certainly do not believe that such a levy should be introduced as a counterbalance to music piracy (which is illegal)."So the question is: is such a levy fair... and, if it existed, how would you feel about paying such a tax?
Boing boinghas picked up on a sneaky element included in Nintendo's official press release about their next generation Revolution console. It appears the company may offer a platform for bedroom coders to produce content for their machine. From the press release:Freedom of design:A dynamic development architecture equally accommodates both big-budget, high-profile game "masterpieces" as well as indie games conceived by individual developers equipped with only a big idea.This is an exciting element not offered by the other big names, who've had more than their fair share of headlines over the past week about the brawn of their forthcoming consoles.While Sony has offered itsdev kitsfor a hefty price tag since 2002, most of the opportunities for independent development have been limited to PC. If a design feature is included in the out-of-the-box Nintendo Revolution, this could break open the indie development community and push homebrew developers towards new commercial opportunities.Then again, it could just mean that the insides of the black box are easier to design for than either of the behemoths and that the big N is casting its publishing nets beyond the usual suspects. Personally, I hope it's the former, particularly after witnessing the excellent offerings on display at theIndependent Game FestivalAwards at GDC 2005.
PalmOne says it is about to launch a new category of device, which it calls theLifeDrive mobile manager. This is an attempt both to ride the mega-trend for"life caching"and find a viable market for a $499/£329 PDA now the focus has switched to smart phones such as the PalmOne Treo (formerly the Handspring Treo).Basically, the LifeDrive is a Palm with a built in 4GB Hitachi (formerly IBM) Microdrive plus software that synchronises with the My Documents folder of your PC, which is where most non-expert users probably keep the bulk of their personal data.It also has the usual Palm stuff including the Garnet operating system (Palm OS 4.5), Documents To Go, a microphone and recording software, and a media player. It can also browse the Web and/or pick up your email.The LifeDrive does not have a built in camera or phone, because users will already have both of those in their smart cameraphone, and it would be pointlessly expensive to duplicate those features. This is not a replacement device, it is the second device in a two-device system.Well, it's not designed to replace a cellphone. It is, however, much more powerful and more versatile than the usual second device, a music player, so it could perhaps replace one of those.I went to Palm's press conference yesterday to have a look, and was quite impressed. If you like PDAs, you will probably like the idea of a PDA with 4GB of storage. If you think smart cameraphones have made PDAs largely obsolete, and will perhaps make standalone music players obsolete, then you should be looking at something like theSamsung SGH-i300instead.There's a longish review of the LifeDrive, with pictures, atPocket Factory.
Pet remixIn a move that is sure to divide fans of the Beach Boys, a collection of electronic musicians has remixed the band's classic album Pet Sounds a year before its 30th anniversary. The online album, entitled Hippocamp Ruins Pet Sounds, comes from the acclaimed net label Hippocamp. Each track from the original album has been reconstructed by a different artist and made available for download - free - on Hippocamp's website. For some, the project's title says it all, but others might see this set of reworkings as inventive as the master version. It is worth remembering that net-based, unofficial remix projects can lead to success. DJ Dangermouse, who last year fused the Beatles with rapper Jay-Z, subsequently worked on the new Gorillaz album.www.autistici.com/petsounds.htmwww.beachboysfanclub.com/ps-liner.htmlwww.djdangermouse.comwww.gorillaz.comEvery little helpsTesco has launched a service that lets you compare its prices with those of leading rivals. Although independent price comparison services already exist, the application is an innovation for the UK's leading online supermarket. Still, not everyone is happy when the retail juggernaut parks on their lawn. Supermarket Sweep Up, a non-affiliated blog dedicated to placing Tesco "under greater public scrutiny", has been busy building a small community of lefty activists, disgruntled suppliers and organic foodies. The blog's main beef seems to be the company's unrivalled success that often leads to the closure of local shops unable to compete with a company that enjoys nearly a 30% slice of the UK retail food market.www.tesco.com/price_check_searchwww.onlinesupermarkets.co.ukwww.supermarket-sweep-up.comFried CrueltyElsewhere, former Baywatch star Pamela Anderson wades into another large corporation. The long-time animal rights campaigner has joined forces with Peta (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) to make Kentucky Fried Cruelty, an online film highlighting the plight of the company's chickens. Described as "an undercover expose blowing the whistle on the cruel treatment of animals at KFC's factory farm and slaughterhouse suppliers", the sometimes disturbing short film is a kind of X-rated version of Super Size Me. The pressure group is calling on consumers to boycott KFC until the company agrees to make "simple improvements" to the way it treats its chickens.www.kentuckyfriedcruelty.comDracula blogBloodthirsty material of a different kind comes in the shape of Bram Stoker's Dracula, which has recently been released in the form of a blog. Over the next six months, bite-sized sections of the novel will be serialised in accordance with the dates of the original diary entries from the novel's protagonist, Jonathan Harker. It is nice way to get your teeth into a classic novel, especially if you haven't read it. Dracula is not the first classic text to be serialised in this way. The diary of Samuel Pepys continues to publish a new entry of the renowned diarist every day of the year.http://infocult.typepad.com/dracula/www.pepysdiary.comLonely heartsNo Longer Lonely is an online dating agency for people with mental health problems. The site, which is free to join, restricts membership solely to those with a diagnosis of mental illness. The site has attracted some criticism in the US that such an endeavour, however well meaning, only serves to segregate those with mental illness from the rest of the world. Nevertheless, it also shows how online dating - itself a marginal activity a few years ago - now caters for a wide range of society.www.nolongerlonely.comPolitical artThe general election might be over but the art of politics continues as ever. A century's worth of election campaign and wartime motivational posters has been collated on a new website, which also includes altered images and parodies of genuine posters, as "sometimes the politicians just make life too easy". You can post your own examples or browse through the impressive collection. Is it art or is it politics? The choice, as they say, is yours.www.artofpolitics.co.uk
Long waits at E3, but what exactly was on show? Photograph: David McNew/GettyThe amazing specs, the astonishing demos, the total lack of involvement from Elijah Wood - Sony sure knows how to launch a new console. And if you believe eveything you've read on the over-excited American news sites and games forums, the company has already won this round in the PlayStation vs Xbox face-off.But increasingly, questions are being asked about the footage on show at Sony's pre-E3 conference, especially the breathtaking Killzone demo. In its write up on the event, IGN hascast doubtson the real-time authenticty of the footage, and later revisted the controversy byspeculatingover the true source of the video sequence.And on the same site's Voodoo Extreme forum, apostpurporting to be from Epic Games' Mark Rein states: "the Epic and EA presentations were the only third party portions actually running on the PS3 in real-time."Meanwhile, I've heard rumours that Microsofthasbeen using dev kits to run its E3 demos, but these are running at much lower than their full capacity. So this fight may be a lot closer than it appears.But does that really matter anymore?To be fair, Sony has not explicitly claimed that the Killzone trailer is 100% real-time footage, created on a PS3 dev kit. And, these days, the term "real-time demo" is rather ambiguous - it does not necessarily mean that the footage shows a player interacting with the game as the consumer would see it.It could just as easily refer to a fully scripted sequence where every movement, every explosion and every fight sequence has been perfectly pre-choreographed - in this context, real-time merely refers to the fact that the scene isrenderedin real-time, rather than, say, overnight on a render farm, a la Pixar. Real-time is relative.But of course consideration of such intricacies hasn't made it into the mainstream coverage of PS3 - and that's the vital point. It's as though, befuddled by having to decode the Xbox 360 specs a few days before, many commentators simply gave up and fell back on empty-headed hype.By far the worst offender was yesterday's Metro. Here's a sample sentence from the freebie paper's page three story on PS3, accompanied by clearly not in-game images of Madden 2006 and Need For Speed."PS3 is ten times more powerful than a home computer".Has a more arbitary phrase ever been committed to the printed page? What is the reader expected to garner from such a vague assertion? I mean, surely even the most novice PC user knows that there is an enormous difference in performance between a £400 Dell starter machine and a two grand Alienware games monster? But it gets better:"Digital tricks have allowed engineers to render games in near movie-like quality."Just take a moment to read that again. It is absolutely empty of meaning - a rice cake of a sentence. "Digital tricks"? "Movie-like quality"? And who are these mysterious engineers?Sony Computer Entertainment is a master of pre-release hype. A. Master. It knows that, while gamers endlessly debate the reality or unreality of screenshots and trailers, this doubt never filters out toward the average consumer.I was surprised by just how many news reports of both Xbox 360 and PS3 mentioned the fact that they could play CDs and DVDs - to me it's like reporting that the latest Panasonic TV lets you change channels, or that a new Smeg fridge has a light that comes on when you open the door. But CD and DVD playing capabilities obviously still impress the mainstream consumer. No wonder they're suckered by a "movie-like" screenshot.The hyper-real boast-fest that is E3 is no place to assess new hardware. It is no place to reallyassessanything. This is the kingdom of immediate impressions and bursts of confused excitement. When the dust settles and it becomes clear that Guerrilla, a small developer from Amsterdam, possibly couldn't have harnessed the full power of PS3 in a matter of months, then we shall be able to analyse. But by then the hype will have worked its magic.And somewhere there will be a global marketing manager, in a big leather chair, stroking a white cat, laughing quietly to himself.
I went to Clay Shirky's talk, Ontology Is Overrated, at the ETech conference in San Diego in March, and it was one of the highlights of the show. Assuming you missed it, you can now read an expanded version on Clay Shirky's Writings About the Internet,here. It runs from the periodic table of elements to Delicious, and if you haven't come across these ideas before, it probably will change the way you see the world.
The Kentia Hall at E3 is almost a cult classic now. With no natural light, and lacking the glamour of the two main show halls, Kentia isn't so much the place where gaming goes to die – although it can feel like that - but a bizarre collection of stands that sees the German Games Developer Association sharing floor space with a train sim peripheral maker.But, in amongst the back-end security software and the Polish and South Korean PC games, with artwork seemingly designed in the mid-80s, was a hidden gem – the history of video games display, which I missed last year. Displaying consoles and games from 1972's Odyssey onwards, the crowded area was a treat for those who can remember when the Atari 2600 was the playground must-have.One of the most bizarre exhibits though, was non-gaming - the 1976 Atari Video Music Device. About the size of a brick, buddingDisco Stu'scould plug this stereo into their TV's and let it produce a series of trippy animations (pictured above: think those stripy lines you got when ZX Spectrum games loaded, but worse) that would "enhance" your listening pleasure.Let's be thankful Atari decided that games, and not music, was the way forward.
We'vewrittenrecentlyabout the race to get television onto mobile phones: one of the things that networks are banking on to help push 3G in the face of the videocall flop.Well, it looks like Orange have taken first blood:Orange today announced the launch of the UK's first TV-on-the-mobile service – Orange TV – allowing customers to watch news, sport and entertainment programmes on their phone.Running over Orange's high-speed 3G network, the service – which will be available from next week – has an initial line-up of 9 channels including ITN News, CNN, Cartoon Network and extreme sports.All of the channels will be streamed over the Orange 3G network and are available through the new Orange TV section on Orange World. Customers need to be in 3G coverage to use the service.It's going to cost subscribers £10 a month, and - for the moment at least - they'll only be able to use theNokia 6680I haven't seen this in operation, so I'm holding judgment back. I have seen DVB-H transmissions to mobiles working (and quite well), though, and I can't imagine that streaming over 3G is going to get the best quality images.Can mobile TV really save the skins of networks?
Sony unveiling the PlayStation 3 at E3. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/APThursdays just wouldn't be the same without another issue ofOnlinemaking it from our grubby hands to yours.This week we've got a gaming special in honour of E3. It's led by a piecelooking at the next generation consoles- Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Revolution - and wondering who has the strength to really change the way we play.We also look atthe rise of "One-Thumb" gaming, the future ofin-game advertising- and whether we really want it, as well as an interview withAmon Tobin, who wrote the soundtrack to Splinter Cell 3.Away from gaming, we look atthe best gadgets for your summer holidayand get the lowdown on Microsoft'smobile email plans.And we ask the ultimate question:if you left your iPod or your mobile phone at home, which would you miss the most?Dave Birch certainly knows what his answer is.That's not all, of course:click herefor a complete listing of this week's supplement.
Sadie Frost's submission to the 14 Days exhibition. Photograph: Sadie FrostSome of you may have seen an exhibition called "14 Days" last year, in which camera phone pics from a selection of celebrities were displayed. Most of it couldn't be called art, but it did help show how taking pictures with your phone is about charting your life story.Now Sony Ericsson - who sponsored the show - is using eBay to auction off a selection of images for charity. The one above, taken by Sadie Frost, joins pictures by Helena Christensen, Eddie Jordan, Irvine Welsh and Carl Barat from the Libertines.While some of the snaps aren't quite Louvre material (Helena Christensen'spink picture of lightsisn't *that* inspiring, for example), all cash raised will go to children's cancer charity CLIC Sargent.Click hereto look at the pictures.
The growing popularity of high-speed internet connections was confirmed today when BT said it had reached its broadband targets a year ahead of schedule.The company's broadband connections more than doubled in the year to the end of March enabling it to hit its target of 5m 12 months early.BT said it made 825,000 connections in the first three months of this year, or "one every 10 seconds of every day"."We have more than doubled the number of broadband DSL connections in the year, hit the 5m target a year early and are increasing broadband speeds by up to four times," the BT chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, said today.BT said most of its broadband customers were businesses, but it almost doubled domestic connections to 1,330,000 during the year and said it   had around 36% of the broadband retail market.The telecoms group has been focusing on broadband and mobile services to offset a decline in its traditional fixed line business.BT said revenues from broadband jumped by 77% to £292m in the year to March 31, while revenues from its traditional businesses fell by 9%.Annual net profit rose to £1.8bn, up from £1.4bn in 2003."These are great results and we expect to see the overall revenue trends continuing," Mr Verwaayen said.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
In a year or two, everything around us, including lights and doors, could be responding to a wireless technology that few people have even heard of. The new standard,ZigBee, looks like being one of the technology success stories of recent times.Other wireless communications systems - such as Ultra Wide Band (UWB), Wi-Fi and WiMax - are battling to go faster or further. ZigBee has humbler ambitions. It is one of the slowest wireless networking technologies, but it could get into products more quickly than the others. It has a short range, yet it could affect our lives profoundly.ZigBee is designed for wireless controls and sensors. It could be built into just about anything you have round your home or office, including lights, switches, doors and appliances. They can then interact without wires, and you can control them all ... from your mobile phone.The "home of the future" has been a science fiction cliche for years, but ZigBee could make it real - and take it beyond a gimmick. The components of a burglar alarm, or a set of smoke detectors, can work together without wiring them up to each other. ZigBee light switches don't have to be wired to the light they control. And a ZigBee remote control can turn the kids' TV off in another room when it is time for dinner.ZigBee works well because it aims low. Controls and sensors don't need to send and receive much data. ZigBee has been designed to transmit slowly. It has a data rate of 250kbps (kilobits per second), pitiful compared with Wi-Fi, which is hitting throughput of 20Mbps or more. But because ZigBee transmits slowly, it doesn't need much power, so batteries will last up to 10 years."ZigBee devices will be fit and forget," says Bob Heile, chair of the ZigBee Alliance, which manages the ZigBee standard. "We don't need high data rates."ZigBee is based on formal standards from the IEEE 802.15.4 working group. Like Wi-Fi (802.11) and Bluetooth (802.15.1), it operates at 2.4GHz, where no broadcast licences are needed, so from the outset it has a worldwide market.The inventor of Ethernet, Bob Metcalfe, is a ZigBee fan: he is chairman of Ember, one of the companies making ZigBee chips. Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen has also invested heavily. Other members of the ZigBee Alliance include electronics giants Honeywell, Samsung, Motorola and Philips, all of whom expect a market for billions of ZigBee chips.With this sort of cooperation, things are moving fast. The ZigBee standard was completed in December, with an interoperability demo in March, while vendors' products were tested last month. Three other companies also have ZigBee certified chips: Motorola's Freescale subsidiary, Chipcon and CompXs.These products were tested at two test centres, and with each other. They will be the reference for testing ZigBee systems, and the basis for building real ZigBee applications."I love it when things come together," said Heile, celebrating the next milestone at the ZigBee Conference and exhibition, in Paris last week, where hardware makers talked about ZigBee applications.One vendor, Curitel, has shown a ZigBee cameraphone, but that is just a prototype. "Real" ZigBee products will start out comparatively expensive, but some practical ideas are emerging. For example, Raymarine of the UK has a $1,100 (&pound;600) auto-pilot that lets sport fishermen steer their boats from the fishing chair.US-based Eaton has Home Heartbeat, a $150 "home awareness system" that will page you if your house is burgled or catches fire. Lusora of San Francisco has a sensor network called Lisa that monitors elderly people living alone.As ZigBee chips get cheaper, they will crop up in more places, says Heile. "For large quantities, the price is in the $4 range," he says, "and it's coming down quickly."One symptom of ZigBee's success is the backlash from other vendors, some of whom have proprietary technology to do the same job, and others who have developed their own version of the 802.15.4 products, and got to the market quicker. "Instead of becoming a standard for low data rate network environments, ZigBee is in danger of evolving into simply one among many proprietary options," said Kirsten West, of West Technology Research Solutions, last year.Other sensor networks include HomePlug, Insteon, Crossbow Technology, Dust Networks, Millennial Net Sensicast, and Z-Wave from Denmark's Zensys. But Heile is relaxed about the competition. "We're a visible target. People are hitching their wagon to our star, and creating the illusion of competitiveness." He thinks the sheer volume created by the big players in ZigBee will swamp the others."These other products are slightly less expensive, and have 5% of the functionality of ZigBee," says Heile. "In the long run, this is not a contest."Outside of sensor networks, ZigBee could come into conflict with other established wireless networks. For example, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi both use the same radio frequencies. Bluetooth, in particular, has an overlap, as it is sometimes used in sensors as well as headsets.However, ZigBee is going for a bigger market than Bluetooth. Even when both technologies are on one device - for instance, on a mobile phone - it is not a problem, because they can share time on the same radio chip. When dual-standard chips appear, adding ZigBee to a phone will just be a tiny increment to the price.Also, operators are much happier about adding ZigBee to their phones than faster technologies such as Wi-Fi and UWB, says Heile. For one thing, the phone will be able to act as a remote control for all the ZigBee devices it encounters."The phone manufacturers want you to use the phone for everything. They don't want you to put it down."ZigBee could also create opportunities for IT staff in companies. Office buildings are studded with devices such as security cameras and heating and air-conditioning systems that are not networked, or poorly networked on separate wires. ZigBee could eliminate these separate wiring systems, and integrate the devices into the main office network. This would make buildings more responsive, linking the conditions in the building more closely to the way they are used.The possibilities are endless - ZigBee sensors may even do their bit to save the planet. Information from 150 ZigBee sensors, placed in underground birds' nests on Great Duck Island off the coast of Maine, have shown how the burrows dug by Leach's storm petrel can keep its eggs at a constant temperature.And the US Energy Department reckons ZigBee dimmer switches in offices could save electricity by shutting off lights when no one is around. This alone could save $8bn a year.LinksZigBee Alliancewww.zigbee.orgZigBee overviewwww.roke.co.uk/download/datasheets/ZigBee.pdfZigBee Conference and exhibitionhttp://tinyurl.com/b32k4
Last week, Bill Gates went to the Microsoft mobile developers conference in Las Vegas toannouncethe details of the latest version of the Windows CE 5.0 operating system for mobile phones and other devices. Such occasions are fast becoming like launches of new versions of Windows for PCs - much anticipated and invariably preceded by leaks on internet news sites.In the end,Windows Mobile 5.0, codenamed Magneto, is pretty much as predicted. It has improvements and additions that give more flexibility for developers and manufacturers, and some new features that users have been crying out for, such as the persistent memory storage, PowerPoint support, and multimedia options such as Windows Media Player 10 (with digital rights management).Usability has been addressed with simplified menus, new contacts layout, and two new user-defined soft buttons that reduce the number of key presses needed to access applications. Microsoft also says the new OS works faster and responds quicker than before, and is more reliable.For business users, there are new versions of Word and Excel with enhanced document format support as well as the first pocket version of PowerPoint. The software supports Wi-Fi and 3G networks, as well as "push-to-talk" (walkie-talkie) operations, built-in hard drives and USB 2.0.But despite much advance speculation, Microsoft did not announce any new developments on providing the "push" email facility much loved by RIM BlackBerry users, who get email sent almost instantly to their PDAs.If the announcement had been intended, it was pulled.Instead, Microsoft announced a new version of ActiveSync, its synchronisation protocol, which will make Exchange email transfer faster and easier to use. It will also be better at resuming transmission if the connection is interrupted.However, critics of this "pulled" form of email argue that it is more bandwidth hungry and, if used heavily, runs down the phone's battery. For firms with large numbers of users, the increased use of bandwidth can significantly increase mobile phone bills.In Las Vegas, Bill Gates disputed the importance that some critics give to pushed email, saying that the key is "email plus" - in other words, having workable business applications such as customer relationship management (CRM) programs and Microsoft Office products on mobile devices.This argument has some credence amongst analysts. Tony Cripps, an analyst at Ovum, believes Microsoft is heeding critics with the new operating system. "It is being mindful of the competition and seems keen to listen to manufacturers, operators and end-users with these improvements," he says. "As regards push email, I think it is more a matter of making changes to Exchange Server rather than the OS. That's why it is taking longer."Microsoft refused to comment on what is holding up its push technology, but Hardy Poppinga, European product manager in Microsoft's mobile and embedded division, claimed: "It will be delivered this year and it will be superior to other push offerings."Michael Riley, head of data products at Orange, said he reserved judgment on the new OS. "We will have to look at it closely. We are looking at a range of options for delivering pushed email, and expect that in the next few months we will make it clear what our choices are. The key is that we offer customers a choice and that it is simple to use."Orange allows large businesses to try Windows Mobile-based SPV smart phones for 60 days in an attempt to grow the business, and sells RIM BlackBerry services to enterprises.But according to Dale Vile, service director at researchers Quocirca, mobile operators are increasingly focused on push technology. "I believe most of them will announce their support for one or more products in the next six months," he says. "Many of their customers are asking for it, and if they are heavy Microsoft users, it makes sense to them to have a solution that is device-independent and that is supported by Microsoft. The problem is, carriers are also wary of Microsoft dominating the market."Jean Tripier, executive vice president at Visto, a push-email vendor that has just signed a European deal with Vodafone, said many in the industry were expecting more from Microsoft. "The OS enhancements are good for the end-user and the industry, but we expected something more on push email by now."We will have to continue to wait and see, but even when they bring it out, it will take time for them to work out how to sell and support it, and with whom."According to IDC researchers, voice-enabled PDAs and smart phones are the fastest growing sector of the mobile device market. Worldwide sales grew by 55% in the first quarter of this year, and Microsoft says that 1m devices using Windows Mobile were sold during the period. Push technology or not, Windows Mobile 5.0 will give these manufacturers more flexibility in the features and form factors they offer.LinksBill Gates's keynote at the Mobile &amp; Embedded Devices Developer Conference 2005http://tinyurl.com/8m5w5Windows Mobile 5.0www.microsoft.com/windowsmobile/5/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There were a handful of common themes running through this week's big console announcements ahead of Los Angeles' Electronic Entertainment Expo, better known as E3. Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, battling for the hearts of videogamers around the globe, all sang from similar sheets - talking about online play, widening the market, and that old favourite whose time has finally come ... convergence.All three expressed a desire to grow the gaming market away from the core target of the 18 to 34-year-old male. Despite this, each console was shown running the kind of games - combat, cars and curves - that will appeal to this kind of audience. The impressive technology of the new consoles - such as high-definition TV and Blu-ray support - also suggests that this hardcore audience hasn't been forgotten.PlayStation 3 is a vitally important launch for Sony, the biggest player in the market thanks to the double whammy of PlayStation One and PlayStation 2. Microsoft is hoping to beat Sony to the punch by getting Xbox 360 into shops by the end of the year, and has already attracted many hardcore gamers who historically found their home on the PlayStation. Online play in particular is one area where the PS2 was found to be lacking and Sony has rectified this - and more - with the PlayStation 3. The console has built-in wireless internet access and gigabit ethernet connection for fast downloads and smooth play.But that is only the start of a connection list which suggests that days of a console as a simple games machine are long gone. USB, HDMI output, Bluetooth and, most importantly Blu-Ray playback, make the PS3 a serious boy's toy. Like Xbox 360, networking is core to the experience, although the feeling was that Microsoft is more advanced in its implementation. But what didn't appear in doubt was the technical prowess of the machine.Sony has a history of hyping up its product's capabilities - PS2 suffered from this - but the real-time footage shown seemed to back up the stats. Killzone, in particular, looked a real graphical leap forward although, crucially, the action still involved combat and wouldn't appeal to the much vaunted casual and non-gamers. Still, it is existing gamers who will be buying on launch, and titles that look this good won't harm sales at all.The aesthetics of all three are similar - clean and relatively stylish. The days of the plastic toy seem long gone.The Xbox 360, which was first seen in a television special last week, has received a mixed reaction for its looks. Its stormtrooper-white colour and slightly concave shape make it look like a cross between a DVD player, a giant iPod and something that might turn out a good toasted sandwich. But it is a world away from the original chunky, black Xbox."It was pretty hard designing the product in 2004 that would ship in 2005 and ship most of its volume in 2007 and 2008," says Microsoft's corporate president of Xbox, J Allard. "Then, of course, it will usually be kept for five or six years. White is going to be the new black."Microsoft is also making a concerted effort to substantially increase the number of Xbox Live users, which currently stands at around 1.5m. The aim is to get half of all 360 owners on to Live, and Microsoft has come up with a very obvious way of encouraging this - by making it partially free. The 360 will ship with a "silver service" version of Live so that users will be able to access features such as video and voice messaging, as well as being able to download new game content.If you actually want to play games online, you will have to pay to upgrade to the gold service, but Microsoft is keen to make it as easy as possible and will be allowing debit card payments and pre-paid cards.In terms of games, Halo, the title that arguably helped launch Microsoft's gaming platform, is taking more of a backseat when it comes to the 360. Xbox's head of marketing, Peter Moore, is clear about the company's desire to push itself out of the "Halo-platform" niche. "We need to diversify and have a broader face on the marketplace. When players think of the Xbox 360, we want them to be able to rattle off six or seven great franchises, not just think about Halo and Master Chief."In comparison to these acknowledged giants, Nintendo adopts a curious role in the industry. Seen as an underdog, yet hugely profitable, the Japanese company is a gaming veteran with a heritage to match. Famously resistant to new trends, Nintendo has finally addressed the issue of online play with its Revolution console.Here is a Nintendo console that grown-ups wouldn't be ashamed to have under their television sets. Sleek and clean, it will nestle in nicely with audio/visual equipment. Sadly, though, the ability to play DVDs is an optional extra, proving that Nintendo still sees consoles as primarily gaming machines. Internet connectivity, too, is finally recognised as the future of gaming. The Revolution will, like its rivals, have built-in Wi-Fi, with a number of enabled games due at launch sometime next year. Owners of the Nintendo DS handheld (initially just those in the US) will be able to join the party too, with wireless access allowing players to compete on titles such as Mario Kart.All three companies were keen to announce backwards compatibility. PlayStation3 owners will be able to play their old PS One and PS2 games, while Xbox owners can continue to play at least some of their games on the 360. This makes sense. With the high price of games, it doesn't do to alienate customers. Nintendo has taken backwards compatibility to its logical conclusion by allowing Revolution owners to download 20 years' worth of NES, SNES and N64 games as well as their Gamecube titles.Of the three, it looks like Nintendo has the best chance of widening the gaming market beyond its traditional horizons. Innovative DS game puppy simulator Nintendogs is a massive hit in Japan, and it has helped ensure broad appeal of Revolution."We're throwing open the doors of gaming to wider audiences, from casual players to hardcore gamers," said Reggie Fils-Aime, Nintendo America's executive vice president.Whether the development environment for people looking to make games for Revolution is as welcoming as they suggest remains to be seen, but the desire to encourage indie game makers appears genuine.Nintendo also announced an update to the Game Boy. The Micro is a simple re-casing of the Game Boy Advance aimed at the iPod Mini audience: fashion-conscious users looking for a small, elegant solution.With 190m PS One and PS2 units sold, it would take a brave man to bet against Sony retaining market leadership. But the competition is a lot stiffer this time round, with 360 a priority for Microsoft.Nintendo can't be discounted, especially when it comes to casual gaming, but the company still hasn't really grasped the reality of a post-Grand Theft Auto world where the likes of Mario are seen as anachronistic by older gamers.With 360 due out by Christmas and PS3 and Revolution out next year, the next 18 months look set to be a busy time for gamers.Readers' responseGamesblogUnder the bonnetSony PlayStation 3Looks:available in black, silver or blue.Formats:will be backwards-compatible with PlayStation 2, as well as accepting CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray high-definition optical discs.Hardware:built-in Wi-Fi, six USB ports and up to seven controllers connected via Bluetooth.Memory:256MB Ram, support for Memory Stick and SD, plus slot for detachable 2.5in hard disk drive.Chips:Cell processor and Nvidia RSX graphics chip.Due:spring next year.Microsoft Xbox 360Looks:curved white box with removable fascias.Formats:will provide support for some original Xbox titles, plus CDs, DVDs and the ability to stream media.Hardware:Wi-Fi ready, out of the box internet, three USB ports, two memory card ports and support for up to four wireless controllers.Memory:512MB Ram, detachable 20GB hard disk drive.Chips:IBM PowerPC-based 3.2GHz triple-core processor and custom ATI graphics processor.Due:before Christmas.Nintendo RevolutionLooks:black model about the size of three DVD cases stacked together.Formats:will take 12cm Revolution CDs and smaller GameCube discs. Needs hardware add-on for viewing DVDs.Hardware:wireless controllers, two USB ports and built-in Wi-Fi access.Chips:IBM-produced Broadway processor, with ATI Hollywood graphics chip.Due:next year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
