The multifaceted nature of paedophile activity online presents challenges to those who want to combat it. The Child Abuse, Child Pornography and the Internet report, released last week by NCH, aimed to increase understanding of the extent of paedophile activity online, and sparked controversy over its use of specific statistics.Monitoring parts of the internet with high paedophile activity indicates that these communities continue to be populated by UK-based adults and adolescents. And there is every indication this population is expanding.Responses to the report have highlighted how the resources of many computer crime units throughout the UK are over-stretched in investigating crimes   relating to child abuse images that occurred in the case of, for example, Operation Ore, more than three years ago.The majority of police resources are allocated to investigating a limited number of cases, which effectively precludes the opportunity to monitor paedophile communities in real time. A government review of the management and deployment of manpower, training and resources to computer crime units is urgently required.Tackling criminal activity online needs to incorporate initiatives such as education and awareness raising, designed to equip potential victims with the tools and skills they need to safely navigate online environments.In recognition of this, the Institute of Public Policy and Research in partnership with the Associa tion of Chief of Police Officers have organised a seminar this month to explore and devise mechanisms to ensure that evidence-based practice is a driving force behind crime prevention strategies employed in educational settings.Also in the news this week is the welcome concord between the UK mobile phone operators who on Monday announced a joint code of practice for the self-regulation of new forms of content on mobile phones.Britain's mobile phone networks have signed up to the code, designed to aid the responsible use of new services while safeguarding children from unsuitable content. Parents and carers will be able to apply filters to the operator's internet access service so that content is restricted. This is encouraging.Crucially, activities such as tak ing and sending pictures via mobile phones will not be subject to monitoring.However, in a small number of instances paedophiles may encourage potential victims to record and send pictures of themselves for nefarious purposes.In addition, requests for information about, for example, a child's location sent via non mobile operator-based chat services will not be monitored. A child who divulges specific location information could be at greater risk from paedophiles.Therefore, it is imperative that effective programmes of education are developed which are designed to empower young people, parents carers and teachers with the tools knowledge and skills to navigate both the fixed and mobile internet safely.
British MPs have launched anearly day motionurging Apple to make sure the iPod's battery can easily be replaced by British owners. The motion reads:That this House notes with concern the difficulty people are having in replacing batteries for iPods, the new pocket sized walkmans; notes that iPods were a favourite Christmas present, with a value of between £250 to £400, but that when people come to buy replacement batteries they find that they cost £100 and that they have little knowledge of where such batteries can be obtained from; and calls on the supplier, Apple, to ensure that replacement batteries are plentiful in supply and priced at a reasonable level.ZDnetreports that Apple's unhappy - it launched aniPod battery replacement schemehere on Monday (it costs £79 to replace the battery). And I'd love to know how many iPod users actually have problems: my (first generation) iPod doesn't have great battery life, but it's no worse than the day I bought it...
Sonic Heroes PS2,Xbox, GameCube	&#163;34.99/&#163;39.99 Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In recent years, Sonic has apparently pursued a one-hedgehog crusade designed to demonstrate that the inexorable march of technology is not necessarily a good thing.Luckily, and belatedly, Sonic Heroes goes some way towards reaffirming one's faith in the nippy rodent. It was always clear that the Sonic blueprint would need extra gameplay gimmicks to work in 3D, and in Sonic Heroes, you play a Sonic, Knuckles and Tails at the same time. (If you're feeling adventurous, you can choose from three other teams, each of which has its own storyline).You can designate any character as team leader. Thus, if speed is required, you would plump for Sonic. If you need to fly, then Tails is your man. If power is required, it is best to put Knuckles in charge. Soon, you develop an intuitive feel for which character to control, which is where the fun starts, as each has a special move. Sonic, for example, can create mini-tornadoes, which are good at loosening shields from the grasp of baddies.As you progress, you find other objects that can only be used by a particular character. Sonic, for example, can climb poles by whirling around them. For the first time, two people can play against each other, but Sonic Heroes is best as a single-player experience.And at last, that experience is good again. At times, one dimension will be constrained - there are rails along which you can grind, and rocket-karts to drive around in. A bit of camera-fiddling is required but, mercifully, not too much. Out-and-out gameplay innovation may be lacking, but Sonic Heroes does not disgrace its iconic lead character and compares well with recent action-platform games.Steve BoxerMario &amp; Luigi Superstar SagaGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Is there any genre that Mario hasn't been involved in? Karting, tennis, golf - the list is endless. For his latest title, the lardy plumber revisits the role-playing game (RPG).This is an innovative mix of platform jumping and turn-based combat. Much of the game involves dextrous acrobatics, puzzle solving and fighting. The latter is neatly done, allowing you the chance to weigh up your attacks while also throwing in skill and coordination via button presses.Later "boss" challenges are surprisingly tough, involving more strategy than you might expect. The sweet visuals mask a deep experience that will challenge younger players. And nimble fingers are necessary to swoop around the characters and access the menus. The puzzles are fairly straight-forward, usually involving brotherly teamwork, but there are times when it isn't immediately obvious where to go next, with backtracking common.Also, the inability to save anywhere in-game means players could be caught out when on the move. Of course, the addictive nature of the adventure means missing your stop can become a viable option. A self-referential tone - with numerous   references made to the brothers' fame - helps keep the interest of older gamers. But GBA owners of all ages will enjoy Mario's latest.Greg HowsonDungeon Siege: Legend of ArannaPC, &#163;29.99 Gas Powered Games/ Microsoft &#42;&#42;&#42;Dungeon Master was released more than 18 months ago and, despite some good reviews, quickly faded from memory. Kill, run, shop, kill some more - if you knew the genre, you knew it by heart. And this glorified mission pack is much the same: another big quest, another huge party of warriors, endless battles; everything about it suggests I ought to be wasting my time on more challenging pursuits - so why can't I stop playing it?Despite sticking to the same old formula, Aranna is cracking good fun, adding new combinations of magic weapons, new spells and a host of new creatures to the massive new kingdom you must explore.This pack also includes and updates the original game, making it excellent value if you can cope with the repetitive gameplay. The 3D engine looks tired and confusing, the quests are hard to keep track of and there are even occasional bugs that have you running in circles.However, older titles such as Diablo still have millions of neglected fans and for them this is the perfect fix. Aranna may not be a massive step forward, but with this many monsters on the loose, who can afford to think that far ahead?Mike Anderiesz
I was quite impressed by the organisation of the hugeConsumer Electronics Show, but less enamoured with the hideous state of affairs at the city's McCarran International Airport when coming home. It took around an hour to check in and two hours to get through security, and I'm sure there were quite a few attendees vowing never to return. If they weren't saying it right then, they certainly were when they got home and had to explain to families why they hadn't brought any airport shop goodies home ("I was jogging to the gate, honest"). It was no surprise we got an apologetic email today from the show organisers, promising eight new security lanes (but are thereenough stafffor them?), off-site baggage check-in, and the completion of the monorail to link the airport with the nearby Strip hotels by the time everyone comes back next January...
Azeem Azharwrites a lengthy, but very interesting, review of open source and its applications outside the software sector.
There's an interesting discussionbelowon the post about Coca-Cola's attempts to set up a music store here. And the oft-repeated question - why hasn't iTunes music store launched here? - is raised again.Here's all I know. Last year, while researching a story on online music, I spoke to a few folk in the music industry. And two of them independently insisted that the delay to the iTunes music store was being caused byApple, not by their industry. Yes, they said, the rights issue had been a little complicated on this side of the pond, but there were issues at the Apple end of the line too, which is why IMS wouldn't launch here until this spring. Apple doesn't really talk about this stuff, but in his public pronouncements on the matter Steve Jobs has suggested it's all down to the labels, and digital rights stuff.From here on in, it's speculation, but I'd suggest three things. First, we know that IMS isn't a big operation in terms of staffing. It's unlikely they could do lots of big projects at once. Maybe the priority was to get a PC version of the software out first in the US, then worry about encoding all that variety of Europop and dealing with the (many) localisation issues for Europe. Second, I think the late arrival of the iPod Mini tells us something. Apple says the April due date for the minis is to stagger demand, and make sure both the US and Europe have enough to go round. But I'm also taking it as a hint IMS will arrive here at the same time, for double the PR love-in. Third, the iPod mini - as revealedherefirst - is likely to cost a little less - but only alittleless - than the planned £199 when it's launched in the UK. Apple still feels the £199 "price point" is about right for the device, especially when it's compared to rival machines' UK pricing.
It seemed as if Motorola was being left behind in the cameraphone market. However, the recently launched V525, available exclusively via Vodafone, shows it is keeping pace with market leaders Sony Ericsson and Sharp.The V525 is a small, light (114g) clamshell handset that uses Motorola's reasonably easy-to-use new interface and operating system. Its 176x220 pixel, 65K colour display doesn't quite match the Sharp GX20, but is of reasonably good quality.Features include VGA standard image capture, Bluetooth and the facility to access POP3 email accounts. Also innovative is the option of using an MP3 file as a ringtone. Another plus is a generous 5MB storage, significantly more than many rivals. It also delivers Vodafone Live!'s enhanced Wap and download services.The V525 is a solid entrant in the upmarket cameraphone market. However, it probably won't be state of the art for long.www.vodafone.co.uk
The government this week announced an initiative to boost IT literacy by encouraging workers to get a computer and go online. Called the Home Computing Initiative, the drive is essentially clarification and amplification of a tax allowance made two years ago in which employees can have a &#163;500 allowance on loaned computers.Combined with a salary sacrifice scheme, this means employees can have a working computer for around &#163;5 a week.The guidelines now have the backing of the Department for Trade and Industry and the e-envoy, which will make a powerful difference to the scheme. Martin Prescott, managing director of computer supplier RedPC, latched on to the allowance early and found few takers."If you go to someone and offer   them something that's too good to be true, they tend to start looking for a catch - so &#91;employers&#93; were listening to us then ringing the local Inland Revenue, who were saying 'we've never heard of that'."People who understood the opportunity have found it a popular scheme with employees, however.  Adam Crozier, chief executive of the Royal Mail, confirms the organisation offers the scheme and that around 10% of employees have opted for it. Before the scheme started, 13% of employees owned a computer, as opposed to an average of 50% in most companies. Today, 18,000 have signed up. Internal communications are improving as IT literacy spreads, adds Crozier.The revised scheme has brought the private sector in as well as government, to address the needs of the consumer market. Intel, Microsoft,   BT, the CBI and the TUC are among those backing the initiative.Rick Skett, country manager for Intel UK and Ireland, believes it will become an example of public/private initiatives working well. "We've been talking with 40 companies including consultancies, distribution channels and employee organisations so this reaches employers and employees."Skett sees the initial objective as communicating the benefits to employees. He is also familiar with Inland Revenue offices being ill informed about the legality of the scheme. Intel has had an employee seconded to the Office of the e-envoy for months to get the scheme publicised throughout the Revenue. In cases where the computer is used for learning, it also becomes eligible for VAT relief.Patricia Hewitt, secretary of state for trade and industry, is bullish about the benefits. "Basic computer   and technology skills are now regarded as essential for the majority of jobs," she says. "Home Computing Initiative schemes can help realise personal and professional potential."The participants concede that it is essential to get the scheme right. Prescott refers to a scheme in Sweden, which was less successful because, he suggests, the suppliers were not vetted adequately."You had companies going under, computers not working and nobody able to repair them - it was chaos." He and other partners from the scheme have therefore drafted a "providers' charter", which sets minimum service level benchmarks.And the support will come from the third parties. Nothing will put employers off the idea more quickly than constant calls from employees to the IT department asking for help on booting Windows.
An online music company importing cheap CDs into Britain has reached an out of court settlement with the music industry that will stop it sourcing cut-price discs abroad. It will raise its CD prices by &#163;2 to cover the cost of sourcing its goods in the European Union.The row between the British Phonographic Industry and CD Wow! began when the BPI   accused the company of flouting trade laws.CD Wow! has been charging customers in the UK and Ireland &#163;8.99 for top CDs in the charts. The firm is based in Hong Kong and bought its stocks outside Europe, where prices are lower.BPI claimed CD Wow! was illegally buying discs in the Far East and America for a fraction of the cost of those from European distributors. This enabled it to supply consumers at a lower price than its competitors and to achieve higher margins on sales.When challenged by the BPI, CD Wow! said it would fight the case in court, but it settled yesterday - just two weeks before the case was due to begin.BPI chairman Peter Jamieson said: "I am delighted that we have been able to resolve this case on agreed terms without the need for a trial."The Consumers' Association said the settlement would reduce competition and could increase prices on the high street. It also addressed the question of internet sales."The fact that CD Wow! was so successful is proof that the UK music industry has been ripping customers off for years, and that UK consumers were seeking ways to buy reasonably priced CDs. What is the point of the internet in commercial terms if consumers are prevented from using it to buy goods from abroad?" said policy adviser Phil Evans.CD Wow! director Philip Robinson said: "This has been a long, drawn-out affair which we are pleased to have resolved." But Martin Talbot of Music Week was sceptical about the reasons for this change of heart, describing CD Wow!'s chances of changing EU law as "pretty unrealistic".The BPI routinely makes test purchases over the net to ensure firms are importing legally.
Dance music DJ Pete Tong has become the first person to present a programme made not for TV broadcast or even for the internet but specifically for the new generation of mobile phones.Pete Tong's FastTrax is a weekly music show which can be downloaded by customers of 3. The mobile phone network is the only one in the UK to have launched a 3G service. Although the show is not due for a full launch until next month it is already available on 3's phone portal. Updated every Thursday, it has been downloaded by several thousand customers.The show splits into three two-minute segments costing 50p each. Hosted by Tong they include clips of the hottest album of the week, previews of upcoming singles and news about club nights and fashion.The service has been created by marketing group Slice and web marketing expert Profero who have formed a new venture, Inventa Productions. Damian Mould, chief executive of Slice, said Tong's FastTrax has been in development for about two years."But it is only now that the technology has finally caught up and you can actually do things on the phone that people will want to use," he said."It's like a mini TV show on your phone."
There are undoubted benefits to allowing millions of programmers to check and correct source code. Even proprietary software providers such as Apple, IBM and Microsoft now agree on this. However, this is only the most trivial meaning of "open source", and the fact that you can see the source does not stop software from being either commercial or proprietary.There are also undoubted benefits from running open source software, though the financial ones can be small or even negative. Companies are bound to be tempted by the idea of getting something for nothing, but in business, the selling price of a program is not a significant proportion of its TCO (total cost of ownership). It is easy to save $10 a year on soft ware and lose $10 a day in productivity, either from incompatibilities or poor ease of use or other factors.The facility to fix bugs yourself and to modify programs also sounds attractive. However, fixing bugs is not practical for most companies, and modifications can be positively dangerous.If you are really going to do these things, you need to hire several reliable programmers with kernel-level skills: not a cheap proposition. The bug-fixes and extensions you get will be more or less untested, and bug-fixes can introduce as many problems as they solve.Of course, your changes can be fed back into the mainstream source code, but there is no guarantee they will be accepted, and there is no appeals procedure. It may even be that different and   incompatible changes are accepted instead, leaving you with no choice but to undo your work or risk a "fork" - then you really are on your own without a paddle.I don't always agree with Oracle's chief executive Larry Ellison. However, the whole argument for Oracle's e-business suite is to make it easy to install and cheap to run, but you lose both benefits if you muck about with it. "'No code modification' is the correct message," says Ellison. (Softwar, p213).Indeed, the whole progress of commercial computing has been from expensive hand-written, bug-ridden, company-specific programs to cheaper but more powerful off-the-shelf packages. From that point of view, open source is a throwback.Finally, a couple of weeks ago, I mentioned that the movement did   not have any way of creating software architectures. A reader disputed this in Feedback, citing three programs: Perl, Python and Apache. These are excellent programs, but not what I'd call a software architecture.Curiously, also, none of them was developed by the open source movement, though they have of course been adopted and improved by it. Larry Wall developed Perl while working at Unisys; both Python and Apache came out of academia.The open source/free software movement is well worth having if it can fix up failed commercial programs (Netscape, Star Office) and help turn academic ones into enterprise class software (Python, Apache), etc. I'm all in favour. But I get the impression that its ambitions are rather higher.LinksFree as in freedomwww.gnu.org/gnu/thegnuproject.htmlSoftwar: An Intimate Portrait of Larry Ellison and Oraclewww.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/074322504X/guardianunlim-21What is software architecture?www.sei.cmu.edu/architecture/definitions.htmlLarry Wall interviewwww.linuxjournal.com/article.php?sid=3394
Random wordsI can understand how spam filter software gets fooled by deliberately misspelled words such as V1agra and so on, but what is the point of including a thesaurus full of unusual words? I receive a large number of emails like this and they are never identified as spam by my anti-spam software.David BradburyJack Schofield replies: And that is your answer: it is an attempt to get past spam-blockers. Programs that use Bayesian analysis examine each message to see whether the content is likely to be spam, and their performance improves as they are "trained" on the sort of email you generally receive. The key words in spam email soon become obvious. The spammer hopes that including a random selection of rare words will make the email look more legitimate. It may also tend to degrade your spam blocking filter by associating a lot of usually welcome words (toil, chuckle, solicitous, quaint etc) with spam.Also, if random words are added to each email, then each one is different. Some blocking systems could find it harder to stop a million spams that appear to be different than a million that are all exactly the same. Still, at least people who use these techniques know they are spammers and can't pretend that they are trying to send legitimate email. It would be good to see this tacit admission of guilt reflected in steep fines.Email sortedThe list of messages in my Outlook Express Inbox shows "From" (the   person writing to me). If I reply to it, with a copy of the original, then file my reply in an appropriate folder, it is no help to see that they all came from me! How can I force OE to display who these messages were "To"?Michael SlaterJS: By default, only the Sent folder shows emails by the To field, but you can change this. Go to one of the folders you have created and find the row of column headers such as From and Subject. Right-click on the headers and select Columns. This will bring up a box that lets you choose which columns you want displayed, including Priority and Size. (It also lets you set column widths.) Untick the check-box next to From, tick the box next to To, and then click OK. Now the folder will show who the messages were sent to, not who they are from. The column for To will be in the wrong place, of course, but you can fix that by "drag and drop". Simply click on the header for the To column and, holding down the mouse button, move it to the position you want.Dialler attackI clicked on a link which disconnected me from my ISP and dialled a premium rate number, though I was able to disconnect the modem cable from the wall during the handshake process. Digging around, I found that the link had taken me to a page with a Java applet on it, which I think installed the dialler, web.exe, in my root directory. The implications of this are very worrying. Through this method, couldn't a virus or Trojan be installed simply by clicking on a link? I'm running Internet Explorer 6 in Windows 98.JS: True, and something similar happened to me, though the program could not dial out, because my PC is connected via ADSL. The answer was that I had missed a Microsoft update that fixed a security hole in its Java software. Some diallers such as IEDial can also be installed without notice -    so-called drive-by installations - by exploiting a security hole in ActiveX, so you must also update IE6 to at least Service Pack 1 level. SeeDoxdeskandUnwanted Linksfor information about these parasites. I also useSpyWareGuardas a background program.Sounds betterI want to take a sample from a music CD track and use it as my Windows start-up sound. The bit I had in mind is: "My daddy said 'Son, you're gonna drive me to drinking, if you don't stop driving that hot-rod Lincoln'," from Hot Rod Lincoln by Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen.Iain NobleJS: Just grab a WAV file and put it in the C:\Windows\Media directory. Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and select Sounds &amp; Multimedia. Scroll down the list of Sound Events and select Start Windows. Click the Browse button and select your .wav file, then click OK. In Windows XP, switch to Classic View in the Control Panel window, double-click Sounds and Audio Devices, and select the Sounds tab. A long time ago, my PC used to say "Thank you for turning me on." You can download snappy lines for a wide variety of events fromwww.eventsounds.com/startup.htm.Backchat&#183;Maxine Linnell wanted to keep her address book if she left AOL. Graham Guest says she can convert her AOL database by using Address Magic software fromwww.connectedsw.com/PersonalEdition.html.
WW2 from the airA new site is offering a fascinating insight into the second world war for historians both amateur and professional. The searchable archive contains more than 5m aerial photographs taken during RAF reconnaissance flights during the conflict over western Europe.A huge response to the launch (similar to that suffered by the 1901 Census website upon its launch) meant that many visitors were unable to access it. The site has been put together by the Aerial Reconnaissance Archives at Keele University, which is home to part of the National Archives. The images are incredibly detailed; for example, prisoners can be seen queuing up for roll call inside Nazi concentration camps, while others show before and after pictures of cities targeted by allied bombs. The eventual goal is to provide online access to every British military campaign since 1945.www.evidenceincamera.co.ukwww.census.pro.gov.ukThe man's the manSunday night is Burns night, which means the Scots will be celebrating all things connected to their bard, Robert Burns. The site dedicated to the poet has everything a Burns neophyte needs to know to get into the spirit of the evening, including the rituals of the Burns night supper, a selection of his finest poems and e-cards to send to homesick Scottish expatriates around the world. If you'd rather your Sunday night went with a bang, there are celebrations being held in Chinatowns across the globe to mark Chinese New Year. The London Chinatown Chinese Association's beautifully-designed website details events being held in the capital, along with a chance to discover how you will fare in the Year of the   Monkey.www.rabbie-burns.comwww.chinatownchinese.comPolitical blogThe Guardian Unlimited Politics site is calling for nominations for its political weblog awards. As the site's Backbencher email service points out, "political blogging is no longer the preserve of the odd maverick MP and the 17-year-old would-be Telegraph leader writer". Indeed, the events of the next week or so could produce a political blogger to rival the likes of Calpundit. There are only two criteria: the blog must be in the English language, and it must be predominantly political in theme. You can nominate your own blog, or someone else's. Nominations with a few sentences explaining your choice tobackbencher@guardian unlimited.co.ukbefore January 25. From January 28 you'll get a chance to vote for 10 of the best blogs, as picked by the Guardian Unlimited Politics team.http://politics.guardian.co.uk/redboxwww.calpundit.comLove allThis year's Australian Open Grand Slam tennis tournament is selling itself by picturing its stars as comic book superheroes. It's a shame that theme hasn't been incorporated into the design of the Open's website beyond its front page. But there is plenty here to keep tennis fans busy, including audio and video highlights of the matches plus classic encounters from the past, a real-time scorecard and an online shop.www.australianopen.comSundance insightFor those not lucky enough to be heading to Los Angeles for the Sundance Film Festival, there's a chance to experience the event via the web. One of the best new innovations of the online festival, now in its fourth year, is the $10 (&#163;5.60) digital ticket, which gives you access to all the festival's online content. This includes 30 short films and interactive projects and interviews with festival programmers.If you'd like to read a festival-goer's take on the Sundance experience, Jason Calacanis of Blogging Sundance reviews the films he sees, records video interviews with filmmakers and reports on the gossip from the festival. Sundance with Dor is a more casual affair, promising "half-assed movie 'reviews'" and "gushing and/or virtual eye-rolling about celebrity sightings".www.sundanceonlinefilmfestival.orghttp://festival.sundance.orghttp://sundance.weblogsinc.comhttp://sundancewithdor.blogspot.comNew &amp; notedHolocaust Memorial Day - Jan 27www.holocaustmemorialday.gov.ukSent - America's first phonecam art showwww.sentonline.comDropload - drop off files for your friendswww.dropload.comSix of the best: US Elections 2004Caucus 2004www.caucus2004.orgVote by Issuewww.votebyissue.org/primaryThe buying of the president 2004 - Centre for Public Integritywww.bop2004.org/bop2004Politics Onlinewww.politicsonline.comThe Blogging of the President 2004www.bopnews.comWatchBlogwww.watchblog.com
The worst vehicle I ever bought was a Bedford van with a Guinness bottle label instead of a tax disc in the windscreen. "It appeals to the coppers' sense of humour," said the previous owner, stuffing my &#163;35 into his sock.Luckily, I never had to test his theory as the van packed up about half an hour later. But I remember that novel approach to vehicle licensing every time I queue in a post office with a V11 form to renew a respectable tax disc. And I wonder why we can't do this simple annual transaction over the internet.Car tax is an obvious service to e-enable. Car owners and computer owners tend to come from the same social groups. The technology is established. It's also an obvious service to offer via "intermediaries", such as private garages or insurance companies.Yet the Office of the e-Envoy's latest report on electronic service delivery lamely lists the service as "not e-enabled". While tax discs for cars under three years old are due to be available electronically this year, owners of cars over three years old will have to wait until October to December 2005. That will make it one of the last services to be introduced before the e-government deadline. The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency says it is "on target".Don't shoot the e-envoy. The reason it is taking so long reflects typical government thinking. As far as the Department of Transport is concerned, the tax disc is not for   collecting revenue so much as checking a vehicle's documents. It's the only regular check that a car is insured (though not necessarily for the person driving) and, if more than three years old, has passed its MOT. Post office clerks are trained to scrutinise these documents; putting the service on the web would remove this check.The solution is to make insurance policies and MOTs available electronically. The motor insurance industry already runs a central database, mainly to help police clamp down on the million or so people driving uninsured at any one time. This database contains 28m policies, but is not "real time" - it takes up to two weeks for a new policy to be registered.For MOT certificates, the new Vehicle and Operator Services   Agency plans to have a database ready later this year. The agency is also launching a system to allow people buying an old banger to check its MOT online.Here's a suggestion. Launch the tax disc renewal e-service as soon as possible. Most people renewing tax already have an insurance policy, so the insurance database doesn't need to be real time. Neither does the MOT database; motorists could be trusted to enter the serial numbers of their certificates, and random checks made.This approach will be seen in some quarters as a bodge. But e-government needs more visible success stories. To ordinary citizens, a programme that can't e-enable a routine chore such as car tax is about as credible as a beer bottle label in the windscreen.
Dicey businessJack Schofield's glowing account of casino loyalty cards failed to mention some of the possible downsides of such schemes (Casino rewards total loyalty, January 15). When it comes to gambling, there is a fine line between providing what the customer wants and exploitation.On joining loyalty schemes, players supply lots of information including name, address, telephone number, date of birth, and gender. Operators know a gambler's favourite game and the amounts they have wagered. They will be able to send the gambler offers and redemption vouchers, complimentary accounts, etc. Supposedly all of these things are introduced to enhance customer experience. However, more unscrupulous operators will be able to entice known or suspected problem gamblers back onto their premises with tailored freebies.The introduction of loyalty cards has come at a price, and that price is an invasion of the gambler's privacy. I sincerely hope that behavioural tracking data is used to identify problem gamblers and help them rather than to exploit them.Mark GriffithsProfessor of Gambling StudiesNottingham Trent UniversityMass musicIt is worth mentioning that there are already a fair number of (legitimate) online music retail sites that sell music that isn't crippled with Digital Rights Management technology. For example:Audio Lunchbox; Warp Records'BleepandMagnatune.  These sites all provide their music in MP3 format, or even the open Ogg Vorbis format, so the tracks can be played on any player, without restriction. A nice change from other music stores, which treat their customers as if they were all thieves.Tom De MulderCambridgeCoke in privacyOut of curiosity I had a look aroundmyCokeMusic.com&#91;the new music download site from Coca Cola&#93; to see how it worked. Apart from having no support for Macs (the Mac version of Windows Media Player doesn't support DRM), I am concerned about the payment details they take.From their FAQ (and reiterated in their privacy policy): "When you place an order, we need to know your name, email address, credit card and expiry date details."Apparently they don't want your physical address or the CVV from the credit card; so a free email address and a long enough look at someone's card to note down the details (or snap a picture of it with your cameraphone) is all you need to go on a buying spree.I'm not about to create an account on there to check whether this is just an oversight by their policy writers, but I sincerely hope it is.Sarah NottinghamWireless and offlineI thought I'd share my experience with Wi-Fi in the hope that it saves others time and money. I fitted my desktop and laptop with Belkin cards. I could now access all my files and print stuff off without running upstairs.However when I tried to connect to the internet it was a disaster. Whenever I tried to sign on with the laptop it simply launched AOL on my desktop upstairs. I contacted AOL but they told me that they were "not allowed to offer any technical advice". I spent two days on the net only to discover that AOL doesn't support wireless networking. I got back to AOL to ask why they hadn't simply told me and saved me all the hassle? They finally admitted to the shortcoming and also added there's no work underway to change that situation in the near future.Geoff WarwickCambridge
The &#163;5bn national programme to modernise NHS IT systems is facing its first overt rebellion by a major stakeholder. EMIS, the largest supplier of systems to GPs, said this week that it would not take part in new arrangements aimed at enabling doctors to book hospital appointments and prescribe drugs from their desktops.Doctors using the EMIS system, which is in 55% of GP practices, expressed support for their supplier. Others see it as a test of will between the old and new ways of running NHS computing.The dispute has its origins in the endemic tension between GPs and the central NHS. Up to now, most GPs have picked their own IT, creating a cottage industry of suppliers, some with fiercely loyal users.However, under the new National Programme for IT (NPfIT), the world's largest civil IT procurement, primary care trusts have to work with major IT services firms awarded contracts as "local service providers" (LSPs).Three companies have so far won LSP contracts: Accenture in the north and east of England, BT in London and CSC in the Midlands and Northwest. A fifth contract, for the south of England, is due to be announced next week.It is up to the LSPs to decide which specialist clinical software to offer their NHS customers. The hands down winner for hospital systems so far is iSoft, a UK-based specialist firm whose Microsoft-based system is the preferred choice in three regions.In primary care, however, the position is messier. Richard Granger, director general of NHS IT, says that most current systems on doctors'   desktops are inadequate. Under the national programme, all computer systems in the NHS have to be able to exchange data with a central electronic records service, being set up by BT under a contract worth &#163;620m. This will involve "significant upgrades to pretty much everything that is there".He said the programme illustrates the need for "high quality software engineering". This is supposed to be assured by contracts signed with LSPs, all major international players.Under this model, EMIS, a privately held Leeds-based firm with a turnover of around &#163;50m, is supposed to work only as a subordinate supplier.However, Sean Riddell, deputy managing director of EMIS, said this week that the company had "decided against taking part as a subcontractor to the chosen LSPs". He said the company took the decision because the national programme concentrates too much on hospital systems at the expense of GPs.He denied that EMIS had any technical problems interoperating with other systems, saying it had been used in the "sandpit" mockups to demonstrate LSPs systems.The decision by the company is a gamble, as it apparently rules it out from receiving any of the billions of pounds to be allocated by Granger's programme.One GP critic of the programme, Dr Grant Kelly, a member of the BMA's IT committee, said the coming contest would be watched with interest. "If EMIS wins, it could mean a very early end for the national programme."EMIS's strongest card is that doctors will be reluctant to switch systems to the choices offered by   LSPs. Dr Manpreet Pujara, a Rochester GP who chairs the EMIS National User Group, said that users should have the choice of staying with the system. "The bottom line is that there should be choice. Richard Granger is trying to put that choice down to one system."He says he would take his support for the system to the top. "If that means I have to visit the health secretary, then so be it." Pujara said he supports the national programme: "I want to be part and parcel of it. But I'm passionate about protecting my time, for patient care. I've got 10 minutes in each consultation to listen, diagnose, treat and educate. Some doctors have less."In order to do all these things, you've got to have a system that actually works. The worst scenario is that someone will die because the information isn't there."Granger says this is happening already. "GPs waste several days a year keying information about new patients into their system. Waiting for records and referrals to be delivered by post. What is that all about?"He pledged that, whatever happens to EMIS, all LSPs will offer a choice of "more than one GP solution".In any case, said Granger, GPs will be more interested in what the new system does than which brand it carries. "We are looking for functionality, not a particular brand." But he indicated that he has little patience with critics among the GP IT community."There are GPs in the IT community and GPs who want to be in the IT community who are passing comment. I would ask them to question their record in creating the present inefficiencies, because they were there when it happened."
RFID tags, which are now being used to replace bar codes for product tracking, are moving to a global network. This will enable companies to find product details via the internet, and could be used to locate and learn about individual items. For example, the bar code on a bottle of medicine probably tells you the name of the product and its manufacturer, but the same bar code appears on every bottle. By contrast, each product could have a unique RFID (radio frequency identification) tag. Thus it could be possible to find out when and where the medicine was made, how it travelled from the factory to the shop, when it was sold and who bought it.VeriSign, the company that manages the internet's root directory service for the .com and .net domains, has been hired to provide the ONS (Object Naming Service) for RFID tags. It plans to run it on the same servers as the internet's DNS (Domain Name System): VeriSign spokesman Patrick Burns says these now handle about 10bn lookups per day, and can scale to 100bn.Jon Brendsel, director of EPC Network Services at VeriSign, says: "This is a global service, and we think that's   a key reason why VeriSign was chosen. We can provide a service on that scale with very high service levels."It is not an appointment that will be universally applauded, because of VeriSign's attempt to make money from failed DNS calls by diverting them to its own SiteFinder system. Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, ordered VeriSign to turn it off. However, Neil Macehite, research director at the Ovum consultancy, was not surprised by the choice. "No other organisation springs to mind that has got the pedigree, the infrastructure and the commercial business model to do this," he says.The contract has been placed, on undisclosed terms, by EPCglobal, the international standards organisation that looks after EPCs (electronic product codes). EPCglobal is a joint venture between EAN International and the Uniform Code Council (UCC), which currently have more than one million members in more than 100 countries. EAN.UCC standardises bar codes, EDI transactions sets and XML schemas for business supply chains. The EPCglobal Network was developed by the Auto-ID Center, an academic research project based at MIT.Companies that want to use the   system will have to subscribe to EPCglobal. Henri Barthel, general manager for the EPC system at EAN International in Brussels, says the system is open and non-profit, "but like anyone, we also need financial resources to work, so there is a subscription. That's not different from what we have done in the bar code world for the past 35 years."But two things are different. First, suppliers will not have to tell their partners what their numbers mean, or put them in a catalogue such as UCCnet. Software will be able to handle all that over the network. Second, the numbering system has been extended to provide the capacity to track individual products, not just pallets. Brendsel says there is the   capacity to number every grain of sand on the planet.Of course, the RFID tag only carries the number, so it is up to the company what information it keeps on its computers, and the level of access it provides. However, most of it is likely to be boringly logistical."It's about the movement of products from the factory to the warehouse to the store," says Barthel. "That's typically the application we have in mind. The idea is not for consumers to use a Google or Yahoo to find information about products. From a technical point of view, that would be possible, but a lot of the information would be confidential to the manufacturers and suppliers."Brendsel says: "The system is being driven by the needs of manufacturers and retailers, and I haven't heard anybody talking about it being open to public use, but there could be a case for wider access in certain areas, such as public safety information."In any case, the cost will prevent manufacturers from trying to track more than a small minority of products at an individual level. RFID tags may be cheap - from 30c to $50 each, depending on capabilities - but they are vastly more expensive than bar codes. The cost soon mounts up if you buy them by the million. RFID readers are also expensive, as are the giant databases needed to store and search the resulting data. Having a unique tag implies having separate data for each item, but there's not much point in keeping millions of almost identical records about identical tins of beans.None the less, everyone recognises that the system will become much more widely used as RFID production volumes increase and costs come down.Says Brendsel: "It's too early to speculate, but it's like the internet circa 1993, so we're definitely taking the long-term view. The nice thing here is that you have two very significant catalysts - Wal-Mart &#91;the supermarket chain&#93; and the US Department of Defense - who are mandating it to their suppliers. It's going to be big."LinksEPCglobal FAQwww.epcglobalinc.com/about/faqs.htmlVeriSign EPC Network Serviceshttp://www.verisign.com/nds/directory/epc/index.html?sl=080201&amp;waid=Y10611000071081100RFID Journal FAQwww.rfidjournal.com/article/articleview/207
Not for the first time, a company is offering to "transform your dial-up to near broadband speeds" by running compression software in the background. But two things are unusual about OnSpeed. First, it is a British company. Second, while its servers are awake, it actually works, though this doesn't necessarily mean I'd recommend it.I tried it withZD Net's free bandwidth speed tester. It was from a Telewest dial-up connection, and using OnSpeed increased the rating from 45.2kbps to 69.9kbps. Web pages were noticeably faster to download, particularly graphics-heavy ones presumably aimed at broadband users.For example, OnSpeed reduced the download time for the image-heavywww.b3ta.comfrom a hopeless two minutes 15 seconds to an unacceptable 90 seconds. However, bear in mind that the system works by compressing the graphics, reducing their quality. This doesn't matter on the majority of sites, where the graphics have no useful function, but it may matter if you want to look at the pretty pictures. If so, OnSpeed has a slider control letting you increase the quality level and so reduce the speed.Using OnSpeed with a BT Openworld 512K ADSL broadband connection increased the ZDNet speed rating from 490.3kbps to 769.8kbps. Again, web surfing was snappier, but in general use, the difference often seemed pretty marginal. On the B3ta site, for example, the download time was reduced from 16 seconds to 12 seconds. Sometimes the page seemed to take longer, but it was impossible to say whether the delay was caused by waiting for OnSpeed's servers to compress the site, or just the fact that web   pages often hang for random reasons.OnSpeed made no difference to the speed with download managers. When I downloaded a 23 megabyte XviD movie file, it took longer with OnSpeed running: seven minutes and four seconds compared with six minutes and 50 seconds. It also made no difference to streaming video. In other words, OnSpeed doesn't really replace a broadband "always on"connection, but it does speed up your web browser and email program.Compressing pages on the fly is a very old idea: it's how the proprietary AOL service works. OnSpeed works better because it has better compression, though AOL has the advantage that with tens of millions of users, it can often serve up pages it has already compressed for someone else. Whether OnSpeed will be able to keep up the speed when its servers are deluged with users remains to be seen.The other issue with programs such as OnSpeed is privacy, and its potential exploitation. If all your pages are going via OnSpeed then it knows what you are doing, and this information is valuable for serving advertisements. You should definitely read the privacy policy atwww.onspeed.com/privacy.phpbefore signing up, and that's why I will be signing off. A dial-up user might take a different view.  OnSpeed costs &#163;24.99 a year (Windows only at present) .
Pirate penaltiesThe UK's Fast (Federation Against Software Theft), says it will seek criminal charges against business users of pirated software, and is working with several police forces using powers under the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988. It has previously used civil proceedings, which do not carry as heavy penalties or a criminal record. Also this week, the head of the British Phonographic Industry said that the BPI considers it reasonable to sue individual file-swappers. Referring to the case of the 12-year-old American sued by the RIAA, he said a shopkeeper would do the same to a 12-year-old shoplifter and no one would be surprised. But he added that the BPI has no current plans to follow the Americans' lead.Rolls go onlineThe government will standardise all councils' electronic electoral rolls by the end of this year, as the first stage of allowing centralised access to the rolls, using a mark-up language named EML (E for Election). This will make e-voting easier and cheaper to implement, but will also help police, political parties, jury summoning and credit-reference agencies, who are allowed access to the data.Unix servicesMicrosoft is upgrading its Windows Services For Unix, a free download for migrating applications from Unix and Linux to Windows. Supporting Windows 2000, XP and Server 2003, the toolset can be used with all major versions of Unix and some varieties of Linux, including RedHat. Services For Unix allows users to share files in a mixed environment and Unix administrators can access Windows servers through a telnet link. In version 3.5, Microsoft has added support for threaded applications and improved support for the Unix Network File System (NFS).www.microsoft.com/windowsRobotic researcherThe University of Wales and Imperial College London are developing a robot that can do simple research tasks.   Stephen Muggleton, a professor at Imperial, has designed a computer program that takes information about yeast growth from the Welsh university's robot and creates hypotheses based on the data. The program identifies which theories are most credible and chooses suitable experiments for the robot to perform. Baker's yeast is of interest because the functions of about 1,800 of its 6,000 genes are still unknown and many of them could be common to the human genome and, thus, medically important.www.aber.ac.uk/aberonline/uwa204.shtmlFuel sellCalifornia company PolyFuel is selling a honeycomb membrane for use in fuel cells for future notebook PCs and mobile phones. The Direct Methanol Fuel Cell (DMFC) uses a membrane to break down diluted methane into water and carbon dioxide to produce electricity. PolyFuel claims its product allows a higher concentration of methane to be used than in previous designs. This will create fuel cells that are smaller and lighter but able to maintain an estimated 10 hour battery life. DMFCs are being investigated by 35 companies including Toshiba, Casio, Sony and Samsung. Intel has a vested interest in improving battery life for notebooks and has invested in PolyFuel.www.polyfuel.com/technology.shtml3D MarsResearchers at Microsoft Research in Cambridge are processing images from the Nasa Mars Lander to render two-dimensional digital photographs in three dimensions. The conversion software uses algorithms based on how the brain recognises 3D elements in photographs. This information is used to generate an image that allows the picture to be displayed in a 3D animation, similar to viewing a hologram. The image does not require special glasses to give the illusion of 3D, and conversion of each of the Lander images only takes about five minutes, Microsoft claims.http://research.microsoft.comBomb scareThere is a security vulnerability in Unix and Linux versions of anti-virus software from Network Associates, Kaspersky Lab and Trend Micro. An advisory from German security company Aerasec reports that a flaw can allow malicious code to crash a PC. The problem lies in the decompression engine used to scan compressed files. Checking large files sent by email, so-called bzip2 bombs, can cause the engine to monopolise the CPU and to fill up disk storage. Kaspersky has a patch for its Linux product and Trend Micro has issued fixes for Interscan Viruswall on Linux, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX and Sendmail. Network Associates is also addressing the problem.&lt;A HREF="http://kb.trendmicro.com/solutions/solutionDetail.asp?solutionId=18198"TARGET=_NEW&lt;http://kb.trendmicro.com/
SmartphonesQuirky moveAlmost a year after it was unveiled, Siemens top-end smartphone, the SX1, is finally heading for the stores. Due in the UK next month, the handset uses the Symbian operating system also found on the Nokia 600 and Sony Ericsson P900.Siemens has crammed in still and video cameras, MP3 playback, an HTML web browser, POP3 email client and Bluetooth. There is also an MCC card slot for storing content. One design quirk is that the SX1 number keypads are on either side of the screen.www.my-siemens.comSecure professionSierra Wireless has confirmed that its innovative Voq Professional smartphone will debut in the UK in the spring. The device, which runs Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system, features a full Qwerty keyboard. The handset, largely aimed at the business market, also features a 200MHz processor, 32MB of Ram, a 200x176 pixel colour screen and an SD expansion card slot. While "pocket" versions of Microsoft applications such as Internet Explorer and Outlook are included, there is no integrated digital camera or Bluetooth. The phone also supports secure versions of standard corporate email systems such as Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes.www.voq.comHardwareInto rival territoryPhilips' second foray into the hard disk personal audio jukebox market, the HD060 is scheduled to reach the stores early next month. The model, which plays MP3 and WMA files, features a 1in 1.5GB hard disk capable of storing around 30 hours of MP3 tunes. Pitched against the iPod Mini, the HD060 sports an Apple-esque white casing with a small LCD screen. It will retail for around &#163;200. Philips is also promising a 20GB version of its personal audio jukebox, the HDD100. Also due next month, the HDD120 is expected to retail for &#163;300.www.philips.co.ukXtreme moveApex Digital, known as purveyors of inexpensive DVD players, has turned its attention to the games market. Due in the spring in the US is the ApeXtreme, a games console that allows users to play PC games on their television via its DVD-Rom drive. The console features a VIA C3 1.4GHz processor, 300MHz S3 DeltaChrome graphics chip with 64MB Ram, 256MB system Ram, a 20GB hard drive, six channel surround sound, a modem port and an Ethernet connector. It also has limited PC functionality: users can tune into internet radio stations or listen to MP3s stored on its hard disk. The ApeXtreme is expected to retail for around $400. There's no word on a UK launch.www.apexdigitalinc.comDrinkers fingeredA Chelmsford nightclub owner fears his fingerprint scanner, installed on police advice, is putting off customers. Two hundred patrons of the Cave have volunteered their fingerprints for the &#163;3,200 system from InTouch, along with a passport or photo driving licence. Their fingerprint serves as proof of age. But, "a lot of people around town are saying you're getting finger printed by the police," says owner Joe Ferrari, who would not recommend the system ."It definitely puts people off." InTouch says the database is not connected to the police, and scans cannot be compared with scene-of-crime fingerprints.SoftwareAll your mediaUS company BravoBrava claims to have developed a suite of software and services that will enable users to stream video from their PC or hard disk video recorder to their mobile phone or web-connected PDA. The company hopes to license the software, called AllMiMedia, to consumer electronics manufacturers and digital service providers. It is also offering a free three-month trial of its AllMiMedia software, which lets Microsoft Windows Media Center PC owners remotely program their PC's video recorder, view photos and listen to music stored on their computer from a phone or PDA.www.allmimedia.comBroadbandBilling supportThe Community Broadband Network (CBN) opens next week, to promote broadband through advice, support and services for community campaigns. Communities wanting to establish their own broadband systems will be able to use CBN for billing, customer and technical services, through a deal with Phone Co-op.www.broadband-uk.coopCooperativeA technical survey of 30 bank and building society websites says the Co-operative Bank has the best site, followed by the Bank of England and Barclays. Site-testing firm Business2www found that Lloyds TSB and Bradford and Bingley were the only sites with no errors, Birmingham Midshires had the fastest page download times, and Royal Bank   of Scotland's was the most accessible. The survey said that AIB had the worst site - with more than 62,500 page warnings caused by poor HTML.Digital camerasUp very closeOlympus has unveiled a digital camera with a 10x optical zoom, one of the most powerful on the market. The C-760 Ultra Zoom, below, available exclusively through Jessops, also boasts a Super Macro mode that Olympus claims can take images just 3cm away from the subject. The camera features a 1.8in LCD screen with 110,000 pixels, snaps 3.2 megapixel images and connects to a PC via a USB 2.0 connector. Other features include movie recording, automatic and manual exposure options and rechargeable batteries. It goes on sale next month for &#163;350.www.olympus.co.ukStat of the week: Valentine's day beats the rugbyWhat a nation of romantics. The busiest day for UK text messages last year was Valentine's Day, according to the Mobile Data Association. But it didn't come close to this year's top day, so far. January 1 2004 saw 100m messages sent between UK phone users.
Developers using the MSDN website to download development tools and software packages noticed a few changes over Christmas: 23 applications disappeared from the download list, many of them still regularly used in businesses all over the world.Microsoft's contract disputes with Sun over its Java Virtual Machine (JVM) have been widely reported. As a result of its settlement with Sun, Microsoft will be ending support for its JVM implementation on September 30. The removal of the downloads was part of this process, with the intention of encouraging developers to move away from the Microsoft JVM, and towards different technologies.Most of the MSDN downloads disappeared because they contained installers that included versions of Internet Explorer that bundled Microsoft's JVM. Very few of the applications actually used any Java code, but Microsoft's Ivo Salmre indicated that Microsoft had to make "an engineering benefit/risk decision", especially for products that were close to the end of their life cycles. As a result, Microsoft decided that the risks of developing and testing new installers for the 23 downloads were too high. However, five more commonly used tools were updated - including the popular Small Business Server 2000 and Office XP Professional with Front Page.Microsoft is recommending that businesses move away from its JVM for security reasons. But it's a good idea to start any migration process with a risk assessment. If you consider you're not at risk if you continue using an unsupported JVM,   you could keep using any Microsoft Java application until there's a business need for a new version of your application. Your copies of the Microsoft JVM will still operate afterSeptember.Most server-side Java applications are built to run in Java-based application servers, such as BEA's WebLogic or IBM's WebSphere. There's no need to worry about these, as they use the latest Java technologies, and are usually built on top of Sun's own JVM. It is really only desktop applications and web applets you need to consider changing.If you're using standard desktop Java applications, it will be easy enough to switch to Sun's JVM. Michael Avis, Sun's UK marketing director, points out that several major PC manufacturers, including Dell, are already distributing the Sun JVM on their Windows machines. This will also make it easier for any new Java desktop application developments, as you will be able to take advantage of the latest Java technologies, and deliver applications to other operating systems.It won't be as easy to change applications built using Microsoft's Visual J++ Java development tool, as it targeted Microsoft's Java extensions. Microsoft's Java development tools made it possible to create Windows executables that were really Java code. As they look just like standard .exe and .dll files, it can be difficult to track these down, and the promised diagnostic tool that will scan machines to help administrators find these files has yet to be released.Microsoft offers help with updating and changing applications in its   downloadable Transition Guide document, but if you're committed to using Java, then you won't find Microsoft's advice overly helpful. The guide is a large Acrobat file, full of information on how to rewrite your existing Java applets and applications using current Microsoft technologies.One option is to convert your existing code to .Net, using the J# Java language implementation. This can be complex, as while J# can read and import J++ files, Microsoft suggests that only 95% of J++ code will convert to J# without needing changes. The remaining code will have to be rewritten by developers familiar with .Net. Applets can be converted to use J#'s browser controls, but these limit users to Internet Explorer running on PCs that have had the .Net runtime installed.The technical issues of Microsoft's move away from the Java world are clear. However, Martin Tennant, from Compass Management Consulting, feels Microsoft's move is polarising the IT development world turning it into an "us or them" camp: splitting between Java and Microsoft's .Net. With IT departments still struggling to deal with the standardisation issues resulting from data centre consolidation, a change to a standard platform will have a significant effect on application development.The disappearance of the Microsoft JVM has left IT departments in the crossfire. Do they stick with Java or move to .Net? With both approaches offering similar performance and standards support, it's a difficult decision to make, and many will use both.Microsoft Java transition sitewww.microsoft.com/mscorp/javaSun Javawww.java.com/en/index.jsp
Who are you?I'm a medic with Apache Troop of the 1-10 Cavalry. Our mission is to do the things that no other unit wants to do or can do. Our unit has been instrumental in capturing 10 of the people on the Iraqi Most Wanted playing cards, including Saddam Hussein.How do you post your blog?We have an internet cafe, which is a little tent. I bought a laptop before coming here - it's been a blessing - and I compose most of my messages offline while getting ready for bed or during our   increasingly scarce downtime. I usually go through an editing process after I've finished, making sure everything is cohesive. I'll post them when I connect to the web, usually at night. I use Blogger Pro's journal software to write and then upload the website to my server. At first I simply wanted a place to post my thoughts and daily journal, but after the Operation Red Dawn story got so much publicity, it has morphed into a little community. I upload pictures with Gallery Remote, a free tool that connects to my photo album and allows me to manage it easily.Why are you writing Letters from Iraq?I wanted a way to remember what I've done over here, because much of it has been life-changing and some of it has been downright historic. I love photography and there are really interesting things over here. Everyone wants to see pictures that aren't in   magazines or newspapers, and I've been able to provide that.What is the attitude of your senior officers towards it?A lot think it's cool the website is getting so much attention for our unit. Everyone likes to keep a journal, and I'm basically doing the same thing... albeit with a twist in that mine is available to the world.And your buddies?They are all excited it is getting noticed. We all take pictures, and it's nice to have a visual and textual reference of everything we've done. They are all excited about the possibility of a book deal that will serve as a record of what we've done in Iraq. It gives everyone a little place in the history books, however small.Do you abide by military censorship?I haven't run into any. Obviously, we have to maintain what's called   "operational security", but if I have questions about things that might affect "opsec", I ask my superiors and our public affairs office for clarification. The only time that's needed to happen was the Operation Red Dawn story; I wanted to make sure I wasn't giving out anything classified. I want our unit to get recognition for things we've done, but not jeopardise the safety of those around me.Does the net bring you closer to home?Definitely. There's something comforting about seeing your loved one's screen name on your buddy list when you are in a different world. It brings you back to some semblance of reality, and that's nice when you deal with the craziness we have to deal with.See:www.jeremybotter.com
In March last year, Ed Miles married Maryam Hussein. They'd known each other for three years, and spent more than 1,000 hours talking - but they'd only spent 12 days together, face to face.Ed and Maryam met online, via IRC (internet relay chat) dating. Within a few days of "meeting", they were chatting for four hours each day, but seeing each other posed a problem: Maryam lived in the United Arab Emirates and Ed lived in London.Over the next three years, the couple spent most evenings in front of their webcams, chatting over Instant Messenger. Ed visited Maryam and, in February 2002, he proposed. After filling in countless visa applications and forms, they married in Maryam's home town and are now living "happily ever after" in London.Ed and Maryam's story may be extreme, but the way they met is becoming increasingly common. While dating agencies used to have a stigma attached, the internet has changed people's perceptions. According toMatch.com, the world's biggest dating site, 81% of users are now more comfortable admitting they use a dating service than they were a year ago. AndDatingdirect.comfound that 68% of people think online dating is better than its offline equivalent.People such as 30-year-old Simon Newman, who has used dating sites for six months, support this. "I'd never join an agency or place a personals ad, but using a website seems less desperate. It's just a bit of fun."Louise Goss, 28, agrees: "Everyone's at it. When I signed up to Yahoo   dating, the top two results it offered for me were ex-boyfriends."Research from Bath University found that a third of all net users turn to the web to establish some sort of relationship, and 20% of the 11m singles in the UK today have used some type of dating agency. It's no wonder that Jupiter Research predicts the UK online dating market will increase from &#163;2.6m to &#163;14m by 2007.While online dating only accounts for a small percentage of the total dating market - estimated by the Economic and Social Research Council to be worth &#163;600m - there's no doubt that internet dating is the young, urban choice. London and the south east account for almost 50% of dating site traffic, and it is particularly popular within the 25 to 34-year-old age bracket.Martin Bysh, co-founder and director ofMakeFriendsOnline.com, says: "Londoners are more willing to embrace modern methods of dating. Busy professionals, in particular, want to find a balance between their work and social lives, and the internet is helping them do that."The idea of internet dating being the choice of career-driven singles is supported by figures from other sites. Some 77% of singles on Match.com are in a professional or managerial position, and more than 85% have university education or a degree.Ben Faithful, a 25-year-old dating site user, explains: "It was easy to meet people at university; there was a constant stream of people to meet. Now I'm working, it's harder. My company frowns on relationships between colleagues, and I usually work late so there's not much opportunity to meet people. Picking someone up in a bar seems cheesy.   At least with the internet, you can get to know people first."The online dating trend shows no sign of abating: it is predicted the single population will rise by a further 5m by 2010. With this in mind, it is hardly surprising that new dating agencies are springing up, offering ever more precise services. Though the market is dominated by behemoths such as Match.com and Dating Direct, there are now sites specifically for Asians, over 30s, students and graduates, gorgeous people, and even people who live in your postcode area.Sites are refining their offerings to make it easier to meet someone you will get on with. One trend is helping people meet friends of friends, on the theory that they're more likely to have something in common.Friendster.comandeveryonesconnected.comboth let people sign up free, and invite friends to join. Users can see who they are linked to through their friendship networks   and request introductions - a kind of online equivalent to "My mate fancies you".And dating agencies aren't just refining their way of matching people, they're also embracing new technologies such as interactive television. Sky's year-old Koopid service allows digital viewers to create a profile and flirt using their remote control. It has already transmitted more than 3.6m messages from 45,000 registered users - and more than 2,500 viewers claim to have met a partner through the service.Dateline - one of the more established dating agencies, founded in 1966 - will soon become the second dedicated dating service on Sky Active. Viewers will be able to register for Dateline membership, find matches from its database of 35,000 members and communicate via voicemail, post or TV email.Dateline's Rachel Basger says: "New media is important to us. We were one of the first dating sites, launchingwww.dateline.co.ukin 1996. We've recently added an improved messaging service, a "chat" button and dating tips. However, we also pride ourselves on our offline service. We started out offline and our customer services operation helps people out along the way, whether they approach us through interactive TV, the web or traditional methods."Indeed, new media tends to go hand in hand with traditional methods. A major trend, possibly driven by the success of speed dating, is online-to-offline events. Users sign up to a website, find a match, then meet potential partners at events arranged by the site. Anne Pascal has found this new generation of sites a welcome improvement on speed-dating."With speed-dating, you don't know what kind of people you're going to meet until you turn up. Most events give a "guide age-range" of 10 years, with the guide for women being younger than for men. The men at events I attended were mostly older than the guide and, as I almost always go for younger men, I didn't find a match."The recently launchedLovePuzzle.co.uktakes the speed-dating concept online, but gives people greater choice before the event. Singles register online then search for people they'd like to date. Users' choices are cross-referenced, and they're given an agenda of 15-minute dates for the evening. Only dates requested by both parties feature on the agenda.Chemistry also runs popular events. It guarantees a 50:50 gender split, and boasts that 80% of guests date someone they have met at an event within two weeks. The events combine salsa, speed dating, matchmaking, flirting workshops and a photo wall. They also offer a "My Friend Fancies You" service: complete an ID card and send your friend off to find the person of your dreams.Pascal says: "The advantage of these events is that they reduce risk. I've had unpleasant experiences with men I've met online. One man sent me abusive emails when I refused to give him my mobile number. The site blocked contact from him when I reported him, but it was still intimidating. Events-based websites offer a safer way to meet people."Cosmo Parties is behind two of the latest trends: Dinner in the Dark, in which people have dinner with potential partners in pitch black, only seeing them towards the end of the night; and Lock and Key parties, in which men are given keys and women locks. Each lock and key   is allocated a number of matches, and every time a match is found, the "couple" is entered into a draw to win holidays. People can search profiles on the website to find potential matches, and sign up to events.But is this really that different from traditional dating agencies? Are companies just using websites to attract singles to events because it is a cheap way to get new customers? Cosmo Parties founder, Christian Mouysset, says it is more about attracting the right audience: "We see the future of our industry as a mix of online and offline activities. A careful mix is needed to attract a younger crowd that wants to go out but is aware that the internet is a useful medium to meet people hassle-free."Chemistry director, Lee Bramzell, also sees the web as essential: "Our site was set up for three specific purposes. We wanted people to see pictures of others who were coming to our events. We also wanted to provide a communication mechanism; people give out Chemistry cards at the events and communicate through secure email on the site. And we wanted to let people know about the events. The website and events work hand in glove. Without the events, we'd be a "me too" dating site and without the site, we wouldn't be as successful in getting people together."And getting people together is what it is all about. No matter what the business reasons behind the latest trends, with a growing single population and the stigma attached to online dating fading fast, one thing's for sure. Online dating agencies have certainly found a way to make people click.LinksSites for Asiansemail4loveasia.comOver 30sDateUmake.comStudents and graduatesUnisUnited.comGorgeous peoplewww.gg-t.comIn your areawww.UpMyStreet.comChemistrywww.chemistryevent.co.ukCosmo Partieswww.cosmoparty.com
Peter, who is on a business trip to France, urgently needs to speak to colleagues. So the executive takes out his Orange Treo 600 and glances at the screen. The list on the display tells him that of his seven team members, five have their mobiles switched on and are ready to accept calls. One button press later and Peter speaks into his mobile. Seconds later, the quintet hears Peter's voice asking if they are available   for a conference call. One by one they respond and after a few more clicks, the five move from a "walkie-talkie-type one person speaking conversation" to a full five-way conference phone call.This kind of scenario could become commonplace in a few months' time when mobile phone network Orange launches Talk Now, an enhanced version of a service popular in the US called Push To Talk (PTT).Essentially, the system has two main features. First, users can tell at a glance who, from their list of contacts, has their mobile switched on and can talk. Second, PTT enables a mobile phone to moonlight as a walkie-talkie. Except that, unlike traditional walkie-talkies, which have a range of a few hundred feet, PTT-equipped phones work over phone networks. In theory, users can contact someone no matter where they are. There's no need to dial a number and in seconds users can speak to pre-configured groups.PTT has been available in the US for more than a year with three operators - Nextel, Sprint and Verizon - attracting up to 12m subscribers.Early systems in the US focused   on the small business market, enabling groups such as plumbers and exhibition workers to easily and cheaply converse. More recently, PTT has been rolled out to consumers and has proved popular with fans of action sports such as skiing.Orange's Talk Now is aimed at the corporate sector. It has been trialled by the RAC and IBM, and the first handset to include the software that renders it compatible with Talk Now, Orange's Treo 600, is a high-end, Palm-based smartphone popular with corporates. Ian Pond, Orange's vice-president customer marketing small business solutions, says the company will then roll out the service to smaller businesses and then consumers. It promises 1m Talk Now users in 10 countries by the end of 2005.Orange is also working to offer a   range of handsets compatible with Talk Now. There are versions of the software compatible with Symbian, the other major phone operating system.Yet will Push To Talk chime with European corporates and consumers? Not everyone thinks so. "One of the reasons it has been relatively successful in the US is that they don't really have a culture of text messaging," argues Simon Edwards, marketing director of telecoms software vendor Intervoice. "So some of the uses for PTT are taken care of in Europe by texting.""There will have to be a fairly sizeable cultural shift," adds Jason Chapman, from analysts Gartner. "You can see IT groups in large corporations becoming comfortable with the technology as they will be able to recognise its benefits quickly, but I think groups of sales people on the road - one of Talk Now's prime markets - might find it strange to have their boss talking to them out of the blue."There may also be problems with the PTT system Orange has chosen. The company has plumped for a high-end version of PTT developed by Kodiak Systems. It is based on circuit switching technology over GSM rather than the packet switching systems that predominate in the US. The time lag between a person speaking and their voice coming through is thus shorter - two seconds as opposed to around five. Voice quality is apparently superior and, unlike existing PTT systems, Talk Now calls can be converted into full two-way phone calls at the press of a button.Other networks and manufacturers have, however, backed the rival Push to Talk over cellular protocol packet-based systems, and interoperability between Talk Now and other PTT services could pose a challenge.Pricing could also be another key issue. Orange hasn't set prices but Chapman estimates that PTT calls could be as much as &euro;0.40 a minute - much higher than voice calls. Paolo Pescatore, senior analyst at IDC, believes that if the pricing is too high, PTT will not attract subscribers. "The price of talk is cheap in Europe. People are fairly comfortable with their phone's functionality, too. PTT could be this year's bubble."Networks such as Virgin and Vodafone are likely to follow Orange's lead, and both Motorola and Nokia have said that by the end of next year, all their handsets will be PTT compatible.Yet it might not be the voice element that provides PTT's killer application. The presence facility that enables users to see if a person has their mobile phone on and is ready to receive calls is sure to appeal to business users and all kinds of consumers - from teenagers to parents wanting to be able to instantly contact children. Even if Europeans don't always fancy barging in on other people's lives through a PTT call, they will take comfort in knowing they can if they need to.
I am, therefore I text. Or so it seems with most teenagers these days. Text messaging is so popular that medical experts have identified excessive texting as a new form of addictive behaviour. Remedial treatment is available at the Priory - a clinic famed for its celebrity in-patients.Despite this, texting is continuing to extend its reach into our lives. BT plans to offer a fixed line text facility that will allow you to send and receive texts from a home phone and even have the text message translated into speech. Working with Unisys, it claims the service will be able to cope with abbreviations and even graphics.Text messaging continues to grow, albeit at a slower rate. New Year celebrations were punctuated by a record 110m texts sent on January 1 - a new daily record. According to the industry-backed Mobile Data Association (MDA), an average of almost 60m messages are sent daily, up 18% from a year ago. They amount to about &#163;1.7bn in yearly revenue to operators.This year, the big question is whether texting can gain a significant foothold in the business sector to make it worth further investment in the infrastructure that manages the text services. Although the operators touted business applications last year, success was limited.The MDA is predictably upbeat: "There are now more ways for businesses to use text messaging thanks to software that allows email users to send texts and the arrival of simple pay-as-you-go business texting services. We also learnt from TVs Pop Idol text vote that we need to increase capacity to cope with demand," says Mike Short, the chairman of MDA.A survey of leading UK firms by messaging firm Topcall found that the most common uses of SMS was to alert mobile technicians to system errors, alerting executives to urgent voice mails, warning travellers about delays, informing stock brokers of unusual trading activity and reminder alerts for sales executives.TV's love affair with texting focuses on "interactive" services that allow votes to be collected instantly. Recent examples include Channel 4's Big Brother and BBC's Fame Academy. The use of short codes for texting has made it simple and fast to send a vote.Publishers and TV companies have also dabbled with premium rate SMS, charging up to &#163;1.50 for pushed content, games and ringtones. Big Brother 3 saw 10.7m text votes, and Fame Academy logged 6.9m votes.But some third-party software suppliers feel operators should do more to increase capacity on their networks. Sicap, which sells a form of SMS overflow software to reduce congestion and improve delivery times at peak periods, is typical."We believe that operators need to improve their capacity; in our tests on New Year's Day we found that some texts took four hours to get through," says Per-Johan Lundin, Sicap head of marketing. "They also need to sort out some roaming arrangements so that texts are not lost when you are abroad."Although most texts reach their destination in a few seconds, the fact that texts are - like emails - subject to "store and forward" technology means that there are a number of choke points along the road to their destination - the bandwidth to the operator, the SMS centre at the   operator, and the buffer at the base station that locates the recipient.Some third parties even offer a form of text audit to track quality of service. 2SMS offers business an easy broadcast text option from its website. Users of the service are able to get audits that allow them to see if messages were sent and received."We are finding that businesses are more concerned with quality of service than price. It also saves money because it means they don't need to carry a pager," says 2SMS managing director, Tim King. Vodafone also offers an option to receive notification of receipt of a text message.Vodafone has just completed installation of load balancing software in its network to cope with the huge spikes created by big events and TV voting. "We don't advise business to broadcast texts during prime time TV on a Saturday night - but then there isn't much demand for that. But we are confident we can handle 100m texts per second now," says Jeremy Flyn, Vodafone's head of commercial partnerships. Vodafone predicts a moderate growth in business texting and is to launch in March software to enable business users to send and receive texts from the desktop."Companies are using it for short punchy messages - it's like a modern day telegram for congratulations to sales teams, details of new contracts and suchlike," says Orange business solutions marketing director Clive Richardson.Orange predicts an increase in text traffic of between 7-15% this year. T-Online, which says it is assessing third party operators to pursue what it calls "a more aggressive position", predicts a 10% increase.But industry analysts Ovum are less upbeat, highlighting concerns that operators are making too much profit for themselves from SMS to make it attractive to developers, are slow at paying out on premium services, and are slow to provide access to short codes for customers.Ovum principal analyst, John Delaney, says that operators need to do more to make it attractive for third parties to offer premium rate services with simple billing systems. He believes that a lack of helpfulness is pushing third parties to intermediaries - thus adding another tier of charging into the equation.He also points out that growth in the use of multimedia messaging services (MMS) could be dulled by operators introducing access only through opt-in to ensure that children do not get access to pornographic material. Delaney says many service providers feel many users will be too embarrassed or apathetic to opt in, significantly reducing the target audience.IT consultants AMS are also critical. "We looked at branding and the portfolio of services and concluded that operators are not dedicating significant investment to SMS to encourage developers of third-party services. This is holding up application development," says senior telecoms consultant Jamie Bridel.But even if texting gets the investment some believe it needs to reach a bigger business market, it may be overshadowed by the rise of new Push to Talk services.
The UK record industry has settled its row with online retailer CDWow over selling cheap CDs on the web, just two weeks before the landmark case was due to go to court.Trade body the British Phonographic Industry and CDWow today announced they had reached a settlement over claims that the online retailer was breaking the law by selling CDs from the Far East.CDWow was able to offer chart CDs for £8.99 and under because it bought them at lower wholesale prices in the Far East and sold them directly to consumers.The site has proved a huge success, with annual turnover in excess of £100m, but the BPI argued that CDWow was breaking the law by importing CDs from outside the European Economic Area and selling them at cheaper prices than UK retailers without the consent of copyright owners.The CDWow chief executive, Phillip Robinson, had in turn argued that the company agreed deals with the record labels concerned overseas and didn't actually import the CDs, merely posting them individually to the UK from the Far East.Under the settlement announced today, CDWow has backed down and agreed not to sell CDs that have first been placed on the market outside Europe to UK and Irish customers.The settlement is likely to hit CDWow's sales because it will now add a £2 surcharge to buyers from the UK and Ireland, explaining that the extra cost is as a result of the BPI's action."I am delighted that we have been able to resolve this case on agreed terms without the need for a trial," said the BPI chairman, Peter Jamieson. The BPI is also looking at taking similar action against Play.com and US web retail giant Amazon.com."This has been a long drawn-out affair which we are pleased to have resolved," added Mr Robinson, who had earlier vowed to fight the case.However, while the major record labels have won their battle against CDWow, industry insiders believe that they will come under increasing pressure to reduce the retail price of CDs in the UK in any case.As legal download services offering albums from £6.40 become more popular, high street retailers are likely to put more pressure on the labels to cut prices.Already, Universal has agreed to slash the price of CDs by 25% in the US, and the UK Consumers Association is believed to be investigating the possibility of taking the UK's major labels to court over the price difference between CDs in Europe and the rest of the world.The BPI has also launched proceedings against Play.com, a Jersey-based online retailer of CDs, DVDs and video games, which operates on a similar basis.And Amazon.com could be drawn into the row because it sells CDs to UK customers that are not available in this country, undercutting traditional high street retailers. The BPI could argue that they are acting without the consent of UK record companies.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A week after finallydroppingGoogle as its search partner, Yahoo has set up newresearch labsin a drive to improve its own search technology,reports News.com. Gary Flake, the company's principal scientist, tells the site: "Today, search engines are like the 8-track tapes of the music industry... We're very much at the beginning of an industry here, and the amount of innovation in the next 10 years will be mind boggling."It's widely expected Microsoft will also have improved its search functionality by the end of this year, and the current market-leader, Google, is unlikely to relinquish its top-dog status without a fight - even if it appears to have its eye off the ball at the moment. It's going to be a fascinating year in search, even if much of the innovation is driven by the realisation that search technology can be turned very profitably towards serving up advertising. Not that I'm convinced this is a problem, provided we get better search results as the payoff...
The LA Timesreports that eMachines is introducing "the first laptops from a major PC maker powered by high-capacity 64-bit chips"."The new laptops from privately held EMachines run on an Athlon 64 processor from Advanced Micro Devices Inc and have a 60-gigabyte hard drive, DVD reader and CD reader/burner, WiFi wireless connectivity and a large, 15.4-inch wide-aspect screen. The M6805 will sell for $1,449 after rebates, and the M6807, which includes a DVD burner, will be $1,549 after rebates."In the UK, eMachines systems are sold by Dixons, the high-street retailer, and $1,449 is currently about £790. Obviously they'd be a bit more expensive than that if they arrived here.....
"in the fall it will begin selling a device code-named Nintendo DS that will have two separate three-inch video screens so that a player can simultaneously watch a game from two different perspectives. Nintendo DS will go head to head against Sony's new gaming handheld arriving in stores around the same time," reportsThe Mercury News.Nintendo Chief Executive Satoru Iwata said in a statement: ''We have developed Nintendo DS based upon a completely different concept from existing game devices in order to provide players with a unique entertainment experience for the 21st century.''Reuter's coverage ishere.
The government is planning to set a stretching new target for the take-up and use of high speed broadband internet services which will cover the second half of this decade and slot into its manifesto for the next election.The government's own broadband adviser, the Broadband Stakeholder Group, will today publish its final report in which it urges the government not to relax its drive to get consumers online when its current target expires next year.In 2001 the government pledged to make Britain the most competitive and extensive broadband market among the G7 nations by 2005.While the BSG believes that the market is well on the way to meeting this goal it calls on the government to redouble its efforts.E-commerce minister Stephen Timms yesterday promised that a new target for broadband will be produced this year in consultation with the industry."The BSG are absolutely right to say that we are reaching the 2005 milestone. I think we are on track. Although I would not want to minimise the challenges that remain, I think it is plausible that by the end of next year every community will have access to broadband. A year or two ago that really would have looked far fetched," he said."We now need to set our sights further ahead and look at what kind of online economy we are going to have by the end of the decade."He said that the new target would probably find its way into the Labour manifesto.Anthony Walker, chief executive of the BSG, believes that with the government's 2005 deadline in sight, a new target was needed to ensure that the majority of people - many of whose homes are not yet online - get the benefit of broadband."The 2005 target has been really useful because it has focused activity and it has put pressure on the public and private sector but we are now coming to the end of the beginning for broadband and the government now needs to set a new target for the second half of the decade," he said.He added that instead of a target based on how many people had access to fast, always-on internet connections the government must realise that for new services to appear, such as internet telephony and even television over broadband, companies would have to start investing in infrastructure again.He stopped short of demanding that BT be forced to give up its hold on the connection to people's houses, saying that such issues are a matter for the regulator Ofcom which is reviewing the entire fixed line communications market.For the first time the BSG report also makes it plain that the BBC has a role to play in getting people tuned into broadband internet access.Any collusion between the government and the BBC on broadband is likely to irritate commercial organisations in the online world who already see the BBC as having an unfair advantage.Mr Timms was careful to say that any moves by the BBC to help get more people on to broadband must not "distort" the competitive landscape.Last August culture secretary Tessa Jowell appointed former Trinity Mirror boss Philip Graf to conduct a review of the BBC 's internet activities. He is expected to report in the spring.
A fleet of insect-like microlight planes is to be tested by British scientists as a way of bringing high-speed internet services to computer users in remote areas out of reach of broadband.Some time next year, a tethered airship is expected to float over York to test the theory that an aerial platform can receive and beam computer signals like a cut-price satellite.The contract has been won by York University from a European consortium, Capanina, which is   spending &#163;4m on trials. US and Japanese scientists are carrying out similar experiments in the Pacific, but using larger, high-altitude platforms, with up to eight engines.York's electronics department and its commercial arm, York Electronics Centre, will lead 14 partners from Slovenia, Italy, Switzerland and Japan. Scientists at the university centre are satisfied that the technology works, but lacked the means to launch aerial platforms over Langstrothdale or Wild Boar Fell to prove it."It's exciting technology," said Dr David Grace, principal scientific officer on the project, which plans to use solar-powered engines to keep microlights in position above blind spots in high-speed modem reception. "It offers a unique way of delivering broadband inexpensively to people at home, in the office, or even on the move."Connections are potentially 200 times faster than wired broadband, with the "platforms" hovering at some 12 miles above the earth's surface, much higher than almost all air craft but well within the "economy boundary" before the expensive circle of space satellites. Each floating transmitter-receiver can notionally take traffic from a nearly 40 mile diameter circle on the earth's surface.The trials will also put steerable "smart" antennae through their paces, to test the practicality of providing "hovering broadband" to travellers in cars or trains. This would enable commuters and others to download or transmit picture files and other heavy data at 120 megabits a second.
Like any successful entrepreneur, Mike Rowe, 17, knew he needed a catchy name for his fledgling business.So the Canadian teenager was pleased when he came up with mikerowesoft.com for the web design operation he was running to supplement his studies."Since my name is Mike Rowe, I thought it would be funny to add soft to the end of it," said Mr Rowe, from British Columbia.Unfortunately the software giant, Microsoft, missed the joke. In November Mr Rowe received a letter from the company informing him he was infringing copyright.He wrote back asking for compensation. When the firm's lawyers offered him $10 (&#163;5.50), he told them he would settle for $10,000.Last week the corporation sent him a 25-page document claiming he acted in bad faith, registering the name to sell it back to Microsoft. After Mr Rowe wrote about the dispute on his website the company said it would settle for a "good faith" settlement.Mr Rowe said he was surprised by Microsoft's response. "It's not their name, it's my name," he said.
The Ghettopoly box bears a large, stern warning: "Warning: CHOKING HAZARD - small parts." Among these small parts are a tiny pimp and a machine gun. Players may also choose to be the basketball or the rock of crack cocaine. On a miniature plinth. According to the instructions, "Da object" of the Ghettopoly is "to become the richest playa through stealing, cheating and fencing stolen properties." But the instructions are largely superfluous: you play Ghettopoly exactly as you would Monopoly. Only the terms are different: roll a six, land on Trailer Trash Court, buy it and collect your protection fees (&#36;25, or &#36;120 with a crack house on it). Or roll a two, land on Ghetto Stash and collect &#36;50 "for services your hoe &#91;sic&#93; provided".Not surprisingly, Ghettopoly has caused a certain amount of outrage in the US for its stereotypical view of black people and black culture. It also has a few defenders, who argue that it only mirrors - and parodies - the culture of drugs, guns and violence promulgated enthusiastically by gangsta rappers. Indeed, David Chang, Ghettopoly's 28-year-old inventor, says he researched the game by studying MTV and video games, sources where such stereotypes are paraded with little comment.Late last year, the game, along with the attendant controversy, was imported into Britain. Initially Virgin Megastores and HMV both carried it; Virgin claims to have sold more than 3,000 copies to date."I can't remember seeing anything quite as racist or stereotypical for a long time," says Peter Herbert, chairman of the Society of Black Lawyers and chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority's race-hate crime forum. "It's the sort of game the SS would like to play."There is no denying that racists would really, really enjoy this game; it's got the sort of crudity, cartoonish stupidity and slipshod grammar ("The Chinese Triads is collecting protection fees. Pay &#36;75") that one associates with racist humour. It is also pretty clear that the racism Herbert perceives is not intentional. In an apologia published on his website, Chang writes, "Hip-hop Culture is what I gravitate towards, so naturally when I decided to make a game, I wanted to give it an urban edge."Chang's intention, of course, is not the sole criterion by which his game should be judged, but Mark Hayward, who brought it to Britain, thinks the controversy surrounding Ghettopoly has another source: the toy company Hasbro.Hasbro, which owns the rights to Monopoly, has launched legal action in the high court and served Hayward with a writ. It has also taken action against Chang in the US. HMV stopped selling Ghettopoly before Christmas in response to legal pressure from Hasbro. "We were made aware of issues by Hasbro, so obviously we wanted to ensure we complied immediately," says an HMV spokesman. But the decision had nothing to do with charges of racism. "As a retailer we have a very well-established policy that we feel it's not appropriate to act as some kind of censor, irrespective of the actual content of the title."Hayward says Hasbro is "100&#37;" behind the current controversy over Ghettopoly, and that the company is using the issue to strengthen its position. "They are drumming up this whole PR exercise to sort of throw a bit of weight behind their claim, which is very weak," he says. "My defence is, they never had Monopoly to begin with; they stole that from the Quakers. There's 250 other 'opolies' available in America, because of their 10-year supreme court battle. Hasbro lost it, which led to these 250 other 'opoly' games."There are indeed many "opoly" games, including Catopoly, Dogopoly, Gayopoly, Bibleopoly and Wineopoly. We may assume than none of these is very amusing either. Hasbro itself has a number of tie-in versions of the game, such as Simpsons Monopoly, Lord of the Rings Monopoly and Pokemon Monopoly. But Hayward's claim that the original game was stolen from the Quakers is not as ludicrous as it sounds.At the turn of the century a Maryland Quaker, Lizzie Magie, was trying to develop a game that would illustrate the inequities of capitalism and promote a popular "single tax" movement led by Henry George. A century ago this month she received a patent for The Land lord's Game; the illustration in the US Patent Gazette is eerily similar to Monopoly.The Landlord's Game became a Quaker pastime; over the years little improvements and local details were added by players. Eventually it became known as Monopoly, and a version that used the streets of Atlantic City, New Jersey (still used in the US version of Monopoly) was shown to a man named Charles Darrow in 1931. He sold the rights to Parker Brothers games in 1936. The Quakers' 30-year-old instructive little anti-capitalism game became, in other hands, the opposite. You cannot, as Hayward is fond of pointing out, copyright a board game, but Parker Brothers set about protecting their interests, purchasing the rights to Lizzie Magie's game and distributing a few hundred sets.In 1974 the new owners of Monopoly brought a suit against an economics professor named Carl Anspach, who had invented a game called Anti-Monopoly. Eventually the supreme court decided in Anspach's favour.And now we have Ghettopoly, a version unlikely to draw many supporters to its David v Goliath battle. If it is ultimately suppressed, it will hardly be missed, but is it being suppressed for the wrong reasons? Does this matter?Hayward is still considering his position. "I'm not sure what I'm going to do at the moment," he says, "but I don't like their tactics ... you cannot have a monopoly on the word monopoly."
"Beginning [today], more than a dozen Web sites, including MSN, ESPN, Lycos and iVillage, will run full-motion video commercials from Pepsi, AT&amp;T, Honda, Vonage and Warner Brothers, in a six-week test that some analysts and online executives say could herald the start of a new era of Internet advertising," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."It's TV, without the television," said John Vail, director for digital media and marketing for Pepsi-Cola North America, a unit of PepsiCo.According to the NYT: "The new ad technology, from Unicast, an advertising company based in New York, invisibly loads the commercial while unwitting users read a Web page, then displays the ad across the entire browser area when users click to a new page. "
A 17-year-old Canadian high school student is facing calls from the US computer giant Microsoft to change the name of a website,mikerowesoft.com, he built to showcase his programming skills.It says that Mike Rowe's website has infringed its copyright and is demanding he hand it over to them.Mr Rowe, of Victoria, British Columbia, told the Vancouver Province newspaper: "Since my name is Mike Rowe, I thought it would be funny to add 'soft' to the end of it."The mikerowesoft.com website has been flooded with interested internet users - 250,000 in one morning - and forced to move to a service provider with a greater capacity as supporters have rallied round its author's cause."I have been all around the world and back. I never expected this type of feedback. I have a defence fund so that I can hire a lawyer to guide me through the process of talking to Microsoft ... I could never think this could happen, even in my wildest dreams," he writes in a weblog.Microsoft's Canadian lawyers, Smart &amp; Biggar, sent him a letter in November informing him of the corporation's attitude towards his website. Mr Rowe wrote back, saying he had put a lot of time and effort into it. The company then offered to compensate his costs, US$10 (£5.50), to which he replied with a demand for US$10,000.The computer giant replied last week with a 25-page letter accusing him of trying to force them into a large settlement.Mr Rowe denied he was attempting to profiteer, saying he had only asked for the money because he was "sort of mad at them for only offering 10 bucks".In the early days of the internet, registering and selling on domain names offered lucrative opportunities for those quick enough off the mark to make six-figure sums from what became known as cyber squatting.Any complaints over copyright infringement in domain names are referred to the UN World Intellectual Property Organisation, which adjudicates on whether they should be surrendered.However, its decisions are unpredictable. While it has ruled against celebrities such as Madonna, it also found against the original owner of the RobbieWilliams.info address, who pointed it at the official Oasis website after the singer was involved in a spat with the Mancunians.A Microsoft spokesman said that it was trying to reach a compromise agreeable to all involved."Microsoft has been in communication with Mr Rowe in a good faith effort to reach a mutually agreeable resolution. And we remain hopeful we can resolve this issue to everyone's satisfaction."Mr Rowe said family and friends are backing him and a lawyer has offered to advise him for free."It's not their name. It's my name. I just think it's kind of funny that they'd go after a 17-year-old," he said.
Computer security experts are divided on the seriousness of a new computer virus spreading through office networks in Asia, Australia and Europe.Called "beagle" or "bagle" it comes from a familiar email address with the subject field "Hi". If the recipient clicks on an attachment a worm is then dispatched to his or her address book in search of more people to send itself to.It started spreading yesterday through an attachment appearing to be a calculator but virus experts were sceptical that it could become a big problem.David Perry, spokesman for anti-virus firm Trend Micro, said most people knew better than to click on attached calculators."It's clumsy," he said. "I don't get e-mails with calculators in it, do you?"The virus only affects machines running Microsoft Windows operating systems.Carey Nachenberg, chief architect of Symantec Research in California, said home users were most at risk because companies had protected themselves quickly."We could see this fizzle out in several days. Or we could also see a lot of people infected if they don't update their anti-virus software."The virus has had little impact in North America, where many office workers were on holiday as the virus yesterday spread in other parts of the world.
You're Coca Cola. You're the world's biggest brand. Indeed, Warren Buffet (the company's biggest investor) has said that, if he was given $1bn and asked to beat Coke around the world, he'd simply hand back the money, because it couldn't be done.So you decide to launch a music service, probably not to make money, but to create some cool synergy between your killer brand and the most popular of popular music, and to hit back at your (rather more pop-savvy) rival Pepsi, which is giving away a million songs in a tie-up with Apple's iTunes.But you'd think they'd make sure the site works on day one, wouldn't you?It's like the worst days of the dot.com boom all over again.
Jeff Jarvisasks the interesting question in the wake of Howard Dean'spoor showin Iowa overnight. In doing so, Jarvis sounds a warning about how easy it is to have your beliefs confirmed by the blogosphere, rather thanchallenged. Is Dean and his team looking online only for support, rather than guidance? For backing - and cash - rather than a conversation? Jarvis writes:"Did the strong community that made Dean's organization and fundraising work so amazingly well become too insular and self-congratulatory? Did it amplify the opinions and attitudes already there? Did it become so loud inside that room that it became hard to hear the noise outside, where the voters were?"Meanwhile, we'd better all start learning more aboutJohn Kerry...
Blimey. Onlineblog has made it to the shortlist for the2004 Bloggies, thanks to your votes. It was a big surprise - I only found out when idly browsing our referrer stats - so thanks for your vote. It's great to be in a field for best computer/tech weblog that includes four quite exceptional sites that we've got an awful lot of time for -Slashdot,Boing Boing,GizmodoandKottke.org. Up against that lot, I'm sure we don't have a chance, but it was a lovely surprise to be in there at all.Also: I'm delighted to see some familiar faces in the other shortlists. Tom Coates, often a passionate critic of our own Best British blog compo, quite deservedly getsthreefournominations from the blog reading community forPlasticbag.org. He battles it out with Guardian contest winnersGreenfairy(2002),A Teenager BlogsandLondon Underground Tube Diaryfor best British Blog. Tom's also up for lifetime achievement and best lesbian/gay/bissexual/transgendered weblogger (update:good grief - his essay "(Weblogs and) The Mass Amateurisation of (Nearly) Everything.... " is also up for best essay about weblogs too).Two of the Guardian winners battle it out for best topical weblog - the excellentBelle De Jouris up against the entertainingLondon Underground Tube Diary. And Online's man in Florence,Ben Hammersley, is up for best European weblog. Well done all.
"Mike Rowe knew he needed a catchy name for his Web-site design company. 'Since my name is Mike Rowe, I thought it would be funny to add 'soft' to the end of it,' said Rowe, a 17-year-old computer geek and 12th-grade student in Victoria, B.C. ... 'I didn't think they would get all their high-priced lawyers to come after me'," reportsAP.Comment: Presumably Microsoft's Canadian lawyers, Smart &amp; Biggar, are just doing their jobs, guv, and it is every corporation's policy to try to prevent mis-use of its name, but someone in Redmond should wake up and stop this blooming stupidity. Even if Microsoft starts back-pedalling fast, it's still a PR disaster far more costly than any conceivable benefit. Meanwhile you can follow the saga first hand athttp://www.mikerowesoft.com/.
Coca-Cola today launched a website offering albums for download in what the drinks giant has described as "the first consumer branded, legitimate downloadable music site".The site,mycokemusic.com, features more than 250,000 new and old tracks available for download at a cost of at least 80p each, while albums will start at £6.40.Coca-Cola says it will have the largest collection of legal downloads available on the net, including exclusive and pre-release tracks from artists including Stereophonics, Kings of Leon, Sugababes and Lemar.Pre-releases will be for sale on the site up to six weeks before they are available on the high street.Music fans will be able to listen to an album through their computer for 1p a track, but users have to be aged over 18 because payment is via a credit or debit card.Coca-Cola is mounting a formidable marketing campaign for 2004, including more exclusive tracks and the opportunity to win free downloads.The 1980s band Tears For Fears, who have reformed after the success of the Gary Jules cover Mad World, will release their new single, Closest Thing To Heaven, exclusively on the site.The site is supported by theBritish Phonographic Industry, which aims to crack down on illegal file-sharing.A spokeswoman for the drinks giant said: "Coca-Cola is bringing legal downloadable music to a much broader and more mainstream audience than ever before."Consumers will be able to access the music they want, in a way that is simple and easy to use."We have talked to consumers and they have told us that what they want is a legitimate and simple way to access music."The company recently signed a deal to become the official sponsor of the UK charts, but the BBC announced it was to drop mention of Coca-Cola from its Radio 1 chart countdown and Top Of The Pops following criticism by health campaigners.
Air traffic control software is to be changed following an incident in which two large passenger jets almost collided, it was revealed today.A mix-up at the Swanwick air traffic control centre, in Hampshire, put a Virgin Atlantic Boeing 747 and a Delta Airlines Boeing 767 on a collision course over Wales in November 2002.A cockpit collision avoidance system alerted the Virgin pilot to the danger. As a result, the plane had to climb so quickly that a woman passenger was thrown off balance and broke an ankle.Computer Weekly magazine today revealed that an upgrade to Swanwick software will be made by National Air Traffic Services (Nats) next month.The magazine said that the controller in the incident thought his instructions to the pilots of the aircraft would direct the aircraft away from each other, but the opposite had happened.It said that the pilot of the Virgin plane, which was flying into Heathrow from New York, had assessed the risk of a collision with the Boeing 767 as "high".At one point, the Virgin plane was just 30 metres (100ft) above the 767, and separated laterally by 1.8 nautical miles - in breach of the legal minimum distance between aircraft.According to the magazine, the controller had not realised he had mistakenly transposed identifying data on the positions of the two aircraft.As he tried to force the jets apart, he brought them closer together. During the incident, other controllers gathered around the screen and saw the aircraft converging.After the incident, Nats put a revised operating procedure in place. The move made controllers mindful of the potential problem, and avoided the recurrrence of a similar difficulty.Adrian Yalland, a spokesman for Swanwick air traffic control, said that he could not confirm the Computer Weekly account of the incident.He said the new software was being implemented in addition to the revised procedure, and added: "It's a belt-and-braces approach."Nats today said that software changes would be made next month following "an extensive design and test programme".The new software will change the way information is displayed on air traffic controllers' screens to make it easier for them to tell which aircraft each icon relates to, Mr Yalland explained.
Children's charities today called on internet service providers to follow the lead of mobile phone companies by barring children from using online adult services in an attempt to shield them from paedophiles.New regulations published today by the six largest mobile phone operators in the UK - Orange, O2, T-Mobile, Virgin, Vodaphone and 3 - will stop children from entering unmoderated chatrooms, porn sites and gambling services.John Carr, internet consultant at NCH Action for Children, said: "The new code is going to make many people ask why, if the mobile people can do it, the fixed internet people can't. We are calling on them to take this forward as a matter of urgency."The code of practice means that the companies must ensure a customer is over 18 before allowing them to buy a phone with unlimited access to the internet. An independent body will be set up to govern what content is not suitable for children.The regulations will come into force later this year. Processes for dealing with illegal content, including child pornography, will be agreed with the police by the end of 2004.The companies will also provide advice for children, parents and carers about the new 3G (third generation) mobile phones with internet access.Mr Carr said the measures were "a great step forward for the mobile phone industry"."With the expected explosion in mobile phone technology, it is vital that children are protected from paedophiles and other dangers lurking on the internet," he said."Mobile phone internet access will make it harder for parents to keep a check on what their children are viewing and doing online."The code was drawn up following consultation with the Children's Charities' Coalition for Internet Safety (Chis), which includes Barnardo's, ChildLine, the National Children's Bureau, NCH, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, the Children's Society and the National Council of Voluntary Childcare Organisations.But Rachel O'Connell, director of the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire, warned that the regulations would need to be regularly reviewed in order to keep up with mobile technology.She said: "With the new Bluetooth mobile phones, which allow you to access the internet from another person's mobile or computer within a short range, kids could get round these safeguards."Mr Carr also questioned how the codes would protect those children who already own mobile phones. He said: "How will age verification work for them and the safety software be switched on?"Because of the legal rules governing contracts, children can usually only buy mobile phones that work with pre-paid vouchers. But this has not limited the purchase of handsets by young people.Almost 60% of secondary school pupils and 20% of primary school pupils already own a handset. The new generation of phones, which allow users to access the internet, send emails and take photographs, is swiftly gaining popularity.The code of practice comes after a judge banned a "predator paedophile" from using the internet or mobile phone.Judge Huw Daniel, sitting at Mold crown court, last week imposed a ground-breaking restraining order on railway guard Gary Geoffrey Thomas, 37, which means he must not subscribe to, or use, the internet, or a mobile phone for the next five years.Thomas, of Swadlincote, south Derbyshire, groomed young girls through internet chatrooms and ended up having sex with a 14-year-old girl from mid Wales.He was jailed for two years and placed on the sex offenders register for 10 years.
The lovely Verity Stob, former star columnist with the late .Exe (a magazine for programmers), has been interviewing "England's first spamillionaire". Starthere.
Better late than never dept: "Software called the Love Detector can determine if the person on the other end is feeling affection or love. 'Sorry but I'm not feeling anything for you right now,' he tells me. The Love Detector software retails for $19.95. The full voice analysis software goes for $500. But, V-Entertainment's question is what would you pay to know what the other person is thinking? They believe that information is priceless."Eyewitness Newsin Las Vegas ran this story during its CES coverage. There was also a bit in the Wall Street Journal, which said the Love Detector software cost $50 a pop. "Where conventional lie detectors measure physiological changes as a person speaks, the Nemesysco technology measures subtle frequency changes that indicate emotions," said the WSJ. "V LLC says it is pursuing serious applications, such as screening people who might board airplanes for hostile intent."You can download Love Detector for the PocketPChere.
Better late than never dept: no, it's notKevin Warwick, it'sSteve Mann, the father of wearable computing.APinterviewed him.
"Not content with simply gaping at realistically molded, electrically wired, painted and sculpted chunks of the Master Chief's Mjolnir armor, we decided to sit down with Sid Garrand, Brian Boling and Justin Williams, just three of the hardcore Halo fans at Nightmare Armor to find out how this stuff gets built, and what drove them to it," saysBungie.
Al-Qaeda has issued a chilling new call to arms to recruits who remain undetected by security agencies. In a terrorist manual published on the internet, Osama bin Laden says: 'After Iraq and Afghanistan will come the Crusader invasion of Saudi Arabia. All fighters all over the world must be ready.'The manual has been masterminded by Saif al-Adel, the organisation's third most senior man and the only terrorist other than bin Laden and his partner Ayman al-Zawahiri to have a $25 million reward on his head.It is directed at new volunteers who are 'below the radar' of counter-terrorist authorities and who cannot break cover to undergo formal training in terrorist techniques. Like bin Laden, Zawahiri is quoted in the publication, called 'The Base of the Vanguard'. Other writers encourage the use of weapons of mass destruction.The manual is an internal al-Qaeda document and will be of enormous interest to security agencies. The fact that al-Adel, a former special forces colonel in the Egyptian army, has risked discovery to publish it is an indication of its importance.'Though it shows that we have taken down a lot of the training infrastructure and made it hard for &#91;al-Qaeda&#93; to operate, it is very worrying in that it implies that there are a lot of recruits around who we have yet to pick up,' one British senior police counter-terrorist officer said.In the manual, bin Laden calls on the recruits to be cautious in their operations, given the counter-terrorist surveillance efforts against them. He says that all those Muslims living in the lands occupied by the unbelievers should study the manual and be prepared to act.The appearance of the manual - the January issue of what promises to be a monthly publication - is a major boost to al-Qaeda's propaganda effort. Articles include the testimony of a 'martyred' suicide bomber and pages of technical advice on physical training, security counter-measures for operational terrorist cells and the use of light weapons. 'All that is needed to open the ideas of the zealous youthful Muslims to the techniques of our fighters,' a preface explains.Al-Adel, 39, even warns operatives not to believe official media. 'They will try and wear down your morale by publishing false reports about the arrest of other cells,' he writes.Another author is Abdul Aziz al-Mukran, who is also known as Abu Hajjer and is one of the most wanted al-Qaeda suspects in Saudi Arabia.In his contribution, entitled 'The war of nerves', he lists the use of weapons of mass destruction, specifically biological and nuclear arms, as a potential tactic in the 'ongoing war'.
Alan Giles is steeling himself for one of the most important decisions he will ever make as chief executive of music and books retailer HMV Group - when to bet the farm on digital music.Sitting in the City offices of HMV's financial advisers after updating analysts on the company's Christmas trading, the 49-year-old admits he has been here before - during the dotcom boom. "Probably the biggest single strategic decision for the group is when and how to invest in digital delivery," he says. "There were a lot of people three or four years ago who wanted to persuade us to bet the company on making that investment. If we had bet the company then we would have lost it."So if he did not jump on to the internet bandwagon with both feet then, why is he now saying that within the next year or so - he is cagey about the exact timing - HMV will have a new digital strategy?First, he believes that with the runaway success of Apple's iPod and the introduction of mobile phones that can store music, the consumer electronics industry is finally producing the right kit to make selling music over the web a viable business.More importantly, recent moves to clamp down on internet piracy, especially in the US, are having an effect on illegal downloading of music. There will always be piracy - and some of it, Giles believes, may not be a bad thing - but there are also a large number of consumers out there who already know how to use the internet to get music but would rather do it without having the recording industry knock down their door."Piracy has been endemic in the music market for decades. I think we would all be kidding ourselves if we thought piracy could be eliminated outright. There is always going to be a demographic who have time and ingenuity and not much money and are not going to feel overly guilty about effectively stealing music. But I am quite optimistic the recent clampdown will help contain piracy to a level with which the industry can live."In fact HMV is already selling internet downloads and is signed up with On Demand Distribution, the internet music provider co-founded by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel.OD2 has sold 3m songs since March 2002 and is growing at about 25% a month. Alongside Apple's iTunes, which saw traffic increase 380% in the final quarter of last year, the service has given Giles increased confidence that it may be time to attack the digital market head-on."We are determined that when all the conditions look right, HMV will be a major player in the market just as over the decades we successfully navigated our way through transitions from 78 to 33 LPs, from vinyl to CD and from VHS to DVD. It is just another medium and format for people to consume."It is also a decision that the City is likely to allow Giles to make. He is certainly faring a lot better than the bosses of closest rivals WH Smith and Woolworths.For the first time, HMV's share price is close to the 192p level at which it floated in May 2002, pushed there by a bumper set of interim results and a very encouraging Christmas trading update which sent the Square Mile's number crunchers scurrying to upgrade their annual profit forecasts.In the highly competitive festive retail environment, like-for-like sales in HMV's UK stores were up 3.3% as DVD sales rocketed. The company's Waterstone's book chain also fared comparatively well with like-for-like sales up 3.5%.Woolworths, in contrast, saw sales over Christmas up just 1.1% in its high-street stores while its MVC music entertainment business saw sales drop 6%. WH Smith, meanwhile, only managed a flat holiday performance with a 3% drop in entertainment sales offset by a 2% increase in books and a good showing by its express outlets.Giles is unwilling to trash his rivals, in part because after finishing as a graduate trainee with Boots he joined WH Smith as a buyer in the 1980s and still has friends there. But he does not envy their competitive position, caught between the might of the supermarkets and more specialist stores such as HMV. "I have always thought that the place not to be caught is in the middle because you get market share stolen from both sides," he says.In fact he sees HMV's performance over Christmas as a vindication of the inventory strategy that prevails at both HMV stores and Waterstone's - a mix of front of store special offers and cut-price blockbusters backed up by a wide but very carefully selected backlist. This is why he is not scared of the supermarkets moving into the selling of DVDs, videos and books. They are obsessed with the top 20 titles. HMV and Waterstone's go much deeper into the market."It's a continuation of a long-term trend we have seen over the last few years, effectively a polarisation of the market," he says. "As a group the supermarkets have captured a lot of market share but at the same time we are a very different type of retail proposition. Of course we sell the chart and chart business is important to us - but 60% of what we sell lies beyond the top 200 titles in both music and DVD.""In books if you go down to title number 5,000 in the ranked list of best sellers in Waterstone's you've still only covered half of our sales.We also offer a buzz and an energy. When my youngest daughter meets her friends in Reading on a Saturday afternoon - she is not old enough for the pub - she meets them at HMV. All of that is in very stark contrast to what the supermarkets can offer."This strategy, of course, relies heavily upon having the right product in stores at the right time, especially in the book business where titles such as Lynne Truss's Eats, Shoots and Leaves can come out of nowhere to be a best seller.In fact, Giles, who grew up on a council estate in Dorset but went on to study physics at Oxford University, has spent a fair proportion of his working life as a buyer. But until taking up the helm at HMV he always seems to have been buying the wrong thing.While he was a graduate trainee with Boots in the 1970s he was part of the company's ill-fated expansion into other areas. "I was responsible for all the stuff that they put on the first floor that they did not quite know what to do with such as garden furniture, barbecues, home wine and beer making kits, pet food and freezer accessories, a really eclectic mix but great fun."Then he moved to WH Smith and became a buyer of books for its stores despite the fact that he hardly ever reads.He was then picked to head up Do It All, which started off as part of WH Smith then became a joint venture with Boots. "One of my earliest ambitions in working life was to earn enough money not to have to do DIY," he says. "It was such a high priority I would not have needed to earn very much money to make that dream come true."After returning to Waterstone's in 1992 he finally found his true vocation when the company was merged with HMV. Finally here was something he could really relate to: music."Ever since I was at school, music has been an important part of my life," he says. "Among the various product categories that we sell I probably empathise more easily with our core music buyers than I do with book or movie people."He was rather hurt by a previous media profile which portrayed him as something of an ageing prog-rock fan just because he had recently been to a Yes concert. While admitting that he did receive a DVD copy of Pink Floyd's seminal 1970s concert in Pompeii for Christmas, he points out that a few weeks before he went to see Radiohead at Earls Court, a concert he describes as "fantastic"."I would like to feel that I am not that old. Despite being portrayed in the past as a prog-rock dinosaur I am still the right side of 50. Well, just."The CVBorn:June 1954Education:Comprehensive school in Blandford, Dorset; physics degree from Merton College, OxfordFamily:Married with two daughters Claire, 19, and Nikki, 16Career:Appointed chief executive HMV Group in 1998, joined Waterstone's in 1992, previously operations director for Do It All, buyer for WH Smith and graduate trainee at Boots.Leisure:Music, football
The hotels are emptying, and the Elvis impersonators have left the building. Yes, after four days of gadget frenzy in Las Vegas, CES - the world's largest (and it should be added kitschiest) consumer's electronics show - is over for another year.Yet if I can be permitted to have a minor moan, the thing has now become just too darned big.Our pair of double espresso fuelled Guardian hacks, working overtime, could only manage to scratch the surface of the huge selection of gadgets crammed into the exhibition's gargantuan halls.Still, after filing through a Brazilian rain forest's worth of press releases and checking out the online press sites, we've managed to at least catch a glimpse of the products we missed. Here for your delectation are more of CES's wildest and weirdest gizmos.Panasonic KX-TG5240M DECT phoneAn intriguing new wireless phone for the home from Panasonic. Its cleverest feature is Talking Caller ID that replaces the phone's ring tone with the name of the person who is calling. Perfect for screening phone calls. The only downside is that you have to input all the names and numbers in your phone. Expect Taking Caller ID to appear on a Panasonic UK DECT handset soon.Panasonic.co.ukScott E Vest jacketThe latest brainwave from the company that has pioneered connected clothing in the US, the Scott E vest features a pair of solar power panels so users can harness the sun's rays to recharge mobile phones, MP3 players and so on. The jacket naturally has plenty of deep pockets for housing gadgets. It launches next week and will be yours for around $250 (£138).Scottevest.comPhilips eXp5371 CD playerCES wasn't all about MP3 players. There's life in the personal CD player yet, for the eXp5371 not only spins discs it also boasts a screen that enables users to play Java games while listening to music. The player comes with several games embedded, though when you have mastered them you can swap them by transferring different ones via a USB connection. No definite news on a UK launch but we reckon it will be in early summer and the model will retail for less than £100.Philips.co.ukTune Belt armband carrierThe trouble with all these tiny MP3 players is finding a place to put them. Tune Belt may have an answer with its MP3 Armband case. Apparently this provides greater protection for more expensive MP3 players than the more primitive bands that are often supplied with the players. According to the maker, access to the player's control is still easy and convenient. Yours for $12.95 (£7.20).Tunebelt.comXaviX games consoleOne of the coolest interactive gaming devices for the TV we've ever seen, the system consists of the $79 XaviXport and a collection of $59 games. Our favourite is the tennis game where a user is given an electronic tennis racquet to play against a virtual opponent on the screen. Almost as good are the baseball and bowling games. Here's hoping that a football game is in the pipeline. The systems should arrive in Europe before the end of the year.Xavix.comRobosapien robotHere's the kind of robot that'll eat Sony's robot dog AIBO for breakfast. Looking like an extra from the Terminator, the upright Robosapien has 67 pre-programmed functions including kick, and throw, is fully conversant in caveman and can perform some neat Kung Fu kicks. It should be coming to the UK later this year with a retail price of around £80.Wowwee.comSoniqCast Aireo wireless MP3 playerDefinitely one of CES's best MP3 players the SonqCast Aireo's trump card is that it can be factored into a wireless network to synchronise the content of its hard drive with that of a PC. It also boasts an FM transmitter so users can tune into the player via FM radios anywhere they like in their home. At present the device only has a 1.5Gigabyte hard disk, but larger capacity players are said to be on their way. This model will retail for around $300.Soniqcast.comHandHeld Zvue video playerCES was awash with personal video players, devices that allow users to store their favourite movies in a compressed MPEG4 format and then view them on a 3-4inch LCD screen. Few could compete on price with the Zvue, a model that sells for an astonishing $100 (£55). The catch is that the device has no integrated hard disk; instead users will have to invest in a Secure Digital (SD) card to store their content. With the highest capacity SD card only offering a 1/20th of the storage of the Zvue's hard disk based rivals and costing around £600, the Zvue might not work out as such a bargain after all.Zvue.com
