Akihabara News in Tokyo has pictures of a newUSB FoodHub system from SolidAlliance-- all hand made, apparently, but not likely to sell by the million.According to the site, you're seeing "the Rice-Tomato USB HUB (!) and a bunch of Ready Boost 1GB USB Keys: EbiFry (fried shrimp), Kani No Hasami Age (crab), Hamburg and Purin (caramel blank)...YUMMY !!"Do you think Fry's would sell that?
Jane at GGAdiscusses a very interestingproposalabout the application of the economicLong Tailtheory to the longevity of games. Her argument is that, yes, games can experience a substantial longevity if released years after they were initially available (she points to Deus Ex's recent appearance on the digital distribution channel Steam, and we can also point to the retro games which pop up on Xbox Live's Arcade channel, the Nintendo Wii's Virtual Console and the PlayStation 3's download centre), but that the graphical content will take away from audiences' desires to play them.In one way I agree. As she says, we are next-gen-philic; we like new and shiny things. The uncanny valley continues to be squeezed, and realistic graphics are a tour de force in today's gaming fodder. But I would argue that this is to games' detriment beyond the potential for them to be reinvigorated five years after launch. II say that it doesn't matter what a game looks like; I'll play it if it's a good game and looks rubbish, just like I'll listen to Michael Jackson's Thriller on LP and watchThe Third Manin black and white. Thecontentis king.Jane and I aren't dissimilar. She predicts:... the prevalence of long tail economics [will] create an environment that kills off the big-budget dinosaurs allowing the little adaptable games to flourish in their niches...and I wave my flag of support in the air right beside her.
Inevitable. Mere hours after the Virginia Tech shootings, 'experts' were lining up to point the finger of blame at videogames. Naturally, opportunistic anti-game campaigner Jack Thompson was at the helm, appearing on a US news show to roll-out his usual schtick. There is YouTube footagehere.Later, US TV psychologist Dr Phil appeared on Larry King, expounding similar theories. Media monitor site,Game Politics, has some details:"common sense tells you that if these kids are playing video games, where they're on a mass killing spree in a video game, it's glamorized on the big screen, it's become part of the fiber of our society."At this time, there is no evidence that Cho Seung-Hui was a gamer. News reports are beginning tohint attwisted social grievances.Inevitable then, but utterly inappropriate.
They hunch over laptops in their cars on neighbourhood streets, tapping into other people's wireless broadband connections for some free time online, and are fast becoming criminals of the internet age.Wi-Fi theft leaves no fingerprints and keeps its distance, but thousands are at risk because they don't adequately password protect their wireless accounts.Using the strong broadband signal of the neighbours may seem relatively harmless but it can now result in a criminal record.In the past month two people have been arrested for using other people's wireless connections without permission in Worcestershire, in what are believed to be among the first cases of their kind. A man was spotted by residents using a laptop while parked in his car outside a house in Redditch. In an unconnected incident, a 29-year-old woman was arrested following a similar incident, also in Redditch, earlier in the month.They received a caution for dishonestly obtaining electronic communication services with intent to avoid payment.PC Tony Humphreys, from West Mercia police, said: "Wireless networks don't stop at the walls of your home - without the necessary protection, neighbours or people in the road may be able to connect to your network. This might slow down your service, or more importantly, your connection could be used for unlawful purposes."Most wireless networks are unsecured when first set up, but can be configured to stop unauthorised users accessing them.Jason Lloyd fromwww.moneysupermarket.comadvised people to check their connections."This could be accessing your connection to download obscene material or even steal your identity," he said.
Ubisoft officially announced Jam Sessions today. It's a new DS take on the Guitar Hero phenomenon, in which players twang along to a variety of hit tunes via the touchscreen. As the press release expounds:"Players will rock out, or smoothly strum, on the lower screen of the Nintendo DS system, producing an authentic sound digitally remastered from an actual acoustic guitar. The simple interface will guide players into the various easy-to-play modes which include: Performance Mode, allowing users to sing and play along both yesterday and today's hottest artists; Free-Play Mode, where people can play anything they chose; and Tutorial Mode where novice musicians will learn to play guitar without paying for lessons."I've spoken to a few people who've played this and they assure me it's a nice, natural system, the free play mode offering a more open, creative experience than the rigidly didactic Guitar Hero. Ubisoft want you to think of Jam Sessions as "a complete concert-on-the-go entertainment system, perfect for parties and other social gatherings." I'm not quite sure how most party-goers will react to someone pulling a DS from their pocket amid the snogging couples and bashing out a rendition of Don't Fear The Reaper. Sounds fun, though.I can't help but be reminded ofthis...
This afternoon, Gamesindustry.bizreportedon an internal letter sent out to Sony Computer Entertainment Europe employees, warning them of potential job losses. As usual, streamlining is to blame. From the letter, attributed to SCEE boss David Reeves:"In order to further our market leadership we sometimes have to make difficult business decisions. The management of the company has concluded that we need to change our structure, streamline and strengthen our business operations - and that our cost base needs to be significantly reduced.Regrettably, we must also now look at the possibility of making compulsory redundancies in the UK offices, in WWS studios in Europe and in our territory offices." Staff "across all areas of the business" are likely to be affected."I also appreciate that what I have just announced will have come as a major and unwelcome shock, and it is something we have fought hard to avoid. However, the business targets that we face have regrettably made it unavoidable."Reeves estimates that there might be 160 jobs lost throughout Europe. Another tricky story for Sony, and another indication - following the removal of the PS2 hardware from European machines - that cost-cutting remains high on the agenda in these difficult early days of the PS3 business.
Some of the lovely people responsible for getting us our PlayStation 3 games consoles and other products look like losing their jobs. "Sony Computer Entertainment Europe boss David Reeves has issued an internal letter warning that up to 160 staff could be made redundant, citing a need to reduce the company's cost base," reportsGamesIndustry.biz.The letter goes on to state that this process has involved looking at all sectors of the business and identifying areas where structural changes can be made. It continues, "Regrettably, we must also now look at the possibility of making compulsory redundancies in the UK offices, in WWS studios in Europe and in our territory offices." Staff "across all areas of the business" are likely to be affected.Reeves concludes, "I also appreciate that what I have just announced will have come as a major and unwelcome shock, and it is something we have fought hard to avoid. However, the business targets that we face have regrettably made it unavoidable."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gone are the halcyon days when anyone could stumble into a computer games job. Nowadays, companies appear to only want game degree graduates to come work for them. Fair enough; I'd not know a cell processor from an emotion engine from a teraflop, so why should they let me in? Still, many good games have been helmed by folks who came to the industry with English Literature backgrounds or Psychology degrees. What are people looking for from Designers?Well, you can find out at the end of the month, when big names like EA and Disney will be joining other developers at theGamesGrads2007 recruitment fairs. And if anyonedoeshave a game-irrelevant degree but is interested in joining the ranks of the underpaid and overworked in this extremely rewarding and highly creative industry, please do go along and report back on whether you were welcomed with open arms or were cast back in favour of someone who'd got a 1st in Game Design. Not that there's anything wrong with people who've got game design degrees. Many of my best friends are game designers. Er....In the meantime, I'd like to rally support for a movement that a developer out there takes a real chance and hires someone with no experience of gaming (playing, creating etc) whatsoever, just to see what kind of interactive plaything she or he would create.
I feel dirty. Last night I spent an hour of valuable gaming time playing the godawful Fusion Frenzy 2 on Xbox 360. Why? Yup, you've guessed it -easy gamerpoints. Microsoft's achievements system is genius, so clever that Sony will be creating their own version for PlayStation later in the year. The obvious benefit for Microsoft is that people will buy more games to increase their score, even crap ones if they can easily be mined for points. Word spreads quickly about games with easy points - and it must be very tempting for developers with lesser 360 games to add in some simple achievements just to attract sales. That's the certainly the case with Fusion Frenzy 2. Perhaps more interesting than the marketing pull is the way achievements can encourage different playstyles or simply make you experiment - Crackdown is the best example of this with numerous challenges that you simply wouldn't bother trying if weren't for the potential points reward. Forget HD, gamerpoints are the real definition of next-gen. So, anyone else want to fess up? Ever played a duff 360 game just for the points?
Last week Dennis Crowley and Alex Rainert, the founders ofDodgeballdecided to quit Google, the company they sold to back in 2005.Why? Dennisexplained on his blog:It's no real secret that Google wasn't supporting dodgeball the way we expected.The whole experience was incredibly frustrating for us - especially as we couldn't convince them that dodgeball was worth engineering resources, leaving us to watch as other startups got to innovate in the mobile + social space. And while it was a tough decision (and really disappointing) to walk away from dodgeball, I'm actually looking forward to getting to work on other projects again.Dodgeballwasa really interesting service, a sort of proto-Twitterthat used mobile phones to mix presence and geography. So, say I was visiting New York and wanted to meet up with friends, Dodgeball would let any of my mates in the vicinity know I was around.It's hard to say whether Google has completely killed it - and when I contacted Dennis he didn't want to comment - but not being able to keep the founders on board is a major blow and clearly the product wasn't getting much love down at the Plex.Sam Sethitakes Google to task for wasting time on 20% and failing to produce good, integrated services. I'd say that was a little harsh, but clearly there's less energy behind such products if they don't affect Google's core search/advertising business.On the one hand, it's not unusual for entrepreneurs to leave their acquired company a year or two down the line. But a devil's advocate would ask what the point of buying companies like Dodgeball is if you're not going to invest in either them or the brains behind them.Certainly this sort of position adds gusto to the accusation that one of the main reasonsGoogle bought Doubleclickwas to stop Microsoft from getting its hands on the company. That's one reason you might buy and kill, and it's a time-honoured one.Are we too keen to read into such events, or is Google treading down a well-worn path?
The Sony revival is far from over despite the recent upturn in its fortunes, chief executive Sir Howard Stringer said yesterday. "My worst nightmare is complacency," he told a group of European journalists ahead of the premiere of Spider-Man 3, above, in Tokyo. "What I don't want people to do is think that this job is done, because it isn't. We're not even close."The success of the first two Spider-Man films showed Sony was now regarded as a provider of entertainment as well as consumer electronics.Sony is expected to register operating profit above &yen;400bn (&pound;1.7bn) in the current business year. Sales are expected to have risen 6% to &yen;8.7 trillion thanks to sales of PlayStation 3 and LCD TVs in the US and Europe. Sony will announce its earning projections on May 16.
The voters of Iowa and New Hampshire have a right to feel a little peeved. They take great pride in turning the ignition key for presidential bandwagons every four years, as the first stages in the primary process that selects America's candidates. But now the ubiquitous social networking website MySpace is threatening to steal their thunder, announcing that it will "give America its first presidential primary winner" with a vote on January 1-2 2008.Given that almost 65 million Americans visit MySpace every month, of which 85% are of voting age, this will be the mother of all straw polls, setting the tone for the entire selection campaign.Concerns about its veracity are surfacing already, though: there are plenty of multimedia equivalents of hanging chads. "With a web community such as MySpace, that isn't tied to a country's borders or a viable 'voting age' limit, you simply CANNOT hold an open 'primary' and expect anyone to take those results as viable polling data," wrote James atwww.rightonblog.net.The candidates' campaign teams have already set up profile pages (trywww.myspace.com/barackobama), promoting policy statements, selling merchandise, and encouraging networking among supporters. Barack Obama is streets ahead of the pack, seemingly pulling in the same kind of young, web-savvy supporters as Howard Dean did in 2004. With more than 99,000 "friends", he leads John Edwards (18,000) and Hillary Clinton (10,000), while Republicans Mitt Romney and John McCain languish with fewer than 6,000; Rudy Giuliani's figures are kept private.The candidates' home pages are revealing in themselves. What member of the MySpace generation could fail to warm to the 70-year-old McCain knowing that his favourite TV show is the absurdly over-wrought 24? Edwards' listing of "the American people" in the Heroes section of his page is probably carefully calculated too, but it captures the homely brand of patriotism of the candidate from North Carolina.MySpace CEO Chris DeWolfe insists excitably that its entry into the political arena will "ignite [users'] involvement in the political process", and there's a certain amount of truth to that. How else do you explain the thrill I felt when my inbox announced dramatically, "You've got a new message from Hillary Clinton on MySpace!"
In his reflections on democracy and online debate, Jonathan Freedland is right to note that "the more democratic encounter is the meeting properly chaired, allowing everyone their say" (The blogosphere risks putting off everyone but point-scoring males, April 11). Media and other organisations developing online complements to their real world activities would do well to replicate the formats that have successfully evolved in the latter. But Freedland then advocates the blogosphere concept of moderation in place of the chairing that he rightly values. Online debate really does need more chairing and, as happens at a public meeting, more response from the writers and presenters.We should also bear in mind that the lowering of the quality and civility of debate is not the sole responsibility of those occupying the blogosphere. Among some established commentators and politicians there has also been a tendency to debate at the level of personality rather than ideas. It is up to the media and our political class to lead the blogosphere back to more civil, informed and thoughtful debate.Nico MacdonaldLondonTim Dowling (Comedy of manners, April 14) refers to online discourse as "characterised by personal insult, childish mudslinging, meaningless feuds, self-serving digression, pranksterish vandalism and empty threats". He could have been writing about the Daily Mail. The discourse of Stephen Glover, Amanda Platell, Ephraim Hardcastle, Keith Waterhouse, Peter McKay et al is like that every day. Why pick on the bloggers?John LodgeLancaster
Just in case you missed this, EA and reality TV production giantEndemol(Big Brother, Fame Academy, etc) have announced a 'creative partnership' to launch Virtual Me, "a new digital entertainment concept that bridges the divide between traditional TV and videogames". Or, to put it simply, an online virtual world plastered with Endemol brands. From the press release:"Want to be a pop star? A movie star? An action star? Virtual Me offers players the chance to participate in virtual versions of TV talent shows like Fame Academy and Operacion Triunfo, game shows like Deal Or No Deal and 1 vs 100 and to form real relationships with other virtual avatars on the web. VirtualMe.com, the home of the Virtual Me avatar creation system, will launch in the coming months."This is about two giants of their respective entertainment niches staking a claim in the goldrush that is - or very soon will be - converged interactive media. Clearly, simply passing licensing deals between TV, videogames and the web is now considered a passe method of expanding brands. As Endemol chief Peter Bazalgette almost begrudgingly puts it, "We're told that people are starting to spend more time online than they are watching TV. Both markets are now important and this has huge implications for content creators."It'll be interesting to see how Virtual Me pans out. If it genuinely contains competitive elements based around Endemol's TV brands, we're into interesting territory, where consumers watchandinteract with their favourite shows almost seamlessly. Let's face it, which Big Brother fandoesn'tfantasise about what they'd do on the show? The potenital ARPU from viewers goes far beyond the quick phone calls they make to evict contestants. In the future, there may be hundreds of subscription-based interactive Big Brothers running online. If Endemol and EA are clever, they'll promise to run channels showing the best of the day's online content as a spectator event - giving fame-hungry punters another shot at the Chantelle dream.We're called media consumers now. Not TV viewers or gamers or web surfers. Everything is coming together - not in the awkward shape of interactive casual game channels on satellite, not in the shape of vote now phone-ins, not in the shape of videogames based on big shows and movies. No, everything is merging into one service, one swollen revenue stream, flowing from your converged online/TV subscription to the corporate entertainment coffers.Sims meets Big Brother? God help us, it's the apocalypse of branding. It will ensnare civilisation. You're a media consumer. Get ready. Consume this.
OK, so you probably don't have very much privacy anyway -- as Sun's Scott McNealy said years ago, "Get over it." However, if you're partly protected on Google by having a common name, Spock is going to come along and disambiguate you.The site says:Spock is the online leader in personal search, helping users find and discover people. With over one hundred million people already indexed and millions added every day, Spock is building the broadest and deepest people specific search engine.It's a closed beta at the moment so I can't try it, but Tim O'Reilly has written a couple of things about it.He says:The spock robot automatically creates tags for any person it finds (and it gathers information on people from Wikipedia, social networking sites like LinkedIn and Facebook), but it also lets users add tags of their own, and vote existing tags up or down to strengthen the associations between people and topics. Users can also identify relationships between people (friend, co-worker, etc.), upload pictures, and provide other types of information.Of course, Spock isn't the first or the only "people search" engine. Others includeZoomInfoandUncloo.Uncloo is based in China but there's a Google-like English version athttp://www.ucloo.com/english/search.html. I just tried it, and the first hit was to my entry on ZoomInfo....
Lost? You could bee. Photograph: Newcastle University/PAIn the past we've discussed claims of electromagnetic sensitivity - particularlythese claimsabout Wi-Fi sensitivity, and in "Electrosmog in the clear with scientists" by science correspondent James Randerson.Over in the Independent, there's a different take on the subject: it's not Wi-Fi causing the problems, but mobile phones - and it's not humans who are affected,but bees.But some scientists suggest that our love of the mobile phone could cause massive food shortages, as the world's harvests fail.They are putting forward the theory that radiation given off by mobile phones and other hi-tech gadgets is a possible answer to one of the more bizarre mysteries ever to happen in the natural world - the abrupt disappearance of the bees that pollinate crops. Late last week, some bee-keepers claimed that the phenomenon - which started in the US, then spread to continental Europe - was beginning to hit Britain as well.The theory is that radiation from mobile phones interferes with bees' navigation systems, preventing the famously homeloving species from finding their way back to their hives. Improbable as it may seem, there is now evidence to back this up.There is plenty of evidence to suggest that animals use electromagnetic fields for navigation purposes - pigeons, for example, get very confused in areas with strange electromagnetic properties. But already fora such asElectroSensivity UKare jumping on the reports as heralding the truth about ES.Does thisrepudiatevindicate those who believe they are susceptible to Wi-Fi signals (or mobile phone signals or others)? I'm far from convinced.After all, bees and other animals are not madeunwellby changing fields, they simply have their navigational abilities thrown out of line. That, in turn, can lead to death because they are insects.While the implications are serious - even if caricatured by the doomsday scenarios put forward by the media - it doesn't seem in any way to make the case for illness caused by Wi-Fi sensitivity or any of the other claims. That is an argument between the telecommunications industry and those who believe it is dangerous, not between experts;the scientific case for ES is almost non-existent.Charles Arthur adds:if you'd like to read about how bees do seem to navigate, readHoney bees navigate according to a map-like spatial memoryfrom the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, which is peer-reviewed, unlike our own dear newspapers. Bees seem to use visual cues, and other searches turn up the fact that they can detect the polarisation of light, which would also be useful for navigation (which is why you never see bees wearing Polaroid sunglasses, I guess). No mechanism, nor indeed publication, has been put forward that I can find for bees being affected by EMF.I may have found an earlier study by these authors, which seems tosuggest using bees as a model for humans to test whether mobile phones affect learning(Google translated page; here's theoriginal.) No date, though, from these folk at the mathematics institute. They seem to have done a few studies onbees and EMF. But we're really not getting anything that looks like proof of mobile-avoidance among bees.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft says you can now watch high-definition video (wmv) and run rich media applications in a browser, using new plug-in software that runs on both PCs and Mac OS X.This has been coming for a while. At Christmas I wrote a column aboutputting applications online, which covered the "Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere (WPF/E) browser plug-in, which was announced is 2005 and is now available in a preview version". In an earlierblog post, I'd also suggested that it "would stand more chance of success if it had a snappier name".Well, Microsoft's Tim Sneath has revealed on his blog thatthe new name for WPF/E is Silverlight, and there's apress releaseand afact sheet (doc).Sneath has a list of 10 reasons why you (as a developer) might want to use Silverlight, one of which is that there's more to come. However, there are two big advantages over Flash. First, it lets you create user interfaces in XAML, which means plain text that you can edit in Notepad: it's not a closed binary format. (Obviously Microsoft hopes you'll buy its newExpressionrange of design tools instead.) Second, you can also create Windows Vista user interfaces in XAML, and "almost 100%" compatibility should save a huge amount of rework: developers can deploy the same UI as a desktop application, as a thin client, and on the Web.Also, to quote a couple of Sneath's claims:It supports playback of WMV files on both PC and Macintosh, with many options for interactivity during playback; with just a couple of lines of code, you can provide a platform-neutral way to handle all your movie files. Silverlight supports full-screen 720p video and offers seamless transitions between full-screen and windowed mode without losing your position in the video (something that media sites are crying out for today).Silverlight is both client- and server-agnostic. There's no difference between the Macintosh and PC runtimes; you don't need any Microsoft software on the server if you don't want to - you can deliver a great Silverlight experience from an Apache / Linux server to a Mac OS 10.4 client.Microsoft's 10 site has a videothat you can watch online or download for iPod, PSP and Zune.Web developers (whereistom) can get a better idea of how UI designers and programmers can work together with XAML from aChannel 9 videofrom the UK MCS User Experience team.
The fourthWomen in Games conferenceis kicking off this week at the University of Newport, Wales(disclaimer: I'm on the steering committee), where the intrepid gathered will discuss the big ideas in this oft-overlooked sphere. The conference, which is split intoseveral themes, aims to:1. Give a voice to women in the games industry.2. Analyse and monitor the role of women in the games industry.3. Provide networking opportunities, especially for women developing and researching games.4. Support and encourage students, researchers and developers to explore and redress the game industry's gender imbalance.5. Disseminate research into games (past, present and future), especially (but not exclusively) with reference to the experience of women playing, developing and responding to games and game culture.6. Disseminate information on the latest technologies and the best design and development practices.The keynotes look fantastic, withWonderland'sAlice Taylor (with her BBC hat on) talking about Public Diplomacy in Games, Microsoft's Karen Wilkins-Mickey, EA Online's Europe VP Sharon Knight, Dr. Mary Flanagan from the Tiltfactor Laboratory and1-Upeditor Raina Lee. I'll be posting up my presentation, about the relationships between countries based upon their reported favourite games in the 2007 Game Developers Choice Awards, onSlideshareby the end of the week.Abstracts from the conference strands plus info and thought-provoking features are available on theWomen in Games blog.
Another day another bunch of console sales figures. Thelatest Japanese data(week ending April 8th) confirms what we already knew, namely DS is huge in Japan, 360 isn't and PS3 is struggling to inspire. You can read too much into these figures - PS3 won't properly take off until the big titles hit and the price drops - but I'm always amazed by the sales of older hardware. Over 14,000 PS2's were sold that week in Japan and it still sells well in Europe. 14,000 in one week?! Just think about it. You, me and everyone you know has had a PS2 for at least 3 years. Sony have sold over 7 million in the UK alone. So why is it still selling so well? Is it purely a price thing, with parents buying a cheap console for their young children? There has to be more to it than that. Yes, I appreciate it has a huge and varied back catalogue but why buy a PS2 in 2007?
Apple has a new Mac v PC advert that pokes fun at the crapware that PC manufacturers install on their machines in return for payment from companies such as Google and Symantec. Apple doesn't do this, of course: it just charges higher prices. And, obviously, Apple doesn't let anybody else to do it either: it maintains its monopoly control over Mac OS X and refuses to license it to other PC manufacturers who might well sell machines for less.Crapware isn't appreciated by most Windows' buyers, but they can thank the US government. The Justice Department spent a vast amount of US taxpayers' money on anti-trust court cases against Microsoft in order to ensure that PC manufacturers had the right to do this.(typos corrected)
Rev2.org has a list of 10 Web 2.0 companieswhere "the criteria were as simple as (a) they had to be a new startup -- Valley-based or not, but most are anyway, and (b) they had to be looked at as a Web 2.0 company (i.e. no eBay or Yahoo! or Craigslist)."They are pretty much the ones you'd expect: MySpace, YouTube, Facebook, Wikipedia etc. Sid Yadav admits to overlooking Lastfm but this is easily done -- I'd have have overlooked NetVibes and perhaps Meebo, for example.If you really want to start a fight, you have to go for a top 20.....
VW Golf GTI Edition 30&pound;23,640Miles per gallon:35.8Seats:5Good for:BirdiesBad for:BogeysGolf's GTi - the ne plus ultra of hot hatches - is 30 years old. For anyone coming of age in the Seventies, the GTi was the performance car of choice: modern (folded-paper edges, aggressive styling, steel wheels, embossed mud flaps), affordable (well, relatively, in 1977 it cost &pound;5,217 - that would today be &pound;19,400) and, most importantly, superfast. Tales of its awesome acceleration were whispered in corridors by boys clutching rag-eared packs of Top Trumps. We bragged that the GTi was the first small car to boast 'performance-enhancing fuel-injection technology' - though we had no idea what that meant, something to do with drugs probably. For us, the very letters GTi came to denote the best possible version of anything, as in: 'Bacon baps are GTi' or more often, 'She's GTi.'No one knows how the car, originally known as the 'Sport Golf', gained the suffix GTi. GT, or Grand Tourer, was commonplace at the time, but the 'I'? Injection? Perhaps, but there's no record of it. My brother to this day believes it stands for German Tank Incognito, which, considering the car's phenomenal build quality and durability, is as good as any of the alternatives. While we are on names, the Golf is not, in fact, a nod to every London cabbie's favourite sport, but is short for Golf-Strom, the German for Gulf Stream.Almost every one of us has at one time or another driven or been driven in a Golf - after all, Volkswagen has made 26m of them since they started back in 1974. To celebrate three decades of the car that has become a byword for speed and reliability, VW's engineers knew they had to come up with something special. The result is this limited Edition 30. Only 1,500 are going to be released on to the paved front gardens of Britain. It is the fastest and most powerful production Golf ever made - boasting almost twice the power of the original MK1. At its heart is a tweaked version of the 2-litre T-FSI engine, which is fitted as standard in the GTi - so don't despair if you are not one of the lucky 1,500 new owners. Other than the extra power you will also have to do without body-coloured side skirts and a special chin spoiler - which is a bit of a Hapsburg, it's so low it bulldozed into the mud when I parked on a grass verge. The real joy of either car, however, is the automatic DSG gearbox. It's as smooth as the 18th green in Augusta. The change up is imperceptible, just the slightest quickening of the engine note before it settles once again to its reassuring hum.Other than shared DNA and a warm spot in many driver's hearts, there's little to link the first and the last GTi. Driving an original MK1 today would be hard work (no anti-lock brakes, no electronic stability, no airbags, no stereo, no climate control), but the designers have maintained one small feature to bridge the decades: its golf-ball shaped gear knob.martin.love@observer.co.uk
We've all been there haven't we? Virtually anyone who has ever been a teenager has done one, or all, of the following: been to a party where the carpets have ended up covered in beer/vomit/cigarette burns/all three (delete as appropriate); thrown a party which has spiralled into something rather different and much harder to tidy up than the beer-and-pizza evening begrudgingly allowed by the parents; fallen around at the age of sixteenish in a room where other 'guests' happen to be having sex; stained the parquet floors with bong water and singed the sofa after attempting to give some vaguely known, semi-conscious 'new best friend' a joint.Admittedly Rachael Bell, 17, who had to do some pretty hefty apologising on Friday after a party she threw resulted in &pound;20,000 of criminal damage to her mother's home, has probably had a more heightened experience of this than most of us. The true story of how 200-300 people came to be in her family home in Durham (some apparently from as far away as London), will probably never be known. They certainly found out about the party from Rachael's MySpace page, which advertised a 'trash the average family-sized house party'. She claims the site was hacked into and 'details' added encouraging people to come. She only wanted "a few" people to pop over, even though her mother had told her that there would be no parties while the rest of the family - three further siblings in tow - were away caravanning.That said, Rachael admits to inviting 60 people herself, which was always going to engender some fairly Herculean efforts on the washing-up front. Bell, who has been in hiding all week, has said sorry, saying gatecrashers were climbing though the windows and that she then had a panic attack. However, a MySpace posting which may or may not be by her, suggests that she might not be entirely sorry - 'i hope u liked the party..was fuckin wild like!!!hmmm another???'.However it happened, Bell's version of the 'trash the house party', the idea came from the E4 drama, Skins, starring Nicholas Hoult. It is a phrase that has now been adopted all over the web. Mostly it seems to have been taken up by fairly posh kids who go to each other's houses and really don't actually, erm, trash the house, but in Rachael's case the guests took the invite seriously, wrecking clothes and toys and urinating on beds and carpets. Rachael's mother's dress became a toilet and any buckets dotted around were full to brim with vomit.To be fair to Skins, if you watch the 'trash the house' party footage on the programme's MySpace page, it does look like a lot of fun - there's dancing, snogging, drinking, jumping on beds, shagging, drawing on mirrors in lipstick and everyone's young, pretty and fashionably dressed. At the end all the guests pass out in a dishevelled yet immaculately accessorised heap, attractively pulsating with teen angst and the knowledge that they don't have to be up in the morning for work. A not particularly bright teen might conclude that a similar party could actually occur in the real world, so if Bell is responsible for the MySpace invite, it's likely that it's this kind of thing she was looking for, rather than criminal damage and heartbreak for her mum. She does dress exactly like a character in Skins too - a bit Gothic with big sunglasses.It's tempting to blame the internet here of course. Without sites like MySpace and Facebook, and texting, you could claim parties like Rachael's would never happen. But you would be very wrong: a straw poll of my friends revealed that they'd all been to shockingly riotous (and often very enjoyable) house-parties, and all this in the age well before text messaging. After all, the odd 'Yobs cause &pound;10,000 damage at house party' story appears in the papers at least once a year.'I went to a party where people stole everything. And I mean everything - they even took the white goods,' says Matthew, 29, a friend. Was the kid who threw it particularly hated? 'No, it was just for the hell of it basically,' he said wistfully, Other people tell of gatecrashers beating up the people acting as bouncers and then starting fights once inside, of being told by police not to throw a party on their farmland for fear that it would be similarly crashed and of excrement being smeared on walls.One girl, who will remain understandably anonymous, got so drunk at a house party that she tried to pee in the washing machine in a utility room, only to pass out and get stuck between the washing machine and the wall. Her boyfriend found her an hour later, still unconscious. How sweet. A Christmas party in Surrey was relatively tame until the father's bow and arrow was discovered and the front door destroyed by being used for target practice.My own party stories are tame by comparison. There was the night the combination of being 16, drunk and newly stoned, created a level of paranoia that meant that when I found my friend Paul passed out under a bush I apparently ran down the garden screaming 'he's dead, he's dead!' I still maintain that he was lying with his head at a very funny angle, resting on a plant pot. Whatever, Paul was sick all the way down the garden and for the following four hours.When I was a student the six-bedroom house we lived in was perfect for huge parties. We got round the risk of people being sick by doing batches of baked potatoes on the hour from midnight onwards. However, we did have mice, and somehow arranged for the pest-control man to come round the morning after one of the nights before. My housemate answered the door only to pass out at his feet, and after putting her in the recovery position, he picked his way into the kitchen only to see houmous dripping down a table leg and literally hundreds of empty bottles festooning the place. He turned to us and said, 'So, you've got mice... No shit.'The point of all this is that these parties mostly happened 10 years ago, before people decided that posting every detail of their life on the internet was a good idea, and yet still things went terribly wrong. House-trashing and gatecrashers have been a mainstay of American teen comedy movies for at least two decades - remember Ten things I hate about you, where Bogey Lowenstein's wine and cheese evening turns into a tequila-fuelled disco? In this case the invites were distributed via lo-tech leaflets.Whatever the reality of Rachael's party, house-parties are always going to be risky, and therein lies their attraction, of course. The problem with the internet and mobile phones is that when you put them in the hands of people who are notorious for not really thinking things through, or who might be terrified that if they don't invite everyone they've ever met, they might be revealed as a Billy-no-mates, then you get uncontrollable mass invites.Chances are though, that Rachael will reconcile with her understandably furious mother, they'll paint over the graffiti, and in 10 years time, she'll still be dining out on this particular party.
For the past week's posts on one page, clickhere
Diddy Kong Racing DSNintendo DSGo-kart racing games all have something in common: they're not as good as Super Mario Kart. With that out of the way, Diddy Kong Racing is a very slightly lumpy-looking recreation of the Nintendo 64 original, featuring a set of neatly measured race-based tasks hinged around the game's cute karts, hovercraft and tiny aeroplanes. With a learning curve that's gentle to the point of nurturing before delivering sudden and deeply unwelcome spikes, the other mild annoyance is having to spin your wheels or propeller to get a turbo start - an unwanted distraction given you need to use the DS stylus, conflicting with your immediate need not to be holding one so you can actually drive your cart. The real problem though, is that Mario Kart is so very much better you simply wouldn't bother buying this well intentioned also-ran.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;29.99Burnout DominatorPS2, PSPBurnout's creator Criterion knows not to mess with a good thing, which here means letting you drive cars at very high speeds through congested cities and motorways, racking up rewards for being as dangerously reckless as possible. Less a true sequel to Burnout: Revenge and more a nostalgic look back at the series, Dominator takes some of the focus back from destroying other traffic to picking your way through it, and strongly encourages you to spend as much of the game as you can holding down the nitrous oxide button. As well as feeling like a slight retrograde step, Dominator's unglamorous release marks it as the potboiler it is, keeping fans warm until the real next-gen Burnout arrives on Xbox 360 and PS3. Some of the magic's still here, but just don't expect to lose any sleep over this one.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;39.99 (PS2 version reviewed)Mobile Suit Gundam: Target In SightPS3Gundam is a quite staggeringly popular franchise in Japan, both as a long-running anime-based TV series and a seemingly endless procession of videogames. If it means nothing to you whatsoever, it's fairly likely that the principality of Zeon's attack on the resource rich Earth Federation using the giant walking tanks the Japanese dearly love to put in videogames and animated series, will leave you equally cold. Hampered by a twitchy control system and an incredibly frustrating camera vision that manages to feel unduly limited even in widescreen, the graphical sparseness of the game somehow manages to rob the spectacle of enormous fighting robots shooting each other with rocket launchers of any kind of theatre. Ungainly, ponderous and eventually simply just too wooden-feeling, all the unlockable tanks and weapon upgrades in the world can't make up for what is at heart a work of pretty stultifying mediocrity.&#183;Namco, &pound;39.99
We want someJoy Division trainerstinyurl.com/2a5m67Why Tony Sopranois only the 10th greatest fat man on American TVsnipurl.com/1fx9vIn the 101move variant of Rock Paper Scissors, Tank squashes Duck. Duck disgusts Vampiretinyurl.com/3yhr8sWhat happened whenDe Niro met De Nirotinyurl.com/2ne93yThe strangesthotels in the worldtinyurl.com/2n6wc9Herrings arethe kinkiest fishtinyurl.com/2mymjzWhich filmsinclude the most uses of the F wordtinyurl.com/4sm5qThe differencebetween men and womentinyurl.com/3dzfdmIf you dropfood on a dirty floor, it's safe to eat - if you're quick!tinyurl.com/pcg72Look out Google. K-Fed has his own search enginesearchwithkevin.prodege.com/
Pop Culture Madnesspopculturemadness.com/musicA ludicrous amount of song charts.King of Listskingoflists.blogspot.comTips, life lessons and 52 proven stress reducers.Sense Listsenselist.comFamous winds, actors who are introverts and all manner of random trivia43 Things43things.comEnter your 43 goals, read other people's. Must eat more pie.McSweeney'smcsweeneys.net/links/listsNumbers from Fight Club! The Musical and other fictional treats.Grocery Listgrocerylists.orgThe strange mysteries of discarded shopping lists.To-Do Listtodolistblog.blogspot.comReal-life handwritten to-do lists from self-motivation and honeymoon ideas, to what we're eating this week.
6 Billion Others6billionothers.orgYann Arthus-Bertrand (spitting image of Bill Murray in The Life Aquatic) is not a man for small ideas. After circumnavigating the globe taking aerial pictures for Earth From Above, his next ambitious project was to create a time capsule of the world today by interviewing people in every corner of the planet. Started in 2003, the results so far are put together on this slick site. Testimonials picks out snippets from the 6,000 video interviews with incredible people and incredibly normal people, all answering a similar set of questions about their lives and dreams. Dig deeper and you'll find full-length films and road diaries of the team's travels.A Tribute To Joni Mitchellatributetojonimitchell.comAccording to Bjork, we are "living in a rock white male world" where Bob Dylan is hailed as a saint while artists like Joni Mitchell are ignored. This site and a forthcoming tribute album go some way to redressing the balance. Here you can listen to cover versions by the likes of Annie Lennox, Elvis Costello and James Taylor and compare them to the originals (Prince replicates Mitchell's high pitch on disturbingly trouser-pinching A Case Of You) or read some nice essays by Sufjan Stevens and Bjork on what Joni means to them and the challenges of recording her work.Blog Roll ListsPop Culture Madnesspopculturemadness.com/musicA ludicrous amount of song charts.King of Listskingoflists.blogspot.comTips, life lessons and 52 proven stress reducers.Sense Listsenselist.comFamous winds, actors who are introverts and all manner of random trivia43 Things43things.comEnter your 43 goals, read other people's. Must eat more pie.McSweeney'smcsweeneys.net/links/listsNumbers from Fight Club! The Musical and other fictional treats.Grocery Listgrocerylists.orgThe strange mysteries of discarded shopping lists.To-Do Listtodolistblog.blogspot.comReal-life handwritten to-do lists from self-motivation and honeymoon ideas, to what we're eating this week.What we learned on the web this weekWe want someJoy Division trainerstinyurl.com/2a5m67Why Tony Sopranois only the 10th greatest fat man on American TVsnipurl.com/1fx9vIn the 101move variant of Rock Paper Scissors, Tank squashes Duck. Duck disgusts Vampiretinyurl.com/3yhr8sWhat happened whenDe Niro met De Nirotinyurl.com/2ne93yThe strangesthotels in the worldtinyurl.com/2n6wc9Herrings arethe kinkiest fishtinyurl.com/2mymjzWhich filmsinclude the most uses of the F wordtinyurl.com/4sm5qThe differencebetween men and womentinyurl.com/3dzfdmIf you dropfood on a dirty floor, it's safe to eat - if you're quick!tinyurl.com/pcg72Look out Google. K-Fed has his own search enginesearchwithkevin.prodege.com/
Google is flashing the cash again. It has issued apress releasethat says it is taking overDoubleClickfor $3.1 billion in cash -- partly to stop Microsoft from buying it. DoubleClick is one of the most commonly blocked services not just for serving banner ads but because of its tracking cookies.DoubleClick has raised objections from those concerned about privacy. In 1999,it bought a company called Abacus Directto get access to consumer data from its catalogue sales. This led the US Federal Trade Commission to investigate its privacy practices. DoubleClick agreed to restrictions andsettled out of courtfor $450,000; it also paid $1.8 million in fees to settle a related class action lawsuit.Now DoubleClick will no doubt be able to help Google to exploit its unparalleled ability to track users via the AdWords that appear on huge numbers of web pages, as well as alongside their private email etc.The "Don't be evil" company also produced some gushing marketroidspeak on itsOfficial Blog. It begins:At Google, we are constantly looking for new, innovative ways to make the information you want more accessible and more relevant--and to deliver it as fast as possible. Since Google's inception, it has always been our intention to present users with highly targeted, useful advertisements when appropriate--ads that unobtrusively complement users experience. We have always believed in, and tirelessly pursued, the idea that serving relevant, unintrusive ads would best serve our advertisers in the long term.To that end, we are truly excited to announce our acquisition of DoubleClick. DoubleClick provides a suite of products that enables agencies, advertisers, and publishers to work efficiently, that will enable Google to extend our ad network and develop deeper relationships with our partners.Whether all these partners will appreciate Google knowing their entire ad business forwards, backwards and upside down while they are trying to compete with Google to sell ads remains to be seen.According to theReuters storyon the deal:"This shores up Google as the absolute leader in the online space," said Forrester Research senior analyst Shar VanBoskirk. "This rounds out their capabilities in everything in the online space. There isn't anything they don't have."New York-based DoubleClick would also fortify Google with ad-targeting and analysis capabilities as the company expands into print, radio, video, mobile and television ad markets."The DoubleClick platform touches so many of the existing Google customers," Google Chief Executive Eric Schmidt said on a conference call. "It accelerates our entry into some of these markets by several years."One curiosity is that this isan all-cash deal. Sure, Google is rolling in billions and doesn't have to care about small change. However, deals like this are usually done for shares, andGoogle shares used to be extremely desirable. You can now assume that they are not.Update: "Google's planned $3.1bn acquisition of DoubleClick ran into a storm of complaints on Sunday. Some of the companies biggest rivals claims the deal would create an advertising behemoth with the power to dictate terms to online publishers and service providers," reportsThe Financial Times. Complaints emerged from Microsoft, AT&amp;T, Yahoo and AOL. The story adds:Google's gambit also showed signs of drawing complaints over its potential impact on online privacy. In one side-effect of the deal, Google said it would for the first start to "tag" its users, or add identifying cookies to their machines, an approach that would "increase the relevance of ads online."
TuesdayEaster gamingXbox Live welcomes Windows buddiesTop 100 games companiesRadio on consoleMicrosoft says no to free Xbox Live content?WednesdayHow to advertise in gamesGTA IV detailsThursdayReviews rockE for All event detailsNCsoft games apprenticeship20GB PS3 RIPFridayGet a Wii and get fit
We receive far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in our printed Letters and Blogs. So here are the ones we chose that from. (Please note that we don't publish letters where no post town is given - and we do ask for them when we receive letters. So if a letter isn't used, that's often why.)NOT NEUTRALThis article by Andrew Orlowski (below) is one of the most garbled, confusing and unhelpful I have come across. Does the Guardian exercise no editorial control over low-grade writing and poor expression like this? Shame on you. Alex Murphy (no post town given)&gt;&gt; I never thought I would say this, but I've actually read something written by Andrew Orlowski which has not prompted me to throw things at my computer screen in anger. In an article on Net Neutrality, he has actually uncovered something that has been worrying me since I first heard about the debate. The big problem is, how do you define the term? You can get five different definitions from Wikipedia alone.http://technollama.blogspot.com/2007/04/social-network-me-that-neutral-web-20.html&gt;&gt; When the ink is dry on this issue, historians will see it more as a testament to the power of the internet to win support for dubious causes than anything else. To think that neutralitarians have actually built a movement to pressure Congress to enact laws against unprecedented, speculative, hypothetical ills is actually mind-boggling. Don't they have enough real problems?http://bennett.com/blog/index.php/archives/2007/04/05/any-old-cause-will-do/DROPPING DRMYour analysis of EMI's move to drop DRM was pretty good. However, you neglected to mention Magnatune, an online music store that offers its DRM-free music in the customer's choice of Ogg Vorbis, MP3, FLAC, AAC, and more. In addition, 50% of their gross revenue goes to the artists. You may wish to consider them for future stories. I'm a very satisfied customer. Matt Flaschen, Atlanta, GeorgiaFLASH, OR NOTThere is no doubt that Flash can provide richer content for web pages, and my daughter loves some of the Flash games that are available. But it was disappointing that the article failed to make any mention of the issue of accessibility (complying with the DDA) - an issue that has dogged Flash in the past. I know newer versions of Flashcanproduce content that is more accessible than older versions can, but it still relies on the authors of the Flash movies to understand all the issues and put accessibility features in (something that to a large extent you get for free with HTML). The reality is that few Flash developers do this. Part of my job involves reviewing the accessibility of web pages and sites, and some common problems with Flash movies include 1) the difficulty of tabbing around within them, and the response to keystrokes; 2) the text in the movies cannot be made larger; 3) graphics are not labelled up appropriately or at all - I could go on. All these things make life much harder for screen reader users, and for others who cannot use a mouse. This wouldn't matter so much if an HTML version of the functionality was provided too, but unfortunately that seldom seems to be the case. And companies may wonder why they are paying to develop the same functionality twice. For these reasons I still feel that Flash is unsuitable for key functionality that everybody needs to access. Graham Armfield, Woking&gt;&gt; I'm a card-carrying member of the Mark Anders fan club, but saying that Flash is the new publishing tool of the century is a bit much. Flash may be Gutenberg's printing press, providing a huge jolt and showing everyone how revolutionary things can be, but there's still a lot of innovation to be had in our little section of the web.http://blog.digitalbackcountry.com/?p=753&gt;&gt; First, members of my fan club have secret decoder rings, not member-ship cards, but more importantly, I had no idea what he was talking about with "the new publishing tool of the century" line. Where did that come from? ... I don't remember using those words, and interestingly, in the article they do not appear within quotes. However, in looking at the context of the statement, I think I understand what it means... I do believe that as we've moved into the 21st century, the web has transformed to include more than just text and images, and that Flash has been an enabler of that shift to a richer web experience.http://www.andersblog.com/archives/2007/04/great_article_o.html&gt;&gt; It's great to see people coming around to the fact that Flash is an extremely powerful tool now. The Flash/Flex/Apollo Ecosystem is a powerful combination when it comes to building not just web apps but disconnected desktop apps. But the true power of Flash is still being dreamt by Adobe so I definitely expect exciting times for web publishing.http://blog.jodybrewster.net/2007/04/05/flash-is-the-new-publishing-tool-of-the-century/&gt;&gt; Yes, and that's exactly why users hate it. You won't be able to block ads in a Flash-only world.http://www.beardsworth.co.uk/news/comment.php?id=983_0_1_0_CPRICEY ADOBE To updateJack Schofield's article on Thursday December 21, 2006 concerning prices in Europecompared with those in the USA, Adobe have done it again, but with more bare-faced cheek than before with the new CS3 suites. I first bought Flash, Dreamweaver and Fireworks when they were owned by Macromedia. The European price was slightly higher than in the USA, but since Adobe have taken over it is now double the USA price. Flash is practically a monopoly as the Flash player is on nearly all computers and to create content Flash is almost a must-have. For this alone Adobe should be forced to equalise its prices. Adobe claim that the huge European price hike is due to regional sales being lower. What nonsense! They know that they can get away with it. Resellers in the USA have been banned from selling the software in Europe. I cannot believe that if the European court forced Adobe to sell at an equivalent price that they would not conform. This is blatant opportunism and a rip-off. Mike Preston (no post town given)VIOLENCE IS FOREVER?Just wanted to say that your argument against the Wii is very weak. In order to make it you reference a quote by an insomniac dev, hardly an unbiased source - the man makes his money on Sony consoles, So of course he isn't going to praise the system that is taking money out of his pocket. I'm a long time gamer (gaming for over 22 years), and let me tell you violence is all right but not the be-all and end-all, GTA 3 was good the first time I played it but after the sequels it has gotten repetitive. In fact most of gaming has gotten stale; regardless of whether they are covenant, chimera, zombies or locusts, there are only so many times you can kill some creature the same way before it gets dull. The Wii has made gaming fresh in a way that I haven't experience since the rise of 3D gaming. So while violence is OK, the Wii isn't opposed to that, its just about making it fresh and more accessible. Avinash Tyagi (no post town given)DATABASE COPYRIGHTI am a lawyer in the field of intellectual property, and I would like to point out an error in your story entitled "New study casts doubt on Ordnance Survey's copyright control". I refer in particular to the sentence, "Unlike copyright law, which can be used to block the reproduction of almost any part of a creative work - even John Cage's 4'33" of silence - the database directive allows users to copy information, provided that it is not a "substantial" part of a database." This is wrong. Under UK copyright law, any part of a copyright work can be freely copied as long as it is not a "substantial" part of the work. This is because of s.16(3) of the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988, which provides that "References in this Part to the doing of an act restricted by the copyright in a work are to the doing of it (a) in relation to the work as a whole or any substantial part of it". Thus any insubstantial part is not an infringement. The argument in the study mentioned in your article may or may not be complex , as you say it is (since there is no link to the study, I have not read it), but this particular point is not complex and your account of it is incorrect. James Whyte (no post town given)GOOGLE IN RWANDAThe slight tone of scepticism with which you report Rwanda's rush to buy Nicholas Negroponte's '$100' wind-up childrens' computers is well-placed. Negroponte is pushing this clockwork-powered toy, which he intends to sell in its millions, as a serious development tool for the entire 3rd World; but, aside from the technical issues you raise, there also is a serious moral problem here. I recently heard Negroponte at a new technology conference in Udine, Italy, tell a crowded hall of well-fed Europeans that they could easily generate some 20-30 watts of electricty using the wind-up mechanism of the device while, and I quote, 'a malnourished African child could generatate 5-6'. At this meeting Negroponte revealed Bill Gates's hostility to his plans, which he put down to Gates's jealousy. Yet there is another explanation for Gates's negativism. Can Negroponte's gadget possibly be in any way an 'appropriate technology'? And in a world riven with war, pestilence and hunger, is this the best of way of spending (with the usual manufacuturers) millions which might otherwise be put to better purpose? Brian Winston, Lincoln Professor of Communications, University of Lincoln
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Here's a face-off betweenthe top six personal computerssuch as the Apple ][, Atari 800 and IBM PC. It was originally published 25 years ago in Popular Mechanics, and has been scanned in by Modern Mechanix.In those days, 40-character screens were common and you often needed a second monitor (and sometimes a hardware upgrade) to get colour graphics. Many systems didn't have built-in floppies, and I remember paying about 300 ($600) each for floppy drives. Many people still used cassette tapes.Since this was an American publication, the selection didn't include the Acorn BBC Model B, which was a home and education machine roughly equivalent to the Apple II in the US. (In the UK, the Apple II was sold as a business system at ludicrous prices.)But this was really the end of the beginning. The IBM PC had only just come out, and Popular Mechanics hadn't really twigged its importance. It was far better than the Apple II and I was delighted to switch from an Apple IIe to an IBM PC/XT with a much sharper 80-column screen and a huge 10MB hard drive.And, of course, the IBM PC set a standard that was widely imitated and thus created a vast infrastructure of software, hardware, peripherals, books, magazines and services at ever-decreasing prices.I had three of these machines, and used all six. However, I've only got one of them now, the Atari 800, mainly because of the great cartridge-loading games: my infant son used it for years, until I upgraded him to an Amiga 500. Also, well, one day I might want to play Star Raiders or Defender or write something in Pilot. You never know.Link fromBoing Boing.
"The world's biggest music companies are expected to ask Apple to introduce a music subscription service to its iTunes digital media store as part of negotiations to renew their agreements with the computer company," reckonsThe Financial Times.Executives at Universal and other labels believe a subscription service could prove more lucrative for them than iTunes' prevailing model of charging consumers 99 cents per track because it would increase consumption of music. It would also entitle the labels to a share of monthly payments, in addition to small licensing fees each time their songs are played.Meanwhile Ars Technica has a story based on a report by UK-based Enders Analysis, headlinedDRM, lock-ins, and piracy: all red herrings for a music industry in trouble. The story says:Where did the industry go wrong? At the height of the rush to DRM, the record labels decided to put their money behind expensive and ultimately unattractive subscription services at a time when Napster 1.0's popularity was it its peak. The industry favored an approach where consumers would be locked into monthly subscription deals that control how you used content.So are subsciption services a symptom of illness or a cure?Still, several music stores already offer subscripton services and these don't seem to have taken off. It's not clear that one based on iTunes would fare any better, even if Steve Jobs went along with the idea -- and there's no evidence that he will.
The sun is out and my mind has wandered to the bikini sitting in the drawer, challenging me to put it on and head down to the beach. After a winter of desk-sitting and potato-eating, I don't dare.Thankfully, help is at hand with fine videogame apparati. In no time I shall be fit as a fiddle.My six week fitness regime is inspired by two blokes who have used WiiSports to lose poundage.JRaimed to lose 80lbs (approx. 5.7 stone) and has just about done it in the six weeks he's been going, by changing his lifestyle habits and playing on his Nintendo console daily.hey_suburbialost 9lbs (just over 1/2 a stone) by playing the Wii for 30 minutes extra per day. No lifestyle change, just Wii play.So I'm going to mash up the two experiments, by cutting out snacking (I love snacking) but otherwise keeping my lifestyle the same. I'm also going to make things more interesting, by integrating two days ofSony's Nike EyeToy Kineticworkouts into my daily Wii-playing regimen. I aim to lose one stone - more than JR's loss - in six week's time. Can it be done? IfPE classesare integrating dancing games into their lesson plans and research suggests theWii has health benefits, why not?You can follow the progress atTraineo, which actually offers a "Wii" category for type of exercise. Marvellous. Expect some hilarious vids on thegamesblog's YouTube channel, once I get the courage to show you.
Apple has announced that it's delaying the launch of Leopard, the next version of its OSX operating system, untilOctober. That's at least six months after it had been intended to appear; the scheduling of the Worldwide Developers Conference for June had implied that it would launch then.But no. Seem theiPhone has sucked up resources:iPhone has already passed several of its required certification tests and is on schedule to ship in late June as planned. We can't wait until customers get their hands (and fingers) on it and experience what a revolutionary and magical product it is. However, iPhone contains the most sophisticated software ever shipped on a mobile device, and finishing it on time has not come without a price  we had to borrow some key software engineering and QA resources from our Mac OS X teamApple runs, as is not widely recognised, very small development teams. Some are as small asone personfor quite key developer software, or were a few years ago. (As I know, because I was in contact with that person.)..as a result we will not be able to release Leopard at our Worldwide Developers Conference in early June as planned. While Leopard's features will be complete by then, we cannot deliver the quality release that we and our customers expect from us. We now plan to show our developers a near final version of Leopard at the conference, give them a beta copy to take home so they can do their final testing, and ship Leopard in October.Here's the kicker, though:We think it will be well worth the wait. Life often presents tradeoffs, and in this case we're sure we've made the right ones.Translation: it's more important to sell the iPhone on time than Leopard on time. There's more money in selling the iPhone in the future than Leopard. Hitting the schedule with iPhone matters that bit more than hitting the schedule with Leopard.Does this mean iPhone matters more than the Mac? After the Mac-less Macworld of January (when Apple dropped the "computer" suffix and there was nary a mention of them boxes), Apple's future looks more and more in the things that aren't what used to be thought of as computers. Though of course they are. Just differently shaped.
Just in case you missed this today, Sony Computer Entertainment America isditching the 20GB PS3. A Sony source commented. "Initial retail demand in North America was upwards of ninety percent in favor of the 60GB sku, so we manufactured and shipped-in accordingly. Due to the overwhelming demand for the 60GB model from both retailers and consumers, we have ceased offering the 20GB model here in North America".I wonder if this country-wide rejection was down to the hard drive size alone, or if the lack of Wi-Fi connectivity or media slots played a part. Strangely, the similarly under-featured Xbox 360 Core Systemisstill selling. Does this suggest a difference in consumer expectations and perceptions regarding the two brands? Perhaps there's some kind of complex socio-economical tipping point between the Xbox and PS3 price points. With Xbox 360, it's reasonably cheap to buy the Premium system, so, hey, why not make the purchase cheaper still be selecting Core? But with PS3: "Jeez, I'm spending 500 bucks already, I might as well bump that up for the full shebang". No, hang on, that doesn't make any sense.Or maybe it's because retailers were pushing the more pricey model. Who knows? Hey, at least theygota choice...Update:There's aninteresting piece of analysis at Playfuls.com, which suggests Sony ditched 20GB machines because the company is actually losing more money on them, per unit sold, than on the 60GB units. Alternatively, it could be because Sony is already lining up an 80gig model...
In my day, apprenticeships were called Youth Training Schemes and mostly involved working in a garage or toiling away in some godforsaken meat processing factory. Not anymore. Last summer,NCsoft Europe(Guild Wars, Lineage) started an Apprenticeship in Quality Assurance and Games Production, working in conjunction with City College Brighton, PartnerTrans and Skillset, to offer placements for a group of industry newcomers. Now three of that in-take are most of the way through a year-long placement with the company and will earn a level 2 City and Guild qualification.It's an interesting idea. Many videogame employees get their first break in QA departments, testing games and reporting bugs. The key difference here is that the apprentices apparently get a solid grounding in videogame theory alongside the practical element. Those looking to move up to design, programming or art will no doubt find this invaluable.NCSoft's initiative is the first of its kind in the UK, but the company is not alone in courting young talent. Leamington-based developer Blitz runs annual open days for university students interested in a videogame career, while Free Radical Design took on a couple of interns after a game design competition at last year's Nottingham GameCity festival.Several publishers also have more structured relationships with universities running dedicated videogame courses. Real Time Worlds, Electronic Arts, Sony Europe and Denki have all contributed toward the University of Abertay'sBSc in Computer Games, for example. EA is a particular supporter of industry wannabes - over in the states it takes in interns from Georgia Tech, the University of Southern California and Carnegie Mellon. I also like the set-up atUbisoft Montreal's campuswhere the company bypasses universities altogether and takes a group of interested newcomers directly into its stylish offices to practise game development where it actually happens.There remain question marks over the value of videogame training. Most developers I've ever spoken to would rather recruit graduates from maths or physics degrees than specialist computer game courses - their knowledge is vital in the development of physics-based 3D engines. Others think the industry should be bringing in talented people from completely different sectors, rather than training up inexperienced teens to think and work just likeeveryoneelse in the industry. Warwickshire developer FreeStyleGames, responsible for music action title B-Boy, has just announced the recruitment of a new project manager with a long background in theatre production.Maybe that's the answer. Want a job in videogames? Forget apprenticeships, join a theatre group. As an ex-drama student I can vouch for that...
The following correction was added on Friday April 13 2007Some items on one of the graphics in the pdf below are overstated by a factor 10. The first six figures in the green bar chart (headed Base energy consumption of appliances left plugged in) are corrrect but the next 10 should have the decimal point moved one place to the left; so, for example, the Telewest decoder becomes 0.0288kWh daily instead of 0.288. The heights of the bar charts are correct, as is the figure at the end for the mobile phone charger.Listen to the environmentalists, and we'd never leave devices on standby - in fact we'd ban standby altogether (It's time to switch on those energy-saving TVs and PVRs, February 22). But research I've done on my own energy consumption seems to throw cold water on this theory.I insulated my roof last summer and have since been monitoring my gas and electric meters to see what impact this has had. I wanted to see how my new lagging compared to the thin 1960s insulation that was originally installed. I found that while my gas bills halved, my electricity usage remained almost constant throughout the year at about 25kWh per day, and this is taking seasonal fluctuations into account.I also took some specific measurements over the Christmas week when the house was empty and everything possible was switched off or turned down to its minimum settings - and the basic electric usage was still as high as 16kWh per day.To find out more about these figures, I bought a digital power meter to identify which electrical items are the main culprits. The research shows that a lot of the advice pumped out by the environmental lobby doesn't add up. They are asking people to switch off items that use almost no power at all (even when on standby) while ignoring devices that gobble juice. And they are trying to enforce this imbalance in prescriptive law by calling for a ban on "standby" for new appliances.Thetablein green shows the base results for my appliances that are usually left plugged in; the yellow and red table shows how much extra would be used if the equipment with standby is left on 24hrs a day. The far right one shows the single-use power requirements for appliances that have specific occasional uses.Doing the mathsObviously, there will be some variations between households for different manufacturers and usage patterns. For example, we leave a PC running with a broadband connection for instant use by any of two adults or three children - but we have made good use of the power management settings to put the PC into sleep mode if there is no activity for 10 minutes.Nevertheless, we can see that the recent debate about leaving audio-visual (AV) items and phone chargers on standby is overblown, as our consumption is similar to that of one or two low-energy light bulbs. Put it in perspective. To leave my mobile phone charger on standby, plugged in but not charging, uses 0.009 kWh a day. So in effect, I could leave it on for over a year - 380 days - for it to have consumed the same power as running a bath, which for a single 90 litre soaking uses 3.5kWh.Let's take the microwave. On standby that uses 0.096 kWh per day. Yet having a single shower uses 1.4kWh. Therefore leaving the microwave on standby for 14 days uses the same power as having a 40 litre shower at 40C.Most of the publicity about banning standby has focused on AV equipment. So what about my telly? If I leave it on standby all day, my 28in CRT TV eats 0.168 kWh per day. But if I leave it switched on all day it consumes an extra 1.2kWh.Power hungryIn fact, the whole fuss about standby is based on laughably obsolete assumptions. Only pre-60s thermionic valves use full power on standby to keep their heater coils warm - unlike almost any equipment sold since the domestic introduction of the transistor in the 60s.Rather than banning standby altogether, we should be calling for standby consumption to be less than 1W, which is easily enough to respond to a remote control. I fear that if standby were banned altogether, people would just leave their equipment on instead, consuming maybe 10 times the power.The real power guzzlers are fridges, freezers, dishwashers, showers - and especially baths - and tumble dryers. These use 20 or 30 times the total power of AV items in a day.Heating water is very expensive, and some wastage isn't obvious - like the hot water that's left in the pipes after you've finished washing your hands. Insulating your pipes is one way to cut this waste and, similarly, if you've got an open chimney that you don't use, stick an old cushion up it.Washing machines use relatively little power - but tumble dryers are absolute power monsters. Try pulling out the near-dry synthetics from the fully-spun wash and giving the rest a second full-speed spin to remove most of the water before slinging them in the dryer.And what about light bulbs? Energy saving bulbs aren't the full solution as they don't work with dimmer switches and have all sorts of nasty metals and chemicals in them. A simpler solution for cutting down on their energy consumption would be to remove lampshades around the house that dim the light.All in all, it seems to me that a lot of the current environmental proposals will eventually fall on deaf ears, as they take little account of detailed scientific measurement.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Curious things in cyberspace No. 372: The Green Cube Shrine to Second Life creator Philip Rosedale. Regular readers may recall previous curios in the series, like the "spontaneous" virtual apparition of the holy mother that appeared on a block of digital wood, and the kid who paid $26,000 for an island in the online game Project Entropia. But this one tickles me more than the others, just because it's so silly.A few years ago, when Second Life was only populated by a couple of thousand early adopters, Rosedale took regular walks around his virtual New Frontier to commune with his people. One day he created a green cube.Regardless of its intended purpose, he left it when he moved on and, like the best bits of the past, it was unearthed and put on display. Since then, this bit of virtual litter has been bestowed with the kind of object worship usually only reserved for the fingernails and connective tissue of religious saints and deities.The green cube is unassuming; one wouldn't know that next to a row of shops and behind a stretch of neat little bungalows lies the end-point of hundreds of thousands of pilgrimages. It's surrounded by candles and images of Rosedale. A chair has been placed nearby to be used by the faithful to relax in quiet contemplation.So, while digital optimists believe the internet could be a location sans frontieres, where governance is dismissed and traditional power structures are superseded, I'm afraid the hard truth is that they're deluded. After all, what is Philip Rosedale's green cube shrine but a kowtow to the most dominant entities in online worlds, the game gods? These all-powerful deities claim a special kind of celebrity - an unholy version of worship which some with a more religious slant than I might find blasphemous.But with it comes a price. While game gods have the power to destroy countless lives and wellbeings at the flick of a switch, they also have to contend with irate phone calls in the early hours from players whose inventories have been wiped clean of swords and potions by a glitch in the system.Similarly, as Second Life has reached its dizzying populations, the Lindens have been subject to increasing criticism. Once out in the open, available to all, the green cube shrine must now be encased by a protective vessel which keeps the precious thing out of reach of the great unwashed.As this precious thing becomes even more precious, it's prescient to act quickly. In this most commercial of virtual worlds, there's only one thing to do: get your Philip Rosedale relics in now, just in case, like Monty Python's Brian, he becomes a messiah.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The vast majority of songs on filesharing systems have been in the MP3 file format since Napster propelled the idea of digital music into the mass market in 1999. But that could change over the next decade. Files encoded in the newer and better AAC (Advanced Audio Coding) format could become more popular, as people start to share unprotected songs bought from Apple's market-leading iTunes Music Store. Also, support for MP3 could falter if the newly-merged Alcatel-Lucent telecoms giant can assert its claims to have (pricey) patent rights over the format.The market was opened up earlier this month when EMI, one of the four "music majors", made a joint announcement with Apple. The gist of it was that EMI would continue to sell music with DRM (digital rights management) copy protection, but that better-quality files would also be offered without DRM for a small extra charge. As part of the deal, Apple said it would offer non-protected 256kbps AAC files alongside its current protected 128kbps AAC files.This should give AAC a boost in its battle with MP3. EMI press officer Dylan Jones says EMI is "format agnostic": it supplies digital masters of songs to music libraries, who then do their own encoding. They could offer 320kbps MP3 or 256kbps WMA (Windows Media Audio) or Sony Atrac or whatever they think they can sell. Music stores are free to choose the encoding and the quality, says Jones, "above a certain level".Growing supportWhen EMI experimented with selling unprotected tracks last year - such as a Norah Jones song sold via Yahoo and eMusic - it used MP3, which is still the format with the widest support. This could still turn out to be the most common choice - we don't know what the music libraries will do. But iTunes has most of the legal online music market, so most files bought online could still use AAC.Support for AAC is also growing in other areas. Apple was the first company to bring the format to the mass market with the iPod in 2003, but AAC files now play on a growing number of devices. These include Microsoft's Zune, Sony's PlayStation Portable, PlayStation 3 and some Walkman MP3 players, and lots of Nokia and Sony Ericsson mobile phones.Also, AAC is already an important format for digital radio. It is coming into use for web-based radio stations, it is the standard format for Digital Radio Mondiale broadcasting, and it's the chosen standard for DAB+ digital radio, which is expected to replace the old DAB-standard MP2 format almost everywhere except the UK. All this should soon make AAC very attractive for music players with built-in radios.However, this may not mean you can go back to "taping" the radio, because digital radio often uses much lower bit rates with the AAC+ or HE (High Efficiency) version.Steve Green fromdigitalradiotech.co.uk, who writes a radio column in Hi-Fi World magazine, says: "The audio quality on DAB+ and Digital Radio Mondiale+ is very unlikely to be better than the 128kbps AAC tracks on iTunes. Music stores will use best audio practice prior to encoding files, whereas audio that's played on the radio has had dynamic range compression applied to it, and some radio stations don't apply best audio practice, so a track on iTunes should sound better than it would on the radio."AAC may also have received an unexpected boost from a US patent case brought by Alcatel-Lucent, which led to Microsoft being fined $1.52bn (&pound;770m) in February. Microsoft argued that it had already licensed MP3 from the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany, like everybody else. If the judgement stands, thousands of companies could be at risk of fines.AAC is also heavily patent protected and companies must pay high fees to license the patents. However, there's a "patent pool" and a safe one-stop shop at Vialicensing).Under normal circumstances, it's very hard to dislodge a common file format. Most music stores would probably have continued to use MP3 if the music labels had not insisted on copy protection. MP3 doesn't include DRM, so suppliers switched to AAC, WMA and other formats that they could protect to some extent. This started MP3's decline.Legal threatsNow things are changing again. There is a fair chance that the other music majors will follow EMI in offering DRM-free options to online music stores. This would allow them to revert to MP3, which already has a wide market with DRM-free sales. But the legal threats against MP3 may change their minds. If so, AAC will benefit.The future of Microsoft's WMA would look bleak in a DRM-free world, but it will continue to be used for services that still require DRM, including subscription libraries. Also, according to Green, it's a relatively cheap and convenient option for some suppliers, including WMA/WMV and DAB-IP broadcasters. Price comparisons are difficult; Microsoft doesn't license patents, it offers a complete software system. It's clear though that WMA is not going to take over the world. But then, it never was.Sounding them outMP3Old file format that generally works badly at bit rates below 128kbps but can sound good at 160-196kbps, especially with Lame encoding. At higher bit rates with Lame VBR (variable bit rate) encoding, the audio quality should be equivalent to CD, for most people.Drawback:large file sizes.AACMultichannel replacement for MP3 that works well at bit rates of 96kbps and below, and produces smaller files. At 128kbps can be not far short of CD quality, and at 160kbps or higher, it should be equivalent to CD for most people.Drawbacks:complex, heavily patented and has many varieties.WMAMicrosoft format with Standard, Pro and Lossless versions. Standard outperforms MP3 only at low bit rates and sounds worse than AAC at the same bit rates. The newer multichannel pro version is similar to AAC at 128kbps and above.Drawbacks:proprietary, and few devices support WMA Pro 10.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In this morning's paper (you didn't read it then?) we asked: "Is Vonage toast?" We thought it looked a bit brown around the edges.Browner still now: the chief executive, Michael Snyder, is going, and 10% of the 1,800-strong workforce will follow. The chairman and founder Jeffrey Citron has taken over and is carrying out a top-to-bottom review.Vonage has two problems: marketing costs are too high (it cost $275 to add each of its 160,000 subscribers in the past quarter) and it's in a crippling lawsuit against Verizon, which says it is infringing its patents. A judge ruled Vonage must pay 5.5% royalties on sales to Verizon; Vonage is appealing.It's not looking good. And that's the best we can say... thestock price charttells its own tale. (And we're not sure it's heard the Snyder news yet..)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Research In Motion, the company behind BlackBerry emailers, has just announced itslatest financial results. It says: "Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was $930.4 million, up 66% from $561.2 million in the same quarter of last year." Annual sales reached $3 billion, "up 47% from $2.1 billion last year."I'd have thought these were pretty impressive, but apparently not. The $930.4 million in sales missed the$935.4 million average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey, so the shares took a beating.What's interesting is that this is still a device business, not a service business. RIM says: "The revenue breakdown for the quarter was approximately 73% for handhelds, 19% for service, 5% for software and 3% for other revenue." And -- unlike services -- devices is an area where there is stiff competition, especially with more companies now offering "push" email from the Microsoft Exchange email servers commonly used in businesses. As Bloomberg notes:Competition is intensifying as more e-mail phones hit the market. AT&amp;T Inc., the largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, started selling a device called the BlackJack in November that handles music and e-mail. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung Electronics Co. makes the BlackJack. AT&amp;T also offers Palm Inc.'s Treo e-mail phone.Motorola Inc., the world's second-largest mobile-phone maker, introduced new versions of its Q e-mail phone in February. Nokia Oyj, the biggest mobile-phone maker, released three new e- mail phones that same month aimed at business users.One obvious route to higher sales is to target the consumer market, which BlackBerry is now doing with more stylish phones that include cameras and music players. Unfortunately for RIM, this market has also been targeted by Apple, with its forthcoming iPhone.....RIM has been a great Canadian success story, and has had an amazing amount of publicity, considering it still only has 8 million users -- a trivial number, in global phone market terms. That was partly because it provided a good proprietary solution (including the device, client software, and server software) to the problem of handling email on the move.However, when every smart phone does the job, off the shelf, RIM could have a much tougher time trying to prosper, or even survive.
Project PDA has a very brief round up of theTop 5 Concept Phonesincluding the BenQ Snake, above.
We've had computers powerful enough to be effortlessly useful for ages now. In fact, there is probably one in your attic. Even a 10-year-old PC will work perfectly well as a well-connected typewriter, which is all that most people want or need.And even Windows 98, however much we despise it, is pretty foolproof against user incompetence. The trouble is that it is ridiculously insecure. It ought to be a criminal offence to connect a computer running Windows 98 to the net via broadband.Anyone who does so is not merely putting their own information at risk, but laying their computer open to the risk of being used to rob third parties as part of a botnet (seeRead Me First, Nick Carr, April 5).There have been huge advances in Windows security since then. If you were to plug your granny in to the net with a modern computer running Vista, which she only used for email and a little exploration of shared photos on the web, she would probably be quite safe.But then she would have to buy a whole new PC, which wouldn't be all that much easier to use for anything that mattered to her. All she wants is a well-connected typewriter.I know this will draw furious letters from grandparents who delight in their computers. But they are, I believe, a minority.And it seems a terrible shame to throw away perfectly good old computers just because they won't run a modern version of Windows. What we need is a Granny Linux, something that is safe from both malice at one end of the modem cable and bafflement at the other.I think I may have found it, in the form of Xubuntu (xubuntu.org), a version of Ubuntu Linux that runs on small and old computers.Malice is not a real problem. Linux has been pretty secure against hackers for years now. The trouble is that until recently it was just as secure against normal users.Even now the only form of Unix that's really sensible for untechnical people is Apple's Mac OS X, and with a reasonable budget I wouldn't hesitate to get a Mac mini as Granny's internet appliance.But an old machine, which would otherwise run Windows 98, costs essentially nothing, and is quite likely to run one of the Debian-type Linuxes.The easiest of these to install is probably Ubuntu, but the common versions of it demand quite modern hardware.The only one that will run, or even install, on 64MB of memory seems to be Xubuntu, which uses the XFCE desktop. It does not look much like Windows and, until recently, could not put icons on the desktop. Instead, they lived on a taskbar.But that's no disadvantage for a Granny Linux. After all, how many icons does a typewriter have?A Granny computer will only be asked to do two things, so it should have at most three icons - one to read and write email, one to write letters and one to look at the web.This is in fact 50% more icons than the ideal Granny desktop. That would only have two icons: one to read letters, and one to write them. Whether Granny printed or emailed the letters would be a later decision.Perhaps you could set up a desktop like that with a Windows Vista machine; God knows I have tried, and failed, with a Mac, where I can't get down below three icons, since the same program can't be used to write email and letters. And by the time you have customised such a machine to its very simplest, you might just as well have installed Xubuntu and have done with it.Nothing that comes ready to use is ready for the sort of users who don't want a computer at all.In any case, none of the possible solutions for a modern machine would work in 64MB of memory.It's a delicious paradox that Linux, which was for years the system for people who really enjoyed fiddling with their computers, should have developed to the point where it's the best system for people who hate the bloody things.&#183;thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've upgraded to a new machine with Vista Premium and I'm disappointed to find that I can't set up Windows Mail to pick up my Hotmail. I've used Hotmail for years (and I don't really want to change to another account) and really liked being able to manage my different email accounts via a single program, Outlook Express. Is it really just about Microsoft flogging advertising space or are there benefits that I'm not yet aware of that mean I should stick it out? Gavin RandMicrosoft does have a long-term strategy, and hopes the future belongs to WLMd (Windows Live Mail Desktop). Briefly, the first stage of popular email used desktop programs such as Eudora and Outlook, while the second stage brought web-based services such as Hotmail. The third stage could be hybrid programs that have both an online and a desktop (or phone) component. That way you get both the speed and power of a standalone program, including off-line working, with the convenience of a web-based system.In Microsoft's case, the online component is Windows Live Hotmail, which is similar to Google's Gmail. The desktop component is WLMd, which has been available in a public beta version since last July. The Windows Mail program, which has replaced Outlook Express in Vista, is a subset of WLMd. Eventually I expect most Windows users will have WLMd installed.Like most Microsoft Windows programs nowadays, WLMd is being developed with public feedback. You can get up to speed by reading the More Than Mail blog (http://morethanmail.spaces.live.com/) run by the program manager, Tanja Fournier. It's good stuff.However, my current recommendation for those willing and able to change is to use Gmail with Thunderbird, the companion program to Firefox. Google doesn't charge for POP3 access (eg via Outlook Express) and lets you use your own domain name.
After an automatic Windows update, my PC is giving a heart-stopping message about a system DLL being illegally relocated in memory, and it says: "The vendor supplying the DLL should be contacted for a new DLL." Otherwise, everything seems OK. Ian Smith, Dave Phillips, Roy Whitney, John Snowdon, Nick Martin, Pavel Vitek and many othersThis is a bug that can arise depending on the order in which files are loaded from two different security updates. Microsoft has published an explanation and a hotfix athttp://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx/kb/935448/.
