A few weeks backI asked the assembled rabble whether anyone here had heard of anunconferencefor games. Unconference, you say? Whatever is she on about? Well, something like aBarCamp, where the attendees make up the event as they go along, building robots, drinking beer and generally being creative and clever.And you know what, the overwhelming and resouding response was.... silence. No one had ever heard of a BarCamp for games. And so we at The Guardian have decided to sort that out, with the assistance of Adrian and Dan Hon at Six to Start, Rachel Clarke at Bibrik and TheDaveGreen from GameCity (and NTK) - plus kind support from Sony (who're hosting the event) and Nintendo.Welcome toGameCamp- a free event, open to all, on Saturday 3 May in trendy East London. Keep reading for more information. And for goodness sake, record your interest atUpcoming!WHAT IS GAMECAMP?GameCamp is a free, public one-day event for people interested in gaming and play. The objective is simple: to talk informally with like-minded people and get excited about stuff involving games of all kinds.We've already confirmed some stellar attendees from across the games biz - from founding fathers to revolutionaries to cogs in the machine. Expect a whole spectrum of games-related people to be there! Plus, Harmonix's Rock Band. Yes,Rock Band.HOW GAMECAMP WORKSGameCamp is a communal "unconference" run along the principles ofBarCamp.That means EVERYBODY is encouraged to join in and be ready to give a talk, take part in a discussion or run a session.We let you decide what the order of the day is: in the morning, once everyone has registered, you'll get a chance to add your session to The Grid - the editable conference schedule that's posted on a wall at the venue. This cacophony of blu-tac and sheets of A4 paper will list all the rooms and times that are available for the day, letting everyone see at a glance which sessions are coming up, and decide on the ones they're most interested in attending.The sessions are arranged as half-hour blocks split across several rooms, with 15 minute breaks between each period. We'll take a 45 minute break for lunch at about 1.30pm and will convene at the end of the day to wrap things up.Running a session doesn't mean you need to prepare a speech - remember, the day is meant to be informal and fun - but you should have a good idea of the subjects you are interested in. This is a chance to try things out, to try new ideas, NOT just to run through the same presentation you've used before.You might want to talk about something you've been working on, but we don't necessarily need to know how great your latest game is. In fact, some of the best presentations at BarCamps have avoided pitches altogether. Like 'How To Make A World-Class Martini (with tasting session)'. You might want to organise your session around the best Guitar Hero techniques, your top Open Source Game picks, or your latest theory on game design. We like people who are prepared to get stuck in, try new things and bring some fun to proceedings.THE BASICSWhat: One-day event about games and play When: Saturday May 3, 11am - 5.30pm Where: 15 Hanbury Street, London, E1 6QR How: Bring your imagination and something you'd like to talk about Why: Why not? How many: There is room for 120 - but there are limited places available. We're opening up the public registration on Monday 21st April, so add an alarm to your calendar; we're allocating tickets on a first-come-first-served basis!Props to Chris Mac Morrison who designed the GameCamp 2008 logo.
As you may havereadtoday, Ricky Gervais has a cameo role in GTA IV, performing a few minutes of new material in a comedy club within Liberty City. The comedian was somehow scooped into a motion capture suit so his movements could be faithfully recorded for his cameo. He'll also pop up elsewhere in the game, but wouldn't provide more details.Of course, Gervais isn't the first actor to appear in a game, they've been cropping up for years, either digitised into sprite or 3D polygonal form, or simply filmed for one of those interactive movies that briefly became popular in the early nineties.So what's been your favourite example of a real-life star - either actor of musician - crossing over into the digital realm? I suppose you can include voice-overs too if you must.Here are five of my favourites:Bruce Lee (Bruce Lee, 1984)Appeared in barely recognisable form in his own game, courtesy of Datasoft. Released on the Atari 400/800, Spectrum, C64 and other 8bit fossils, this was a great little platformer, with Bruce kicking the Ninja and Yamo enemy characters into submission over and over again, while exploring caverns and temples.Corey Haim (Double Switch, 1993)His teen idol career had already slopped down the plughole when Corey took a lead role in this Mega CD FMV 'classic' from Tom Zito's Digital Pictures (also responsible for controversial censor-baiter, Night Trap). He plays appartment building security geek Eddie, trapped in the basement and attempting to see off ninjas and mafia hitmen with various traps. An engrossingly manic performance. (Here'sthe attract mode).Mark Hamill (Wing Commander III, 1994)Another career on the slide, but I love the world-weary resolve that Hamill brought to his role as hardened star fighter Colonel Christopher Blair. This was another interactive movie abomination, although it did have the grace to include proper space combat elements. Watchthe opening movie sequenceand rejoice that games are no longer like this. Hamill crops up about four minutes in, watching a CGI firework display with the Welsh bloke from Raiders of the Lost Ark.Takeshi Kaneshiro (Onimusha, 2001)Capcom's samurai adventure features a lead character modeled on the famed Japanese/Taiwanese actor, singer and Prada model. Kaneshiro will also star in the movie version of the series due out next year. Quite a good-looking chap.Emmanuelle Vaugier (Need For Speed Carbon, 2006)The lovely Canadian actress was digitised into EA's urban racer to add some glamour (and pre-release publicity) to the game - sort of like Kelly Brook's appearance in Need for Speed Underground 2, but more classy. Unfortunately, she's also set to appear in the Uwe Boll movie adaptation of Far Cry. Why?!
Nokia sent shivers through the technology industry yesterday as the company warned that the global mobile phone market is set to decline for the first time as the economic recession bites on both sides of the Atlantic.The world's largest mobile phone company makes roughly two out of every five mobiles sold globally. It said it expected the number of phones sold to increase by 10%, from the 1.14bn phones sold last year. But the Finnish group explained that the overall value of the market would be lower than in 2007 thanks to the weak dollar, the economic slowdown in the US, and "some economic slowdown in Europe". Shares in the company dropped 10%.Nokia also expects the average price of mobile phones to decrease this year because of intense competition in mature markets. Nokia's downbeat trading outlook came as its announced first-quarter results, which missed analysts' forecasts. Profits for the three months to March were up 25% on last year to &euro;1.2bn (&pound;962m) but that was less than some analysts had forecast. Sales rose 28% to &euro;12.7bn.
Google has reported "revenues of $5.19 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, an increase of 42% compared to the first quarter of 2007 and an increase of 7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2007,"says the company(or goherefor the numbers). Net income rose from $1 billion to $1.31 billion.According toBloomberg, Google's shares jumped 17% and it said:Profit beat Wall Street estimates by more than 30 cents a share, excluding costs from stock options. Analysts had used industry data that showed slowing growth in the number of clicks on Web advertisements to predict a slump in revenue in the US. Instead, international sales jumped 55% and finance chief George Reyes said the growth in clicks "remains healthy.""I was expecting them to fall short," said Jerome Dodson, a portfolio manager at Parnassus Investments in San Francisco. "People said, 'Google can't keep defying the laws of gravity,' but it looks like Google is flying high again."Google shares climbed strongly but, at $450-$455, they are still a long way belowthe $740 peakthey hit last November.Update: Seeking Alpha now has atranscriptof the Google earnings call with analysts.
Yes, you've probably already heard, but one of the best Dreamcast games ever is coming to Xbox Live Arcade. Namco has announced plans to release an updated HD version of Soul Calibur, complete with new leaderboards as well as tweaked Arcade, Training and Survival modes. Apparently, though, there'll be no online multiplayer - unlike Capcom's XBLA version of Super Street Fighter II Turbo.Soul Calibur was responsible for many a missed deadline on my old magazine DC-UK, where day long tournaments were a regular occurrence. Incidentally, some news sites have reported that the 'original' Soul Calibur is coming to Xbox - which, of course, is technically incorrect - that was Soul Edge (or Soul Blade if you prefer), from 1996. That would be great too though, Namco.The publisher is also set to bring a new 2D space shooter to both XBLA and PlayStation Network. PowerUp Forever apparently features a spaceship that grows in size as it absorbs energy.So anyway, who's your favourite Soul Calibur character, and what does that say about you?Mine's Ivy. I dread to think.
Vista is taking a beating at the moment, with Gartner analysts suggesting last week that (at some unspecified point after 2011) Windows could collapse under its own weight. What got less publicity was the fact that these same analysts said companies should upgrade to Windows Vista.I asked Brian Gammage, a Gartner vice-president, why. After all, companies love the idea of skipping generations and taking alternate upgrades: it saves money. He pointed to the companies who are still on Windows 2000 because they decided to skip XP. Well, they thought Vista was going to arrive much sooner than it did. (So did Microsoft.) Now they're in trouble because support for Windows 2000 is running out, and they need to upgrade. "The people who are on XP now have time on their side," says Gammage. "The decision not to skip a version was right."At least the people who made the wrong decision thought they knew when Vista would appear and what it would offer. That's not the case today, because Microsoft isn't talking. We don't know if the next version, Windows 7, will appear in 2010 - which is Microsoft's target - or what will be in it. Do you want to tell your CEO to bet the company on an unknown OS due at an unknown time? Good luck with that. We don't even know if Windows 7 will be a major release or a minor one like, say, Windows 98SE. Gammage says minor, because they tend to alternate. Vista was major and contains a lot of new plumbing simply because decisions that were sensible 15 years ago, when PCs had 32MB of memory, are not sensible now they have 4GB. There is zero chance of Microsoft backtracking on all that stuff, because it now needs plumbing that can handle 64GB or more.A lot of expensive research has also gone into Vista's user interface, and it's hard to see Microsoft retreating on things that are sometimes unpopular mainly because they are unfamiliar. I think Microsoft will make W7 look different for the sake of it, and it may add some ribbons, like Office 2007. But we don't actually know. However, we do know that PC memory sizes double every couple of years, and in 2012, Windows XP will still address exactly as much memory as it does today: 4GB. (Yes, there's been a 64-bit version of Windows XP for years, but hardly anybody bought it.) It won't be enough.Also, while the 64-bit versions of XP, Vista and Windows 7 will run 32-bit programs, they won't run 16-bit legacy software, and companies still have a lot around. Some people don't like Vista because it won't bend over for crappy old software that breaks the rules; the move to "64-bit clean" Windows may have an even bigger impact. Companies are not going to rewrite 25-years worth of in-house programs in the next three or four years, so there will have to be coping strategies. One idea is to run an older OS as a "guest", so users could run XP inside Windows 7 (or Mac OS X or Linux). Another is to "virtualise" badly behaved applications so they run inside their own little bubbles. Or apps could be run remotely via an intranet, or perhaps rewritten for the web. No doubt all the options will be tried.And whatever Windows 7 looks like, it will be just another packaged snapshot of an operating system that is evolving, and is never going to evolve backwards. In sum: XP is dead. It might be more useful to focus on Microsoft's virtualisation efforts such asVirtual PC,SoftGridandHyper-V. And, of course, Office Live. You'll probably need them.
GameCamp 2008 is taking place on Saturday May 3rd in the Spitalfields area of London.LOCATION3Rooms15 Hanbury StreetLondonE1 6QRClick here for a Google mapTRANSPORT LINKSThe nearest station is Liverpool Street (Central, Hammersmith &amp; City, Circle, Metropolitan lines and mainline rail services)Other nearby stations:Aldgate East (District, Hammersmith &amp; City)Aldgate (Circle, Metropolitan)Whitechapel (District, Hammersmith &amp; City)Nearby buses include the 67 (which runs up and down Commercial Street) and the multiplicity of routes that serve Liverpool Street - including the 8, 11, 23, 26, 42, 47, 48, 149 and 242. Phew!AskTransport for Londonfor help on how to get there.If you need parking, the nearest 24-hour car park is White's Row (E1 7NF)
Vodafone, BSkyB and Orange have joined Carphone Warehouse and a number of Italian companies in the race to buy Tiscali, the telephone and internet service provider operating in Britain and Italy.Tiscali's advisers, JP Morgan and Banca IMI, have set a deadline of May 5 for indicative offers. Telecom Italia and Fastweb, the Italian operator controlled by Switzerland's Swisscom, have also expressed an interest in buying parts of the company.Many interested companies want to buy either the UK or Italian units rather than both but Tiscali's board is understood to prefer a knock-out bid for the entire operation. That could place Vodafone, which refused to comment, in a commanding position. Its Italian operation snapped up internet provider Tele2 last year while its embryonic UK broadband service only has a few tens of thousands of customers and uses BT's network to provide access. Sky also refused to comment on what it termed market speculation. In Britain Carphone Warehouse bought the internet access arm of AOL in 2006, outbidding BSkyB, in which NewsCorp is the biggest shareholder.Orange's internal mergers and acquisitions team is understood to be looking at Tiscali's books. Carphone Warehouse boss Charles Dunstone has made no secret of his interest in Tiscali but has stressed that he will not overpay.Analysts have placed a price tag of &pound;550m-650m on Tiscali's UK business but that is understood to be higher than many of the potential bidders would be willing to pay.
From the end of this month, BT will start upgrading its exchange to provide broadband connections running at up to 24 megabits per second - three times the present limit of 8Mbps - thanks to a technology called ADSL2+, which transmits the data signal down the line on a carrier frequency twice as high as the present ADSL2.But will it mean you'll see an immediate tripling of download speed? And if your ISP can send you more data, will you pay more? There are no clear answers. And then there's the question of whether ISPs which put their own equipment in local exchanges (the process known as local loop unbundling, or LLU) will also be able to offer faster connectivity .The connection speed issue is a tricky  one. The "up to 8Mbps" figure is already one of the most derided in UK broadband; according to Nielsen Online, only 3% of us live close enough to an exchange to get it. That's because broadband speeds fall off with distance from the exchange.To understand why takes a little physics. A phone line can transmit voice and data simultaneously by sending them at different frequencies. With ADSL2, the data signal is sent on a carrier at about 1.1MHz, far above the audible range. At your telephone socket, the "splitter" then retrieves the data, rather like an FM radio. The further from the exchange, the more of the high frequencies are lost, and the harder to discern the data , effectively lowering the data rate. ADSL2+ doubles the carrier frequency to 2.2MHz. But while that means you can cram more data onto the carrier, the attenuation with distance is greater. So you don't necessarily see a tripling of data speeds everywhere; in fact, at distances above 4.7km, you won't see any difference (see graph). Around 86% of premises are located within a 5km local loop length from their exchange.Three-year roll-outThe switch to ADSL2+, to be managed by Guy Bradshaw, BT Wholesale's general manager for broadband connectivity, will take several years; even so, says Bradshaw, "at launch, we're looking to provide coverage to about a million people".It will be up to individual ISPs to decide whether to offer the (potentially) faster speeds. Some already have, through LLU: Oli White, the head of marketing for the ISP Be, points out that his company has offered "up to 24Mbps" since 2005. Virgin, using fibre,  is trialling 50Mbps broadband for a roll-out in late 2008.By summer 2009, BT will have enabled around 850 exchanges serving up to 13 million users (it has around 5,500 UK exchanges) and aims to complete the "vast majority" of the work by 2011.Point Topic Ltd's Tim Johnson believes there are already 300,000 ADSL2+ users thanks to LLU ISPs like Bulldog and Sky. "With the rollout of 21CN [BT's internet protocol-based backbone "trunk" network for the whole of the country], ADSL2+ will more or less become universal over the next three years," says Johnson.21CN is key: BT has been remodelling its "trunk" network so that all voice calls, as well as data, can be carried as internet-style packets; in theory, that means higher speeds and fewer problems because the backbone will have internet-style resilience to any single part's failure.But when will you get ADSL2+? Neil Armstrong, the products and marketing director for the ISP PlusNet, says: "I'm expecting that during the summer we'll be able to add a load of information to our website so that customers can come and see when they'll be able to get those speeds from us."Exchange Status CheckerBut there's a fly in the ointment. Andrew Ferguson, ofthinkbroadband.com, says BT's ADSL2+ product - called Wholesale Broadband Connect (WBC) - won't be adopted by ISPs immediately. "I am expecting a few providers to launch trials that will last a few weeks or months and larger providers may not launch properly until a large chunk of the country is covered," he says.Reduced costsAnother key question is cost. "WBC has been designed for flexibility," says BT's Bradshaw. "Its design provides ISPs with the ability to leverage their own network investment more effectively, which may deliver them cost savings." The key element is tiered wholesale pricing with assured rates for "premium" services such as video streaming.However, it's streaming products - notably including the BBC's iPlayer - that have had ISPs wincing. If just a few hundred people simultaneously watch a programme via iPlayer, it can choke an ISP's network and turn profit into loss. PlusNet's technical team have blogged on the matter, pointing out how in the iPlayer's first month of use, theISP's streaming costs tripled.So will PlusNet's ADSL2+ cost the same as its present offering? Armstrong says: "What determines cost is how much the line is used - as customers download more, costs increase. Just moving to ADSL2+ shouldn't automatically increase costs - it's increasing usage that determines cost and whether this results in price rises will depend on each ISP's pricing strategy." At Point Topic, Johnson reckons that ISPs won't change prices.As to whether the firmware for routers - the software that tells them how to decode a signal - will need upgrading to cope with ADSL2+, Ferguson says: "If it works now on an ADSL line, it will continue to work even if your ISP switches you to the WBC product and you miss the warning notice, or they fail to inform you." Ferguson has written an (ADSL2+ speed estimator tool).ADSL2+ may be more stable than existing services: Bradshaw says it is built for line speed and stability. As WBC supports premium services, Johnson thinks that ISPs may offer service-level agreements with guaranteed download speeds. "It's actually an opportunity to charge people for things which they couldn't do otherwise," he says. Charges for iPlayer or for video streaming? Don't rule it out.Growth in videoHow will this affect existing ADSL2+ providers? Be's White isn't worried. "We can also differentiate ourselves on the lack of contention on our network and our personal service." For PlusNet, Armstrong sounds positive. "We'll be able to offer our customers higher download speeds, so they can take advantage of the growth in video over the internet." TalkTalk has ADSL2+ on its LLU lines, but currently offers only a capped service at 8Mbps.The extra bandwidth will be welcomed by content providers. "YouTube, Apple and others are launching higher quality video streaming and downloading," Armstrong says. "A 25-minute high-quality 175MB TV show could be downloaded in just a couple of minutes at 18Mbps."So is 24Mbps the limit for copper wires? For Stanford University professor John Cioffi, whose work led to the 1993 broadband revolution, the answer is no. ADSL2+ can extend its range using a "dynamic spectrum manager" so speeds reach further along the telephone line. There's more too. "Vectored DSLs can obtain 100Mbps on single line at 1km and higher data rates at shorter distances if they are done very well," says Cioffi. And with reports of Very High Speed DSL (VDSL) offering 250Mbps, there's life in those old wires yet.
"Officers in Greater Manchester have developed an application for the popular social networking site that allows users to submit intelligence about crimes as well as keeping them up to date with news stories. After installing it on their profile, users get a news feed alongside links to a crime-reporting form, force website and YouTube videos," saysThe Press Association.BBC News has a58 second videofrom Northwest Today.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gartner has just released preliminary numbers for this year's first quarter PC market, and it reckons that worldwide PC shipments grew by 12.3% to 71.1 million units compared to 07Q1. The main news is that Dell -- now back under Michael Dell's control -- is staging a recovery. It's still behind Hewlett-Packard, but growing faster.Also, all the top 5 grew strongly, so there was effectively a shift towards the major brand names. The "others" category lost 3.6 percentage points of market share, falling to 46.3%, in spite of recent successes such as Apple and Asus.The US PC market was soft, growing only 3%. However, as Gartner says:Dell extended its lead in the US PC market with its market share reaching 31.4%. Dell's channel program, Partner Direct, launched in December 2007, started yielding dividends, as well as its retail expansion. HP registered its lowest year-on-year growth since the Compaq merger in 2003.Acer appeared to decline, but its new numbers include Gateway's consumer shipments and Packard Bell sales, following takeovers. Whether it can turn these around is open to doubt.Apple grew fastest, among the leading US brands, gaining 1.4 percentage points to take 6.6% of the US market. Apple's climb has been assisted by the disappearance of most of the major US-based PC manufacturers -- Compaq, IBM, Gateway, Packard Bell and eMachines were all former Top 5 members -- but it has overtaken Japan's Sony and now Toshiba to reach fourth place. Taiwan's Acer, a newcomer and not well established in the US market, now looks within reach.In Europe, HP took top spot with 28% growth, ahead of Acer and Dell. Toshiba, in fifth place, grew shipments by 36.1% and is closing on Fujitsu Siemens. Gartner says all the vendors benefited from strong growth in mobile PC sales, "with Lenovo, Asus and Sony reaching growth well above the market average."Gartner also says: "In Asia/Pacific, PC shipments reached 19.1 million units in the first quarter of 2008, a 19% increase from the same period last year." Latin America PC shipments grew 19.1% to 6.3 million units. PC shipments in Japan grew 0.6% to 4.1 million units.
So earlier this week an unknown company called Psystar announced (somehow - theetymologytimeline [fair enough, CSClark] of how its announcement that it would make Mac clones spread around the blog/Mac/reportosphere may be an interesting story) that it would make Mac clones, even though this would break some interesting laws. (Image courtesyGizmodo.)While everyone was discussing vapourware, we discovered that it had apparentlymoved locations. Then it movedagain.And now it's movedagain. And Gizmodo's readers havebeen down to the locationsthat were being claimed as Psystar's "offices" and found them to be nothing of the sort. Plus further digging reveals that the people behind it (Rudolfo and Roberto Pedraza) also seem to have their names attached to many other organisations - one of whose websites looks a bit phishy..Take it away, Gizmodo:Reader Michael went down to their first location, address courtesy of the Guardian's quick fingers, and saw that it was indeed a residential address. It's a one story house with a truck and sedan out front. Not a business, but still holds the possibility of being a small home business. Still, unlikely. Why would they change their address? Perhaps they saw all the reaction they were getting about their Open Mac products and wanted a bigger space?Nope. Reader Kahri visited their second location and saw no Psystar, but a packing supply company called "USA KOEN PACK." Was Psystar leasing the place? No. He spoke with the manager, and they've never heard of Psystar, and USA KOEN PACK has been at that location for the last two years. KOEN PACK actually takes up from 10481 to 10490, so there's no chance of it being a mistaken address.Aha, but..Update: Looks like Psystar's changed their address once again to 10471.Gordon Bennett. This could go on for ages. Then another Gizmodo reader went to the Florida filing office, and found that Rudolfo and Roberto Pedraza have their names to a slew of companies - as in the image above. (Click for the legible version.)Only one of those seems to be working - FloridaTek. Except, as Gizmodo readers warn, most of the links on it seem to open an executable called "floridatek.exe". Whatthatdoes is anyone's guess. (Anyone with a suitably armoured machine care to run a virus scanner over it?)So we stillstand by what we asked: what sort of company does this? One we aren't handing our money over to any time soon.Meanwhile, this whole farrago has provided an interesting insight into one thing: people wouldlovefor there to be Mac clones. Perhaps it's so they would have something else to compare their Macs to.(Written on a Mac, since you ask.)(Updated: added missing text in first para, no more etymology, changed opening of 2nd para.)(Update:it has moved, at least virtually, once more. The Psystar home page - as of 2103 BST, April 17 2008 - says they're now at 10475. Okayy. Bets on how long until the next move?)
Digg used to be a hot site for surfacing technology stories, but of course, it then expanded into other areas. This has, inevitably, led to a decline in the relative importance of its technology coverage, andRead Write Webhas the latest details, with trend graphs fromRichard Cunningham.The first graph shows how Technology stories, represented by the dark blue area, have as a percentage of all popular stories dropped steadily since the beginning of 2006. To put this into context, on 1 January 2006 tech stories made up 78% of the total popular stories (i.e. stories that made it onto the digg frontpage). By end of March 2008, that percentage had dropped to 18-20%. In fact, this data shows that the percentage of Tech stories made popular is roughlyhalvingevery year.The main sources of front page stories are still Ars Technica, Engadget and Gizmodo, but they are getting fewer stories on the front page than they used to.It would be interesting to know whether Digg has actually lost its keenest tech users or whether they've just been swamped by the masses. I couldn't say. I very rarely go there nowadays....
Late in 2007, a few hearty souls and I launchedan experimentof game development epic proportions: to take the tools available at our collective disposals and create - for free and in our spare time - a playable (and perhaps even an enjoyable) game.It wasa tough process, butin the endwe managed to retain a few regulars who found the time and the inclination to createthe first chapter of Contamination: a Text Adventure. Check out the process of developmenthere.Now, not much has moved on since the beginning of the year (I admit, I became lazy and fell out of the reporting routine), but that doesn't mean that we've not thought about it. In fact, two of our lot have continued the challenge by taking what we'd created and working towards new and more inclusive ways of wikigame development.And so, without further ado, I'd like to give many big props to gamesbloggers DennisChow and PhilWal, who've pressed forward. In particular, Phil's been working doggedly ona new idea(and has been repelling the wave of spammers who continue to leave their dirt on our page), and Dennis has createdWikigame development models. Send love and worship their ways.And I'd like to many a cheeky pre-announcement that the New and Improved Wikigame will be re-emerging like a phoenix from a fire in only a few weeks time.Prepare to be amazed. And prepare to get involved.
Shall we call it the Wiitboard?Jonny Lee, the man who brought you the head-mounted 3D game using the Wiimote, shows you how to make a very cheap computer whiteboard. Could have the program code too, though?Put your hand in, we'll "solve" itLego's programmable Mindstorms blocks reach their zenith: being used for a Rubik's Cube solver. It looks more like something from a plastic abattoir: the vorpal blades go snicker-snack!The CPU canna take it, Cap'nIt's Captain Kirk in an appalling sweater trying to persuade us an ancient computer is cutting-edge! Bonus: no singing.(Thanks to Kevin for the first and last.)Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
Bit of a calm before the GTA/Wii Fit storm this week, with a low-key set of reviews. The biggest of the three is probablyDark Sector. The game has been out on 360 and PS3 for a couple of weeks and has generally received mixed reviews. For me the fun stuff - ie throwing theKrullstyle glaive - just about outweighed the shoddy AI and clichéd environments. But this is hardly an essential purchase. Likewise, it seems, forMetal Gear Solid: Portable Ops Pluson PSP. Actually the pick of the three may be DS puzzlerNeves, which picks up four stars. I haven't played either, primarily because I'm still ploughing through the rather wonderfulGod of War: Chains of Olympuson PSP. Next week's reviews include Wii Fit and, if code is available, GTA: IV. Fingers crossed, etc.
Online auctioneer eBay posted a 22% rise in first-quarter net profit last night, beating analyst expectations, with its revamped website adding buyers for the first time in a year.Controversial changes to the site and to fees for sellers - some increases and some cuts - also led to a 10% increase in listings in its major marketplaces in the UK, US and Germany.Nearly 84 million people used eBay across the world in the three months and 647 million products were listed. Net profit for the quarter rose to $459.7m from the 2007 quarter's $377.1m. Sales rose 24% to $2.19bn.The profit topped analysts' average estimates and revenue also surprised, Reuters Estimates forecasting $2.07bn. The weak dollar put a gloss on eBay's figures. While US revenue grew 16%, international sales were up 32%. Per-share profit was also boosted by a $1bn share repurchase plan.The company's new chief executive, John Donahoe, was upbeat, insisting that that the company had turned the corner, though he admitted there was still a long way to go, by refocusing the company on improving the buyer experience and ensuring that transactions become safer.To that end, eBay Australia is allowing buyers to use only Paypal to purchase and that may be duplicated in bigger markets.Looking to the full year, the company predicted profit, excluding one-time items, to range from $1.70 to $1.75 a share. Analysts, on average, expected $1.68 a share, according to Reuters Estimates. In January, eBay predicted full-year earnings, excluding one-time items, of $1.63 to $1.67 a diluted share, despite admitting that there was a "slowing in the propensity of buyers coming to buy" towards the end of the quarter.The higher estimates for the full year suggest the company expects further improvements in its business later in the year.
Ofcom yesterday tried to take control of the debate over how to create the next generation of super-fast broadband in the UK when it suggested the nation's sewers, electric pipes and underground telecom ducts could be used to carry new cables."Super-fast broadband - next generation access and networks - are crucial to the UK's future," Ofcom boss Ed Richards said in a speech to the Institution of Engineering and Technology. "These networks form part of the critical infrastructure of the country's economy."Ofcom plans to examine underground ducts installed by BT to see whether they could be shared to reduce costs, as has been done in other European countries. It will also look at whether water pipes, sewers and other cabling could be used to carry broadband lines. It will work with former Cable &amp; Wireless chief executive Francesco Caio, who is already examining the UK's utility infrastructure on behalf of the government.Pressure to get moving on what could be a &pound;15bn upgrade of the UK's broadband network has been building over recent months because of the strains being put on the existing system by the success of bandwidth-hungry services such as the BBC's iPlayer.Some internet service providers have suggested the producers of these services - including the BBC - should help foot the bill for new networks, or content producers should be allowed to do deals with individual ISPs that would guarantee users a certain level of speed.This, however, would end the so-called neutrality of the internet. Earlier this week Virgin Media chief executive Neil Berkett sparked fury when he branded net neutrality "a load of bollocks" in an interview with the Royal Television Society's magazine."My comments were obviously somewhat flippant," he said yesterday, "but while I regret the choice of words, I don't really regret opening up the debate that a set of rules created in a completely different environment may not be the best way to go forward."He believes that if some content players want to pay for better speeds or dedicated bandwidth they should be allowed to, but online content from the public service broadcasters "should be guaranteed a slot - they should have preferential status, not slow status".In his speech yesterday Richards also stressed: "The shibboleth of net neutrality should not be allowed to become an obstacle or a distraction to investment in next-generation networks in the UK."
I'm having problems with the reliability of email from Onetel (now owned by TalkTalk, and rather expensive). The company's official line when phoned is that, as an internet service provider, they have no responsibility for emails and provide access only by grace and favour. On April 11, they emailed to say: "We cannot offer a refund for the loss of service, as the E-mail service we supply is a free add-on." Their terms of service say: "We do not guarantee that the Service will be free of faults or interruptions, errors, omissions or viruses or will be timely or secure." What can be done?Name witheld.If most customers are buying broadband on price or as part of a bundle, there is no incentive for an ISP to offer a decent email service: it won't attract new customers and may not lose them any. They'd also rather be without email's support problems and spam burden. In any case, I recommend against using your ISP's email service because you generally lose the address when you switch suppliers, and that's inconvenient. It's better to use a reputable commercial supplier such as FastMail or one of the free email services from Google, Yahoo or Microsoft.Google's Gmail works very well, has great spam filtering, and you can use it with your own domain name. However, since you can easily be hacked or locked out or have your mail deleted by a free supplier, you should also download all your email to a desktop program such as Thunderbird. (Or, if using the Windows Live version of Hotmail, the desktop version of Windows Live Mail.)You can buy your own .com domain name for 10 years for £80-£100 (and then you must remember to renew it). Check that the domain will be registered in your name and that the host provides free mail forwarding to enable you to change your email provider without changing your email address.Backchat: Our anonymous reader says: "I was phoned by a helpful human being from Onetel. He gave a direct contact number, and undertook that there would be an improvement. He took my points, in particular that Onetel/TalkTalk has a commercial and moral obligation to provide a reliable email service to subscribers, and that when service was interrupted the status homeline should give information on how long the problem would take to fix."
Somehow my daughter has locked her iPod Nano. The screen asks for a 4-digit code.Fran GilroyAs Apple points out, this feature is a "screen lock" and only stops you from accessing the user interface: it doesn't change anything fundamental. Apple says: "Connect iPod to the primary computer you use it with (the first one iPod synced with), and open iTunes. When you disconnect iPod from the computer, it will no longer be locked."If this doesn't work, you can always reset the iPod back to its factory condition. This will delete any music and data, so make sure you have copies on the PC before doing a reset.For full details, see the Apple support document,iPod: How to use the Screen Lock.
I'm running Windows XP and have been using Google Desktop to search my PC, as I find the Windows text/file search within Explorer to be close to useless. However, I have experienced some problems and our IT people have suggested that I remove it, as it has been implicated in several other machines running slowly or doing rather strange things. Can you suggest alternative search software?Richard HartleyI loved Google Desktop Search, but have also given up on it.Copernic Desktop Searchis the obvious upgrade, and well worth a try. However, the search built into Vista is very good, and Microsoft is trying to provide the same facilities for XP. You could try Windows Desktop Search 3.01 for Windows XP or the newSearch 4.0 Previewversion. It's available in 32-bit and 64-bit versions for XP SP2, Vista and Windows Server 2003. Your IT people will love the Group Policy integration. All these programs need a few hours to do the initial indexing of your hard drive.
4G phone poolThe phone giants including Ericsson, NEC and Nokia are pooling patents to back a fast 4G network called LTE forLong Term Evolution.Serious securityTheInfosecurity Europe 2008exhibition will be held at Olympia, London, from April 22-24.$500,000 contestGlobal Security Challengehas opened its annual competition for technologies to defend against or recover from terrorist incidents and similar disasters.Hey, Big Guy ...If you feel like writing to God (all higher powers welcome) then you can do it at the non-denominationalDear God site.Welcome, WillcomIn Japan, Willcom and Sharp have announced theD4 ultramobile PC/phonebased on Intel's new Atom chip set, for delivery in June.Virtual Magic Kingdom to closeDisney is closing its 50th AnniversaryVirtual Magic Kingdom, which was kept going longer than expected.Turn right for YouTubeGoogle says thatgeotagged YouTube videoscan now be embedded in Google Maps, not just in Google Earth.Electronic superstarsKen Kutaragi, father of the Sony PlayStation, has been elected to theConsumer Electronics Hall of Fame, along with 11 others.
Some things just shouldn't be messed with, and this is one of them. Portable Ops was one of the better PSP games, but this standalone multiplayer pack adds little to the mix. Granted you get a few new (and old) playable characters, but acquiring them makes little sense without a new storyline. New modes and maps are more welcome, allowing you to recruit teams of up to 200 players and Infinity Mission adds random challenges for single players, but better elements have been dropped to make room for it. Given no real graphical improvement, this feels like Konami milking a few extra pounds from a big franchise while work on a proper sequel continues.
Email hellI'm having problems with the reliability of email from Onetel (now owned by TalkTalk, and rather expensive). The company's official line when phoned is that, as an internet service provider, they have no responsibility for emails and provide access only by grace and favour. On April 11, they emailed to say: "We cannot offer a refund for the loss of service, as the E-mail service we supply is a free add-on." Their terms of service say: "We do not guarantee that the Service will be free of faults or interruptions, errors, omissions or viruses or will be timely or secure." What can be done?Name witheld.JS:If most customers are buying broadband on price or as part of a bundle, there is no incentive for an ISP to offer a decent email service: it won't attract new customers and may not lose them any. They'd also rather be without email's support problems and spam burden. I recommend against using your ISP's email service because you generally lose the address when you switch suppliers, and that's inconvenient. It's better to use a reputable commercial supplier such asFastMailor one of the free email services from Google, Yahoo or Microsoft.Google's Gmail works very well, has great spam filtering, and you can use it with your own domain name. However, since you can easily be hacked or locked out or have your mail deleted by a free supplier, you should also download all your email to a desktop program such as Thunderbird. (Or, if using the Windows Live version of Hotmail, the desktop version of Windows Live Mail.) You can buy your own .com domain name for 10 years for &pound;80-&pound;100 (and then you must remember to renew it). Check that the domain will be registered in your name and that the host provides free mail forwarding to enable you to change your email provider without changing your email address.Unlocking an iPodSomehow my daughter has locked her iPod Nano. The screen asks for a 4-digit code.Fran GilroyJS:As Apple points out, this feature is a "screen lock" and only stops you from accessing the user interface: it doesn't change anything fundamental. Apple says: "Connect iPod to the primary computer you use it with (the first one iPod synced with), and open iTunes. When you disconnect iPod from the computer, it will no longer be locked." If this doesn't work, you can always reset the iPod back to its factory condition. This will delete any music and data, so make sure you have copies on the PC before doing a reset. For full details, see the Apple support document,iPod: How to use the Screen Lock.Searching WindowsI'm running Windows XP and have been using Google Desktop to search my PC, as I find the Windows text/file search within Explorer to be close to useless. However, I have experienced some problems and our IT people have suggested that I remove it, as it has been implicated in several other machines running slowly or doing rather strange things. Can you suggest alternative search software?Richard HartleyJS:I lovedGoogle Desktop Search, but have also given up on it.Copernic Desktop Searchis the obvious upgrade, and well worth a try. However, the search built into Vista is very good, and Microsoft is trying to provide the same facilities for XP. You could try Windows Desktop Search 3.01 for Windows XP or the newSearch 4.0 Preview version. It's available in 32-bit and 64-bit versions for XP SP2, Vista and Windows Server 2003. Your IT people will love the Group Policy integration. All these programs need a few hours to do the initial indexing of your hard drive.BackchatAn extra bit of advice for defending XP appeared on the AskJack blog: "The first thing, if you're on broadband, is to use a router rather than a modem." A NAT router is much more secure than a USB modem, and also works better.&#183;blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
NEVES is classic DS: a puzzler with an amiable learning curve that, on occasion, goes vertical. It's based on an Asian-style paper game, where a collection of seven shapes can be arranged into hundreds of patterns. Using the stylus, you rotate and flip the seven - hence the name - to match the silhouette on the top screen. Easy, right? And, for the first 90 puzzles or so, it is easy, and rather therapeutic. Then you'll come up against some genuine stumpers. The solutions, when you spot them, are forehead-slappingly obvious but prepare for several minutes, possibly hours, of bafflement. Master the 12 rooms of Silhouettes and you've still got two modes to go. Time Pressure is the same puzzles with three minutes to solve them. Seven Steps is: a) the same puzzles to solve in seven moves; and b) unforgiving, bordering on the psychopathic. Amazing how much hair pulling 20 quid will still get you.
Another week, another dark and moody first-person shooter for the 360 and PS3. And initially at least, Dark Sector feels much like the numerous other Gears of War clones that clog up the release schedules. Think bleak environments, dashing to cover and monosyllabic protagonists. Oh, and a truly nonsensical story. Luckily then, Dark Sector has one trick up its hackneyed sleeve - the glaive. This spinning blade - Krull fans will rejoice - is the star of the game and the main reason to persevere. Initially used as a boomerang-style killing device, the glaive can eventually be steered round corners to take out hidden assailants, and upgraded with fire, ice and electricity. Guns are included to keep the traditionalists happy but in truth there is little here, other than the glaive, that will upset them. There are even frustrating "boss" confrontations. But as entertaining as throwing the glaive around can be, the thrill soon palls, leaving you with a solid yet hardly essential action game.
Can you pull an economy up by its bootstraps? South Korea's government would argue that you can - by embracing every new appliance, digitised entertainment and contrived convenience.The country invested billions in IT and broadband infrastructure and it worked. South Korea has become the world's 10th largest economy and as a result of its government putting buckets of money where usually there is only rhetoric, it is now the most connected country in the world.Almost 70 years after its occupation by the Japanese came to an end, the South Koreans seem determined to outdo their neighbours when it comes to early adoption. Seoul maintains that this characteristic has become South Korea's saviour and will keep its economic engines gunning through the next decades.Brave new worldUnlike similar British government initiatives - remember Harold Wilson's "white heat of technology" speech in the 1960s - Seoul's bid to make South Korea the number one early adopter has triumphed spectacularly. In fact, its citizens may have actually gone overboard in their zeal to embrace all things digital.According to Tomi Ahonen and Jim O'Reilly's book Digital Korea, 43% of South Korea's population maintain an online profile or blog site, while nine in 10 twentysomethings use a social network daily. Online gaming is also mainstream - the South Korean's most desired car is not a Ferrari but a Solid Pro, a virtual car from the online game Kart Rider.The average broadband connection is between 50 and 100 megabits a second (compared with the UK's average 4.6Mbps), and the country is already rolling out pilot connections at 1,000Mbps. South Koreans pay less for their broadband than any other OECD country - about &pound;10 per month for connections that download films in minutes.So wired are South Koreans that some speak of "digital natives" or "new human beings", referring to the generation that was born and grew up in the 21st century internet era surrounded by gadgets like computers and mobile phones. "Some babies here appear to pick up a computer mouse and cell phone earlier than a spoon and chopsticks," says Park Jung-hyun, a senior researcher at LG Economic Research Institute. "Digital natives are thinking, acting and reacting much differently from how we did."The capital Seoul sees much early adoption of new technology, although you might be forgiven for thinking the 21st century hasn't yet happened to much of the city. Mostly shabby and filled with ugly signage and concrete high rises, this city of 12 million people hasn't yet begun to place its utility lines underground.But inside some of the smarter clusters of buildings and even traditional wooden "hanok" homes are blisteringly fast internet and hi-tech security systems. Up to a million new-build flats now sport voice-controlled electronics, intelligent fridges, and talking RFID-linked appliances that would not look out of place in a Philip K Dick novel.Nor do visitors to Korea have to wait for a personal invitation to experience such advanced home electronics. The government has thoughtfully built a mock-up of a totally wired apartment for public tours. In The Ubiquitous Dream Hall, furniture tells you what to do and the fridge nags you to buy new stuff or pay the bills.It is a vision now made concrete with the building of what South Koreans call a "ubiquitous networked world". Ubiquitous because it will be everywhere and brings together technology as diverse as telematics, wibro (South Korea's form of the long-distance wireless broadband Wimax), RFID tagging and intelligent robot services. There are now U-homes U-shops and U-cafes in Seoul.Ubiquitous too is the happy ethos that the tour of the Dream Hall's space promotes. Even the PR handouts lend an eerie over-optimistic glow, referring to "our super happy and bright futures".But wait a minute, why is that large, shaggy brown sofa whining like a puppy? Our guide informs us the sofa is "lonely". One Filipino visitor leaps on a shaggy dog-robot settee that's only happy when you sit on it and caress its arms.Maybe I-Robi, the winsome but attentive robot that follows our tour, can bring me a stiff drink to calm the nerves? No - the home bot is handy only as a glorified messenger and security guard - with more nagging: "Don't forget your keys! Have a nice day!" But as it has no hands, it can only carry your drink, not fetch it.The South Korean government reckons there will be an I-Robi in every home by 2010. This seems doubtful but there is a definite demand for the rest of the kit, demonstrated by Samsung's and LG's successful commercialisation of such future homes - where the front door opens when it recognises the radio tag in your mobile, the lights and TV go on and that day's video messages are played to you as your favourite background music kicks in automatically. For many South Koreans, these now come as standard.Cooking with adsOne of the niftiest pieces of hi-tech in the home is the RFID-tagged paper flyer. Paper, but magnetic, they are designed to cling to a sort of intelligent flat screen-cum-notice board in your kitchen. Once in place - say a flyer promoting a concert - video, music and links to further information are relayed to your kitchen screen.Marketing people are also excited about a new advertisement projection campaign that the hall shows off in its "digital streets section". Ads will no longer be ignored as mere urban wallpaper; now they are fun and interactive, thanks to Reactrix, a US-based interactive ad company. Images projected onto flooring or pavements mean kids can now kick around virtual footballs, courtesy of Coca-Cola; or your shadow can move images of splurges of paint to create a messy virtual canvas.There are some definite social benefits to South Korea's eager adoption of IT. The hall allows a peek into the virtual classroom. South Korean schools have just introduced digital textbooks for the first time, but what is new is Korea University's experiments with regular textbooks and augmented reality. Pass a special black and white graphic from a book under a special camera and it translates the code into a colour 3D image. You can move the book around to see a cross-section of the Earth, for example. Something that will bring science alive for our own digital natives perhaps?
Allan Alcorn was just 24 when he designed the world's first popular videogame in 1972. Fresh out of college and working for the then unknown video company Atari - as its second employee - his first task as a junior engineer was just meant to test his skills. The result was Pong, an electronic table tennis game that paved the way for the modern videogame."Pong was such a simple game that anyone could play," Alcorn said. "At that time, coin-operated games were dominated by pinball machines that had sometimes lurid graphics or driving machines that required skills that appealed to young males. Pong was unusual in that it required two players. I think it was the first game that appealed to young ladies and thus was a more social game."Instant hitAtari had already marketed Computer Space, the world's first coin-operated videogame. Although a first in its category, the game did not thrive commercially because its instructions were so complicated. Atari's founder, Nolan Bushnell, realised that his company's next game had to be as simple as possible. "Since Pong was similar to the Magnavox Odyssey home game, I didn't expect it to be a big hit," says Alcorn.Magnavox Odyssey was the first home videogame that hooked up to a consumer's TV set. It was designed by Ralph Baer and was marketed by Magnavox, an American television set manufacturer, in 1972 - the same year arcade Pong was introduced. The game used analog electronics and played a crude game similar to Pong, yet it was not a success in the market. It took Alcorn three months to design the first Pong prototype."Pong was a hard-wired machine that just played Pong. There was no computer involved," he says. "It is very difficult for anyone today, including engineers, to believe that something can be built without a computer. Microcomputers didn't impact videogames until 1974."The original arcade Pong was made from simple digital logic chips and ran with a 14MHz clock. There was no microprocessor: they did not exist in 1972, so there is no surviving code for the original game. (The home version of Pong, introduced in 1974, had a custom chip designed by Atari.) Once completed, the prototype was tested in a small bar near Atari's offices in Santa Clara, San Francisco, the area now known as Silicon Valley.The game's only instructions - "Deposit quarter" and "Avoid missing ball for high score" - reflected Bushnell's earlier wish to make the game as simple as possible. The following day, the bar's owner discovered a long line of people waiting outside his premises, quarters at the ready. Pong was a hit.In many ways Pong's release ushered in the games industry. Alcorn says it took game developers more than a year to develop the skills needed to create their own videogames."Just about the time our competitors in the coin-operated business figured out how to create their own arcade videogames, we created a home business that threatened to take away players from the arcades. They were not happy with us."Pong was a sensation for players because it successfully combined digital electronics with a TV display to create a new medium for gameplay. For the first time, people could control what they saw on their TV display. The experience was so engrossing that some believed  the laws of physics were the same in the game as in real life. "Most people thought that you could 'spin' the ball in Pong, just as in real life," Alcorn says. They were mistaken. Alcorn had simply designed the "bats" so that if you hit the (square) ball near the edges, it would rebound at an angle.Alcorn was put in charge of designing the home version of Pong. This version took things to a new level for the once-tiny video company, establishing Atari as the market leader in home videogames with a profit of $40m around 1977.Like other prominent people in the computing industry of the 1970s, Alcorn saw no market for home computers - a belief that led Ken Olsen, co-founder of the then-mighty Digital Equipment Corporation, to remark in 1977: "There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home." Alcorn says: "I must confess that at first I saw no market for home computers. I couldn't see my wife interested in anything computers of that day could do. At the same time, I had no problem believing that people would play videogames at home, but I just never imagined that the market would be so large."QuickTime and beyondAlcorn left Atari in 1981, frustrated with management brought in by Warner Communications, which bought Atari in 1976. He joined Apple in January 1986 as a "Fellow" - one of his duties was to "change the industry". Alcorn did exactly that with his early work on MPEG (the Motion Picture Experts Group, who developed the eponymous algorithm) and QuickTime, and went on to start his own company, Silicon Gaming, in 1993. He then founded Integrated Media Measurement Incorporated and worked as chief technology officer, running the engineering wing which monitors broadcast sources to analyse the success of commercials.Alcorn is now looking for something new to sink his teeth into. His most recent venture took him to Melbourne, Australia, where he attended the opening of Game On - the world's largest exhibition on the history of games and gaming. The exhibition was first launched at the Barbican Art Gallery in London in 2002."I enjoy talking about the early days of videogames and the fun we had," Alcorn says. "Perhaps I can inspire a young person to get involved in science and technology. Videogames are part of worldwide culture and as such we need to understand where it came from and where it is going. I hope that as a medium for entertainment it will add to the public good."The industry has come a long way from a couple of paddles and a square ball, but not everything has changed. Modern gaming is just repackaging the same excitement and joy of play that drew crowds to Pong more than 35 years ago.So can Alcorn see where videogames are headed? "Videogames have always been the technology leader for consumer electronics. Today's game platforms have more computer power than the largest computers from a decade ago," he says. "We have only begun to apply the advances in input and output technology to this business. I have some ideas. But I might want to develop them myself. So I will be coy about sharing them now."Perhaps we'll only know when he's developed them when we see a line of people outside a bar, nursing their coins while they wait.
You might be able to order one, but whether it will ever arrive - and whether it will work if it does - is another matter entirely. Earlier this week a previously unknown company calledPsystar, based in the famously high-tech hub of Miami, Florida, announced that it would be selling computers which would run Apple's Mac OS X 10.5 - aka "Leopard" - operating system; the machine they would put together from available non-Apple parts.Leave aside the specification for the product that was being offered, because one can offer anything on a web page. Delivering it is quite another matter. Psystar made much of the fact that although to install Leopard on non-Apple kit explicitly breaks Apple's End-User Licence Agreement (EULA), it would do it because Apple's EULA "violates monopoly laws". Which suggests that nobody there understands monopoly laws.So we thought we'd call and ask. At 11.45am Miami time on Tuesday, we called support, which was answered by a surprisingly unsupportive man (who didn't give his name). When asked any details about Psystar - how many people it employs, how long it's been there, why there isn't a single mention of it on any of multiple search engines or the Internet Archive before this week - gave the rather uninspiring reply that we should "email press@psystar.com". (We did. There was no reply by press time.)So what, we asked our man, does Psystar do apart from offer "hackintoshes"? He replied that it is "an IT company that provides solutions anywhere from small office networks up to enterprise-level networks and routing". So why, despite querying multiple search engines, couldn't we find any customers, satisfied or otherwise, who have used its "consultancy services"? "We were very much a local company with little to no presence on the web," he said. Odd, since the domain was registered in 2000, and Netcraft notes that the domain changed hosts in 2005. The company seems to have filed registration details last June (naming Rodolfo Pedraza, who is also the website registration contact), but the Miami Better Business Bureau and Chambers of Commerce haven't heard of it. And when we looked at its location onGoogle Maps, it looked like a street of houses. Weirdly the address thenchanged, which at least looks commercial.Call us sceptical, but don't most companies whose business involves computers tend to get some sort of mention somewhere, even on forums? And work out of, um, offices? Especially if they're really planning on shipping loads of cut-price sort-of Apple kit?What's most notable though is Apple's silence; it has not commented. Perhaps it, like us, is waiting to see if this is anything more than a brave web-based promise. We'll hold on to our money for now.
The issue of whether the internet can be censored, and how governments are trying to do it, continues to be fought around the world. TheOpenNet Initiative, a collaborative partnership of four leading academic institutions, has produced a book-length analysis -Access Denied: The Practice and Policy of Global Internet Filtering. It's a primer in methods and an atlas of studies. The first sections provide an analytical framework. Then prohibitions are examined across dozens of countries. The results show that far from the earlier idea of the internet destroying nations, nations are, arguably, domesticating the internet (or at least trying hard). As one telling sentence puts it: "A key aspect of control online ... is that states have, on an individual basis, defied the cyberlibertarians by asserting control over the online acts of their own citizens in their own states."Back in 1996, during that year's conference on Computers, Freedom and Privacy, I literally talked myself hoarse trying to convince civil libertarians that censorware (a more accurate term than "filters") would be a serious threat to freedom of speech (EFF 2001 Pioneer Award). Prevailing viewpoints of the time were an odd doublethink - that censorware should be touted as a solution for parents who wanted to prevent their kids reading forbidden material, but that the internet couldn't be censored by governments. More than a decade on, this book details how extensively governments have been attempting internet censorship.The book's very existence is a milestone. Over time an issue can work its way up the political food chain, from often-ignored grassroots activists, to marginal but significant mentions in white papers by thinktanks, to full-scale consideration by policymakers.And the issues here encompass everything from the complicity of US censorware companies with censorious regimes to the collaboration of information storage giants like Google and Yahoo with repressive state actions. Censorware never was just about teens looking at porn or employees goofing off. When I speak about censorware, I often try to impress on people that technical architectures are different from personal values. That is, if parents can limit what teenagers can see, then governments can limit what citizens see. And the other side is if citizens can circumvent governments, teenagers will be able to circumvent parents.But there's a refinement I usually don't have room to discuss. That is, it's arguably futile to try to eliminate sexual material in general, due to its sheer amount and possible interest by virtually all (male) adolescents and adults. But the number of people interested in, say, independence of Tibet from China or dissent in Burma is orders of magnitude smaller. And that difference may make for a far more manageable banning problem. The details of how human rights reports or opposition sites have been blocked are putting this speculation to a practical test. Though it would be ironic if, at ground level, pornography-seeking uses of projects such as thePsiphonsocial networks-based program or theTor anonymity systemended up popularising the programs for political uses.It's sometimes suggested that we are entering a new internet era with blogs and syndication feeds and massive digital sharecropping sites that will on the whole be more difficult to censor. My response to this idea is to remind people that essentially identical rhetoric was heard at the start of the internet's popularisation. And we're seeing now how those predictions were wrong. Indeed, there's every reason to expect that similar trends such as centralisation, willingness of corporations to collaborate, the power of the market for repression and so on will be applied to these forms of communication. The failure of technological determinism just a short while ago should argue strongly against such baseless optimism.Access Denied will certainly become a standard reference. But it's sadly not clear whether it will be more as a foundation for anti-censorship efforts - or as an initial chronicle of how visions of freedom turned into realities of control.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Google has just entered the PaaS market, but this has nothing to do with PAAS, the Prince Albert Angling Society, based in Macclesfield. PaaS stands for platform-as-a-service, and it's derived from the well-known SaaS, or software-as-a-service.The basic idea is that instead of writing your own home page or blog or whatever, and running that on someone else's servers, you write a software application instead.PaaS systems are useful because they enable lone developers and startup companies to deploy web-based applications without the cost and complexity of buying servers and setting them up.The idea has been pioneered on the web by Amazon Web Services and Salesforce.com, though similar approaches have been used before. Google's AppEngine simply takes PaaS to a much bigger and broader market. The test version launched this month was "limited" to 10,000 developers, and all the slots were immediately filled, partly because the trial was free.Although AppEngine clearly appealed, some were wary. Startups that develop for Google's architecture could end up using Google Accounts, Google's Gmail, Google's BigTable database and the rest of its infrastructure. But if your startup takes off, you're stuck with Google's charges, and could easily become a Google takeover. Unless you have some way to get your application off the AppEngine and take it somewhere else, you're locked in.These fears were allayed this week when developer Chris Anderson wrote the code to run a Google AppEngine application on Amazon's EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), SimpleDB database and S3 (Simple Storage Service). It seems likely that others will now develop either open source or commercial equivalents to run AppEngine applications without involving Google.It's not clear how easy it will be to compete with Google, because there are restrictions on storage, bandwidth and processor time, and we don't know how much Google will charge. But compatible PaaS services can compete by offering more power, better services and help.Still, AppEngine is likely to be a winner for Google, by helping to get it into the business market. So far, corporations have been wary of its paid-for apps, some of which are still relatively crude.However,Google and Salesforce have announcedthat they will integrate Google Apps (Docs, Calendar, Gmail, and Gtalk) with Salesforce's online enterprise apps, and this will bring in lots of real business users.It may be a while before Google is a serious supplier of business apps, but this could be where the PaaS-based "cloud computing" revolution finally gets off the ground.
Satellite navigation is OK for driving. But take the average satnav into the countryside on foot or bike and you realise how motor-orientated they are. Road maps only show the roads, so they are of little help if you want to go orienteering, climbing or trail biking. If you want to go boating, road maps are no help at all, most showing no rivers or coasts.You can download Ordnance Survey (OS) maps onto laptop computers or palmtops, but they are delicate beasts and difficult to use with gloved hands in driving rain. Which is why I like the &pound;300 Satmap Active 10 so much. It looks like a palmtop computer with a battery compartment stuck on the back and a GPS sensor on the top, but is rugged and waterproof enough to survive being dropped onto a rock or in a stream.But the great joy is the map: full OS maps at either 50,000:1 or 25,000:1, with all the detail and the almost magical ability to orientate itself to north and place a "you are here" dot in the right position. Getting lost in the hills just got more difficult. The Satmap is designed in Britain by outdoors people for outdoors people. The battery case may be a bit lumpy, but contains three AA batteries instead of a mobile phone-style flat job. Carrying spares is no problem, and in extremis you can buy a pack of AAs at any corner shop from Svalbard to Stanley.But what has really impressed me is the recent software upgrade. Satmap has been listening to users, and has developed software to take their gripes into account. One of the top grumbles was battery life: a new power management system has been built to improve that. Another was the lack of synchronisation with a PC, so routes could be created on desktop software and downloaded to the Satmap unit before departure.The new firmware is a considerable file, however, so rather than just put it on the website, the company sent every registered owner the update on an SD card. Even though SD cards are cheap (about &pound;3 each in this case), the effort involved in burning the cards and mailing them out is significant for a small company. But it made life much easier and I'm grateful. Computer and mobile phone companies take note.Something the company has not been able to do anything about is the cost of the maps. The digital OS maps are, in fact, cheaper per square mile than their paper equivalents, but because they cover much larger areas have a much higher price tag - a 50,000:1 map of Central England costs &pound;50. A 25,000:1 map of a National Park costs a stiffish &pound;100, and knowing it would be almost double to buy the equivalent paper maps does not make it feel any cheaper.Satmap founder Richard Calthrop-Owen says that removing the OS's royalty payment would make the maps significantly cheaper - but worries that removing the price incentive might impact on quality. "OS mapping is the best in the world, and you get what you pay for," he says.Pros:Tough, weatherproof unit; real OS mapsCons:Expensive maps, a bit bulkysatmap.com
A question of privacyI was surprised by your comment (Our house, in the middle of Google's street, April 10) that "under UK law, permission must be obtained before broadcasting images of private citizens". A moment's thought suggests this cannot be so, or all broadcasters and newspaper websites break the law every time they show a busy street, a football crowd, or a concert audience. I believe I read somewhere (on a photographers' website) that this is a "common misperception".Hazel McGeeGuildfordThe Guardian rehashes the old privacy concerns in the article. It also claims that Street View costs between $125 and $700 per mile of video footage - which I think is probably an overestimation.virtualtourism.blogspot.comErroll's on a rollLord Erroll rightly highlights failures in tackling internet crime (One lord leaping on the government's IT flaws, April 10). His committee's call for a central cybercrime unit to handle low-level internet fraud is understandable but misplaced. There aren't central units for dealing with fraud committed door-to-door, by mail order or on a market stall. Instead, each police officer is trained to deal with these crimes locally. The internet has given fraud and theft a new medium, the mechanics of which are little understood by many police officers, businesses and much of the public. A few hours of training foall police officers combined with the right tools and industry assistance would be far more effective than a new bureaucracy.Daryl KayesLeedsThe only person in the government with first-hand experience of database systems (though in the sense of having sold them to government in his business career, rather than having dealt with the geeky concerns of technical analysis and getting things to work) is Liam Byrne MP, who is an utter party loyalist and a true believer in transformational government.forum.no2id.netA small point ...If the whole point of Tinyurl is to reduce long web addresses to more manageable proportions why isn't the resulting prefix something like www.tu.com? And now we've all got the hang of it, why not reduce www. to a single w? From there we could wander the rich pastures of .uk instead of, uniquely in this wide world, having to suffer the .co prefix.Rob CarthyBromleyElementary, dear AdobeKate Bevan in Technophile (April 10) might also have mentioned that the Amazon website says you need an Intel-based Mac to run Photoshop Elements, but the Adobe website says it is fine to run the software on an iMac G5. Another example of why more in-box documentation is needed.Warren NewmanLondonTin woes solder onCongratulations on the very interesting article on tin whiskers (Within a whisker of failure, April 3). You may be interested to hear of another phenomenon associated with lead-free solders in electronics, known as tin pest. Research was carried out into the allotropy of tin 80 years ago. Tin pest was found to occur by a process of nucleation and growth of "grey" tin (a form found below 13C), and was very slow - often requiring years to complete. Since the transition from "white" to "grey" tin involved a 27% increase in volume, its formation was restricted to the surface. Recently, tin pest has been reported in bulk samples of lead-free solder alloys following a few years' exposure at -18C, the usual freezer temperature.To date it has not been observed on actual joints. But lead-free interconnections have been in service for a relatively short time. Although we do not know whether it is necessary to shut the stable door, we should make more effort to understand and control tin pest formation. Only time will tell whether it represents a real problem in electronics.Professor Bill PlumbridgeFaculty of TechnologyThe Open University&#183;Write to: Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Recently, in my quest to avoid the realities of everyday life, I took a journey in search of the best places on the web to have pure, simple fun. To wit, I've become an accordion thief on a path towards ascension in the massively multiplayer online game Kingdom of Loathing. I've also slipped into Game Neverending, which opened its doors for a few hours before, well, ending; and I've taken sides in an epic series of battles performed in 140 characters or less in the Twitter version of the American summer camp game ColorWars.It's not all been frivolity; my thief was in serious danger of losing her moxie to a particularly meat-hungry mariachi. That was tense. I came close to bankruptcy when my paper factory caught fire just before Game Neverending went offline. I had to lie down after that one. And I spent three hours frantically trying to beat Team Very Green in a mashup of Rock Paper Scissors across Colorwars' battleground of social media. I don't think that defeat will go away for a while. I might need therapy.These games emphasise an element of the sublime so rarely seen in commercial games. Kingdom of Loathing, as the most successful browser-based MMO on the web, has traded in its unique approach to character classes (from accordion thieves to disco bandits), items (filthy corduroys and extreme mittens) and locations (step inside the Barrel of Barrels!) since 2003. While it relies on elements of traditional role-playing games, like battles (against Booze Giants and Sabre-toothed Limes), barter (using meat) and experience points, its light-hearted approach to these design stalwarts means that people who retch at the thought of controlling an orc or an elf can take on quests without the danger of physical symptoms.During its heyday, Game Neverending was a web-based social experiment where players earned points, exchanged unreal items (bowls of gruel, hairballs) and discovered new player-generated places (welcome to Convivial Grove). Although it closed in 2004, out of its ashes rose the photo-sharing site Flickr, a facility that was part of the game. Last week, it re-emerged for 24 hours of nostalgia in a new format, but it may now have gone offline for the last time.Finally, ColorWars 2008's raison d'&ecirc;tre is to translate playground antics to the social web. So having a match of rock-paper-scissors means clicking a link that throws up silly Flickr photos of players making "rock", "paper" or "scissors" hand signals. Who needs to know about war, pestilence and rigged elections when there's so much distraction online? Now, if you'll excuse me, I have some meat to recoup from a meddling mariachi.
After seven years of legal wrangling, an official, complete and constantly updated list of addresses in England and Wales is about to become available for commercial use. The National Land and Property Gazetteer (NLPG), compiled from data supplied by local councils, is being promoted as the best list of property addresses since the Domesday Book.Free data it is not. Although prices have yet to be finalised, the commercial firm hosting the service said this week it will cost between &pound;15,000 and &pound;20,000 a year. Profits will be shared among local authorities to help them keep data up to date.The gazetteer is not the only address database on the market. The state-owned Ordnance Survey also offers addresses as part of its MasterMap digital geographical database of Britain.Depending where you stand, this is either healthy competition or a wasteful duplication of effort. In recent years, a tortuous dispute over the licensing of intellectual property in state-generated address databases has exposed some of the damaging consequences of public agencies trying to compete with each other in the information business. Last year, the dispute exposed a hole at the heart of the government's information strategy when the Advisory Panel for Public Sector Information said it was unable to rule on the matter.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign urges a simple solution - that a taxpayer (or otherwise centrally funded) basic database of addresses be made available to all comers, for free. Despite some advances in the campaign, including the support of the Cabinet Office minister responsible for government IT, we have a long way to go.Slow deliveryThe NLPG has been nearly a decade in the making. It was inspired by the role of local authorities both as creators and users of postal addresses. Councils have a statutory duty to give each street and home an address; as a large part of their income comes from property-based taxes, they have a strong incentive to keep it up to date.In 1999, the organisation representing 376 councils in England and Wales began a scheme to create a definitive list of addresses in a central, constantly updated, electronic "hub". Each address is styled to a British Standard, which includes a unique reference number and postcode. (A parallel system, called Definitive National Addressing for Scotland, was set up north of the border.) The hub's custodian is a commercial firm, Intelligent Addressing.Ordnance Survey launched its addressing system, OS MasterMap Address Layer 2, in April 2006. It contains more than 27m addresses as well as 1.5m buildings without a postal address, such as church halls and public lavatories. (These are especially important for the emergency services, as 999 callers often refer to such landmarks.) Like the gazetteer, it also contains the Royal Mail postcode.The two products are not identical, with each parent organisation claiming unique advantages. Ordnance Survey stresses Address Layer 2's integration with the other "layers" of MasterMap and that it is nationally consistent. The NLPG is promoted as being regularly updated "at source". However both are being aimed at the same market - utilities, insurance companies and of course the wider public sector.Nearly everyone stands to benefit from the availability of accurate, comprehensive and up-to-date address data. Last month, Ordnance Survey said that water companies using its address layer discovered on average 16% more properties in their area to bill.The NLPG says that local authorities are already saving large sums of money by using an accurate gazetteer, which it predicts will find commercial applications in "insurance, customer profiling, logistics and satellite navigation".Although commercial rivals, the two products have the same ultimate owner - the British government - and both share much source data. Arguments about the licensing terms for this "derived data" have severely tested the government's ability to regulate the business of public-sector information.In July 2006, the government's watchdog - the Office of Public Sector Information - ruled that OS was unnecessarily restricting the re-use of AddressPoint data in the gazetteer. Both Intelligent Addressing and OS appealed to the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information, which in April 2007 said the dispute lay outside its powers, and referred it to the Office of Fair Trading.Barriers to freedomMichael Nicholson, Intelligent Addressing's chief executive, said this week that the licensing dispute was still unresolved but he had decided to launch the gazetteer anyway. "We haven't given up," Nicholson says. "We want simple, fair, non-discriminatory terms."The Free Our Data campaign would remove these complications by making address lists part of the government's "public task data", to be made freely available to all comers."We would like to give it away free," says Nicholson. However, he says, local authorities are not going to give their work away when they have to pay for the use of postcodes from the Royal Mail's Postcode Address File. Neither can Ordnance Survey, which is required by the Treasury to show a return on its activities, and regards MasterMap as a key part of its revenue-generating portfolio.As ever, the solution lies at the top of government.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Of all the websites I visit the one I return to most frequently - search engines apart - isFlickr.com, the photo-hosting site. When it was launched four years ago I dismissed it as a place where people were dumping countless family photos that were best left at home for domestic consumption. But that was before users took over and started tagging photos with names such as "River Thames", enabling anyone anywhere to see photos on any subject using the search engine once they had uploaded their pics from a digital camera.Out of this a vibrant community developed with tens of thousands of groups formed around special interests ranging from George Bush to Ginkgo trees, full of feedback and global conversations around subjects of mutual interest. As camera phones became more popular, Flickr helped nurture the spread of "citizen journalism" with thousands of users uploading pictures of breaking news, including the tsunami in 2004, the London Underground bombs of July 2005 and life in Tibet today. At the weekend it was awash with photos of the London Marathon.Flickr has reinvented photography for the digital age. It has introduced lots of innovations, ranging from daily breakdowns of how many people have been viewing your photos, to geotagging them so that they can be pinpointed on a map anywhere in the world. Throughout this period of strong growth - with billions of photos uploaded - Flickr did not deviate from its love affair with the still photograph.Until last week. On April 9 Flickr lost its uniqueness and its monastic silence was broken by allowing audio/video uploads for paying subscribers (free users can't). True, they are popular with many members, are of a better quality than YouTube and are limited to 90 seconds in length. But that doesn't alter the fact that it has forfeited its special brand and taken the first step towards becoming just another portal for other services. The move generated a lot of initial hostility: one of a number of newly formed groups ("We Say No to Videos on Flickr") had gathered over 27,000 members by the weekend. This is a tiny proportion of membership, but it reflects a big shock for members who saw Flickr as a safe haven from the proliferation of sites offering in-your-face videos and anything that might attract extra eyeballs to the site.The aim is to make more money for Yahoo - which bought Flickr in 2005 - by attracting members to Flickr's premium version and thereby enabling it to be more competitive with YouTube (now part of Google), which is still the runaway success of the video revolution. What is puzzling is why Yahoo, as the biggest internet company on the block, thinks it can only compete with YouTube through changing the culture of an acquired subsidiary rather than using the massive leverage of its own site to expand its existing video service. The answer is that corporate dinosaurs find it difficult to lay eggs. One of the interesting things about the so-called web 2.0 revolution is how innovation is driven not by giants such as Yahoo, Google or Microsoft, but by hungry upstarts such as MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and YouTube which subsequently get taken over by the giants.The biggest example is Microsoft. Its energies have been so absorbed by attempts to preserve a flagging corporate desktop monopoly that it has failed to establish a big enough presence on the web where all the action is increasingly taking place. Instead, it wants to buy Yahoo, a company with a very different corporate culture. This proposed blending of oil and water could prove the least successful corporate alliance since Time Warner merged with AOL. Yahoo's attempt to monetise a pristine service such as Flickr, while sad, will be nothing compared with Microsoft's attempt to use Yahoo to re-mould its future. We have been warned.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Fewer than 3,000 English-language websites produce the bulk of child pornography images, according to the first authoritative analysis of the scale of the problem, published today.The Internet Watch Foundation, which carried out the study, says an international effort to disrupt even a few of these "persistent top level domains" would block access to hundreds of thousands of  images of child sex abuse.Peter Robbins, chief executive of the IWF, a watchdog funded by the internet industry, said the study highlighted what was a manageable number of offenders. "We hope that this revelation, and the analysis and intelligence behind the numbers will lead to a better understanding of the issue and justify the need for more international partnerships to pool resources and thinking in order to find solutions."A coordinated global attack on these websites could get these horrific images removed from the web and those responsible investigated."The IWF's annual report says the scale and scope of online distribution of child sexual abuse content has been the subject of much speculation. "We have traced less than 3,000 such websites during 2007 [in the English language] hosted around the world and this figure has remained relatively static for a number of years."The foundation processed 34,871 reports from the public which led to 2,755 top level domains with child sexual abuse content being assessed, confirmed as potentially illegal, traced and the appropriate intelligence being disseminated accordingly."Some IWF reports have led to prosecutions of child sex offenders.The report says there has been a 15% fall in the number of web pages and a 10% drop in domains depicting child sexual abuse, mainly as a result of the internet industry's attempt to police itself.It claims that this shows the problem is not increasing, despite greater global internet access, faster connection speeds and the availability of sophisticated technologies.But the increasingly extreme nature of the content makes disturbing reading. The IWF estimates that 10% of the child victims involved in the photographs or videos appear to be under two years old. A further 33% appear to be between three and six, with 80% under 10.Of the websites assessed, 47% depicted potentially illegal child sex abuse, including penetrative sexual activity involving children or animals.Hardly any of the sites traced are based in Britain, with most located in the United States and Russia. The study finds that only a very small proportion of the domains identified as active last year were constantly "live", with the vast majority active for fewer than 50 days during the year. "This shows the continuing trend for such websites to 'hop' server regularly to avoid detection and removal, but also the effectiveness of efforts to make operations difficult, transient, costly and risky for offenders."About 80% are thought to be commercial operations with the remainder made up of offenders using message boards to share abusive images.Home Office minister Vernon Coaker  said the UK internet industry's commitment to voluntarily block their customers' access to sexually abusive images of children online was leading to less content reported being confirmed as child sexual abuse. "Around 95% of those with residential broadband connections in the UK are now protected in this way, and I commend this and other positive steps taken by many companies, in conjunction with the Internet Watch Foundation, to better protect internet users, and internet services, from abuse."Jim Gamble, chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, said its partnership with the IWF was crucial in tackling child sexual abuse material on the internet.While the IWF had virtually eradicated this content from UK networks, the CEOP was able to focus on investigating those behind the distribution of such materials and safeguarding the victims, he said.
Since our post yesterday pointing out how Psystar, which says it's going to make Mac clones (despite this breaking, ooh, lots of licence agreements if it tries), we've been tipped off byAdrian Kingsley-Hughes of ZDNetthat it has movedagain.Yes, the US Mail is going to be busy with those redirection notices. Yesterday, it was at 10481 NW 28th St, Miami, FL 33172. Some people thought that was the same address as a T-shirt company.Well, can't have the fumes interfering with your Mac clone-making. Today, according to the "Contact Us" page of its site, it's moved to 10471 NW 28th. At least the zip code is the same.We're beginning to wonder about whoever's running the company. Are they doing it from their car, updating by satellite uplink or something?Tune in tomorrow for the next episode of "Where Will The Little Green Mac Clone Be Next?" (Bonus point for identifying the reference there - novel and author, please. Winner gets named on the podcast for our tens of thousands of listeners!)Apple, meanwhile, has still saidabsolutely nothingon this.
World of Goo Trailer 2Uploaded by2dboyHere's a new trailer of the lovely independently developed Wii and PC title, World of Goo, due out later this year (it'll follow on Mac and Linux). It's the giddy brainchild of2D Boy, a two-man studio who claim to work out of, "whichever free wi-fi coffee shop they wander into on a given day." The game's a physics-based puzzler/construction sim with a graphical style that hovers between LocoRoco Cocoreccho and a Tim Burton animation. The trailer is a thing of beauty.
I foundthis improbably positive article about Wii Fitwhile skulking around on the CNN website today. "It's time for American gamers to start stretching and warming up", declare the writers (it took two of them) before launching into a preview of such doe-eyed sycophancy I had to check to ensure I hadn't accidentally opened a pop-up ad for the forthcoming exercise-'em-up. Here's the science part:Unlike other popular video games that emphasize role-playing, stealth, warfare, or the supernatural, Wii Fit stresses aerobics, strength training, and muscle-toning exercises.Hmm, yes, I see, that's where I've been going wrong. These other videogames promised so much, but yet always failed to keep me trim. Role-playing, stealth, warfare or the supernatural: 40 years of evolution and innovation summed up and trashed in four genres, and all to sell us the benefits of a wobbly plank and a workout video.There's hundreds more words of this, until the emotional sucker-punch of the closing two paragraphs:At a recent event in San Francisco, California, Nintendo producers demonstrated the title. The game's lead U.S. producer discussed how Wii Fit helped him address a topic he's chronically avoided, managing his weight, as well as dealing with personal goals of staying in shape and healthy at home and on the road.That openness, the executive said, is emblematic of Nintendo's core goals with the game: to make health and fitness something individuals and families talk about more often, and with greater candor.God bless Nintendo!GTA IV is coming out in a few weeks and that's supposed to be quite good. Do you think Rockstar's game will be greeted with the same frothy-mouthed puff? Or will we once again be forced to endure another round of hand-wringing worry pieces, knocked together by writers whose technical acumen barely extends to opening the front door at their local Game store let alone, God forbid, actually playing the game for ten minutes. Hopeless, mindless 'me too' scavengers, picking about on the internet for the latest titbits of 'scientific' research which show that children, exposed to violent imagery, feel a bit cross for a few minutes afterwards.Oh please,please, when will the Wii honeymoon end?
EA have announced that The Sims has sold 100 million units worldwide, making it the biggest selling PC game series ever. And who, honestly, would have predicted that when the original game launched in 2000. Back then the PC gaming scene was a masculine mix of first-person shooters, real-time strategy and role playing games. Not, you'd think, the ideal place to launch a game about relationships, decorating and emotional management. 100 million copies of The Sims sold and 8 years on and, er, the PC gaming scene remains a masculine mix of first person shooters, realtime strategy and role playing games. Except this time the role playing is done online. But the point remains - the Sims has been an incredible success in a PC gaming market that has failed to really innovate.You'd have expected a rush of PC games aimed at the mainstream, more feminised audience attracted in by The Sims. But they never came. And the few that did never got close to challenging The Sims dominance. Perhaps the huge growth in casual gaming - think online Bejewelled etc - has filled this gap? But in a declining PC game market the success of The Sims is a notable achievement.
Out-Law.com reportsthat: "The UK music industry has rejected the Government's proposal to legalise the transfer of music from CDs to MP3 players without a levy. It has asked for a tax on devices like Apple iPods which it says should compensate artists for the transfer."I reckon there'd be close to 100% agreement that the law is an ass in this case, and that if you've bought a CD, you should legally have the right to make a personal copy on tape (if you're old enough) or a PC or digital music server or MP3 player. But, like America'sRIAA, the UK's Music Business Group (which includes the BPI, AIM and MCPS-PRS)does not agree. It says:We acknowledge that consumers clearly want to format shift and also place enormous value on the transferability of music. Music fans clearly deserve legal clarity in this area as well as the freedom to enjoy any music they have legitimately obtained. But it is not only music lovers who benefit here. Enormous value is derived by those technology companies and manufacturers who enable consumers to copy. UK creators and rights owners are legally entitled to share in this value - as they hold the exclusive right to reproduce their music - but are currently excluded from the value chain.The easy way round this "market failure" is to have a levy on MP3 players, like the one the UK considered on blank cassette tapes.As Out-Law points out, this is an option under the European Union's Copyright Directive. This says countries can ban private copying "or they can allow it on condition that they introduce a system that ensures 'fair compensation' for rights holders. Many countries charge a levy on blank media and devices as a form of compensation."And a levy at least has the attraction of being relatively simple to impose....Charles Arthur adds:the music industry's pursuit of an iPod tax, and its desire to prevent people ripping tracks, resembles what Charles Dunstone, chief executive of Carphone Warehouse and TalkTalk, called "the horse hasn't just left the stable - it's left town, got married and had kids." But he was referring to theBPI's legal letter to ISPs two weeks ago. The deadline on that expires later this week - after which ISPs are threatened with "injunctions". That ticking is the clock...
Turns out that if you want to make money fast by hacking companies or stealing people's identities, all you need is a big box of chocolate bars and a bit of "social engineering" -- and it works better on women.A survey by Infosecurity Europe (www.infosec.co.uk) of 576 office workers have found that women far more likely to give away their passwords to total strangers than their male counterparts, with 45% of women versus 10% of men prepared to give away their password, to strangers masquerading as market researches with the lure of a chocolate bar as an incentive for filling in the survey. The survey was actually part of a social engineering exercise to raise awareness about information security. The survey was conducted outside Liverpool Street Station in the City of London.On the other hand, it doesn't work as well as it used to....This year's survey results were significantly better than previous years. In 2007 64% of people were prepared to give away their passwords for a chocolate bar, this year it had dropped to just 21% so at last the message is getting through to be more infosecurity savvy. The researchers also asked the office workers for their dates of birth to validate that they had carried out the survey here the workers were very naïve with 61% revealing their date of birth. Another slightly worrying fact discovered by researchers is that over half of people questioned use the same password for everything (eg work, banking, web, etc).Yeah, and all too often it's eitherpasswordor1234, thoughqwertyandmonkeyare also common.You can read the full text of the releasehere.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
At Trusted Reviews, Riyad Emeran has hadan early lookat the Linux version of the new Asus PC900 discussed at length herebefore. Skipping to the end, his verdict is:Asus has done a brilliant job of updating an already great product. The engineers have clearly listened to all the comments regarding the original Eee PC and attempted to put them right. The 1,024 wide screen makes the Eee PC 900 a joy to use, especially if you spend a lot of your time in a browser window. The extra memory and storage are also very welcome additions, and help make this version of the Eee PC a real alternative to a fully featured notebook. Yes the price is higher than the previous model, but I personally believe that the Eee PC 900 still represents staggering value for money. Ultimately, if you want a notebook that's small, light and still very affordable, the Eee PC 900 should be top of your list.I've got a Windows version on the way (having already written about the Linux version of the Eee PC 701 in the Guardian inOctoberandDecember) and will review it when it arrives.
The mobile phone company O2 is slashing the price of the smaller version of Apple's iPhone by &pound;100, amid fears that sales of the combined phone and music player have stalled as the California computer company prepares to launch a better version over the summer.From today the "basic" 8GB version of the phone - which can store roughly 2,000 songs - will be &pound;169, compared with &pound;269 when the device went on sale in the UK just before Christmas.Customers willing to buy the phone, however, will still have to pay O2 at least &pound;35 a month for their calls and texts. The price of the larger 16GB phone will remain at &pound;329.Anyone who does rush out to buy the cheap iPhone, however, may find themselves regretting the decision by the summer as Apple is expected to launch the so-called 3G version of the iPhone at its Worldwide Developers' Conference in San Francisco in June.The speculation - which Apple has refused to comment on - is that there will be an 8GB version of the 3G phone in the US for $399 (&pound;200) and a 16GB 3G iPhone for $499. There has also been talk of a 32GB 3G iPhone for $100 more.The existing iPhones stocked by O2 - and its sole independent retail partner, Carphone Warehouse - use the old so-called 2G mobile phone network.Customers can connect to the internet over their home computer network or public Wi-Fi access points, but where this is not an option the existing 2G phone can be very slow to download information. Music tracks cannot, for instance, be downloaded from the iTunes store on to the phone without a Wi-Fi connection because the mobile network is so slow. The next-generation 3G iPhone, however, will have a much faster connection to the mobile internet.Apple's exclusive network partner in Germany, T-Mobile, has already slashed the cost of its 8GB current generation iPhone to just &euro;99 (&pound;80).O2, which has the iPhone under an exclusive deal with Apple, said the decision to launch its price promotion, which will run until June 1, "will create additional momentum for what has been O2's fastest selling device".Others in the industry, however, believe sales have been slowing down. O2 maintains it has hit its target of "several hundred thousand" phones sold since launch.But after the initial hype died down, sales are believed to have slackened off. The company recently resumed its TV advertising campaign for the phone.Rival handset manufacturers such as Nokia, LG and Samsung, meanwhile, have produced similarly shaped phones that can play music and are free to new customers of other mobile phone networks.
Britain's fiercely competitive broadband market gave Carphone Warehouse a bloody nose yesterday as the retailer, whose TalkTalk service revolutionised the high-speed internet sector with its "free" offering two years ago, revealed it won fewer new customers than expected over the past three months.Shares in the FTSE 100 company, Britain's third-largest internet service provider after BT and Virgin Media, dropped 13%, wiping &pound;325m off the value of the business, as it admitted it gained only 109,000 new broadband users over the last quarter compared with City forecasts of about 128,000.City analysts also fretted about the company's burgeoning debt amid fears that a slowdown in consumer spending could hit sales. Carphone Warehouse admitted its store opening programme for this year will be "more measured" owing to "the softer economic environment".But chief executive Charles Dunstone dismissed the impression that the company is battening down the hatches in the face of a possible recession, saying: "that is not how we feel".Carphone Warehouse, which snapped up rival internet service provider AOL in October 2006, now has 2.7 million broadband users across TalkTalk and AOL, and Dunstone said he was "quite relaxed" about adding just 109,000 new users."TalkTalk was very strong," he said. "AOL was possibly a little quieter than in the quarter before, but when you have  2.7 million customers whether you get 118,000 or 109,000 more does not make much difference."He said the figures will certainly not spur him into an early bid for rival ISP Tiscali, whose Italian owners have hired investment bankers to explore a potential sale. "We will look at Tiscali but with a lot of financial rigour," he said. Buying out Tiscali would make Carphone Warehouse Britain's largest ISP.Since it launched its "free" broadband offering, Carphone Warehouse has been putting its equipment into BT's network of local telephone exchanges, renting BT's copper wires and plugging them directly into its own network - a process known as local loop unbundling. This migration of customers greatly increases TalkTalk's profitability. Of its "free" broadband users, only 8,000 remain to be migrated onto Carphone Warehouse's own network.But new BT boss Ian Livingston has made it plain he wants to increase the cost of local loop unbundling and regulator Ofcom is expected to open a review of the issue shortly. Dunstone made it plain that he will "fight very, very hard" against any proposals that would increase prices.The coming year will see Carphone Warehouse give greater autonomy to its retailing and telecoms businesses, which will allow TalkTalk to offer new services without preventing Carphone Warehouse's high-street stores from selling broadband services from other providers.Carphone Warehouse said yesterday that its core mobile phone retailing business sold 2.7 million mobile phone connections over the three months to end March, up 12% on the last quarter. But sales to customers willing to take out long-term contracts were slightly weaker than analysts had hoped."The market for mobile phones, in the sense of traditional handsets, is pretty flat," said Dunstone, but there is strong growth in sales of "smartphones", which play music and access the internet, and mobile broadband modems for laptops.Carphone Warehouse hopes to boost take-up of its AOL broadband service by providing customers with free laptops. Buying in the equipment has led to a short-term increase in costs. The weakness of sterling against some European currencies has also led to an increase in finance costs. The cost of paying for its rising debts has dented Carphone Warehouse's profits. The company said yesterday it expects profits for the year to end March 2008 to be between &pound;215m and &pound;220m, slightly lower than the City's current projections.
Your reference to Encyclopaedia Britannica (How I fell in love with Wikipedia, G2, April 10), says that much of the content in the 1911 edition - which formed the basis of Wikipedia - is now out of date. Perhaps that is not surprising, since it was published 97 years ago. Fortunately we publish continuously. To take a sad but significant example, when Benazir Bhutto was assassinated, her biography and the article about Pakistan in Encyclopaedia Britannica were updated and newly published in Britannica Online within a few hours. Encyclopaedia Britannica is not a news organisation, but it is the world's backstory. We keep that backstory - the context to our lives - continuously refreshed with material written by people who know their subjects, which is fact-checked and edited for three levels of user - adults, teenagers and primary school children.Ian GrantManaging director, Encyclopaedia Britannicabritannica.co.uk
PC owners looking for an intense combination of Euro-shooter action and suggestive imagery, should look no further thanAd Nauseam 2, the latest title from Swedish indie developer, Cactus Games. Their website describes it thus:This game is not your typical shoot 'em up. There's really no room for bullet dodging here, just blow everything up before it hits you. The game has some very nice explosions. The game features some slightly obscene imagery, so if you're a bit easily offended, don't play the game. Nothing too bad, just maybe not suitable for kids.You have been warned.It's pretty mind-blowing stuff, easily competing with the toughest of the Japanese danmaku (bullet curtain) genre, though of course, as the text says, the emphasis here is on confrontation rather than avoidance.It's a free 2MB download, so give it a go.
