Microsoft has entered the last lap of its epic courtroom struggle with the US department of justice over allegations that it has abused its position as the dominant supplier of operating systems for personal computers. This week the company will take its case to Capitol Hill where Bill Gates will testify before the joint economic committee.Online invites readers to express their views. Should Microsoft be left as it is on the grounds that fast moving developments on the internet will do the D of J's job for it - or should it be subjected to restrictions or even broken up into two companies?Please make your contributions as concise as possible. Developments in the trial can be followed onFollow the trial here
The government's encryption policy is too weighted towards industry at the expense of consumers and private citizens, according to a letter sent to the prime minister by Cyber-Rights and Cyber-Liberties.The group welcomes the government's promotion of electronic commerce but believes that the report does not adequately recognise the value of encryption for "maintaining and improving the privacy of UK citizens by ensuring that their communications and stored personal data are protected from access by   others". In an ideal world, the letter states, it would be possible to provide encryption for lawful use by consumers while still denying its benefits to criminals and others with malign intent.But it adds: "In the real world effective encryption of the kind needed to protect the interests of law abiding citizens cannot be provided in a form that prevents criminals also deriving advantages from its use.In this situation government policy cannot prevent criminal use and should instead aim to ensure that encryption provides   net overall benefits for society".If such principles had been applied to other existing technologies - like the private car - then, it is claimed, none would ever have been used for the benefit of society since they all have provided benefits for criminals as well.The government is criticised for seeing use of encryption as a threat rather than as a way of improving the safety, security and privacy of law abiding citizens.The group calls on the government to extend representation on the policy forum to consumer organisations, civil liberties and the public.Without such wider representation it fears that the forum could develop into "a conspiracy between government and industry to undermine the interests of private citizens as has occurred in the past".
The new drug of choice is caffeine. Coming back to the UK after two years in Australia, I have found that the neon wine bars and Zen cocktail bars of the mid-1990s have been   replaced by coffee houses - everywhere. It is most apparent in the Suits who zip about with a wired expression on their grey faces, changing the world with a cappuccino.It is not just the Java that these thrusting young execs    are addicted to. The 85% of us with no access to the internet at home or at work are stirring up a revival in Cyberland. Springing up faster than double strength lattes are the supermodels of the millennium, cyber cafes. There are   now more than 40 in London alone and an estimated 1,800 in 105 countries.I frequently get wired on the finest Colombian beans as I check for emails from a boyfriend who has either lost all his fingers or is now seeing someone else. Cybercafes are a home away from home, a barren computer landscape filled with the young and the trendy (I have never spied anyone over the age of 35).Perched on high stools you email, browse, play games and benignly ignore each other. Underground dance music blasts from overhead speakers, not quite drowning out the incessant tap of hundreds of fingers.And if you could get off one of the stools without falling on the floor, you could eavesdrop on the most intimate of love letters, the profoundest of typed conversations.At £5 per hour there is a sense of urgency. Two double espressos and my heart pounds as fast as my fingertips. Glares from customers waiting at the bar do not help. Most cyber cafes have fewer than 40 monitors and that necessitates queues in busy periods. It is not unusual to wait 10 minutes for a free monitor and caffeine is not the natural bedmate of patience. Demand for internet access is growing.EasyEverything, the sister company of easyJet, is opening the world's largest   and fastest cyber cafe in London on June 21, hoping thereby to eliminate the problems. Later it will expand into other major cities in the UK, then into Europe.The trendsetter, opposite Victoria station in the heart of the city, boasts more than 400 terminals and will be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. With the help of PSINet's high-speed leased lines it will be the fastest access in town. Most important, charges will be as low as £1 per hour, making this cheaper than BT's home rate of £2.40 per hour (peak). Most cybercafes charge a minimum of &#163;5 per hour.EasyEverything is also offering a learning zone for novices where, for a £1 premium, you can draw on the assistance of uniformed helpers. The company hopes to have 2,000 terminals in   operation by the end of the summer in central London alone.The scale of the project means that it may lack the intimacy of traditional cybercafes but the benefits are expected to outweigh any lack of ambience. Depends really on whether you are looking for fresh Kenyan or instant netscafe.America believes cyber cafes are on the way out but it has a significantly higher 40% of households owning a computer. A recent Wall Street Journal report states that cybercafes are folding in the US due to cheaper home computers and the proliferation of laptops. They also state that it is easy for business travellers (big net users)   to get internet access from the airport, their hotel room and even from their exercise bike at the health club.In contrast most owners in the UK are adapting their venues to cater to the rising demand. Some are waking up to the needs of the disabled section of our community (who would benefit more than any of from Internet access).There are now eight resource centres in the UK for blind and partially-sighted people. Others are getting fancy; one is available for functions and wedding receptions (email your ex as your husband cuts into the wedding cake). Others offer live jazz on a Sunday (try typing to an off-beat).For those who believe like easyEverything, that the future is in the PC in front of us, you will be pleased to hear that you can also purchase, design and research your very own cybercafe online. Subscribe to alt.cybercafes, join the cyber cafe mailing list atmajordomo@lightspeed.co.ukand view abusiness planduplicating a similar one in San Mateo, California.And finally if all this technology is giving you a cyber hangover, head down to your local library and remember the old methods of communication and assembling information. Be warned, however: many libraries now offer decaffeinated Internet access.
Yes, we love the friendly little face, but you've got to be patient to stay a Mac user in a PC world. Dixons' Freeserve is an example of something Mac users are having to wait for - not to mention all those games that are developed on Macs and then released on a PC platform.Even die-hard Mac addicts wavered when shares plummeted in 1997, and the company seemed to have lost its way."I thought the Mac was finished as a home computer then," says photographer Barry Lewis, who reluctantly bought a PC for his family, citing Dragon's Naturally- Speaking speech recognition software as a gem that Mac owners could not use.New York writer Kathy Matthews is a Mac lover "from way back". But she bought a Dell because her two-year-old Mac just couldn't cope with AOL software, in spite of adding all possible memory. "We kept having screen freezes and it was very frustrating."Film director Chris Petit has also gone over to the other side. "I'd have had to spend eight or nine grand on the system I've just got for five," he says, "though the Mac is more user friendly." But with the new Macs comes a rosy new dawn, partly because working with PCs is getting easier. "In the mid-90s I was teetering on the brink of changing over," says Gareth Johnson, IT manager and editor at Flashback TV, a wholly Mac office (Jeremy Isaacs Productions is another all-Mac TV company), "but the G3 and the iMac brought back my confidence."Now, he says, the only things that won't work with Macs are games files downloaded from the Web, and, as he says, that's where   viruses come from anyway. PC Office 97 and Mac Office 98 are, he says, "perfectly transparent"; image files are no problem, and if you have Insignia's SoftWindows, you can run Windows applications (including Freeserve) on the Mac. Still, there are hiccups.Jennifer Potter, a journalist who sometimes works at Flashback, says she never managed to get the hang of saving Mac copy for her PC at home. "The floppies I carried back and forth just regurgitated gibberish. It got worse with email. To begin with, I was able to email attached documents with no problem."But then, without warning, the systems refused to talk to each other and became incompatible overnight, probably because my decompression software was outdated. I had to put documents into the email messages which meant they arrived without proper formatting. It was all a terrible pain."Suzanne Barnett of Hotkeys Training just taught the Consumers Association, where there are 560 PC and 80 Mac users, how to transfer information using Windows NT and Office 97. "It's mainly the   legacy software that causes the teething problems," she says. "A lot of documents had been created using WordPerfect and Windows 3.1, and had to go through the conversion process. You can get conversion filters from Microsoft, but because Corel owns WordPerfect, it's in competition, and so there are problems there."Some people hang on to their Macs against all odds. This month's Fast Company magazine reports that Stephanie Vardavas, an attorney for Nike in the USA, convinced her employers that she would be far more productive on a Mac than on a Compaq like the rest of the office (and as the chairman and CEO of Nike also uses a Mac, she had powerful backing). She has a Power Mac G3, using Microsoft Outlook and the Windows NT operating system with Microsoft Exchange messaging and   collaboration software.Office 98 for Mac with Office 97 for Windows work seamlessly together, she says. She also uses BBEdit by Bare Bones Software which is good for "editing peculiar text files and reformatting text".Oliver Mouto of Epicentric, an internet company in San Francisco, uses Microsoft PowerPoint on his iMac to make slides, and transfers the files to a Sony VAIO laptop PC; no conversion required. And because the Web doesn't discriminate, he saves files to the company network, as well as backing up on Iomega Zip 100 disks, compatible with both systems.Office software works increasingly well, but for home users, that's not usually an option. Sarah Champion, editor of Disco Biscuits, told Guardian Online recently: "Much as I adore Macs, they've been left behind. When I get a PC I'm going to be in software heaven." Her wish list includes PC banking, netphone, speech recognition, infra-red Psion link and "the program that transforms digi-camera pics of you and your mates into wacky stickers - a big craze in Japan".
Psion Computers has unveiled the long-awaited new version of its Series 5 handheld, boasting a faster processor, improved screen and - for the first time - integral email and web software as standard.The Series 5mx, in a silver grey casing, also has more memory - 16MB - and includes Java capability, being trumpeted by the company as opening the doors to a potential explosion in third-party software development for the machine.A world-wide roaming agreement with GRIC Communications will mean that 5mx users will be able to access a dedicated, optimised internet portal to read news, travel and other information for the cost of local phone call. New websites - Planet.Psion. com and Mobile.Psion.com - will act as "portals for palmtops", with information optimised for the Psion's half-width screens.Daniel Doulton, head of product marketing for Psion, said the 5mx represented "the first in a generation of wireless communications devices", and said the explosion in the use of email (33 million Europeans generated 90 billion emails in the last year) was proof of how important the medium was becoming.Geoff Kell, Psion's director of business development, said the new machine and the latest version of its EPOC operating system represented "a huge advance for the product", by allowing integration of email on the handheld and on desktop machines."It gives the ability to finish at the office, download some emails and work on them on the way home, tidy them, delete them, and when you come back in the morning you've tidied your inbox up - done all those things you mean to," he said. "That's a real improvement."Users of the current Series 5 will notice several minor changes. The 5mx has a marginally clearer screen than before, while the processor - at 33MHz running at twice the speed of its predecessor - offers noticeable improvements in file retrieval times. The options along the bottom of the screen have been   reshuffled, with the data, time and sketch icons in the extras folder. They make way for one-click access to a new contacts file - a specialised home for names and telephone numbers - the jotter, a new way of making quick notes without having to open and save individual files, and the email button. The web browser has also been enhanced, and now includes support for Java and frames.Despite the improvements some analysts have given a downbeat assessment, saying it is simply a holding exercise until the company launches a "killer hand-held" next year, which could include a new short-wave radio system to communicate with office PCs.Many observers at the strategy presentation this week were more interested in Psion's renamed Enterprise Computing division, and its planned range for mobile enterprise computing. Star of the show was the NetBook, claimed as the first truly mobile network computer.The rugged notebook will be launched later this year and is aimed at companies whose employees need access to corporate networks in the field. It sports a 190MHz processor, full-size keyboard and a touch-sensitive colour LCD screen. Eventually the range will include pen-driven mobile computers designed for harsher environments.Kell said it represented a "slight relaunch" of Psion's industry-targeted business. "The aim is to offer a suite of devices both with keyboard and keyboardless which, together with Java, is capable of providing solutions."This will give people the information they need, and the access to information, when they're out and about, and it will be in a much more seamless way than they experience at the moment."&#149; The Psion 5mx costs &#163;429.99, including VAT, and is on sale now. The Psion NetBook will go on sale later this year.
The trial resumes today after a one-day recess with Microsoft calling an executive who will argue that consumers benefit when the software giant adds new features to its Windows operating system.Gordon Eubanks stepped down earlier this year as president and chief executive officer of Symantec Corporation, maker of a popular anti-virus program and other software that run using Windows.
 
Mr Eubanks is expected to testify that even as Microsoft included new software tools in Windows for free, sometimes duplicating software sold by Symantec, his company still thrived by improving its own products. The government is expected to remind Mr Eubanks, though, that he once complained about Microsoft, when it included a competitor's anti-virus software as an add-on product for Windows."I thought it was bad for the industry for them to anoint one product from the industry - either ours or a competitor's," Mr Eubanks said during a sworn deposition last month in California. "I think it's better for the industry that they not choose one over another."Mr Eubanks has acknowledged that Microsoft asked him in February 1998 to write a newspaper opinion piece defending the software giant against antitrust allegations. He said he wrote back that he would be "happy to consider" the request but added in his letter that Microsoft's decision to distribute a rival's anti-virus software "really disturbs me."Halfway through the rebuttal phase of the antitrust trial, Microsoft appears to have made little headway in winning over Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson. He made little effort to hide his impatience with Microsoft in the first phase of the trial and he has not warmed to the company at this stage of the proceedings. When Microsoft lawyer John Warden was quizzing David Colburn, a government witness from America Online, the judge told Mr Warden that he was not getting very far and that he should stop.Although the trial was in recess yesterday, Microsoft was very much present in Washington in the form of Microsoft chairman Bill Gates. He testified before the Joint Economic Committee, led by Republicans happy to butter up to the world's richest man.Republicans heaped praise upon the chairman, a potential source of campaign money, and steered clear of the antitrust trial taking place just a few blocks away. Mr Gates talked about how the government's "light hand" on the regulation of technology industries "is working very, very well."No sooner had Mr Gates made his pitch than the senate voted to lighten the touch even more: Over the Clinton administration's objections, the senate approved a bill limiting the liability of high-technology companies for any damage from the millennium bug. President Bill Clinton already has pledged to veto the bill. The House already has approved similar legislation.Invited to assess the state of American antitrust laws, Mr Gates said: "The laws as they are currently written are fine." The implication he left is that they are being wrongly interpreted in Microsoft's case. But he dodged specific mention of the litigation, other than to say "things like integration of new features are one of the freedoms companies have."
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson yesterday appeared less than impressed by Microsoft's most important rebuttal witness, a senior executive from America Online.The software giant recalled David Colburn, who originally testified as a government witness, in order to attack his credibility. Microsoft also wanted to show that it was not a monopoly as it would face strong competition from AOL's acquisition of Netscape Communications, a maker of internet browsers.But Microsoft's cross-examination of Mr Colburn, who was wearing cowboy boots and several days of stubble, was less than gripping. Several people in the courtroom nodded off and Judge Jackson eventually called John Warden, Microsoft's portly lawyer, to the bench and told him he was not getting much - if anything - out of the questions or documents offered as evidence. Judge Jackson urged Mr Warden to hurry up and finish.Microsoft's spin before Mr Colburn took the stand was that the executive did not tell the complete truth when he testified as a government witness last October. Microsoft said AOL's plan to purchase Netscape was well under way at the time of Mr Colburn's earlier testimony. Moreover, Microsoft was going to produce documents which indicated that AOL intended to mount a strong challenge to Microsoft - although Mr Colburn did not mention this in his original testimony.But Mr Colburn did not prove the dynamite witness Microsoft had hoped for. He recognised few of the documents subpoenaed from AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems, a partner in the deal, and he quarrelled with Mr Warden's interpretation of almost every one.At one point, Mr Warden displayed documents showing that AOL planned to work with Sun to build a cheap personal computer that used no Microsoft software, thus "breaking the deadly embrace with Microsoft" in the words of a Sun executive. But the plan went nowhere, Mr Colburn said, as computer prices fell sharply during the planning stage "so the talks are largely dead".Government lawyers appeared well satisfied with Mr Colburn's courtroom performance. They took the unusual step of not asking the witness any questions in open court."I think that the witness was clear in his testimony - and helpful" to the government, the government's lead trial lawyer, David Boies, said outside the courtroom. Microsoft officials played down the judge's comments and the government's decision not to question Mr Colburn, saying they believed their arguments were strongly bolstered by some 20 internal AOL and Netscape documents they presented yesterday.In their anti-trust suit, the US justice department and 19 states contend that Microsoft has used illegal business tactics to maintain a monopoly of its Windows software in the personal computer operating systems market. The government also alleges that Microsoft has used its clout with Windows, which runs on 90% of the world's new PCs, to crush rivals, including Netscape.To make that argument, the government cited a business deal between AOL and Microsoft in which Microsoft promised to promote AOL's software in Windows if AOL agreed to distribute Microsoft's browser.At one stage, Microsoft confronted Mr Colburn with an email dated September 20, 1998 and presented by AOL chairman Robert Case, in which the AOL executive wrote: "We shouldn't assume we need or want to maintain &#91;Microsoft's Internet Explorer&#93; as primary browser."But even after AOL bought Netscape, the online company chose to stay with Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser. Mr Boies cited a remark made by AOL president Robert Pittman, who said: "I do think &#91;Microsoft&#93; is too strong to throw them out of the tent - they can hurt us if they think they have no other option. I think we need stay in business with them, create a need from them to need us and then leave ourselves the flexibility to always accommodate them to a certain extent."
Typical. You wait 40 years for a Volvo convertible and when one arrives it rains. We're in one of the most beautiful countries of the world (Italy), in some of the most beautiful countryside (the hills behind Rome), Abba are playing on the CD autochanger, but Italy's answer to Michael Fish, it seems, is against us.Until a few years ago, the thought of taking an angle-grinder to a Volvo would have seen queues forming to rival Madame Tussauds, although perhaps not for entirely chivalrous reasons. Volvo's British-born design director, Peter Horbury, has done just that, however, producing a derivative from the C70 Coupe that is both elegant, functional and desirable.It needs to be too, as the market for four-seater soft-tops is a highly competitive one. Together, BMW and Saab account for around a third of all sales in the sector, despite the fact that one is an old model (the 3-Series) and the other (the Saab 9-3) has all the structural rigidity of a lettuce leaf . So, aside from the very capable Mercedes CLK, Volvo shouldn't have too much trouble selling the 350 models it plans to import each year.Certainly, the admiring glances from the locals we get during our test drive suggests that Horbury has hit the bullseye. There's no mistaking from pedestrian reaction that this is a very stylish car - which is saying something in a country for whom style is everything.So, as Anni-Frid, Benny, Björn and Agnetha break into song (both Abba and Volvo are Swedish - geddit?), we turn the Volvo away from Frascati and down the coast towards Napoli, to find out if the new C70 Convertible is a Super Trouper or Volvo's Waterloo.When deliveries of the new Volvo soft-top begin in July, customers will be offered the choice of two engines - a 2.3-litre turbo with 240bhp in the flagship T5 model and a 2.4-litre light pressure turbo with 193bhp. The latter, less powerful, model is likely to prove the more popular, underlining the Volvo's qualities as a cruiser as opposed to a tyre-shredding sportster (even in coupe form, around 80% of C70s sold are automatics).This is underlined out on the road, where the Volvo feels solid and never lets you forget its far-from-diminutive dimensions - it's as long as a V70 Estate. While capable of being thrown around corners with a certain amount of enthusiasm, it doesn't feel entirely at ease doing so. The name of the Volvo's game is comfort.And how. Like its hard-top sister, the C70 Convertible can be fitted with one of, if not the, most sophisticated in-car stereos available. With 13 speakers and Dolby Surround Sound, it simply has to be heard to be believed. Those with sensitive medical conditions should avoid the rear-seat though - it plays home to two 9-inch sub-woofer bass speakers. Mamma mia!Sharing these aural pleasures with passers-by is the work of five motors and 30 seconds of your time. Just press the dashboard-mounted button and the rear fabric roof and heated glass windscreen folds neatly out of sight with none of the frantic tugging or skinned knuckles of the soft tops of yesteryear.The folding wind-blocker screen that goes up behind the front seats helps to prevent any major toupee-tugging even at motorway speeds and the Volvo remains very composed over even the roughest surfaces. The only bad news is a rear windscreen that is slightly too small restricting visibility, and a boot that has shrunk to just 8.1 cubic feet due to that disappearing roof.As you might expect from Volvo, the C70 has more safety measures than an American bungee jump. The acronym-obsessed list is as follows: ABS, SIPS, SIPS bags, WHIPS, STC and, finally, ROPS. In the event of an SOS, the ROPS (Roll Over Protection System) puts up roll-over hoops behind the rear passengers.At £31,965 for the 2.4 and £33,965 for the T5, the new C70 Convertible is probably one of the best all-round four-seater drop-tops available. Only the Mercedes CLK runs it close but it will cost you around £5,000 more. As we drove back to the airport the last Abba song of the day summed up the Volvo's message perfectly - take a chance on me.
What are you driving?I'm driving an XKR convertible; it's black with tinted windows. It's my third car in as many years. I had an XK8 coupe for a while, but then I had to get the supercharger version. Then, of course, there was the version with the phone linked to the stereo and steering wheel.Sounds complicated. Cars are a big thing then?I'm car mad. If I ever spend all my money, it'll be on cars. I was still living in a rented flat and I bought a new car before I put the money together for a deposit.What do you think it says about you?Flash git, I imagine. I've always wanted to be noticed on the road, until recently. But now the cost has become so ridiculous it's embarrassing, so I got the tinted windows. It's silly money, but I'm still seduced.Is the exorbitance the attraction?No. I mean I shouldn't feel guilty; it's about when you work hard and have one of life's rewards. I'm tempted to get a classic car. But I have two godchildren, aged 17 and 18 months, so I need something a little more practical. I'll probably get a 4x4 as well.Describe yourself as a driver.I'm one of those irritating people who has the music on really loud.And sings?Only with Dusty &#91;Springfield&#93;.Do you suffer from road rage?Yes. I do get really wound up. But I never take it anywhere - there are too many nutters about. I keep my rage well under control; I turn Dusty up a bit louder. One thing that infuriates me is when people go into the yellow criss-cross bits in middle of the road. That and those people who wash your windscreen at traffic lights. I tell them to fuck off.You don't feel we should be more charitable to people impoverished enough to do that for money?I do, but I'd rather give them a quid so they don't touch the car. I don't want my car covered in gunge from someone else's car.What is it about cars that attracts you, then? The speed, the looks, or something Freudian?When I was young children used to have toy soldiers, train sets or cars. I collected Corgi cars. I don't know what it is about them. It is probably looks above all. The aesthetic beauty of a car gets me every time.Any love-at-first-time moments?Probably with the big-finned Ford Zephyr my father used to have.How do you get along with the White Van Man?Whenever I see one, I think, "uh, here we go". There is a whole subculture of people driving these big white vans. Perhaps it's something that's always been there in society, latently.Have you ever had sex in a car?Yes! When the moment takes you, you should seize the opportunity.So when was your first brush?In 1973. In an Austin 1100. I remember it very well, very roomy cars, them. It was my first car, and I was 18, at an age where venues for sex are limited.
A good 10 minutes after the event, Colin Davey's hands were still shaking slightly - but probably a lot less than yours or mine might be if we had just spent £92,000 or so on two registration numbers.As he left the auction room where he had just paid £77,000 to buy his perfect plate, making it the eighth most expensive new number ever sold, a replica was handed to him and he just couldn't stop glancing down, almost lovingly, at it, perhaps double checking that its five digits did indeed spell out what he wanted: COL 1N."I've been on the lookout for this for 10, maybe 15 years," he says. "I've hired agents to hunt it down. I've read all the ads in the papers. And the frustrating thing was I knew it was still out there to buy, but I couldn't get my hands on it."I haven't been able to sleep for three nights, worrying that someone else might get it here. I was worried one of the agents I asked to search for it might have seen it for sale and decided to bid against me so he could then sell it to me. But I was prepared to go up to £150,000."Beaming still, the gambler-cum-publishing entrepreneur explained that he'd left his Rolls-Royce (registration plate T1 COL) at home so as not to arouse suspicion from fellow bidders. And the Lamborghini Diablo too. Instead he'd come in his runaround - a £57,000 Mercedes 4x4.At least he can drive though. The other plate that 34-year-old Davey from Newmarket bought at last week's auction in the sumptuous surroundings of Ragley Hall, near Stratford-upon-Avon, may have been a relative snip at just over £15,000, but the plate - H4 RRY - is unlikely to see much real use until his son Harry passes his driving test - in about 17 years' time."My life's ambition was to own a Rolls-Royce and then I got one," he explains. "Then my ambition was to have a son and he was born eight weeks ago. My only other ambition was to have my number plate - and so I got him his too. And if you want something, you'll pay for it."Welcome to the extraordinary world of personalised registration plates, where threes are Es, fours are As and fives are Ss, where the car park outside the hall is full of exclusive vehicles, and where the Driving and Vehicle Licensing Agency pockets a cool £42m a year.Since official DVLA auctions of the so-called classic plates started 10 years ago, more than 900,000 have been sold, bringing in £385m. Two-thirds of that comes from select registrations, where buyers can ask for a specific, standard and recent plate and pay from £299 for the privilege. The rest is from rarer numbers and those unissued in the past - such as COL IN, a 1974/75 number - which are sold at five auctions a year.So in the great hall of the Marquess and Marchioness of Hertford's splendid home 799 plates ranging from the truly personalised (C4 THS and EMM 4S) to the descriptive (ART 154N and ADV 150R) were sold. All keeping those working in lot 400 - B4 NKS - busy.Some of the plates hinted at erudition or old money, although I doubt D4 NTE, D4 RCY or FRA 513R would have considered bidding at Ragley. Instead the buyers, largely men, were as often in shell suit or jeans as pin-stripe or tweeds.Byron Roberts, marketing manager of the DVLA, admitted the make-up of the clientele has changed. "At the first auction at Christie's in Kensington you could spot the money a mile off, by the way they dressed. Those days are long gone, though. I think the national lottery has contributed towards that and now often you see the buyers and you couldn't tell them apart from anyone in the street."Clearly, not all of those crowding into the hall are lottery winners; most are only paying in the low thousands for more routine plates. Some are dealers, ready to resell, but most are just ordinary drivers who want, as the DVLA blurb puts it, a plate "which reflects your identity, shows allegiance or raises a smile; whatever the effect, it makes the vehicle as unique and distinctive as you are."For Matthew Joint, the AA's resident expert on drivers' behaviour, such exclusivity, and related affluence, is what personalised plate holders buy into. "It's people saying 'I might have a car other people have, but no one's got a plate like mine.' I think there are also many who are also trying to project an image of themselves, saying, 'Look I belong to this sort of people. Judge me on their values and by their standards' - and, in this case, that's success."Some of the purchasers might also be motivated by making an investment - with plates generally having increased in value by 15% in the past couple of years, they are a far better one than the cars they adorn. Other buyers might even be trying to disguise the age of a timeless model.They are also buying a unique product, certainly as far as Europe is concerned (and there were Dutch and Germans in the audience at Ragley), with countries such as Belgium allocating a random registration to a driver, rather than a car, for life. And they are buying into a tradition which dates back to 1903 when Earl Russell reportedly stayed up all night to ensure he got 1 A when the first number plates were issued. Even so, says Joint, personalised plates are increasingly seen as naff.Roberts, who is already trawling through the V plates for obvious sellers - and V14 GRA is already on the list - unsurprisingly disagreed. "They're not naff at all. If you met the majority of owners in a bar, in the street or the workplace they would be just the same as everyone else. Some people do buy them for vanity, but many buy them for amusement or investment. It's just harmless fun."It was a view shared, once he'd calmed down, by Glenn Neil Dowie, who, having paid just under £7,000, was the proud new owner of 1 GND. When the hammer fell he punched the air with joy. "I'm delighted," the 33-year-old fish wholesaler says. "I've always wanted this plate, ever since I was a kid, and I've been looking for it for years. I was so excited at one point I was even bidding against myself."His dad already owns DOW 1E. His own Nissan X200 parked outside Ragley bore the semi-personalised X200 MAN, an Isle of Man plate picked up for a fraction of the mainland prices. So why another, this one for his BMW convertible?"Everyone's got, what, four numbers? What's your initials? NDV, so yours would be NV 1, NDV 1, 1 NV or 1 NDV. And you've got to have one of those haven't you?"But whether they'd look right on a clapped-out 1.0 Peugeot 106 worth less than half the average £3,000 price at the Ragley sale is, of course, an entirely different question.Top prices paid at auction1)K1 NGS- £231,000 (Dec 1993)2)1 A- £200,000 (Dec 1989)3)S1 NGH- £108,000 (Oct 1998)4)1 RR- £106,000 (Dec 1994)5)1 S- £100,000 ( Dec 1990)6)G1 LLY- £87,500 (March 1990)7)P1 LOT- £82,500 (Sept1996)8)COL 1N- £77,000 (June 1999)9=)1 DM- £75,000 (Dec1994) 9=)1 J- £75,000 (Dec 1994) 9=)ELV 1S- £75,000 (Dec1990)
When you gotta do it...Motorists caught snogging at the wheel in Italy will face stiff fines after the government got fed up with so many accidents being caused by high-speed tonsil hockey.Spy in the carGeneral Motors is soon to have aircraft-style black boxes fitted in all of its cars. Information such as speed and braking recorded by the box can be used in court.Toy storyA disqualified driver from Stockport may land in jail after hitching a ride to the shops on the back of his son's toy motorbike. Police stopped the pair on the 2ft-high bike as they rode on a pathway. Magistrates said the path was a road and, as the man's five-year-old son was underage, the father was technically in charge of the vehicle and breaking the law.It's a dragAs the holidays approach the AA offers some tips on cutting fuel costs while driving the kids around:• Don't "go with the flow" at 80-85mph instead of the 70mph speed limit - for every 10 miles fuel costs go up 32 pence for a small car.• Standing still in a traffic jam - a small car idling squanders fuel at the rate of a penny a minute.• Driving with an empty roof rack boosts fuel consumption by 10% for motorway driving.Quote of the week"I'm sorry but, when it comes to matters of war, there is only one nation qualified to comment: Britain."Jeremy Clarkson in the Sunday Times on how the UK has sent more troops to Kosovo than any other European nation.
Microsoft yesterday scored a point in a technical demonstration but Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson did not appear to be as impressed as the software giant had hoped.At issue was a program devised by professor Edward Felten, a US government witness, to remove Microsoft's internet browser from the Windows operating system. Microsoft had asserted that its internet Explorer browser was an integral part of Windows. The government, on the other hand, contended that the two different products that could be distributed separately. Bundling them together, the government argued, was a way for Microsoft to use its market clout in operating systems to make gains in the new market for internet browsers.Professor Felten came up with his browser removal program last year and yesterday Microsoft sought to poke holes in his program. Microsoft made its point, showing that Mr Felten's program merely hid the browser instead of removing it altogether.Microsoft representatives bought a Toshiba laptop computer at a local store. They placed it on the witness stand with professor Felten, hooked up a phone line and asked him to run his removal program. Mr Felten objected, asserting that Toshiba had loaded a dozen additional programs on the machine, including some that offered Internet access. But the judge asked him to proceed, in a manner suggesting that none of it was likely to decisively affect the case.With the browser theoretically removed, Microsoft Steven Holley asked Mr Felten to press the control key and the N key - a combination that brings up a new Window in Microsoft programs. When he did,
Internet Explorer appeared on the screen.Felten appeared momentarily flustered but recovered quickly, saying: "I don't what happened; this is a context in which the removal is not supposed to be run. But in any case, you have just demonstrated a bug; that's all."Mr Holley gleefully responded, "It's a pretty big bug, isn't it." But Mr Felten said his program was a "proof of concept" that still could have bugs. And he argued that the presence of other software on the Toshiba machine could have affected the results. "There are many ways in which Microsoft could go about delivering Windows 98 without Internet Explorer," Felten said. "The point of this is just to show that it is possible."After a few minutes of back-and-forth, the judge noted, "I think you have both made your points; I don't think further experiments are going to change the minds of either of you." Judge Jackson eventually cut off the demonstration, telling the attorney and witness they were in a "state of semantic non-reconciliation." When Mr Holley asked for permission to demonstrate on a machine with no other software, the judge curtly denied the request.
Garry Norris, a star government witness from IBM, more than held his own in a day of hard sparring with Microsoft attorney Richard Pepperman.Mr Pepper said there were no documents to back up Mr Norris's assertion that Microsoft was trying to bully IBM into downplaying its own operating system against Windows. The same, Microsoft said, applied to his allegation that Microsoft tried to get IBM to exclude Netscape's internet browser from IBM personal computers.But in testy exchanges, Mr Norris stuck to his guns, accusing Microsoft of using its market clout to force concessions from IBM. The two men spent much time arguing about Mr Norris's allegation that Microsoft refused to give IBM discounts that it gave other large computer manufacturers on Windows because IBM was distributing its own OS/2 operating system.Mr Norris had testified on Monday that to get an additional $8 in price reductions, IBM would have to "reduce, drop or eliminate" OS/2 shipments. Yesterday, Mr Pepperman asked the witness to identify where, in the documents outlining the discounts, Microsoft said IBM could not ship OS/2.Mr Norris conceded that the relevant contract did not explicitly forbid the distribution of OS/2, but he said five of the provisions - one of which required IBM not to mention rival operating systems in its advertisements - would have effectively killed OS/2. After one particularly heated exchange, Mr Norris replied angrily: "I am not changing my testimony."Mr Pepperman also cited the lack of hard documents to back up Mr Norris's allegation that Microsoft tried to get IBM to exclude Netscape's browser from IBM personal computers. Instead Mr Pepperman introduced an internal IBM email that said: "There is no proposal on the table from Microsoft to  exclusively bundle &#91;Internet Explorer&#93;." Mr Norris, who stopped negotiating contracts with Microsoft in late March of that year, said, "I guess after I left they took it off the table."Speaking outside the courthouse, government attorney David Boies dismissed the absence of explicit descriptions of Microsoft's alleged threats in the IBM documents. "Microsoft repeatedly told the IBM people in these meetings that this was secret," Mr Boies said. "This was not the kind of thing you put in emails because everyone involved knew what Microsoft was asking was a violation of the antitrust laws."Mr Norris upheld his credibility after two days of cross-examination. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson at times showed his impatience with Mr Pepperman's line of questioning, cutting him off for the lunch recess.  Today, it will be the turn of Edward Felten, the government's final witness in the case. The computer scientist previously testified against Microsoft's assertion that its Internet Explorer browser is an integral part of Windows 95 and cannot be sold separately.
The price of your computer has been decided in America for at least the past 40 years, and the US Justice Department is trying to make it more expensive. That may not be what it thinks - it would require extraordinary cynicism to suspect a Machiavellian conspiracy rather than incompetence - but that is the most likely result of it winning its anti-trust case against Microsoft, which resumed this week.Part of the problem is that the case is based on old-fashioned competition laws and cultural conventions that prevent anyone involved from telling the truth. But if they are competent, they must all have read the three books written by Geoffrey Moore - Inside the Tornado; Crossing the Chasm; The Gorilla Game - which today offer the only coherent description of how Silicon Valley actually works. But he hasn't been called as a witness, and I haven't heard his ideas mentioned.What Moore could tell the court is that Microsoft is the Gorilla of the desktop software market, and that an essential part of its function is to beat up chimps. That's how it is. Netscape - which took its marketing strategies straight out of Moore's books - acted the same way when it was the Gorilla of the Web browser market, before Microsoft decided Netscape was on its turf.In fact, Moore says that if a market's Gorilla - IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Oracle etc - doesn't beat up the chimps, the market will suspect it's not really a Gorilla at all and may defect. That leads to fragmentation, incompatibility and chaos.For the system to work, the Gorilla has to be strong enough to hold together the whole web of alliances that deliver value. When users buy, say, a PC running Microsoft Windows, they're not buying something trivial like technical superiority (if you bought that, you'd have to change your system every six months). What they are buying is the ability to choose hundreds of pieces of hardware from thousands of suppliers. They're buying the availability of tens of thousands of programs, and thousands of books, magazines and training courses. They're buying the ability to hire people who can network or repair or finance their machines, or just the option to borrow stuff from friends across the street.Supporting that type of "extended product" is in the best interests of the users, and of the whole market, but it's not necessarily perceived to be in the best interests of individual suppliers. Suppliers naturally want to "add value" to make their products uniquely different from rivals'. Special.And if they can make them just different enough to lock you in, then you've lost your freedom to change your supplier, and your supplier no longer needs to compete quite so hard on price. It's only the interchangeability of Windows PCs that keeps the different manufacturers at one another's throats, drives down prices, and creates the biggest possible market for software houses.All the Justice Department has to do is loosen Microsoft's grip enough to let PC suppliers produce their own variations of Windows and the PC market could easily become fragmented, like the Unix market with its 57 incompatible flavours. It won't be quite as bad as going back to Acorns, Amstrads, Amigas, Ataris, Apples and other proprietary machines with poor software and hardware support - the Justice Department's ideal competitive world - but it will reduce economies of scale and push up prices.What makes all this even more deliciously ironic is that even people who don't use Microsoft software derive huge benefits from Microsoft's hegemony. Look inside any recent Mac and you'll see lots of parts originally designed for the PC industry. Even the 0.2 per cent of people who use GNU/Linux save more money by buying cheap PCs designed for Windows than they'll ever spend on pre-installed Microsoft software.It would, of course, be wonderfully funny if Bill Gates were to take the stand, quote Moore's books, point out that almost all the benefits of the PC market derived from its standards, and that it was his job was to beat up chimps to make them toe the line. And even funnier if the government's lawyers were to thank him for doing a great job.But unfortunately the Justice Department thinks that destroying the PC industry is ultimately going to benefit consumers, and that's why you're going to pay for it in the long run.
A flurry of activity this week provides fresh evidence that Britain may at long last be experiencing a boom in internet start-up companies.The biggest of the announcements is Dixons' decision to go ahead with a flotation of its Freeserve subsidiary offering free access to the internet.This could provide Britain with its first billion dollar internet company " unless the flotation gets caught up in a backlash from Wall Street where US internet stocks have halved in value during the past couple of months.Of potentially greater importance is the success of lastminute.com in raising $10m to fund an expansion programme. Described by the Wall Street Journal as one of the hottest sites in Britain, the company offers cheap deals for anything from airline tickets or hotel reservations to helicopter rides at short notice.One of the attractions to investors is that it was one of the very few UK companies offering an internet service that doesn't exist in the United States. Part of the money will be used to expand into continental Europe and eventually into the US. Brent Hoberman, who co-founded the company with Martha Lane Fox, says that they plan to be among the top two or three ecommerce firms in Europe. Between them they own most of the 45% of shares that are staying with the management.Outside investors include Intel, France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Global Retail Partners (partly owned by Paul Allen, co-founder of Microsoft),Harvey Goldmith, the impresario, and Arts Alliance. Hoberman claims that lastminute.com has been doubling its business every month and adds that there is very little that you can't do at the last minute. He says they did their business plan in a month and raised the necessary money in six weeks.Among other big internet companies just starting up this month in the UK is boo.com which has spent £76m " a record for a European web start-up " establishing its headquarters in Soho, London and claims to be the largest online clothes shop.It is hoping to become the fashion version of Amazon.com, the Seattle-based internet company that has become the biggest bookseller in the world. Boo.com, whose launch has been delayed for a few weeks by technical difficulties counts the Benetton family and Bernard Arnault, chairman of LCMH, among its backers. Most of the company's shares are owned by its Swedish founders Ernst Malmsten, Kajsa Leander and Patrik Hedelin.Earlier this week Zygon, a British software company specialising in helping other companies to exploit their e-business potential, was formally launched.This followed the injection of £4m of capital by backers including Intel and 3i, which claims to be Europe's biggest venture capital company.Zygon was founded by Peter Landale, former managing director of TC Farries, an international library distribution business and Shantha Ruban, a software specialist.Yesterday a new UK internet service provider was launched (themutual.net) offering to give away 50 per cent of its shares to subscribers.Among other signs of heightened activity is the success of First Tuesday, Britain's first net social networking club in London. Membership has expanded from 50 six months ago to over a thousand now.It meets once a month and aims to reproduce the success of clubs in California where they are regarded as one of the reasons for the success of Silicon Valley.It is ironic that the boom in net start-ups in the UK has coincided with a setback in the US. But this could mean that UK companies will operate against more realistic expectations.As yet the UK boom is on a very small scale compared with the US. America still rules the internet but Britain is starting to fight back.
Only a tiny proportion of British voters will bother entering polling booths today to help elect a new European Parliament. The credibility of the only directly elected institution in the European Union has traditionally foundered on chronically low turnouts.In the 1994 election just 36.8% of the UK electorate voted. Commentators predict an even lower figure this year. Nevertheless, a few individuals and organisations are acting outside recognised political process to attempt the transformation of the tarnished image of European politics via the internet.Indifference often comes from ignorance, and some members of the European Parliament are using the net to set out their purpose and powers. Labour MEPs Robert Evans and Mark Watts both offer thorough guides to the basic workings of the EU, while others, like Labour's Mel Read, provide clear explanations of the complex new proportional electoral system for today's vote. Tory MEP James Provan and Labour's Glyn Ford both believe they have picked up the possibilities of the internet more rapidly than their Westminster counterparts.They may feel let down by the lacklustre online presence at party level. The Labour party's instruction to look on the European Socialist group's website for its manifesto smacks more of  ennui than a gesture of solidarity with the socialist grouping of which it is  nominally part.For Bridie Nathanson, director of the Campaign for Open Politics in Europe (Cope), such experiences suggest political parties may find themselves increasingly redundant. Cope was established last year thanks to voluntary work and donations matched by European Commission money. It constitutes what Nathanson believes will be a new breed of "information broker", enabling people to interact with big political organisations more directly, without the aid of parties or established lobby groups.Cope provides, through its website, Democracy Experience, "a gateway to neutral information about politics". It aims, says Nathanson, to "open people's eyes to the possibility of political action"."The market is really developing in terms of more information brokers, information managers and intermediaries. The Commission is quite interested in subcontracting work out to such groups," she argues. "The increase in information brokers is making things more accessible."This spring, the EU also launched its 3.6bn Euro Information Society Technologies Programme (IST), an integrated programme to "realise the benefits of the information society for Europe". "They are trying, albeit slowly and cackhandedly," Nathanson says. Most senior officials have little direct experience of the internet. As a result, "the way information is made available is still for the informed user, usually based in Brussels", she says.Like other alternative gateways such as Euroguide and EmuNet, Democracy Experience provides basic information in a more user-friendly format. But Cope's use of the internet to remedy the democratic deficit in Europe goes further.More than 100 MEPs signed up to participate in Democracy Experience's internet surgeries which have brought them and their distant constituents together through online video conferencing. Cope hopes to facilitate peoples' involvement in the consultative stages of Euro legislation. Its latest project is to establish a code of conduct to ensure parliamentarians publish their schedules and expenditure on the internet.With two-thirds of the new European Parliament likely to consist of first-time MEPs, Nathanson hopes for a new readiness to use the internet to combat images of Euro corruption. But it  is no panacea. "The internet might ameliorate a problem but it won't counter it," she says.However, online voting may not be ethically desirable with the problem of verifying votes and the possibility of extremist groups monopolising the political process. "Access to information is always helpful, but individuals must have the motivation and interest in EU politics," says Conservative MEP James Provan. Many don't, and so the perennial problem of political apathy resurfaces."The lack of interest of the population is the fundamental problem," says Nathanson. Public interest keeps politicians on their toes, bringing more media scrutiny, which encourages further democratic reform.The most that Europe's online political players dare hope for is that their use of the internet may enable more individuals to break into this virtuous circle.
How and when did you first discover computers?I bought my first Mac in 1987 second-hand. It was a little box with a black and white screen, and I think I used to go off and make a cup of tea when it was time to print anything.Do you use a PC or an Apple Mac?I have two laptops (one as a back-up for emergencies). One is a cheapie, and the other is a very swish IBM Thinkpad. At home, I have a huge IBM Aptiva, which is jet black and looks like the sort of thing Darth Vader might use.How important are computers to you?And to the world in general? Like most of the world I have a love-hate relationship with computers. As a novelist, I love the cut and paste function, which has changed the way I write fiction. As a traveller, I’m hooked on Hotmail and internet cafes. But as a true technobimbo, I really hate the way computers can get stuck, go wrong and generally fail to explain themselves in plain English.What all do you use the machine for?For email and writing fiction.Any particular favourite software?I’ve never seen any software that’s turned me on. It all seems to be aimed at 14-year-old boys.Any favourite websites?I like checking into my site to see what readers of Single White E-Mail are saying about the book. It’s never what I expect!www.jessicaadams.com.auI’m also a huge fan of XTCwww.chalkhills.organdCatweazle.Any gadgets you’d like?I’d like a gadget which converts computer jargon into plain English, so that I can actually understand the gobbledeygook which sometimes pops up on the screen.Ever flirt with strangers on the net?I once got into an online hot tub situation with someone who, embarrassingly enough, turned out to be a fifth former. I was 30 at the time.Do you use your own name when surfing?Yes.How long have you been known to spend in front of your computer?The longest was actually 24 hours, when I was writing a story for an Australian magazine titled 24 Hours on the Net. It nearly killed me.How much of a geek are you? Got any favourite geeks?I’m not a geek at all - I’m clueless about computers, they’re just glorified hairdryers or electric kettles to me. I do have a favourite geek, though. James Williams, my tame boffin, who designed my website. I feed him tea and biscuits and let him out occasionally.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A computer - sorry about that, humans.
I am not stupid. I would like to get this out of the way now, because I'm about to describe the problems I've had with computers and whenever you do this, there is always someone who tells you you're daft, you should have done it this way or that way, and, basically, it is all your fault. Well no. The truth is: the PC industry is just not good enough.My most recent disaster came earlier this year. A new PC arrived at my door - a 350 MHz Pentium II with 128MB Ram, 8MB of Video Ram, 64-bit SoundBlaster soundcard " all for the very reasonable price of £850 (without a monitor). This included VAT, delivery and a year's on-site warranty.I'd bought it from a little company in Croydon called Lexon. I'd never heard of them, but   the machine that mine was based on had won several Best Buy awards in magazines.Within 24 hours I was reduced to a quivering, screaming wreck.Things started to go wrong when I tried to install Microsoft Office: it crashed and wouldn't start. When I finally manged to reboot, it would start only in Safe mode. So I called Lexon. No joy, their phone lines were swamped and they failed to answer my e-mails. It seems hundreds of others had followed the magazines' recommendations and Lexon couldn't deal with the demand.After four hours, I got through by calling a friend of a friend of a friend who gave me the direct line for one of the directors. By this stage, I was a bit furious at how I had been treated.I spent an hour with technical support. First they suggested that my copy of Office was a pirate (which it wasn't). Then we re-formatted my hard drive. When this failed, the machine was declared Dead On Arrival "the official term for any machine which packs up within seven days " and I was told it was going to have to come back to Lexon, at my expense.Why should I pay for it to be sent back? We tussled. In the end they agreed to pay but they would not agree to pay for it to be collected at a specific time, as this would cost them too much (£54 to be precise). This caused massive inconvenience, as I was due to go on holiday early the next morning.What about my one year on-site warranty? This did not apply to Dead On Arrival machines (not that the maintenance company told me " in fact, they never replied despite a fax and two phone calls).I even tried to get some favour by saying I was a Guardian journalist. You'll be delighted to hear this did me no good whatsoever. As reasoned conversation gave way to out and out screaming, I said to Lexon's managing director, Richard Soley: "Listen, if I was reviewing this machine, you'd be round here personally to fix it."Soley replied: "You're not comparing like with like. Listen, we got one good review " and that earned us £2m. As an end user you're just not as important to us as a reviewer."Ouch. A week later, I got my machine back with a new hard drive. (True they sent it to my house, rather than my office as requested, which cost me a further £17 in redelivery charges, but by this point I had stopped getting angry.) Since then it has worked perfectly and I'm very pleased with it.Last week, I spoke very calmly with Soley. Lexon has increased its production facilities and its phone systems (I was able to get through quite easily this time), and they now pay for DOA returns. I would almost go as far as recommending their machines to anyone seeking a bargain.Perhaps the magazines should have done a bit more research on whether Lexon could have satisfied the demand they created, rather than simply seeing how quickly a machine could open a spreadsheet. (I've spoken with a number of reviews editors who say they are now including these factors in their recommendations.)It also points to a much broader problem: that for a number of reasons, PCs are shockingly unreliable. A survey last year by Windows magazine in the US reported that some 13% of machines arrive DOA.Nik Rawlinson, reviews editor of PCW, which raved about Lexon's PCs, says this figure is too high for the UK and Lexon's Soley at says their figure is around 5%. But a figure of 10% seems to be the unwritten industry rule, which is still worrying.Some say it serves me right for buying from a mail order box shifter, and I should have gone to Gateway or Dell. Well, two years ago, I told two friends who run a small business: "Go to Gateway, their service is fabulous".Within 24 hours of the Gateway machine arriving I spent two hours on the phone with Gateway support adjusting a badly fitted floppy drive (a common problem, I was told, as if that made it OK). Since then my friends have had the floppy drive, the motherboard, the power unit, the CD drive and the soundcard all replaced. The Zip drive doesn't work but they can't be bothered getting it fixed. The hours wasted on the Gateway helpline have cost them at least as much as the machine in lost work.The real problem is that PCs are anything but standard. Of approximately 100 million boxes sold every year, around 90 million are different from each other. As each machine depends not only on all the individual components being correctly installed and actually working together, this is a recipe for disaster. Add the potential for crashes, deaths and software conflicts and you have another nightmare for users.The result is that compared with TVs, videos and stereos " the other electrical goods with which PCs are fighting for space in the home " PCs are more expensive and less reliable. Is anyone doing anything to really change this?
Online shoppers could be the first to benefit from a revolutionary 3-D web graphics system being unveiled in the UK today.The Canoma system, from MetaCreations, allows surfers using Macs and PCs to down-load, view and move around photo-realistic 3-D images. It is being targeted at online retailers, which have struggled so far to show off their wares using catalogue-style static pictures on the web.Canoma has been launched in the US only recently , alongside its sister technology MetaStream, which allows the images to appear quickly on the screen system as they download.But it is already being put to a wide range of uses, from broadcaster CBS's Joan of Ark site to car vendor Autobytel's 3-D virtual showroom, and is being credited with impressive growth at one online vendor, according to Gary Lauer, chief executive of MetaCreations."One of the sites using MetaStream, called styleclick.com, is a fairly significant fashion portal," he says. "They're selling clothes, watches, shoes " all the things you'd expect to find in a big retailer. They put a number of products up in 3-D and found that the 3-D products are outselling the 2-D products by around 10 to one."I thought that was a pretty good endorsement early on of what this is all about." Aside from the streaming technology which speeds up viewing for users, Canoma developer Robert Seidl says there will be significant time savings for web designers too, bringing large-scale 3-D catalogues within the reach of more electronic retailers."It's quite a different technique to making a normal 3-D image," says Seidl. "Usually you start from scratch, make a model create the geometry, and work hard to make it realistic. Canoma uses the pixels from the source image, created using digital cameras."  It is this ability to create   3-D images from snaps taken by now-common digital cameras which is the key to Canoma's potential.The picture-taking technology is called MetaFlash, which allows an object " even a face " to be photographed once normally, and then again with bright stripes projected over it by a modified flash unit."You look a bit like someone from Alcatraz," laughs Seidl, "but the idea is that if the object were flat, the stripes would be straight. Over an object, the stripes are not going to be straight. What the software can do with that is reconstruct the contours of the object from the stripes projected over it, to a great amount of detail."And it's fast " from taking the photograph to rotating it on screen takes five minutes. And it's very detailed   geometry " around 30,000 triangles or so, with the exact texture registered   on top of that."The company also promises users will not need high-end  workstations. "Our stuff works on middle-of-the-range machines," says Seidl. He also points out the client software, which allows users to view 3-D files, is a download of only 500K, which means you don't need the best G3 Mac or Pentium to view the pictures.He adds: "We're trying to open up this to more than just 3-D imaging  people " there are   people out there who know how to use Photoshop, Dreamweaver or Cyberstudio already, and we want them to feel confident."The pictures will match the visual appeal of jpegs " the 3-D pictures will not start to look like a 1960s graphics demonstration, because you have to compete with print."A lot of 3-D solutions which have been around previously don't come close to this mark, but if you are selling to people who make money " rather than who display things for the sake of displaying things " then you really have to compete with photographic quality."www.metacreations.com
Pro BonoBono from U2 will take part in an online chat session at 9pm tonight to support the Jubilee 2000 Coalition's Drop The Debt campaign. J2K wants netizens to sign a petition asking politicians to alleviate the problem of Third World debt. Microsoft is hosting the online chat and the petition athttp://dropthedebt.msn.co.uk. J2K has already collected eight million signatures including the Dalai Lama, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, David Bowie, and Catatonia. The petition will be handed in at the G8 Summit in Cologne on June 19. The summit itself is being covered on eCollege. com's site atwww.g8online.orgwhich is promising live interviews during the G8 meetings from June 16-20. The site has a link to the G8 Information Centre at the University of Toronto,http://www.g7.utoronto.caFood fightGM food fans can now type their post code into theFriends of the Earthwebsite at  and find the five nearest places where genetically modified crops are being grown. A map shows how the crops are distributed in the UK. The information has been supplied by the government, but the FOE has made it easier to access.Rock onGlastonbury is on the horizon, (June 25-27) and those planning to go will find theofficial siteuseful   and those who aren't can still drop by to play with Rex-Web's special buttons. Thetown's siteat  andSelect Magazine, a festival sponsor, are also providing information.BitchingBernadette Taylor has just launched "the cutest internet watchdog"www.prairie-dog.netto fight the Australian government's attempt to censor the net. Down under, however, the English-born protester is better known for her amateur porn site atwww.bernadette.net, where she acts as a "virtual girlfriend". Taylor says 4,316 individuals used government-provided internet access to visit her porn site during working hours, and her server logs and credit card details reveal visits by politicians or their staff, and others in "interesting positions". Of course, they may have been looking for The Song of BernadetteFolding stuffPieces and Creases: A Fun Guide To Origami, a superbwebsitecreated by four 11 year olds from Vidor Middle School in Texas, has won the past year's ThinkQuest Junior educational Web design competition. All the winners are now online. The Microsoft/NBC news sitemsnbc.comhas now added ThinkQuest to its Learning Online section  ThinkQuest's library includes 1,700 sites by students aged 12-19 from all over the world. Details of the 2000 contest are atwww.thinkquest.orgGoo gooYou're the first to know: I'm expecting a beautiful Millennium Baby " a girl called Jane " and I'll be following her development atwww.millenniumbaby.nl/eng(The site has been produced by MMM Interactive Communications in the Netherlands, so leave off the /eng/ if you want a Dutch baby.) The online pregnancy has many advantages over the old biological approach, including a pain-free delivery on the desired day.Hush hushBR&gt;   Want to keep your email secret? HushMail is offering a free web-based service that uses uncrackable 1,024-bit encryption. (Messages sent to external mailboxes arrive as plain text.) Users can even sign up anonymously atwww.hushmail.comFriendsSony has finally launched Friend Factory, after months of testing, but will net users flock towww.friendfactory.comto build their home pages (15MB of free space), get an email address, swap eNotes, and open chat rooms and discussion groups? Or will the direct marketing bods rule?Medi-HelpA family firm from Whitby in North Yorkshire has launched a contact directory of organisations that support the sick and disabled. The Medi-Help site atwww.medi-help.co.ukhas an alphabetical directory of about 250 organisations but no sound-alike search feature. If you want to search for, say, dyslexia, you have to be able to spell it.  Jack SchofieldSix of the best: Movie sitesChats, trivia, that trailerwww.starwars.comAll you wanted to knowwww.imdb.comThe giant movie resourcewww.hollywood.comWhizz bang effectswww.whatisthematrix.comFilm buff tells it straightwww.aint-it-cool-news.comAnd, of course...www.filmunlimited.co.uk
Some friends  and I blew up the Death Star last night, freeing the galaxy from the Emperor's evil tyranny. Not bad for a Wednesday night's work.I used to be someone who got his gaming addiction out of his system by playing and reviewing three or four games a week at work. That was until a friend introduced me to the gaming equivalent of crack: playing online against other gamers. I should have said no. I should have stamped on my modem. I didn't " and now it's too late.Played in Single Player mode, games like Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance, or gorier shoot-'em ups like Half-Life or Quake II are simply enjoyable, ingenious wastes of time, you against the computer. Click on the Multiplayer option, though, and you discover a whole new way of playing computer games. You can launch into an online match through the game itself, or go to a website that brings together itchy trigger fingers from all over the world.You can chat with them, discuss tactics, or simply get down to the real reason you're all there: playing games. All you need is a decent PC, a speedy modem, and most importantly, housemates who don't mind you tying up the phone line for an hour or two.If the chat-room gamers aren't discussing the incredible lengths to which they "rule" and their opponents "suck", then the talk is full of obscure references to internet technology and gaming tweaks like "pings", "FOV", "push latency", and "water-hacked maps". None of it makes much sense unless you regularly play over the internet, and to make it even more confusing almost every term is deliberately abbreviated. Asking them to explain anything shows you up as a "newbie", guaranteed to provide easy pickings once the game starts.Playing with your mates over the internet guarantees a far better standard of pre-match chat and remember, the most advanced computer's AI  (Artificial Intelligence) is no match for the smarts of a true friend, motivated by that tenner you still owe him.Teaming up for matches is also an option, although the best teamplay always comes from people who regularly play together. The most frighteningly cohesive performance I've ever seen in a game of Quake II's "Capture the Flag" came from the Taliban XI, a group of friends from Marseille who modelled their purist approach to Quake II on the fundamentalist Islamic group, and their "rotating squad" approach on Vialli's Chelsea.Nowadays it would be commercial suicide for any major new PC game not to include the option of a multiplayer version over the net. Online gaming has recently gone legit in a large way with the advent of the Professional Gamers' League. The American-based League has been running for only a year, but already attracts more than  $3m in sponsorship and has made its champion a star. He plays under the moniker "Thresh", but in real life goes by the altogether less intimidating name of Dennis Fong. He is effortlessly better than everyone else, Michael Johnson to everyone else's Roger Black, and won more than  $100,000 last year alone, as well as a shiny new Ferrari.The best professional gamers all have groupies, earn fortunes, and fans can even buy trading cards featuring their heroes' pictures and gaming stats. Thousands of gamers turn up for the end of season finals, and watch the action on huge screens, screamed along by the hysterical commentators as lives are lost on the screen, galaxies conquered and fortunes made, while down on the competitors' stage... almost everything is still. There is little movement from the players apart from the quick, deft moves of the mouse on pad, with the occasional click as a rocket launcher or jet pack is fired up.It is truly geekdom gone stark raving mad. It's too late for me of course, I'm 24 " the gaming equivalent of Paul Gascoigne. The talents you need to be exceptional at these games " lightning reflexes, fierce cunning and the desire to practise eight hours a day " have long since passed me by. But it's satisfying to think that in years to come, children will be ordered by responsible parents to put their books down and start playing Quake IX again, if they want to achieve anything in an online world where the gamer is king.To play the blockbusters like Half-Life and Unreal online, you'll need to own the actual games. Some launch through a built-in multiplayer facility, although often it's easier to use a website to host the game for you, and the sites have simpler games that don't require you to own the software. A good place to start is the Microsoft site atwww.zone.msn.com, or you could try the BT site atwww.wireplay.co.uk. Both are free.¥ Paul Trueman is a writer at PC Advisor
OutcastPC CD-Rom £39.99InfogramesPentium P200, 32MB RamDirector's credits, orchestral score and a decent script. Those unstable demarcation lines between film and interactive entertainment are blurring once more. The latest contender is Outcast, a sprawling third-person sci-fi adventure set in a parallel universe whose very existence threatens Earth. You play Cutter Slade, a dry-humoured tough guy, and as you'd expect, the fate of the world rests on your broad shoulders.So far, so predictable, but start playing and you'll see a different approach both in look and gameplay. There is plenty of running, jumping and shooting but the big innovation is the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI). This is integral to the whole experience as your actions influence the response of every inhabitant. Gun-toting tendencies result in total ostracism and a smooth line in friendly chit-chat is necessary to progress anywhere. All this gives a wonderful non-linearity with numerous sub-quests rewarding the talkative player.The impressive score adds a suitably epic ambience. Creating believable outdoor environments seems the holy grail for games designers and here the voxel-based look creates an other-worldly feel, with mountains fading into distant horizons and undulating landscapes offering a welcome change from claustrophobic corridors. The graphical engine doesn't support 3D cards so things do get annoyingly pixellated at close quarters.Action, stealth and character interaction have been mixed before but not on this scale. The atmosphere is enough to make you ignore some of the rougher graphical glitches and you'll feel rightly proud as you do your bit for inter-dimensional diplomacy.Greg HowsonStar Wars: The Phantom MenacePC CD-RomLucasarts £34.99What, no health warning? Released a month before the movie and drawing heavily on its plot, this game could seriously damage your enjoyment of the film.     Marketing quibbles aside, it's everything you'd expect of a third-person adventure, and no more: blinding cut scenes, impressive 3D environments and effects (processing power permitting), and detailed yet oddly geometric characters.Gameplay is chiefly combat-based, but get some Savlon for that itchy sabre finger; judicious use of the Force often yields the best results.On the dark side, the dynamic overhead perspective makes it impossible to see what you're doing as often as it looks cool; the story is straitjacket-linear; and the puzzles and battles are more of a test of pinkie power than grey matter. Like the film, the game won't disappoint those who enjoyed the original trilogy " in this case Tomb Raider, Unreal and Half-Life.Andy Bodle
Little old ladies are, for once, the new frontier: they represent the next and last target for internet entrepreneurs like Texas-based Joseph Lacey, who has launched theGrannysRUsWeb site for "lady senior citizens". The web may be only six years old, but it is starting to go grey as "silver surfers" arrive in droves. In fact, the SeniorsCom site claims that "Seniors are the fastest growing audience online".Logically the change is a simple reflection of demographics: in the developed west, the population is ageing fast. But the impact will be much greater because it's the trend-setting, free-spending generation of "baby boomers" that is now passing 50. People who once sang, with The Who, "I hope I d-d-d-die before I get old" are still slinging their guitars over their shoulders and strutting their stuff, with or without the benefit of personal trainers, cosmetic surgery and recreational pharmaceuticals.David Bowie, who has made BowieNet one of the coolest places on the web, is now 52 years old. Cher, Alice Cooper, MeatLoaf, Stevie Nicks, Linda Ronstadt, Donna Summer, Carlos Santana and Steve Winwood are also in their 50s, as is Jann Wenner, the founder of Rolling Stone magazine. So are such diverse celebrities as Arnold Schwarzenegger, Ted Danson, Diane Keeton, Kevin Kline, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Olivia Newton-John and Hayley Mills. Ali MacGraw and Elliott Gould are already in their 60s, while Patrick McGoohan and James Garner are in their 70s.The greying of the population is being hastened by declining fertility rates and declining mortality rates: people are having fewer children, and they're living longer. According to Age Concern, which is funded by the Department of Health, the percentage of the world population aged 60 or over will increase from 10% to 31% between 1995 and 2150. In the US, the number of people aged 24-34 is expected to fall by 11% by 2010 (from 43 million to 38 million), while the number aged 55-64 swells by 77% (from 21 million to 37 million). In the UK, the number of over 60s is expected to grow from 12 million in 1996 to 17 million in 2026.The United Nations has made 1999 theInternational Year of Older Persons, but clearly this is just the start of a trend that is only just starting to affect the Internet in the UK.In every age group from 15 to 54, there are more Internet users than would be expected, compared with the population as a whole, according to Nick Gibson of City firm, Durlacher Research. But that is not the case with the over 65s, who make up 20% of the population but only 4% of residential Internet users.Organisations like Age Concern and Age Resource are trying to help. Age Resource is launching an online chat forum for the over 50s, BabyBoomerBistro, and it has already established 62 "computer helpdesks" in local offices and libraries.Age Concern's Sarah Berger, manager of the UK secretariat for the UN's International Year of Older Persons, says "the helpdesks have taken off in a big way". Age Resource has also published a popular booklet, Grasp the Nettle, to help older people get on to the net.Berger saysBabyBoomerBistrohad a trial run last month when social security minister Stephen Timms and three other ministers logged on to chat with older people about what sorts of things they needed from government. The site is expected to be fully operational next month.The Cabinet Office is backing a two-year programme in this area,Better Government for Older Peoplewhich was launched last June. It has 28 pilot projects being run with local authorities and organisations such as Age Concern, Help the Aged, The Anchor Trust, the Carnegie Third Age Programme, Warwick University and computer company ICL. The idea is for older people to help develop the kind of IT services that they would find useful.Martin Shreeve, the programme's director, says:  "Better Government for Older People has shown that older people and IT do mix: they've caught on very quickly. The myth was that they were frightened of new technology or didn't have the skills: we'd argue that they didn't have the opportunity."Which is not to say there's a sudden passion for electronic government and online access to information about pensions. "Older people are finding that they can email their grandchildren in Australia and elsewhere and they actually reply! They don't reply to letters," says  Shreeve.Hairnet, set up by Emma Solomon and Caroline Lambie, agrees, and is using cybercafes to train over 50s to use computers.According to Lambert, typicalHairnetcustomers include housewives who want to keep in touch with children and grandparents who want to join in with their computer-literate grandchildren."We also have a lot of people who have been forced into early retirement, and want to set up their own companies or consultancies. A lot of the older ones are hobbyists doing genealogical research or writing memoirs," Lambie says, "or tracing people from their past. The courses also attract older people with mobility problems, or who are quite unwell. They see the Internet as somewhere where they can do research and hook up with other people. They find it very empowering."We actually get more women than men coming along," adds Lambie. "They tend to have been teachers or secretaries and they tend to be more comfortable with keyboards, which a lot of the men haven't used. It's quite funny when a husband and wife come together and the wife picks it up more quickly!"But Lambie thinks the new interest in older people "is partly to do with the commercialisation of the Internet, and people seeing the power of the ‘grey pound'. A lot of interest was triggered by a Microsoft report last year, which showed that older people were spending more time online, and spending it more productively".Unfortunately there aren't many UK websites designed to appeal to older people, says Lambie, but Hairnet is developing one called GreyMatters, with the backing of financial software company AVT. She also recommendsI Don't Feel 50, which 57-year-old Graham Andrews developed after taking early retirement. It's livelier than most Andrews says: "I don't want to upset anyone but I've got to say it: many of the organisations for the 50+ group are a bit po-faced and institutional. I know a lot of people work very hard in difficult circumstances helping the 50+ but we're fitter and we're enjoying life and we don't want the ‘aged' tag."And because there are so many of us, we've got great power now, if we can learn how to use it."Things are more advanced in the US, where there are already 8 million Internet users over 50. They're catered for by specialised sites such asSeniorCom, founded by Tom Poole in 1995, andThirdAge. Yahoo!, the web's favourite directory, also offers aSeniors' Guidethat claims "You're never too old to Yahoo!"ThirdAge couldn't be regarded as po-faced, more "in your face". Its breathless blurb says: "You're starting your own business. Discovering peak sex. Learning new web tips and tricks. Moving from fat to fit. Planning for a wealthy retirement. Design your ThirdAge here." Current features include "Jokes that Make the Toughest Blush!", Dr David Schnarch on Risky Sex in Public Places, and numerous pieces on Viagra.But most British seniors haven't even heard of these sites, let alone visited them. They're so busy they just don't have the time.This might not seem obvious, but the UK seniors who are now on the net were never slackers and they're not going to stop working just because they've retired. If they're not starting small businesses they're working for charities, running clubs, taking Open University degrees or studying with one of the many"third age universities"instead.Ken Bush, now 74, is a good example. A former chartered surveyor and road engineer, he's spent his retirement working to save lives via a charity in rural Lincolnshire. (That's not how he'd put it, but I can.) He wasn't a computer buff -  "I used to hate the damn things! Mainframes that used to churn out sheets and sheets of all sorts of rubbish!" - but took on the responsibility for computerising Lives, the Lincolnshire Integrated Voluntary Emergency Service. Later he started to use a PC to email his three children " one of whom works for a hospital in Seattle, Washington " and a friend who moved to Canada. Now he's starting to browse the net using BT's ClickFree, but if he has a complaint, it's that the web is not instructional enough.Another British net user, 59-year-old Anne Walford, is now on her fourth computer, having started with an Acorn BBC Microcomputer: "I used to teach teachers how to use them in the classroom," she says. "I'm also a liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, which is based on the members helping society " it's focus is outgoing " and I'm involved in various charities and educational projects. Not for money."Walford says: "The most useful thing for me is the email facility, especially now my son has gone to live in America," She used BT Internet but switched to America Online because she found its email system much easier to use. She also uses the web for research. "I'm trying desperately to make myself more competent at searching," she says, "but I don't play around. I've tried the chat rooms, but I find them rather trite. I'd like to join an online bridge club but haven't had the time"With commerce, government and entertainment moving to the Internet, older people will find more and more reasons to go online. As Andrews says: "It's a basic requirement for people now: besides the three Rs, you must have computer skills. Training has got to be made available to everybody, but how do you pay for it?"Multimedia memory goes looking  for the great traditionIn March 1999, Steve Thompson, station manager of Wolf Fm, a community broadcasting project, visited the drop-in centre of Walker Heath Project, Newcastle on Tyne. He planned to record the older members' memories and transfer them to the Wolf Fm oral history website, to be enjoyed by people all over the world. He did not get an altogether positive reception. One woman, when told that the internet was going to be used, said, "No thanks. That thing's evil. I wouldn't have it in my house."After this somewhat shaky start, Newcastle City Council's Libraries and Information Service,Priority Services Department, and Wolf Fm formed a partnership to encourage older people use the internet and publish their stories. On May 25, Byker Library hosted Digital Memories Day, which accessed history via senior citizens' memories on the internet.Janice Hall, priority services manager, said: "Technology is not just for the benefit of businesses and young people. It is also for the benefit of older people. It can transform their memories for a world wide audience."And what of the memories? They are funny, touching and sad, but all, says Steve Thompson, "bring the past to life in words, pictures and sound. Older people are not only experiencing the benefits of multimedia, they are actually part of the process of making a multi-media resource". Go to theWolf Fmwebsite   to see Beatie Calboutin and hear her story. Beatie is 84 years old and remembers a day when her grandmother decided that they would have a treat, and sent her for "half a pound of dates to eat in the pictures". On her way to the shop, Beatie heard a noise being made by a group of women, banging enamel dishes, while taunting a young woman. Beatie's grandmother said they were "drumming her out hinny. She was a bad lass who had been thick with two married men, both with children".Digital Memories Day was a success. The woman in the photo said: "Show me how to get the picture up of Beatie, she says she's on the web page and I want to see her." The internet had been given Beatie's seal of approval so her friend was more confident about accessing the web site. Not bad for someone who, weeks before, had regarded it as a tool of the devil.
It's a computer company that so dominates its home market that IBM and Compaq are beaten into distant second and third places. A company which aims to be one of the ten biggest PC makers in the world by next year. A firm whose chairman champions motivational stock options for staff. And it's state owned - by the Chinese government.It is fitting that the company handing out a lesson in capitalism and creating such a stir in the Asian computer market is called Legend. The company's chairman, Liu Chuanzhi, is himself just that in China, having been honoured both as Model of the National Work Force and Man of Reform in 1995. This week he is visiting London and Edinburgh to spread the word about the company he has managed since its birth in 1984.The institutional investors he is meeting (Legend is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange) are likely to be impressed by much of what they hear.Legend - dubbed by some the IBM of China - has its fingers in several big pies. It makes and sells PCs for the Chinese market, acts as distributor for foreign peripherals, provides system integration solutions and makes motherboards - the heart of computer systems - which it uses in its own machines and exports to small PC makers.Sales revenue in the financial year just ended was up 85%, and the company has outperformed even the rapidly expanding Chinese PC market by 200% in the last two years, mainly thanks to an unrivalled 2,000-strong list of domestic distributors for its core computer products, and the trust of a population it realises must be educated before it can be sold to. Chairman Liu now wants to lead Legend into the Fortune 500, and as early as next year into the world top 10 of PC makers - all just by selling to China.But only two years ago, Legend's position - and the PC picture in China - was very different. The company was losing millions, lagging behind multinational names familiar to the west including IBM, Hewlett-Packard and Compaq. So Legend launched a price war, driving prices down with three price cuts within 12 months, while simultaneously working on the quality of its products and after-sales service. Not surprisingly, Legend quickly snatched market share from its foreign rivals, as well as scores of Chinese low-volume clone manufacturers who, between them, still have around 60% of the market.Now you can buy a Legend Pentium II-based desktop PC, complete with a suite of Chinese software and as much after sales support as you need for around £750 - 30% less than IBM or Compaq which were - and still are - hampered by import tariffs and higher costs.But, as Liu prepared to start his promotional efforts this week, he was quick to point out that Legend's success is not built on preferential treatment from the government: lower costs have been delivered through fastidious inventory management, recognising the fact that many a PC company has suffered from having too many, or too few, parts and machines lying in store.Local knowledge also helps, he says. "The PC was designed around the habits of westerners. But in China things are very different from the United States, or the UK. There, when a user buys a PC he is expected to buy his own software and install it himself. In China the user wants a PC with all the necessary applications ready to be used immediately."Liu adds that education of the vast population is also vital for sales. "We also want to educate the market, to develop the customers' awareness and help them become familiar with the use of PCs through marketing events - we recently ran our Hundred Cities Roadshow through 100 large and medium-sized cities in China. We have also researched very carefully our after-sales service."But if an education process in a country where only one in every 175 people uses a PC sounds like good sense, other moves by Legend are less transparent. Not least is Legend's realigning of its entire corporate strategy around the internet, in a country where the government is ambivalent at best and hostile occasionally to its incursion. But, explains Liu, "it is obvious that the internet is important not only to the western world, but also to China."We are met with challenges," he adds. "There 
is the high cost, the language barrier and the problem of speed because of telecommunications equipment. But despite the restrictions there is good momentum - there are two million internet users already - and when these limitations are solved, and if China further deregulates, the potential will be huge."Legend seems perfectly placed to tap into any demand after the creation of an alliance with Microsoft, Philips, Acer of Taiwan and Chinese home appliance giant Haier Group. In a move which seems as canny for 
Bill Gates as it does for Legend, the consortium will produce a set-top box retailing for a mere £80 to £120, but which will be feature packed; it will include video compact disc (VCD) capabilities, internet access and simplified versions of MS Word and Excel.VCD has been a huge success in China - 40 million players have been sold, against 11 million PCs - and getting the box on top of even a small proportion of China's 200 million colour TV sets will represent a major coup.It is one which Liu seems confident of achieving. Only last month investment banker Goldman Sachs gave the company "market outperformer" status, calling it a "PC company on adrenaline" and suggesting it was undervalued.Liu prefers to avoid such hyperbole, letting the numbers do most of the talking and saying only there is "great potential". But, as he continues his tour this week, you sense he sees this as only the start of something bigger.
A nationwide internet-based network linking polling stations in remote villages and strife-torn townships played a crucial part in the peaceful outcome of South Africa's second democratic election last week.Each of  the 18 million votes cast on June 2 was processed by computer in the capital Pretoria.  Satellite and internet technology delivered results from polling stations in areas  without mains electricity and telephones to a central  database.The outcome was a first for South Africa: an accurate count 24 hours after polls closed, avoiding the violent disputes which marred the historic 1994 election.  The main mishap, a double entry which gave the opposition Inkatha Freedom Party an extra 800,000 votes, was detected within an hour. Five years ago, results took nine days to extract from the chaotic but crucial election."Each of those nine days eroded the credibility of the election," said Howard Sackstein, director of planning at the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC), which ran both polls.Ensuring that the June 2 poll was secure and transparent involved assembling South Africa's first electoral roll and drawing up the first accurate maps. Apartheid-era maps often missed townships housing millions of people. The new maps, created electronically on a custom-built geographical information system,  ensured that each polling station had at most 3,500 voters, to avoid repeating the three-day queues of 1994.At the close of polls, South Africa's 14,500 polling stations sent results to Pretoria in triplicate: by phone, by fax and through a 155 mbit/s data network. More than 500 satellite terminals carried the data in areas without fixed lines. For a count to be verified at Pretoria, it had to arrive by at least two media.In the event, most results came in only by phone; election centre staff had to chase thousands of polling stations to confirm the count by fax or data network. The Election Centre, equipped with 600 PCs and 120 fax lines, monitored developments at polling stations throughout the day, checking that stations were open, and that they closed on time.The system relied on a suite of Microsoft products, including SQL Server 7.0, Office 97 and Internet Explorer 4 running on HP hardware. The vote-handling system ran well under capacity, unlike theIEC's Web sitewhich at one stage was groaning under the strain of 350,000 hits an hour.The only serious counting mistake was caused by the double entry of more than a million votes. The IEC said that finding the discrepancy was a triumph for the technology. But that did not impress two opposition parties whose poll rankings were mistakenly switched.In 1994, a hastily contrived NT system produced spurious results and crashed, adding to the election's uncertainty. "There were no NT skills in the entire country," Sackstein said. "The email didn't work until a week after the election."The election IT system was created with an eye to export markets. "It is a transferable solution useable anywhere in the world," said Pierre Dalton, of Andersen Consulting, which managed the project. While sales opportunities in the rest of Africa have so far failed to show up, Britain's Labour party is understood to be interested in the software to help track its members.
Garry Norris, a star witness for the US government in the Microsoft anti-trust trial, yesterday served up more damaging evidence against the software giant.Mr Norris, a mid-level manager from IBM, told the court how Microsoft offered to cut the price of its Windows operating system for IBM if IBM did not ship a competing browser from Netscape. Mr Norris produced handwritten notes of the meeting in March 1997.One notebook entry cited the Microsoft executive as saying that if IBM
agreed to "no Netscape" on its personal computers, then IBM would receive a lower price for
Windows. A central government allegation is that Microsoft used its market dominance of operating systems to try to bend companies as powerful as IBM to its will.The testimony by Mr Norris is the first time a PC maker has said that Microsoft proposed tying Windows' price not just to promoting the Microsoft browser but to excluding Netscape's. In his second day of testimony, Mr Norris provided further testimony that Microsoft tried to use its market power to prod PC makers to favour Microsoft products over competing software. Mr Norris negotiated with Microsoft for IBM's personal computer division from 1995 to 1997.Microsoft, Mr Norris said, used the complex pricing formula for its industry-standard Windows operating system to wield influence. The US government alleges that Microsoft offered PC makers discounts on Windows for promoting and supporting Windows and for blocking other products.Still, Mr Norris acknowledged that IBM did eventually reach an agreement with Microsoft in 1997 to
distribute Internet Explorer without excluding Netscape as Microsoft had allegedly proposed. IBM chose to ship both browsers and so did not try to obtain the discounts for Windows.A Microsoft spokesman said the company had no information that such an offer had been made in
March 1997. "Certainly, no such proposal was ever pursued or consummated," said Mark Murray,
the company spokesman.Mr Murray said of the March 1997 meeting that Bengt Ackerlind, the Microsoft executive, had been referring only to the software to be loaded on a prototype "Broadcast PC", an expensive computer with television
features that IBM and Microsoft considered developing years ago but eventually cancelled. 
 
Mr Murray also noted that IBM continues to this day to distribute rival software on its popular line of
desktops and portable Thinkpad machines. The price IBM pays for Windows remains among the
lowest in the industry, he said. But e-mail correspondence from Mr Norris about plans for the Broadcast PC indicated that Microsoft had offered IBM other incentives - including the secret blueprints to Windows - if it agreed to "neutralise" its desktops and Thinkpads and even its business-level servers by removing "objectionable software".Mr Norris is the second of four government witnesses to testify in the final phase of the trial that began last October.
Green gaugeIt being Green Transport Week, Avis UK has decided to find out how green we are. According to their survey . . .• 55% of drivers would never take a bus and 72% would never consider cycling• People in the north east of England are most likely to use public transport; whereas 90% of those in the south west say they could not manage without a car.• East Anglians are the keenest cyclists - hardly surprising given the terrain.• And women are twice as likely as men to fall in love with their cars - though Autoparts isn't sure what this has to do with greenness.Quote of the Week"If the US Air Force had let Lexus design their smart bombs, Nato wouldn't be in such a mess and they'd all be sitting around in the Chinese embassy today, eating snakes."Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
Even the most inattentive road user must have noticed how roads, lamp-posts and trees everywhere have sprouted pictures of bikes over the last two years. There are bikes painted in blocks of green at traffic lights. Narrow strips now appear sporadically at the side of roads showing a bike at the start and the word "END" soon after. But do any road users, including cyclists, have the faintest idea what these mean, let alone whether they add up to anything useful for cyclists?I do the odd trip by bike but feel too daunted by London's traffic for anything more extensive. So I've only wondered idly about these signs. Are they a new kind of municipal art? Tree dressing perhaps? Does a bike hovering over the head of a mother and child warn of the presence of stunt riders? When a picture of a bike carries a comment such as "Cycle lane. Look both ways," is it addressed to the driver, the pedestrian or the cyclist? Real cyclists, I imagined, those men in Lycra shorts and ergonomic helmets, probably understood the language.Gradually it has dawned on me that the only difference between me and "real" cyclists is the Lycra shorts. Dan Joyce, editor of Cycling Plus, the enthusiasts' magazine, says that each month he publishes readers' photos of the most confusing and puzzling road signs. This month's showed a bike lane with an arrow pointing into iron railings. "A lot of provision for cycling is abysmally bad," says Joyce, "nothing but pure tokenism."Some can also be downright dangerous. The ubiquitous discontinuous bike lanes suddenly pitch a cyclist going at top speed into general traffic, usually at what are euphemistically called "pinch points". The south circular road near Catford is a puzzling patchwork of small bursts of lanes and dog-legs onto the pavement. Several patches are only about 10 metres long. Signs appear to vary between councils and some, like those allowing cycles to enter one-way streets in the opposite direction, are often utterly unintelligible. The commonly used sign for bike routes, the bike on a blue rectangle, confuses pedestrians who believe it means cyclists use the pavement, inflaming an already tense relationship. Others complain there's too little difference between cycles on blue (meaning cycle route) and cycles inside red circles (meaning no cycles).At some junctions there are no less than seven different signs for cyclists as they approach, including the ubiquitous bike on the head, two different icons for bike lanes, an advanced stop line and even a cyclist dismount sign. Even after close scrutiny it is not clear what you should do. Wandsworth council is responsible for this outbreak. Their cycling officer Mahmood Tziki says the problem arises because two London network routes cross at the junction of a "red route" imposed by the director of transport. Red route rules forbid any limitation on the existing volume of traffic so they could not install dedicated bike lanes. Perhaps it's unfair to criticise Wandsworth, but common sense suggests such a complicated junction is not the moment to bombard the hapless cyclist with incomprehensible information.Richard Evans of the Environmental Transport Association (the green alternative to the AA) and a sponsor for this week's Green Transport Week, says that dedicated cyclists like himself call these "diffacilities", where cycling facilities make cycling more dangerous. Evans and his family have given up their car, so they resent things like bike lanes that allow parking, forcing the cyclist to swerve in and out of traffic. Some dedicated cyclists also resent networks which send them meandering round circuitous routes when they want direct routes that treat cycling as a form of transport rather than a leisure pursuit. Others are concerned that certain signs encourage cyclists to put themselves in road positions that most drivers do not understand as they are not up to date with the highway code. Have you read it since you passed your test?Lynn Sloman of Transport 2000 says that current chaos is a symptom of the lack of commitment and overall vision for cycling. Up until now, she says, responsibility lay with individual councils, some of whom were high on rhetoric and pathetic on delivery. "They seem to think putting in cycling facilities means the odd white line on the road and a picture of a bicycle. There really is no comparison with Germany and the Netherlands, where high quality dedicated bike lanes genuinely do make people feel safe."This government wants to double the number of cyclists by 2002 and again by 2012. In ads they exhort us to follow Eddie Izzard's lead and shun our limos in favour of the humble bike. This is part of the post-Rio strategy on sustainable development. But incoherence prevails. Its promising that future funding to local councils will be on the basis of the quality of their local transport plans, forcing them to have strategies for traffic reduction and increased use of public transport. But there is no guarantee a council will prioritise cycling. They could concentrate all their planning in headline-grabbing new bus routes or light railways rather than the many small measures that would improve the cycling environment. In the end, the only thing that will get bums on bike seats is a coherent national strategy providing high quality, comprehensible and safe facilities.
Barcelona's unfinished spires of La Sagrada Familia make a potent reminder of the destructive power of wheeled instruments. Had it not been for an untimely tram squishing Antoni Gaudi, the cathedral's architect, in 1926, the place would probably have been done and dusted by now.Today though, the cathedral's continuing status as a building site has more to do with traffic sclerosis; the city is so full of motors, it's a ready-mix driver's worst nightmare. Barcelona's indigenous contribution to traffic delay is a broad range of cars badged Seat, a company nurtured by Fiat after the war and bankrolled by Volkswagen since1986. Since then, Seat has been a wholesomely filling type of marque in a Findus kind of way - nothing too tasty, but never insipid enough to merit starvation.However, the company has been enjoying a furtive but fundamental revolution. All of its cars are now built upon VW platforms, using quality parts from a gene pool that also feeds Audi, Skoda and (watch this space), Bentley. German parentage has filtered through into various tangibles, particularly the instrument panels and interior furniture.An Ibiza hatchback is chunky and feels like it will withstand any manner of punishment Mediterraneans might throw at it. And throw they do. Whereas we wince at letting our cars go two weeks without a wash, Spaniards happily buff their interiors with ash and use their bumpers as sample boards for other people's paintwork.Despite the insurance premiums, Seat's UK arm shipped right-hand drive examples of the new Toledo back to Barcelona, having decided to use the city's cultural profile as a PR enzyme. (The Toledo, incidentally, takes its name from Spain's home of steel production, not the Triumph of the 1970s.) Seat now has a policy of naming all cars after Spanish towns, such as Arosa, Cordoba and Alhambra, though the inhabitants of Tossa, Banga and Lada are unlikely to know such fame.The apparent reason for testing the new car here was to reinforce the message that the replacement is all about driving for pleasure. In case you missed the point, Seat's Baccanalian slogan, "Enjoy Yourself" is printed onto the number plate of every car. Being a jaded car hack, the most likely way to ensure that I don't enjoy a test drive is to be heartily assured that I will. For once though, the man with the keys was right; the new Toledo is a small-t triumph.First the essentials. Just under £14,300 will see you into a model packing 1.6 litres, while a top-end 2.3 litre V5 costs £17,585. Between them, you can also choose a 1.8 petrol or a 1.9 turbodiesel. Dimensionally, the car hangs round in the company of the Renault Laguna, Honda Accord, Vauxhall Vectra and Toyota Avensis. Dynamically, it is bigger and better than all of them.The Toledo has enough driving and design flair to make it a new class leader. As most Spaniards say, looks are vital. It has a snout that pouts and headlamps that squint like Clint Eastwood in his younger days. Up close, it feels VW-solid and the driving position is racy - perhaps reinforced by the slightly buckety seat and a steering wheel with an ample girth. Much of the surroundings are Audi A3 transplant, but that's no nasty thing.On the road, the gearchange is slick, the ride supple and the steering - if a touch light at higher speeds - never imprecise. The V5 will sing as nicely as most Alfa Romeos and the 1.8 is a good rasper, too, though it can't match its big brother's swift ease on mountain inclines. Equally, the diesel can dislike hard slopes, but manages an average of 56mpg and has the best low-speed acceleration.Specification lists make weary reading, and Seat's goes on and on. All cars get electric (and remote) locking, electric windows, two airbags, air conditioning, ABS and front fog lights. They also have a full three-point centre-rear safety belt, so no one has to run the risk of a lap-belt injury. Like a liberal side-garnish of tapas, the Toledo was heartily filling. Understandably, given the local design input, Barcelona is proud of it. Nationality aside though, it's a pretty and palatable saloon for Europe.
Thursday yielded mixed results for Microsoft. Franklin Fisher, a government witness who is a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, scoffed at the notion that Microsoft faces stiff competition from Linux, freely distributed software, and non-PC "information appliances."Mr Fisher called Linux a "niche operating system," although it is fast winning converts. As for the growth of the information-appliance market, David Boies, the government's lead lawyer, used the same report used by Microsoft on Wednesday. The report, prepared by International Data Corporation, a market research firm, projected the growth of the information-appliance market.Figure 7 which Microsoft pointed to on Wednesday, projected that in 2001, shipments of information appliances will surpass those of consumer PCs. Mr  Boies, however, pointed to Figure 8, which wasn't displayed by Microsoft. It compared the entire PC market -- not just home computers - with the information appliance market, and stated that overall PC shipments will continue to dramatically outpace appliance shipments through 2002. And according to Figure 9, the value of the PC shipments will be about $100 billion more than those of the appliances."Does this suggest that information appliance are going to replace the PC," Mr Boies asked Mr Fisher. "Certainly not," the witness responded.Microsoft did land some blows in by citing documents covering America Online's acquisition of Netscape. Investment bankers retained by AOL showed that Netscape was still managing to distribute its browsers, 160 mmillion copies last year. "There's no credible evidence that Netscape was foreclosed," Microsoft attorney Michael Lacovara told reporters outside the courtroom.At the end of the day, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson urged Mr Boies to address that document, as well as others about the AOL-Netscape deal, when the proceedings resume today. "There is some very interesting information in there," Judge Jackson said.
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson yesterday reminded everyone that he is no friend of Microsoft. Michael Lacovara, a Microsoft lawyer, tried to make the case that the software company faced serious competiton by presenting one document after another.After Mr Lacovara introduced several documents, Judge Jackson, who is hearing the case without a jury calmly asked him to stop, noting that they were "cryptic" and that Professor Franklin Fisher, a government witness, was not familiar with them. What is more, Judge Jackson added, "All this is from last fall. It's not clear whether this is current thinking or just wishful thinking."One document, prepared last November by Goldman Sachs, the investment bank that managed America Online's acquisition of Netscape, asserted that Netscape could become a "more comprehensive desktop application, bundling communications and productivity applications to absorb more share of computing time, with the goal of becoming the user's de facto environment."Mr Lacovara also entered into evidence an email message from last July describing a meeting between Sun Microsystems, a software company, and AOL executives. In the message, a Sun executive said AOL planned to begin using a new browser on its service based on Java, Sun's programming language. This, the Sun executive wrote, would "break the deadly embrace with Microsoft."In his testimony, Mr Fisher an economics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Microsoft's dominance of personal computer operating systems deprived consumers of choice. In his first appearance, Mr Fisher did not quite give the answer the government wanted to hear when he was asked whether Microsoft's business practices hurt consumers. No, he had said.Given a second chance, Mr Fisher changed his tune. Under direct questioning from David Boies, the lead justice department attorney, Mr Fisher emphasized that Microsoft's behaviour does indeed harm consumers. With its 90 per cent share of personal computer operating systems, Mr Fisher said, Microsoft deprived consumers of legitimate choice of software. Microsoft's monopoly power, Mr Fisher testified, also stifled innovation in the computer industry.Mr Fisher is the first of the government's three rebuttal witnesses. Microsoft will have three of its own and this phase of the trial is expected to last several weeks.
Digital Notting HillKarlin Lillington's article (Animators Feel the Pinch, May 27) takes a gloomy view of the UK digital effects scene.  But by highlighting the reliance of films such as The Phantom Menace on spectacular special effects, she ignores the fact that such digital effects are already an important part of many, if not most films' fabric.The Computer Film Company and FrameStore, sister companies, have recently contributed effects to a number of films, including  Notting Hill, which the audience would scarcely be aware of. A school of (CG) fish dart past the camera. Hugh Grant walks down the Portobello Road and the seasons appear to change around him - complex digital effects are used, but not in a manner which draws attention to itself. They also save film producers considerable sums of money - parts of sets on both these films which would have been prohibitively expensive to build. Digital effects have become an integral part of the filmmakers' box of tools. British companies were among the first to develop the new technology and we are well placed to continue to grow.Martin ParkerCFCUnwired MPsI read with interest the extent to which government has become 'wired'. I recently had my own website constructed (www.colinbreedmp.findhere.com) and want to encourage other MPs. A large number don't even have computers, let alone websites.The net has a bad reputation for pornography and violence, this will only change when there are some decent information sites on the web.Colin Breed MPColinBreedMP@compuserve.comSnake oil salesmenI am 82 years old. I bought my first computer, an 8K PET, in 1978. My next was an Amstrad 464. It was then that I came up against the computer problem that has continued to dog me to the present day. The disc drive broke down. I found some one who could repair it but they wanted a sum almost equal to the price of the drive. So I  bought a  66MHz 486 with a 550MB hard disc.Now this has developed an obscure fault, I am sure the cause is simple, but the experts want £35 to collect it and £35 per hour (plus VAT) to fix it. Surely it is time someone took a look at the computer repair industry to avoid rip offs of this type.F AbercrombieWeston Super MareCan some explain why, when to correct the year 2000 bug world wide is going to cost billions of dollars, no one is suing the computer or software firms to recoup some of the cost?As I understand it at least one manufacturer back in the 80s knew that Y2000 was going to happen  and wrote software accordingly. Why did no one else? I know about the 'warranty' and 'exclusions' on software but if someone knowingly sells a faulty product  there should surely be some come back.I cannot see why our taxes and company profits should fill the coffers of the same people who supplied the duff stuff in the first place.Are the Snake Oil Salesmen still alive and well?Vic KnightCarshalton, Surrey
What was your introduction to computers?I started out as an amateur nerd, writing Basic programs in the early 80s. Having failed to make any money as a garden designer I went into commercial computing, first as a programmer (I worked on an ICL 1900 type mainframe, &#91;o/s: George 3!&#93; and a Prime mini ), then as a systems analyst, moving into television software systems and ending up working for a company that specialised in knowledge-based systems. I stayed in the business for 10 years. I loved the work itself, but some of the people were a bit hard to take.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?I've just replaced the PC I had built to my own specification with a store-bought machine (pretty standard/boring: an Acer 1555, running Windows 98). I much prefer home-made, but laziness will out.Are computers important?For everybody. I worry about over-emphasising certain computer "skills" in schools. Learning to think is far more important than keyboard skills and a smattering of some soon-to-be-redundant programming language. The element of my own education that proved most useful in  computing was the kind of thinking that comes from learning Latin. That sense of order, logic, structure.What do you use the machine for?Word processing (but not writing, which I still do with a pen). Keeping track of my life. The Internet. Games (of the logic/math variety).Any particular favourite software?I like Lotus products for everyday use. What I'd really like is one of the Sun Sparc 10 machines (or the equivalent) I used to have on my desk when I worked in systems development. I'd also like to be able to stop typing and just talk to my PC (though that could get a bit tedious for us both).Any favourite websites?There are some very good sites featuring pictures and information on freshwater tropical fish. I like some of the poetry places, for example,the Poetry Societyandthe Poetry Society of America.  A great place to visit isthe University of Dundee'sEnglish page.Are you a geek?I was tempted for a while, but I couldn't find an anorak that fit me.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?Depends on the human. A good cigar might be a safer bet. Forced to choose, I would take the computer, as long as it had a modem and a line to the outside world.What do you see in the future for computers?Terrifying viruses.
Bye, bye bugEd Yourdon, doyen of American computer programmers, has said goodbye to the battle against the Millennium Bug. Yourdon spent five years campaigning about the problem and wrote a book suggesting people prepare for the worst. Now he's removed all the Y2K articles and links from his website because there's no point in talking about it any more: "About the only thing that's still an option, both for organisations and for individuals, is contingency planning and preparations for some degree of disruptions." Yourdon has already left New York and moved to New Mexico.BackDoorUse Microsoft Windows? Check to see if you have a file called BackDoor-G.ldr in your Windows directory or watching.dll in Windows/ System. If so, you may have been hacked. Network Associates Inc, formerly McAfee, says BackDoor-G provides a hacker with almost unlimited control over your PC via the internet. So why would you install such a program? Simple: you thought it was something else. It probably arrived as an email attachment claiming to be a game or a screen-saver. Since the program is a Trojan (Horse) not a virus, it's not likely to be spotted by a virus-checker, but NAI has updated its software to keep a look out for Backdoor as well.Playing cardsA new company, EC1, has been created to market 
e-cards, which are actually CD-Rom discs, though they're around the same size and shape as a business card. Unlike similar cards sold in the US, the short sides aren't semi-circular. Instead, the shiny side of each card has four small nodules that fit inside the sunken area CD trays provide for playing 3in CD singles. E-cards, which were developed in Switzerland, hold about 20Mb of data: more than enough for a corporate or personal promotion. Brighton-based maxim Training is already marketing the same technology under the mediaCardDs label.It's MagexNatWest plans to announce Magex, a new system for enabling digital commerce, today with a full service following in October. Magex users will be able to store cash in a "digital wallet" on their PCs and use the money to buy software and any information delivered electronically. Magex works with information held in secure Digibox containers. The technology behind the service has been created by US-based InterTrust Technologies International, which has formed an alliance with NatWest to launch Magex in the UK.Acorns in storeCastle Technology has taken over the manufacturing of Acorn PCs and is starting to produce Risc PC233 machines based on Intel's 233MHz StrongARM processor. Castle's managing director Jack Lillingston expects "a return to freely available stock" in the autumn. Prices start at £749 plus VAT.DIY DVDHewlett-Packard has announced the first rewritable DVD drive using DVD+RW technology, the HP DVD Writer 3100i. It can put 3.0Gb of data onto a CD-sized disc, which can be used to store 100 minutes of high-quality digital video or 2,000 floppies. The 3100i can also read DVD-Rom, DVD movie, CD-RW, CD-R, CD-Rom and CD audio discs. The first shipments should be available in the autumn.Talking pointsStar Wars could provide a huge boost for a small British company, Innovision, which was started in a garage in Berkshire only five years ago. Andy White, Innovision's 
co-founder and technical director, has developed the new chip that US toy giant Hasbro is using to give its new Phantom Menace action figures the power of speech. Innovision says its CommTech chip is roughly the size of a grain of sand, virtually indestructible, and will last indefinitely without using batteries. The chip can hold the equivalent of 10 pages of text or 8K of data, and is also being marketed under the DataLabel and DataPal brands as a way of identifying things. It may not be too long before supermarket products are able to recite their own sales pitches.
Only a gameAmericans don't think that playing violent video games makes people violent, according to an online survey by PC Data, an industry research company based in Virginia. Graphic TV shows, films and even song lyrics are considered more likely to have a negative impact on behaviour. The survey - based on 6,305 individuals selected to represent the US population - was conducted in the two days after last month's school shootings in Littleton, Colorado. But the results did not show widespread approval for violent games. Almost a third of those surveyed agreed that "Violent computer games have no real effect on adults, but they do have a negative effect on children and teenagers". More than half (52.3%) thought parents should limit the amount of time children spent playing violent games, and 46% agreed that content ratings should be made mandatory by the government.Super salesNintendo's sales for the year to March grew by 7% to the equivalent of $4.70bn, and it made a profit of $704m. It sold about 13.5m Game Boys and almost 8m N64s, bringing the world-wide installed base to 25m. By contrast, the Sega group's sales fell by 21% to $1.78bn and pre-tax profits plunged by 96% to $3.6m for the year. Sega Enterprises  said it operated at a profit but made losses from closing games arcades and unprofitable businesses, and from disposing of inventories of its earlier games console, the Saturn. At a press conference to announce the projected results, Sega's president Shoichiro Irimajiri said "Our company is in a tight bind. The numbers speak for themselves." However, Sega expects to sell more than two million Dreamcast consoles in the US and Europe. "Our vision of a network community will definitely bloom and be reflected by Sega's share price," he added, the shares having hit an all-time low.Call for helpInfogenie has opened a live help-line for video games players. Staff will be offering advice to PC, Sony PlayStation and Nintendo 64 owners from 8am until 11pm every day of the year on 09064 664490. The service costs £1.50 a minute and is charged via the phone bill. InfoGenie says more than 32,000 users have called the computer help-line it set up in March last year, and it has set up an Internet help-line on 09064 664455. The company, founded in Germany, also runs help-lines in Italy and France.Sensible buyCodemasters is taking over Sensible Software, the games developer best known for its Sensible Soccer program, with Sensi-founder Jon Hare joining the Darling brothers at Codemasters. Financial details have not been revealed, and no new titles have been announced, but both are expected later.Virtual armyToy soldiers are going on the march again. US-based 3DO is developing another three titles to capitalise on the success of the first ones. Prepare to defend against Army Men: Air Attack (PC and PlayStation), Army Men: Sarge's Heroes (PlayStation and Nintendo 64) and Army Men III: Toys in Space (PC). The current title, Army Men II, is published by UbiSoft.Race is onStar Wars could dominate the half-term games market with the release tomorrow of Star Wars: Racer and Star Wars: Phantom Menace. Otherwise the Game Boy Color hand-held seems to be in for a flood of offerings, with six games expected: WWF Attitude, All Star Baseball 2000 and Maya the Bee (all Acclaim), F1 World Grand Prix (Nintendo), International Superstar Soccer 99 (Konami), and Obelix (Infogrames). Meanwhile , it seems that the long-awaited Tiberian Sun, the latest offering in Westwood Studios' Command &amp; Conquer series, will be launched on August 27.
In the past Helsinki was noted for the men in shabby suits you would come across at twilight on street corners honking: "Onks tietoo?" This gander like cry was an appeal for "any knowledge" of where you could buy a drink.The licensing laws are now considerably more liberal and honking on street corners has been replaced by mobile phones giving off tinny versions of the opening bars of a pop tune or a sound like Sibelius having trouble with his hamstrings. (The Finns have customised signature tunes).Finland now has the highest penetration of mobile phones in the world; just on 60%. We may imagine we are already infested here, but the penetration in Britain is still only 25%. Cuckoo-like, mobiles have even found nests in what used to be one of Finland's great social resources: masculine existential silences. On road or tram; in shop or bar; skiing or in the sauna, the mobile phone has become a national comfort blanket which men as much as women clasp Linus-like to their ears, while youth in Finland moves like nomadic tribes in constant touch with each other."The mobile phone helps you feel that you are living in a community," said Timu Kopomaa, co-author of  research on the social uses of mobile phones which Helsinki University will publish this summer. "Perhaps the modern person is worried about the emptiness of life and he or she wants to fill those pauses when you don't have something special to do."The extent to which new communications technology has overwhelmed the country is phenomenal: Finland is also second in world use of the internet; in the US it is 116 per thousand; Finland 107. The EU average is 25. The country is galloping towards a dizzy technological future, largely driven by the relentless innovation and canny consumer manipulation of the Finnish mobile company Nokia which in less than a decade has become a global communications giant.From the outset I saw the thoroughness of their organisation: on the Wednesday before I set out for Finland, Nokia emailed me the menu of the lunch I would be eating  the following Friday.Because of the name much of the world still assumes that Nokia is a Japanese company, a useful misconception when Japan was a market leader in the early 90s. Nokia was able to maintain this impression without dissembling since the original company was founded in 1865 at Nokia, a small town in South West Finland. It began with wood pulp, added rubber boots and then in 1912 a cable company.In 1992 Nokia introduced its first GSM handportable phone. But following a devastating recession in the early nineties triggered by the collapse of Finland's chief trading partner, the Soviet Union, Nokia in 1996 underwent a radical restructuring. Pulp and boots already shed, it divested itself of cable and television and focused on communications.Today only one product bearing the name Nokia is produced by the old town; it is - doleful symbolism - toilet paper.At its splendid new glass headquarters at Espoo, outside Helsinki, Tapio Hedman, Nokia's Vice President of Communications, Mobile phones, and Jukka Hosia, Business Development Manager, demonstrated some of the futuristic weapons soon to hit the market.Young Finns are already hooked on the phone's Smart Message, a cost-saving variation on speech. They can type out  messages of up to 160 characters on the alphanumeric keypads of their phones, their thumbs moving at dazzling speed, and transmit them them to other mobile phones. It's particularly useful if you want to send a message and not be overheard. At Espoo I was allowed to use the next generation of this gadget: the phone that guesses the word you have in mind. 
I began to key in London hitting the 5 button (JKL) once and the phone assumed I wanted J instead of L.  But by N it had corrected the beginning to L . Before I had done the fifth stroke the little bugger knew I wanted LONDON. The phone has a dictionary inside.Of more corporate significance is the updated 9110 communicator a handset which when split open reveals a combined voice and data device with fax, internet capability and calendar. This is already on the market. The 3210, which can send images and the 7110, "the world's first WAP (wireless application protocol) phone" will both be out this summer.I was also given the benefit of the futuristic holiday post card. A digital camera takes your photo; the phone instantly picks it up, passes it on to the Finnish post office and a photograph of your family on hols arrives in conventional postcard form back home. The supplier working closely with Nokia is Sonera, the country's leading mobile phone operator.Sonera's development manager, Pekkaiivara, put me on the trail to the Abominable Showman of mobile phonery: the Pepsi Cola machine that kids can zap with their phones and out comes a can (at additional cost to Dad).At Helsinki Airport I found one of only two operating in Finland. I got a waiting schoolboy, to try it out. But it soon became clear Dad would have to upgrade his phone if he was to get a drink.It is almost impossible to find anyone in Finland, poet or politician, who is hostile to this new fever of communications. The emphasis is on matters such as mother's new ability to be in constant contact with her children.The Finns don't want to dwell on the implications of a country of five million people virtually in thrall to one company. Although the website of the largest daily paper, Helsingen Sanomat, recently ran a science fiction story - Crisis 2002 - imagining Finland after the collapse of Nokia. Nokia shares now account for nearly 50% of all trading on the stock exchange.One person well placed to assess the impact of the revolution is Linus Torvalds, the Finn behind the Linux operating system who has taken on Microsoft and challenged some of the more brutally commercialised characteristics of the new technology. He told me from his home in Los Angeles that Nokia's dominance in Finland does not disturb him. "A small country like Finland cannot afford to have too much fragmentation. Having one company has allowed Finland to spearhead the mobile phone industry".But what accounts for this spectacular conquest of information technology by a country with a tiny population in a vast expanse? (The five million Finns range over 304,599 square kilometres compared with the 54 million crowded into the 228,356 square kilometres of the UK.)One element is the completeness with which Finland was equipped with telephone land lines from the early part of the century. The phone has always been a natural instrument for the Finns. Torvalds identified other factors in this success story: "Finland tends to be an early adopter of new technologies, but there was also the factor of pure luck of being in the right place at the right time. Electronics played a very small part in the late 80s, it was a small project no one thought much about but it grew in leaps and bounds.Torvalds sees a distinct difference between the use of the mobile phone in Finland and his adopted home in the US. "The more interesting part is how people use the phones," he said. "Due to the high penetration of mobiles phones in Finland they are not now primarily for business purposes; they have become personal communication devices. People don't think of them as anything special anymore."Almost nowhere else do people actually use the text messages which in Finland is very common. This sets up a web-like system. In the US almost nobody has a mobile phone as a primary phone. It is almost always a secondary one for special occasions. You buy a phone to have in case of emergency in case your car breaks down. But in Finland people often have nothing but a mobile."Last week's report by the British National Physical Laboratory on radiation emitted from mobile phones carried an embarrassing element for Nokia since the report found that its 2110 mobile, although it is well within UK safety limits, has a SAR (watts of radiation energy per kg of brain) rating more than 20 times higher than Motorola's Star Tac 70. This is the company Nokia only recently toppled from the top position it had held since the phone industry began.Modern business knows only too well how a health scare can run out of control. But Nokia's corporate communications spokesperson, Liisa Nyyssönen, told me that "the 2110 was launched five years ago and if they had taken some phones from the competition which were five years old the SAR values would have been the same. But it means nothing; all the phones are safe".Ms Nyyssönen said that Nokia, like all mobile manufacturers, supports major international research programmes; "the financial support is via a blind trust to avoid any conflict of interest".Hugely proud of their industry, the Finns are also not overly concerned with the political implications of a national spider's web of communications (ie indirect surveillance). The fact is that Finland's present - and our immediate future - contains a mechanism by which the daily movements of virtually every citizen and those with whom they associate, are on record. This is great news for a dictator.And what future is there now for The Conspirator who has so often contributed richly to the development of our society?As Will Shakespeare almost said: "O Conspiracy/ where wilt thou find a Nokia-proof cavern/ secure enough to hide thee from perdition?"
If Freeserve's corporate affairs director Lesley Smith thought her working week was winding down on the evening of Friday May 21, she could not have been more wrong. Just as most of us were preparing to go home,  Freeserve discovered that email for many of its 1.8 million customers wasn't getting through, sparking a weekend of frantic maintenance."I never want to go through that again," she says of Freeserve's first major breakdown since it was launched on September 22 last year. "It was very bad news, but all the email was retrieved and delivered by Monday afternoon."For the UK's largest free internet service provider, the glitch could hardly have come at a worse time. Freeserve's success has encouraged Dixons Group to consider selling shares in the ISP. But as merchant bankers discuss its value, Freeserve faces two threats to long-term viability.The competition among the UK's ISPs has intensified. Already at least 50, from Microsoft to Arsenal football club, offer a subscription-free service. Now Tempo's Screaming.Net and X-Stream Network are offering a free off-peak calls to the ISP too, and if users demand free connections, then revenues that come to Freeserve from its share of BT's profits on local calls will disappear too.Smith reluctantly admits that Freeserve may have to copy freephone internet providers like X-Stream. "We might get severe overload problems on the telephone network if everyone has free calls to the internet. But we will lead whichever model becomes the dominant model," she promises.Paul Myers, managing director of X-Stream Network, claims to recruit between 300 and 500 disgruntled Freeserve users a day, partly thanks to his policy of occasionally offering free calls at weekends. "Freeserve now has a product that's just not as good as the rest. All it offers is free internet access," he says, adding that this is no longer enough for ISPs to thrive. From today, X-Stream will also offer its 350,000 users a personal 0870 number on which they can retrieve email, voicemail and fax from any telephone or fax machine for the cost of a national call.It's services like this, says James Eibisch, the research manager at analyst IDC, which will make free ISPs popular, not primarily the cost of the call. To survive, he says, ISPs will have to offer the opportunity to shop, bank or communicate more efficiently. "Internet access will be a no-cost item. The paid-for services have had customer loyalty - there has to be a good reason to cancel that contract."Free ISP customers are much more fickle. Freeserve has to do it by providing what people really want, to work its way into your daily life."In the last five weeks alone Freeserve has offered five new services. Last week, it appealed for 100 guinea pigs for a month-long test of Telserve, a competitor for X-Stream's fax and voicemail number, that also offers cheap conference calls for up to seven users.Since May 19, users have been able to register for Presto Phone, offering up to 77% off international calls, and 33% off national calls if they call through an access number, as they would with a calling card.These join three new content areas: the Finance Channel, offering share prices and information, an Education channel offering GCSE revision, and the Desktop Lawyer, which lets you download and customise legal documents. Smith says Freeserve's aim is to find content that gives practical, UK-based help. "People in the UK don't want American news and offers. They want to know about the Spice Girls, soccer, and the weather in Bournemouth. The Legal Channel offers the UK-specific information you need to buy a house, get divorced or make a will."But are these extra services the right ones? asks Adam Daum, who has researched Freeserve for market analyst Inteco. He says it has been recruiting so fast in  a "land grab", it has left little time to profile what its users want from the web. "Has Freeserve created a monster or a gold mine?" he says. "We know it has created a huge audience in an uncontrolled way."Freeserve members, says Daum, are "slightly more female, a slightly broader age group". To keep its customers loyal, it must know them much better. "Investing in a financial channel is fine," he says, "but only if your users are people who buy shares."Smith disagrees. "It's like broadcasting - anything that brings users to the site drives up our advertising revenue," she says, adding that this revenue is "growing exponentially".But if Freeserve adds too much content too fast, it may find that growth will slow. Daum says that in the US, many web users have learned to ignore internet advertising, which is creating only half the customer response that it was 12 months ago. "So if Freeserve is betting its future on advertising revenue, that's pretty shaky," he adds.Despite Daum's scepticism, he thinks Freeserve's scattergun launch policy is its best chance of success. "Eventually the portal may be stuffed so full of things, it will lose its character and be no more than a giant shopping mall," he says, "But in Freeserve's position I'd be announcing things like crazy too."
Back in courtMicrosoft was back in the news this week with the restarting of the US justice department's anti-trust case. Whether anyone cares - apart from the participants, and a few journalists - is another matter. In fact, it's more interesting to wonder how many users care about the software that will make Microsoft a vast amount of money during the rest of the year, as companies decide whether they need to upgrade or not, and if so, when. The fun starts next week with Microsoft Office, the productivity suite. Then there's Windows 98 Second Edition - the one that includes the Internet Explorer 5 web browser - which Dell has just started shipping in the US, and Windows 2000, the new version of Windows NT for workstations and servers. It's odd how you can wait two or three years for a new blockbuster from Microsoft, and then three come along at once.Linux limitedRecently, Windows has been thrashed by Linux - well, the GNU (Gnu's Not Unix) clone of Unix with a Linux core - at  least in terms of journalistic frenzy. But the StatMarket web site last week raised doubts about how many people actually use it. Statmarket monitors more than 25m daily visitors to more than 79,000 websites, and its logs put Linux's market share at only 0.22%. That's a long way behind the Mac's 2.47%, not to mention the 90.48% of Windows 95/98.What a dog!The fastest selling hi-tech product of the week was a bit of a dog. Specifically it was Aibo, an artificial dog developed by Sony of Japan. Sony offered 3,000 of the 11-inch robots on the net on Tuesday morning and they sold out in 20 minutes, even though they cost $2,066 each. Another 2,000 Aibos are destined for sale on the US market at $2,500 each. This is limited edition stuff that isn't going to replace R2-D2 any time soon, but one day robotic pets may be a big business for Sony. Or - to go by earlier examples of technology breakthroughs - for whichever company is willing to mass-market another kind of mechanical pet: the sexbot.
Fight for their rightsNew York rappersThe Beastie Boysmay be more renowned for their brand of mayhem than their charitable leanings. But they have launched an online project to raise a million bucks for Kosovan refugees.   The band has made available downloads of three exclusive remixes as part of an promotion withlaunch.comand Grand Royal/Capitol Recordswww.grandroyal.com.  For every song downloaded during this 10-week promotion, the Beasties will donate $1 to Kosovo relief charities Care and Madre, for a total donation of up to $1m. Microsoft has pledged to match the contribution dollar-for-dollar.   Unfortunately the downloads are exclusive to the Windows Media Player, so Mac and Unix users will just have to wait until the remixes get suitably cracked and posted onto the usual charity-free ftp servers.Stars of spaceForget Star Wars, the real science fiction icons of the late seventies were Midway's Space Invaders, which did more to popularise the video game, and thus the home computer market (and in turn the internet) than anything else.   Twenty years on and those little block graphic aliens are still going strong. A quick search of the major engines will reveal countless Midway clones that you can play via your browser. The Invaders  have become something of a web icon, which Austria'sSynworlduses to great effect.   But by far the classiest of any of the Space Invader sites has to be British artists Thomson and Craighead'sTriggerhappyan excellent homage to the classic game and a comment or two about the nature of authorship on the web.   Now, if only I could get to level two....Acid mouse musicAfter a slow start, other areas of dance music are also waking up to the web's potential. Paul Oakenfold, who claimed to be the world's most popular dj, is to launch his record label, Perfecto, as an ISP.  Oakey.net should be ready in a month or two and will no doubt build on the strength of thePerfecto web site.   Oakenfold's recent webcasts have received upwards of 15,000 hits and his set at last Sunday's Homelands festival was so popular that many fans were unable to access the site. Just like the old days of acid house.   Sheffield'sGatecrasheris another a club that has forged ahead with live dj webcasts. Paul Van Dyke will be playing live in the club and on the web this Friday.Sites for cynicsAs the UK's dance fraternity belatedly joins the web-rush, a tide of cynicism is emerging, particularly from many of the medium's early practitioners.Cynicalbastards.comfeatures an effectively satirical, if a little crude, antidote to new-media speak andwww.virtualcrack.comsends up email greetings cards perfectly. But both are  a little close to the bone.For a more intelligent, but still cynical appraisal on the state-of-the web check outwww.metamute.com, the Siamese-twin of Mute, a (some would say  the) London-based European art and technology magazine, that is single-handedly trying to mop up the mess caused by bucketloads of hype about the internet and the digital revolution.Well that's how they tell it in their editorials anyway.Picture this in 2000Still some dewy-eyed web projects are still worth checking out like Toronto-based artist Alp Klive'sMillennium photo projectwhich hopes to galvanise 10,000 "amateur" photographers from around the world on December 31. The best 300 photographs will be selected for a book.Film on demandThe prospect of the fabled video-on-demand downloaded from the internet moved a step further last month with the launch ofwww.ifilm.net. This site claims to be more than just any old film  website, but a new way of distributing film, via a Real Player G2 plug-in.   So far the site's content seems to consist of underground art house, gay porn and dodgy not-even-worthy-of-straight-to-video releases and users without a wan/lan to share might meet some very heavy pixelation.   But this site is definitely worth bookmarking, however, if only so that you can take a look in a month or so to see if they have pulled it off. To see how good ifilm could look then head for the sublimeprotein TV.Six of the BestNews sitesThe Amazon of newshttp://news.bbc.co.ukClassically repackagedwww.electronictelegraph.co.ukEssential news toolboxwww.drudgereport.comFinance when it matterswww.ft.comBest for breaking newswww.pa.press.netFree and cheerfulwww.mirror.co.uk
Tall, ponytailed Theodore (Ted) Waitt, 35-year-old chief executive of Gateway, has become one of the world's richest geeks after dropping out of the University of Iowa in 1985. He founded Gateway in a barn on the family's cattle ranch with a $10,000 loan secured by his grandmother. It's now one of the world's top five PC manufacturers with a turnover of $7.5 bn. Every machine is still shipped in a black-and-white cow-spotted box, though last year the company moved its head office from Sioux City, South Dakota, to San Diego in Silicon Valley.Guardian Online:How do you see the future of the PC market when all sorts of non-PC devices are being developed?Ted Waitt:For the next two to three years at least, the PC is still going to be the predominant way to access the internet, but you will see a variety of minimal-function appliance-like products coming along to access the internet. We see a hybrid environment emerging, which is a combination of PCs, appliances, hand-held mobiles and other devices. We  also see the convergence, particularly in the US, of voice, internet access and broadcast all coming together into the house or small business and being spread in some kind of network. So there will be a gateway product - for want of a better term! - a server/router that distributes all that data to other parts of the house. What we're trying to do is be the integrator of that entire solution.GO:So will you diversify into manufacturing other types of devices?TW:I do see us as having Gateway-branded devices that are not PCs, but whether they're manufactured by us or not doesn't matter. We'll move from customising the box, towards customising and personalising the network of devices and making them all work together. Rather than "What do you want in it?" it's "What do you want to do with it?".GO:A couple of years ago you bought the Amiga technologies. Will you be using those?TW:We've had a group of people working on leveraging the Amiga assets into an appliance strategy for us. How well that works out, I don't know: it will be interesting to see. There are some great assets there. It's definitely not a computer business.GO:You're reimplementing the Amiga stuff using QNX Software's QNX real-time operating system. Aren't you planning to use Microsoft's Windows CE?TW:We don't have a CE product. It's still too big, too complex, too slow, too inefficient and too costly for some of these small devices that use embedded operating systems. But there's a difference between wanting to run programs and just wanting to access the internet. I don't subscribe to the school of thought that says in five years, you'll run everything off the internet and you won't even need an operating system at the local level.GO:Is growth going to come from appliances rather than PCs?TW:There will be explosive growth in PCs, globally, because the prices are getting so low. In the US, all the people who have one PC now want two or three. It's just like theTV:You used to have one TV in your house and everybody shared it, now the kids have a TV in their bedroom, there's a TV in the kitchen, in the den.  It will be the same with PCs or Internet-access devices. 
Broadband &#91;fast cable modem or ADSL connections to the internet&#93; will drive home networking because everybody will want to share that high-speed pipe. Maybe you need one high-powered PC, one network terminal, and two cheap PCs all networked together? We'll give you all of that for one low monthly payment and you'll get them refreshed and upgraded every two years. Theoretically, that's the direction we're headed.GO:Does that liberate you from the need to compete at the low-end of the PC market?TW:No! What it does, frankly, is allow us to make money at the low end of the market. We have to be competitive on price, but most people don't want to be the data processing manager for their home. By integrating internet access and peripherals and services, it can be more profitable for us. We're not just in the business of doing cheap PCs.GO:You're more competitive at the high end of the market where the repeat buyers areTW:Apples to apples we can beat anything, but we don't use cheap parts because we're in the business for the long term: we want the buyer's experience to be good because half our business comes from word-of-mouth referrals. But we do have plans to be more competitive at the low end because it's the fastest-growing segment of the market. 
In the US, the cheap PCs are being bought by repeat buyers and they're often second or additional PCs rather than replacements. A lot of the first-time buyers are buying higher up in the chain: they need a monitor, a printer and all the software and also they tend to buy something that won't be obsolete right away.GO:You built the company selling direct to customers. Why are you opening retail stores?TW:Someone might go to a store, then go home and buy over the internet, while someone else might look at the website then decide to phone us the next day. The synergy between having all three is a very big asset for us. Our web business is growing very dramatically but it doesn't replace the need for some face-to-face interaction.GO:Intel and Microsoft are trying hard to simplify the PC market with the Easy PC initiative and their home server, the Windows Server Appliance. Are you backing those?
TW: We're definitely looking at the home server market, but not just at the Intel initiative. And we're doing everything we can to make PC's easier to use. We do not have a current development but you will see Windows PCs from us based on new architectures that will be extremely easy to set up and use.
Have you seen the Profile PC we're marketing in Japan? It's an LCD-based all-in-one product: very sexy and very functional as well. We'll launch that in the US at some point. It's not unlikely that you'll see a product like that with a tube in it, which would drive some cost out and enable us to offer it as an iMac-style product.
One Australian internet service provider intends to hire a hearse for a demonstration. Another has sent every senator a copy of George Orwell's 1984 with the note: "The Online Services Bill is Orwellian in its implications. It has no place in a free society."Civil libertarians and political groups have also objected after the senate supported the bill to create an internet watchdog to screen out sexually and racially offensive material as well as violence. Many claim it will be unworkable.Under the legislation, internet content will be given certificates in the same way that films, literature and videos. Material with an X rating, such as hard core pornography, or refused classification, such as bomb making instructions, will be banned. R-rated material will be available only to users who can prove they are over 18. The Australian Broadcasting Authority will enforce the laws and can order ISPs to remove in one working day any banned content or face fines of up to £10,000 a day.Richard Alston, federal communications and information technology minister, said the Broadcasting Services Amendment (Online Services) Bill 1999 was designed to protect children from "illegal and highly offensive material."He added: "The Bill isn't designed to censor the net of restrict freedom of speech, or to force websites offshore or even kill the net, as some critics and some elements of the media have claimed. This Bill tries to make the Internet safer for children, an objective supported by all political parties."A hotline will be set up for the public to complain about content, and the internet industry must list the steps it can make technically and commercially to screen out the newly illegal or offensive material from overseas sites.The new laws, which come into force on January 1 next year, do not apply to email. But the chief executive of the Internet Industry Association, Peter Coroneus, says the adverse reaction to the bill means compliance will be a huge challenge."This has never been attempted in the world before, and people must realise we cannot necessarily come up with a magic bullet tomorrow," he says.Meanwhile, the anti-censorship group Electronic Frontiers Australia is organising rallies against the bill around the country, and says that with more than 90 million sites internationally the internet will not be effectively blocked.EFA's president and internet lawyer Kim Heitman says no one would be protected by the bill and adult sites in Australia could simply go underground or move overseas."The internet is going to effortlessly evade this bill," he says. "It does nothing but make us an international laughing stock for saying we can do the impossible. It's a con job."
Top Gear RallyGame Boy Color £29.99NintendoKemco's Top Gear Rally is the first Game Boy Color game that comes with a battery - to operate the built-in Rumble Pak that makes the machine vibrate. This adds that extra touch of realism when you run your car off the road or into the back of another racer.But the better you get, the fewer the rumbles, and when you're very good the feature becomes almost irrelevant.No matter, Top Gear Rally is a fast and very playable game - better than V Rally on the Game Boy.You can drive up to eight cartoony but recognisable cars on six tracks (plus one secret track) ranging from desert to jungle to Night Town, and you can save games using a password.Minus points? Well, the instructions in the manual are wrong (eg it has the brakes and accelerator the wrong way round) and the engine sounds are feeble. What it really needs isn't so much a Rumble as a Sub-woofer Pak!Jack SchofieldStar Wars Episode 1: RacerNintendo 64 £49.99When the audiences are appeased, and the cinema queues have dwindled, any self-respecting Star Wars fan will be whiling away the days till Episode 2 by reliving the experience in front of the TV.The imaginatively-titled Racer is based on a scene in the movie where Anakin Skywalker, in pre Darth Vader guise, triumphs in a podracing tournament.  
With an exposed cockpit connected to a pair of over-sized engines the pods drive like high-speed chariots, à la Ben Hur without the horses. Win a race and not only do you qualify for the next track but you also get money to upgrade your pride and joy.In the film Anakin gains a Force-assisted victory but you needn't give up the dark side just yet as the early races are ridiculously easy, despite the incredibly fast action.Lap records constantly tumble and you are left feeling rather underwhelmed. However, things soon toughen up, and before long you'll be relying on that expensive new throttle and extra repair droid.The graphics are crystal clear and blisteringly fast although the nice scenery is ignored as you speed by at 600 mph. The two-player option is slightly less detailed but Racer fully captures the look and feel of the films.Music has always been integral to Star Wars and anyone who gets goosebumps at the familiar fanfare will appreciate the way the music kicks in on the final lap, replacing the purring engines with orchestral adrenaline.Even Jedis would find it tough, but if you ignore all the frenzy and hype, Racer is an excellent WipEout-inspired futuristic racing game. Like the films it is superficially straightforward, but once you get hooked you'll re-play it regularly.Greg HowsonFinal Fantasy VII Special Edition KSquaresoftSony PlayStation £19.99Eighteen months after FFVII was unleashed on an eager public, out comes the budget release... just as those of us who bought it first time round are finishing it.OK, so maybe it's not quite that huge, but the jaw-dropping size of this hi-tech sword-and-sorcery romp was always a major plus point. That and the thumping soundtrack, battle animations that would do a beat-'em-up proud, and a cutely engaging storyline (one which, in a revolutionary step for Japanese titles, even makes a rudimentary kind of sense).Sure, it has its irritations, particularly for those who are more used to PC role-playing games: inelegant polygon-based characters, occasionally tricky interface, infrequent save facility. But once you've got your head round in-game terminology like ‘Equip chocobo lure materia'  - it takes less time than you'd think - you'll see why FFVII is considered single-handedly responsible for the resurrection of the console RPG.Andy Bodle
I've always been put off browsing the web at home because the modem connection is slow and you pay for calls by the minute. But when NTL announced its cable modem service, I was hooked. A cable modem connects your computer to the net via the cable TV network instead of a telephone line. The connection is charged at a monthly flat rate and it's much faster than a telephone connection - NTL promises at least five times faster (the equipment can support much higher speeds than that, but it's early days). Initially, the service is on trial in Guildford, but it will become more widely available later this year.I had to buy the cable modem plus an Ethernet network card for my PC: £169 in all. This prompted me to spend a bit more and build a home network, so my partner could also access the net via the cable connection. So far, I've spent about £300 on equipment and committed myself to a few hundred more on service rental.You can only use a cable modem if the cable TV company is your internet service provider. The modem connection and the internet fees cost £20 per month during the two month trial, but I had to sign up for a year - and get an NTL telephone line, which is an unnecessary extra cost. NTL says the charge for the cable modem service will go up to £40 after the trial, but I'm not so sure. BT has a rival system called ADSL on trial, and NTL will have to compete.A new NTL internet account means a new email address. To avoid having to tell all my friends to use my new address, I've kept my existing account on Cix, and access it through the NTL system. However, that means I have to pay two sets of fees.Using a cable modem or encourages you to connect your PC to the net for many hours at a time. Potentially, this exposes it to the risk of an attack by a vandal across the network. As a result, NTL advises you to disconnect your computer from the cable modem when you're not using it. But I have bought a second-hand 486 PC to use as a network firewall - it cost only about £70, although you need specialist knowledge to put it together and use it. But security is an issue for us because my partner runs a small business using her PC.I pushed hard to be in the NTL trial early, so I saw a lot of the teething troubles. The sales people did not know much about the service, and it was difficult to get answers to questions. My registration seemed to get lost at various points until I chased it. And, although the cable modems are available only by mail order from Global Direct, NTL directed me to 3Com, the manufacturer, by mistake, causing much confusion.When I finally ordered the equipment from Global, it arrived days late and they sent the wrong type of network card.However, everybody I talked to accepted that there were problems and worked hard to resolve them. People who join later trials may have an easier time of it.The technical side of things went much better. NTL had to visit the house to run an extra cable to the modem, but it was a neat job and they only took 15 minutes.Once I had all the right equipment, I assembled it, switched on, installed the software, connected up and registered my account, all very smoothly.So far the connection has been robust and, as advertised, works about five times faster than a good telephone modem. Of course, that can vary if you access distant computers.But now I have a fast connection with no extra charges, and the web is a joy to use. But what really excite me are the new video and audio services that it makes practical. Most of these are still in development, but I've enjoyed being able to listen to music over the internet without paying by the minute. I can make video phone calls, too, but I have the classic problem of the early adopter: none of my friends can take the calls.
Let me ask a heretical question: in what way can watching television be better than surfing the net?It can be an enjoyable group activity, commenting on the progress of a soap opera, giving the commentator tips on the topic he is mangling, pointing out subtleties to impress someone.The net is lonely. Either you're in a chat room, reading a document, or playing a game. You can't easily bring documents into the chat room with you. You can point to them with a link, but you can't leave your marks on them, as you can with a book .You can express your opinions about a news article and link to it, but readers of the original article have no way of knowing about your trenchant commentary.Until now there has been no easy way to annotate cyberspace. But two separate annotation tools are starting to gain notice, fulfilling some of the original notion of the Web as a hypertext space, with two-way links. (Here yet another person could comment on the comment, supplying a note and a link to the full history of hypertext.)The possibilities are numerous. Anyone can comment on any web page, not just where it's "allowed." Disagree with a news article? Want to praise or pan a product you bought from an e-commerce site? Argue with the smug comments in the chairman's message on the WebWidgets page or simply remind yourself of the passage you particularly liked in the website about dinosaurs?The two efforts are strikingly similar in what they do, but with different flavouring. A comment box pops up. For the next reader, it's as if there were a transparent screen up in front of the page, with markers showing where to click to read the comments.Both of these new systems run their own web servers, with references to all the web pages commented on, including each URL and enough commented text so that the tool knows where to place the marker in the user's display. If the original text changes, the annotation is "detached" and is simply linked to the page as a whole (as long as the page exists). Of course, an annotation can link to other annotations or websites.Over time, the amount of commentary may well exceed the originals, and the annotation services will have an interesting scaling-up problem.But for now, that's far off. Each of the two efforts is just beginning.One, Third Voice (3V), is a traditional "new-style" start-up, complete with a business model that says in effect, we won't worry about revenues until we have lots of eyeballs. The system was developed in Singapore by three programmers who eventually came to California to raise $5.5m from two venture capitalists. 3V works as a downloaded browser plug-in that automatically links the user to the 3V content site, detecting what the user is viewing and displaying the annotation markers and whatever annotations the user selects.The other service, CritLink, is an open-source effort, with a not- for-profit model (as opposed to not -yet-for-profit). It has been around since 1997, gradually gaining users and functionality. It is mostly the creation of a single programmer, Ka-Ping Yee. His CritLink is part of a broader effort called CritSuite. This includes CritMap, which displays how comments are linked, and CritMail, which lets users see one of those multi-level emails - where people comment and comment, and you end up with  &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;things that look like this &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;no, like this!and you can't figure who is saying what to whom, and what they disagree with. 
While 3V sits in the background, CritLink lets the user see that he is going to the CritLink site, from which he sees the target pages. That means the experience is smoother for the 3V user, and its user interface is better overall (even according to CritLink's Yee). However, 3V users must register and download the software and any updates, which allows 3V to capture their information. Ironically, though, 3V passes up the opportunity to advertise by not making the user come to the site each time, and it has (thank goodness) rejected the idea of slipping an ad onto each user's comment, at least for now. CritLink's comments, when they appear, take over the whole screen, whereas 3V's simply float over the page the user sees.CritLink focuses on discussion and sees its site as a sort of centre for open discussion about discussion. It gives users more freedom, because each comment is actually a Web page of its own, and users can extend the system however they want. Yee wants to experiment with different kinds of links; it already has support, issue (a polite form of disagreement!), comment, and query.But 3V seems more focused on the original content; it is harder to veer off into discussion and forget about the original. It also offers the ability to share  comments with a limited (password-protected) group; with CritLink, a savvy user can simply create his own password-protected comment site using the CritLink software. A group could consist of Mrs Fitzwidget and her fourth-form biology class, or a marketing group commenting on the sites of its competitors. It could be a securities analyst explaining a market by commenting on the news releases of various players, accessible to his clients only. Or it could be Juan and Alice, planning a holiday trip on a site devoted to a vacation paradise: "What do you think of this hotel? Shall we do the snorkelling on Tuesday?"From the point of view of the annotated site, this can be very uncomfortable. What recourse do you have against public comments?Actually, not very much, other than posting your own. Both services operate "independent" servers. Because the comments are  stored on an independent server, they are not under the control of the target site owner - nor do they infringe on any copyright, since the user sees the original, which is not used or altered by the annotations. (And annotation is not like framing, which can cover the original's ads and thus deprive the publisher of economic rights.)Both systems share a fervent belief that the net should be a two-way medium. For example, here's a comment on this article from Eng-Siong Tan of Third Voice: "While website owners will be tempted to consider this a threat, we believe they will eventually come around to see the benefits that such a sticky application will bring them - users will stay on their site longer for discussion, and draw more users to their site - that they will want to embrace this."
The Microsoft antitrust trial resumed yesterday with a blistering attack by Franklin Fisher, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, on fellow MIT professor Richard Schmalensee, Microsoft's leading economist.Mr Fisher, a US government witness, laid into his colleague for claiming that Microsoft was not a monopoly because it was forced to take action against internet pioneer Netscape. If that line of analysis was right, Mr Fisher argued, any monopolist acting to preserve its monopoly would be free to argue that the fact it took action against a rival means it cannot be a monopoly. This demonstrated, Mr Fisher said, "muddled thinking" and a failure to understand basic antitrust theory.Mr Fisher's onslaught came on the first day of the rebuttal phase of the landmark trial after a 13-week break. Each side is allowed to call three rebuttal witnesses to solidify its case, in a trial that started in October. Mr Fisher testified before and provided a valuable nugget for Microsoft when he said he didn't think consumers had been hurt by Microsoft's business practices, particularly its free distribution of free Internet software. Microsoft can be expected to develop this argument.The government's star rebuttal witness will be Garry Norris, an IBM executive who will allege that Microsoft charged IBM more than other personal computer manufacturers for Windows because IBM was selling OS/2, a rival operating system. The government hopes that Mr Norris will show how Microsoft used its market clout with Windows, which runs 90 per cent of the world's PCs, to crush competiton in the computer industry. Edward Felten, a Princeton University computer expert, will be the third government witness.Microsoft will recall Mr Schmalensee, who will hope to be a more effective witness than the first time round, when he was skewered by David Boies, the government's lead attorney. Mr Boies dug up a publication from Mr Schmalensee that described the characteristics of a monopoly, characteristics that happened to fit Microsoft.The company will also call Gordon Eubanks, the former chief executive of Symantec, who has worked closely to make programmes that work with Windows. Microsoft's third witness will be David Colburn, an America Online executive who testified for the government. He will be grilled by Microsoft about AOL's $10 billion acquisition of Netscape. Microsoft will cite the merger as an example of the competitive pressures it faces.Both sides held face-to-face meetings in March to try and reach a settlement, but they remained far apart on the issues. Microsoft came off badly in the first round as Mr Boies methodically dismantled the company's witnesses, including its top executives. Legal experts believe Microsoft is fighting a rearguard action, hoping to soften any sanctions Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson may impose on the company. Judge Jackson regularly showed his impatience with Microsoft witnesses during the first phase of the trial.Demonstrating competition from new technologies may not be sufficient defence for Microsoft from its alleged anti-competitive practices in the past, but it may prevent Judge Jackson from recommending the harshest measure - breaking up the company. Judge Jackson's first decision will be to decide whether Microsoft is a monopoly and whether it abused its market power against Netscape. If the judge concludes that Microsoft engaged in anti-competitive practices, the company will be open to lawsuits from other companies.
Government forces are to resume their battle against Microsoft today in the next chapter of a fight which opponents of the world's largest software company see increasingly as a struggle by the people's republic against the evil empire.The US justice department and 19 states launched their anti-trust case against Microsoft more than a year ago, but a conclusion still seems light years away. This week's resumption of the action in Washington comes after a 13-week hiatus during which all suggestions of a settlement have subsided and both sides have dug in behind their rival arguments.With six rebuttal witnesses due to appear in the federal courthouse over the coming months a judgment is not expected until much later in the year. The rebuttal stage, which begins today, is likely to be followed by a 30-day break and then further arguments and written submissions.However, the epic scale of the proceedings and the complex nature of the legal battle have not lessened the importance of the case or the intensity with which it is watched by Silicon Valley and others in the business world. "The crux of the issue is not just who is going to win or lose but the entire nature of competitiveness and innovation in an important industry," said one west coast executive who refused to be named.The government forces have set out to prove that the company headed by Bill Gates used its monopoly in supplying computer-operating systems to gain advantages in other areas. One central area of concern was the group's behaviour in the browser market, where it is accused of trying to crush Netscape, a smaller rival, by selling its popular Windows operating software bundled with Internet Explorer, its own browser. Rival companies argue that Microsoft is bullying start-ups by saying that its version of any new software will outsell it. They argue that such tactics will kill innovation in the industry.Evidence of overbearing behaviour towards small and large rivals has provided the foundation of the government's case. Its star witness during the next stage of the trial is expected to be Garry Norris, programme director of IBM, the hardware group.Mr Norris, who negotiated important licence agreements with Microsoft between 1995 and 1997, is expected to allege that Microsoft threatened to make it difficult for IBM to buy an operating licence for Windows if it continued to support rival software products. The allegations point to the power of the Windows system. Several hardware manufacturers have highlighted the difficulty of selling computers without the operating system attached.Microsoft is expect to defend itself vigorously. It is likely to argue that its negotiations with IBM were tough but not illegal.The most surprising of Microsoft's witnesses is David Colburn, senior vice-president   of business affairs at America Online (AOL), who gave evidence for the government in the last round. The company has decided to call this hostile witness because it claims that AOL's $10bn (£6.2bn) takeover of Netscape last November, after the anti-trust action was launched, proved just how valuable the company was.One rival said, however: "Microsoft is focusing on the argument that the AOL/Netscape deal helps them, but in a way it could prove the opposite. Netscape was damaged so badly by the thugs at Microsoft it was forced to do a deal to survive."The argument over the takeover is expected to be among the most passionate.The landmark case is not the only one facing Microsoft during what is set to be a long, hot summer. Other pending lawsuits include one brought by Sun Microsystems.Meanwhile, since the trial went into recess at the end of February, Microsoft has announced a new direction and reorganisation of its management team. It has also dented its enormous cash pile with a welter of acquisitions designed eventually to put "Windows everywhere". This vision sees the operating system being used in mobile phones and cable TVs as well as computers. Such visions do little to calm the fears of its competitors about the size and scope of the "evil empire".
What are you driving?A Mercedes Estate E240; I've barely had it a year now. It's black, with grey leather.That's quite a hostile colour, isn't it?When my friends see me coming down the road, they say "oh look, here comes Ainsley in his hearse". It's slightly more stylish than that there are even some lovely lines on it. I followed the family template my father's driven a Mercedes practically all his life. This model is very accommodating; I have kids and a dog. It's nice to have that additional space to be able to see your doggy when you're driving, and have little chats with him.Absolutely. What do you think it says about you then?Probably that I'm a family man with a dog. When you have all the power-steering and stuff, you don't really notice the size. Sometimes you walk up to it and think, "that's big and long".How would you describe your driving?I've changed. I used to quite like the idea of zooming in and out of traffic quite quickly, but when you get a decent car and kids in the back, you become more courteous. But that's age isn't it? When you're younger you like hearing the roar of the engine, but now I'm 42 and just want the comfort. The kids quite like my driving. We like those moments when we go out, turn up the music and......break the law?No. I think the fun's gone out of driving. There are all these cameras around, flashing at you. Boring, really isn't it?Do you get recognised?Oh, yeah. I haven't got tinted windows. I get the odd "Oi, Ains" and "What's he like", or "I do enjoy your programmes", depending on where you are. That's quite nice.Gary Rhodes has a few tickets to his name. Is there a way that chefs drive?No. We're all individuals. Perhaps a tough day in the kitchen makes you a little hastier, but it doesn't seem to bother me.I take no pleasure in asking this question. Have you ever had sex in a car?Not recently, in the Merc. I probably had it in my first car, a Hillman Imp, when I was 19. That was fun. The old Singer Imp had an aluminium engine and was quite a quick little thing, but you had to open the boot to give your legs room. A quiet country lane, me and the wife in the mood, who's to say I wouldn't do it now? Kids and the dog permitting.
Dads. Those are the people to ask. Ask a dad what's the best way to get to Leeds via Brighton, and he'll give you three different routes, and he'll tell you to the minute how long it will take.Unfortunately, like the prodigal son, I thought I could go it alone. I'd just bought a black, 1.3 E reg Vauxhall Nova, and I thought I could sort out the insurance without any help. After all, I'm a grown man of 26, a professional.And being a connoisseur of television advertising, I knew of a wide variety of companies offering rock bottom prices - for example, the AA, the company with the quirky director who gives his staff piggy-backs round the offices, and that other company with the demonic red telephone.The idea is that because they check with a large panel of insurers held on computer, they do the ringing round for you, so you get low cost insurance without the hassle. I started off by ringing the AA. The nice chap at the AA came up with a quote of £494 for full comprehensive cover.This took into account one year's no-claim bonus, which I had from about seven years ago. I wasn't jumping with joy, but as the AA are my insurance champions and they check with a panel of about 40 companies, I was fairly confident they'd get me a pretty good deal.Then I told my dad. He looked at me with a "son-were-you-born-yesterday?" expression. "You might trying ringing around a bit," he said. So I started ringing round. People's Choice quoted £485, Direct Line £387, Admirallo £346. I also mentioned to my mate's dad, that I was trying to get insurance.He happened to be sorting out his car, and said he'd have a root around for me as well. A couple of days later he came back with a quote of £242 from broker Hill House Hammed, also fully comprehensive.I was pretty pleased and signed up, but I decided to ring round to see what else was on offer. My favourite call was to Kate at Guardian Direct (part of Guardian Royal Exchange, the sixth biggest motor insurer in the country).After reeling off a list of benefits I would get, Kate chirped "...and all for the excellent price of £727.18. How does that sound?". Pretty bloody awful, I thought, but Kate was so sweet I didn't have the heart to tell her.Instead, I rang Guardian Royal Exchange. Its media relations officer argued that different companies assess different drivers and different cars in different ways, and that in another scenario Guardian Direct may have come up with the best price. But he did acknowledge that Guardian Direct "looks at taking on the risks which are going to provide us with the opportunity to make a profit".The AA on the other hand advertise themselves as motor insurance champions. A spokesman found himself unable to recommend his company's own insurance service. He commented: "We are confident we offer an extremely competitive service... &#91;but&#93; our advice to our members is to shop around for the best deal." He didn't think there was a conflict between the AA's role as a group representing motorists and its role in selling insurance.The ARC's press officer Kevin Delay disagrees. He comments: "If your motoring organisation runs its own insurance business, are you getting unbiased and objective advice from them? The answer, of course, is 'No'." Until a couple of years ago, the ARC also had an insurance business.Delay also points out that exactly what is included with the policy, such as a courtesy car or windscreen cover, will affect the price. "You will be asked a great many questions over the phone. What you need to be doing is asking them questions," he says.However, Hill House Hammed gave me the lowest quote because I had been driving my parents' car, on their insurance, for the nine years since I'd passed my test. Spokeswoman Alex Lovely explains: "We encourage all our staff to look at you as an actual risk, and we've given you an introductory discount which is the equivalent of 60%."In a competitive market individual companies should have very little scope to offer different prices  because they would soon be undercut by other firms who were prepared to make less profit on the same risk. This certainly doesn't seem to describe the insurance market.Pat Tracy, a partner who specialises in competition law at City law firm Bristows, says: "There is a lot of competition for standard policies, but for people who have special needs the market is less transparent.As a consumer, I think there are grounds for saying that the provision of complex financial products could be better regulated, and I think the pensions mis-selling scandal certainly showed that."So the moral of the tale is don't take the first offer. And big is not always better. Oh, and dads will always know best. Don't you just hate that?
It must have been White Van Man's ultimate fantasy: rush-hour traffic brought to a standstill to allow a Ford Transit, flanked by police outriders, a clear run through the gridlock.At its destination, the convoy swept past even more officers, who were stopping taxis and other traffic from blocking the entrance, and eventually drew to a high security halt at the Chelsea Flower Show. And who stepped from the van? The Queen? The prime minister? Charlie Dimmock? No, some friends of Princess Michael of Kent, so anonymous that even the Buckingham Palace press office can't say who they were.But such is the security accorded to a friend of a minor royal or Princess Pushy, to the tabloid headline writers with an invitation to while away the late afternoon sipping champagne and sniffing the blooms down by the river.Commuters on London's Embankment watched in amazement last week as a procession of Royal limos, aristocratic saloons and even several Transits with a sticker of the crown in the window, of course were escorted past them. Five separate traffic-stopping convoys sped past the increasingly exasperated, and ever-lengthening, queues of cars for over 40 minutes.First, with three outriders, the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, in a limo, plus four cars containing their guests. Then, in a Rolls-Royce, Princess Michael of Kent, accompanied by two cars including a Ford Mondeo the first van and two outriders; followed five minutes later, by another vanload of her friends with three outriders.Next was the Duke of Kent, his daughter Lady Helen Windsor and her husband Tim Taylor in a Jaguar and a Range Rover respectively followed 10 minutes later, with three outsiders, by Princess Alexandra and her husband Sir Angus Ogilvy. Finally, after another 10 minutes, the Queen and Prince Philip (and another vanload) arrived in another Rolls.And just over an hour later the whole process estimated to have cost £120,000 in all was repeated in reverse as the royals left. One delayed motorist summed up the feelings of many. David Linsell said: "I'd had a hard day at work and just wanted to get home. I don't see why I should be kept waiting for people who have never done a proper day's work in their lives."Some might even have dreamt of enjoying the same VIP, or SIP (Sort of Important Person), treatment. And as for cruising into Chelsea and finding a parking space in less than 30 minutes and without three circuits of the Royal Hospital, and one near-road rage incident, well, there's more chance of Jeremy Clarkson winning a Royal Horticultural Society medal.Might such privileges be available if you were just a Tim Taylor, not  the Tim Taylor, Andy O'Gilvy rather than Sir Angus Ogilvy, or mates with Mike Kent not Princess Michael of Kent? The Metropolitan Police proved rather reticent. Royal security arrangements are, of course, never discussed.A spokesman was unable to say if the Royal party's Chelsea trip was always treated as such a high-profile operation. But he also couldn't give any information on the number of non-royal escorts each year, who is granted them or, sadly, even how to request one.All he could say was: "The Specialist Escort Group is the specialist arm of the police service, trained and equipped to provide special escort services to property and people considered to be at risk from crime or terrorism." That presumably includes Arsenal Football Club, whose team coach was recently seen speeding towards an away game with a police escort.Well, it was away at Tottenham, so that's reasonable. Royal officials were a little more helpful. Princess Michael's lady-in-waiting Emma Kitchener-Fellowes made it known that the princess regretted any inconvenience. A colleague at Kensington Palace added: "It's really not up to us. We have no say in the levels of security of the number of outriders.They are calculated by the police and we have to go on what they say." And so the only question left for those of us who had to carry home on a single decker no 345 bus any plants we bought at the show is how do you become a friend of Princess Michael?
The authorities have resigned themselves to the fact that Britain will shut down for at least 11 days over the millennium - but they believe that the "hoarding tendency" might prove more troublesome in the end than that techno bug.In what might be described as the official guide to millennium paranoia, home office civil servants have tried to plan for every conceivable mishap.The guide, which is being sent to local authority emergency planners and civil protection staff, says a lot of time and effort has gone into dealing with "bug-related aspects of the millennium" but rather less into dealing with other potential pitfalls. So this is the official home office guide to the millennium gloom.Holiday periodRealistically, Christmas Eve and the two working days between Christmas and New Year will, with the exception of the licensed trade, the entertainment industry, elements of the retail industry, and the emergency and health services, be treated as holidays by much of the working population.New Year's Eve will be an additional bank holiday. In effect, there will be a potential 11 or 12 day period of reduced services and facilities.Crime and disorderThere are two schools of thought. One suggests that the criminal fraternity may itself prefer to party, the other that it will find the occasion, while society is generally off its guard, too attractive an opportunity to ignore.There will be more cash in circulation throughout the holiday period (banks, ATM machines, supermarkets, in the home), raising the potential for armed robbery, burglary and mugging. In addition to robbery, there will, in common with any Christmas and New Year period, be cases of murder, assault, rape and child abuse. There will be elements of disorder and anti-social behaviour, much of it drink-related.HealthAn influenza epidemic is expected. The rush to have millennium babies is expected to put maternity units under serious strain. Danger of meningitis and food-related illnesses will be greater than usual.Food will be stored longer in the home, and there will be lower hygiene standards in bars, restaurants and hotels because of increased custom, excessive storage and inexperienced staff. Extended holidays will exacerbate the usual Christmas problems of violence and sexual assault, physical and mental illness and suicides, influenced by lengthy family contact and excessive eating, drinking and drug -taking. Hospital patients whose treatment can be suspended are likely to be discharged for the duration. Large crowds may lead to crush injuries and asphyxiation and exacerbate existing conditions such as phobias, angina or epilepsy.Hoarding tendencyMedia speculation about food shortages and other essential household items could become a self-fulfilling prophecy.There are concerns about hoarding food and fuel, drawing out excessive amounts of cash, storing water and engaging in other understandable, yet misguided, behaviour. The food industry is to launch a campaign to minimise risks. There is a danger of fireworks being bought around bonfire night and then stored in homes and garden sheds until the millennium.Millennium bugMost organisations have made a real effort to deal with the problem and 36,000 "bugbusters", 16,000 more than the target, have been trained - no guarantee that failures will not occur.The latest worry is over petrol stations, which are being sent a standard warning. The gas, water and electricity industries say they are all on track to provide business as usual. The water industry is worried that many customers might be tempted to fill pans, basins and baths during New Year's Eve. The consequences could be significant, prompting the sort of disruption those customers were seeking to overcome. The home office has its 1950s Green Goddesses on standby should fire engines have problems.TravelRoad and rail traffic may become congested because of failures to signalling systems, but serious dislocation appears increasingly remote.Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region have agreed to reduce the number of flights on New Year's Eve. Air traffic controllers are increasing the spacing between aircraft. Some operators are grounding their aircraft during the date change.Passenger inconvenience is more likely to arise from problems associated with systems such as baggage handling, reservations and ticketing, which cannot be guaranteed for some overseas locations.Sport and leisureThe usual Premier League and Football League programme on New Year's Eve or New Year's Day - a Saturday - has been cancelled. Rugby union is unlikely, but rugby league and horse racing will probably go ahead.There will be continuous licensed time for 36 hours. This decision was taken so courts and police do not have to deal with extension applications from 140,000 pubs and clubs across Britain, the guide says.Major celebrationsLondon, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and many other towns and cities will host large-scale events.Unless there is severe weather, spontaneous gatherings will be widespread and numerous. Expect bigger crowds, and probably greater alcohol consumption. The availability of emergency services will be reduced.Holiday timetableFriday, December 24 1999:Christmas Eve, working daySaturday, December 25:Christmas DaySunday, December 26:Boxing DayMonday, December 27:Bank holiday in lieu of Christmas DayTuesday December 28:Bank holiday in lieu of Boxing DayWednesday, December 29:Working dayThursday, December 30:Working dayFriday, December 31:Extra bank holidaySaturday, January 1 2000:New Year's DaySunday, January 2:Weekend dayMonday, January 3:Bank holiday in lieu of New Year's DayTuesday, January 4:Bank holiday in Scotland
