The iPhone and iPod Touch have almost single-handedly made mobile gaming exciting and relevant. Forget fiddling around trying to navigate and download a game from a traditional mobile – just use iTunes instead.The only problem now is sorting the wheat from the chaff – there are too many games available. Luckily, Orions is one of the better ones. This turn-based fantasy card game is not only pretty but has huge depth – the latter a rarity for most iPhone/Touch games. Set on a series of floating islands, your aim is to conquer each outpost by defeating the ruler in card-based combat. The action mixes resource management with combat strategy – which card should I use in which situation? – to great effect.Some technical issues – the game tends to crash more than most – mar the experience, but by being both easy to play and hard to master, Orions is one of the best iPhone games around.
One-time arcade habitués should be well acquainted with the twisted delights of House of the Dead – the acme of gore-splattered zombie dismemberment. Now that the arcades only play host to tumbleweed, Sega has revived the franchise on the Wii (you can buy a plastic gun to accommodate the Wiimote) and rethought it to an extent.Each level is prefaced by a hilariously cheesy and astonishingly profane B-movie pastiche, which gives way to prolonged bouts of dispatching waves of zombies, followed by a boss. You must also shoot med-kits to restore health, green chemical symbols to launch short slo-mo phases and orange brains to unlock goodies. At the end of each level, you win cash to spend on weaponry. Not exactly cerebral stuff, but the sheer satisfaction that accrues from timing your gunshot and anticipating the direction of a zombie's lurch so that you blow its head clean off cannot be overstated.A game you might want to lock up somewhere inaccessible to the kids. And it won't hit the shops until, natch, Friday the 13th.
Detective Garrie Dorman wants to find a killer. He travelled from Connecticut last week to ask Dr John Bond, scientific support manager for Northamptonshire police and honorary research fellow at the University of Leicester Forensic Research Centre, for help. Bond again successfully used a pioneering technique (Forensic science's magic bullet, 28 August 2008) to recover fingerprints from shell casings.Dorman is the latest American visitor to Bond's laboratory. The victim in his case was a businessman, Louis "Pete" LaFontaine, found shot dead in his home in Bristol, Connecticut, in February 1998. "The Bristol police have conducted an extensive investigation, but the murder remains unsolved," says Dorman.Although perhaps not for much longer. Bond's technique relies on fingerprint sweat changing the surface properties of shell casings. By applying a high voltage and a fine carbon powder, the original fingerprint pattern is revealed - even decades after the gun was fired."What we tend to find is a partial fingerprint. That's partly due to the initial small area of contact between the finger and shell case because the shell case has a very tight radius," says Bond. "While that sort of return sounds very small, when it works people are extremely grateful."Bond spent hours working with the evidence brought over by Dorman. Fortunately for the murder investigation, he found several fingerprints that "the detective is very pleased with".Bond has now examined 178 shell casings from 36 crimes, including five from the UK. As the corrosion effect is resistant to cleaning, age doesn't matter and, remarkably, he's already found a 30-year-old fingerprint. "Nine crimes have produced casings with fingerprints, and five of these have the potential to identify an offender. The others could be used to eliminate suspects," he adds.US interest in Bond's work remains high, although UK police forces are hesitant. He's now looking at fingerprint recovery off shrapnel from improvised explosive devices. "After your piece [in the Guardian] last summer, we did have a conversation with the US military in Afghanistan and are now collaborating with one of the national laboratories in the US to provide us with material."The project with the prestigious Oak Ridge National Laboratory - looking at test shrapnel and corrosion chemistry - will be challenging. So what's next for Bond? With his invention already described by Time magazine as one of the top 50 of 2008, he'd now like it to be the key to a murder conviction, proving his amazing technique beyond all doubt.
They have no excuse if they don't. This week, the government's Power of Information taskforce set out a list of 25 urgent actions for the public sector machine - from Downing Street to local councils and NHS organisations - to take to embrace social networking, blogging and other such phenomena.Top of the list is a relaxation about civil servants accessing - gasp - social media at work. Today, 90% of departments either ban browsing entirely or require staff wanting to get on to social media or webmail to sit at separate, cordoned-off PCs. "Public sector workers cannot be expected to be up to date with the power of information to transform public services if they cannot access the internet at work," the report says.Equipped with this access, public servants should as a matter of course engage with online peer support forums concerned with their areas of work. (It notes that some sites "clearly would not welcome such intervention".) Civil servants should also "innovate and co-create with citizens online". One idea is a "backstage" area at thegovernment's web portal, in which citizens will be able to build their own websites and services based on official data.First, of course, we will need permission to use that data. In a recommendation that has Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaigners standing on their chairs and cheering, the taskforce proposes to sweep away the current mess of copyright rules and require public bodies to give their data away through "creative commons" style licences. This is a problem for government-owned information businesses such as Ordnance Survey, whose "complex and legalistic licensing and charging regime ... is acting as a barrier, both real and perceived, to innovation".Ministers, too, must get on board. Henceforth, government policies should be developed with the help of "new online techniques to open up the policy dialogue" rather than in smoke-filled (or, nowadays, Evian-filled) rooms. Government bodies should be forced to publish their latest schemes for consultation "in open, semantic, electronic formats that not only allow the relevant government website to host the material but also allow others to take the material, present it, gather views and feed those back to government in innovative ways".Practising what it preaches, the taskforce has made its draft report available online, in several different formats. Interested parties have until 16 February to comment, after which it will go to its sponsor, Tom Watson, Cabinet Office minister for digital engagement.Some of the recommendations may not go down well with his Westminster colleagues, who will guess what certain newspapers will have to say about civil servants being told to poke or tweet on taxpayers' time.Watson's followerson Twitter will watch his battles with interest.
All a-TwitterThe article"Is Twitter the perfect way to network?"(29 January) set out to explain Twitter to those on the outside. It contained interesting facts, but in my opinion it failed to give insight into why Twitter is causing such a stir. Twitter is causing a mini-revolution in customer service. This was entirely missing from the article. It stated that "companies are latching on to the search facilities at Twitter to find out what people think of them". Companies are not just stealthily dipping into Twitter, they have Twitter accounts. Dell have 28. They're not eavesdropping, they're having conversations.manwomanandchild.comNegroponte's visionIn"The Sugar daddy for future generations"(29 January), we learn that One Laptop Per Child is further down the Windows XO dual boot path than expected. Nicholas Negroponte says that OLPC should start shipping laptops with Microsoft Windows XP in April. That would be a huge shift from earlier assertions that OLPC would not offer Windows XO - it would only be a custom modification made by Microsoft. But Negroponte feels that by offering XP, he can remove an objection to the XO: Sugar. Now, as a recent Apple convert, I have to strenuously object that the ability to run Windows is why Apple is gaining market share. The amazing maturity and stability of the OS X operating system, the quality hardware, and even the iPhone cool factor had greater impact. In fact, if anything, the rampant viruses on XP and the abject failure of Vista would be specific reasons not to trust hardware that can run Windows.olpcnews.comLet's get Digital, BritainWell, it's good to know that we can forget about the credit crunch, about the violence in Israel, the non-war in Iraq, children suffering, and ongoing crime. None of that matters. Because, praise the Lord, we will all have broadband by 2012 (Digital Britain report, 29 January). This for me fits in the same category as the hunting bill. The world is going to pot, get a sense of perspective here. Let's try and fix the things that really matter. I mean, what's the point of having broadband if none of us can afford computers?spread-these-wings.blogspot.comThat Google glitchI experienced this glitch (Google blacklists entire internet, 31 January), and I am very concerned that Google reports it as a temporary problem. Maybe this is their way of hiding it from the public. I runnaval-history.net. Over the last few weeks I have had two such warnings trying to open my site and I know at least one other visitor has. Ten colleagues I contacted had received no warnings. Of the other 5,000 visitors daily, who can say? I run Windows on a Mac, and both systems experienced it. It suggests to me Google either has a potentially major software problem or is undergoing a serious attack.Gordon SmithPenarth, WalesMacs redux redux• Alan Gent is right (Letters, 29 January). I am right. All God's children are right, at least some of the time. Alan Gent is right in saying that the Mac mini is a standalone computer. This hits the nail on the head. That is its appeal, to those who wish to spend less by purchasing a Mac, but not keyboard, monitor, and mouse. Of course, Apple could always licence Mac OS X 10.4 to Dell. Then Dell would sell, and Apple would get one bite of the cherry, with the initial purchase, and probably another, when people upgraded to Leopard (OS X 10.5).Roger Larkinsonvia email• In response to Alan Gent, I would just like to point out that many current PC users who may be thinking of upgrading to OS X already have a keyboard, mouse and display. These, while not bearing the Apple logo, will more than likely work just as well.Will Gorevia email• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters infull.
As a barometer of how sad and obsessive people can be about sport, the Football Manager series of mind-numbingly in-depth management simulations has served pretty well over the last few years - and I speak as a confirmed fan, who once edited the game's official magazine. But really, the zenith of this concept, spawned by the Everton-mad Collyer Brothers in the late 80s (it was then know as Championship Manager) has only just been realised.Released at the end of January, Football Manager Live is a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG), allowing participants to create their own teams, select an online league, then battle it out with other wannabe Fergusons and Scolaris. Seasons last around four weeks, and users can fit in matches whenever they're free, usually selecting a football association that meets their commitment levels. I'm in one called The Weekend Casual Association, which sounds a bit like an early-80s hooligan firm, but so far has been good-natured and challenging.It's an incredibly thorough simulacrum of the footballing world, complete with a detailed finance system, cup competitions and the constant fear that your star player is making eyes at a side further up the table. Brilliantly, managers can trade players via an eBay-style auction. This is accompanied by a group messaging option, which allows users to advertise their wares in the style of a local newspaper classified section: "im looking to offload a striker for private sale i want 50k for him," says the manager of Swarbrook Utd; "Very good right back, quick, nice dribling stats and an all round nice guy. ive met the family and they invited me in for dinner," claims Danny Emeron, clearly a keen method actor. It's all great fun and reduces the transfer business to what it, in effect, is - human trafficking in designer clothes.Football Manager Live also provides a refreshingly secular alternative to the quasi-religious pomposity of the big fantasy MMOGs such as World of Warcraft and Warhammer Online. There's no witless mysticism here, no hand-me-down Christian allegory, banally accepted from Tolkien. However, FML happily borrows some of the structural elements of the traditional RPG: for example, newcomers have to gain reputation points before accessing more complex tactical options, aping the character progression systems familiar with games such as Final Fantasy and, of course, WoW.The best thing about FML, however, is that it represents a daft, doe-eyed love of football, stripped of all sense of real-life club allegiance. Here, the prejudices and atavistic rivalries of the real game are gone - replaced by a community of strangers obsessing over stats and forming their own football-based virtual society. It is a utopia of sorts. But a utopia based around meaningless figures and momentary, tactical rivalries? Can it last? In this messed-up world it is surely the only one that can.
If you're not a keen gamer of a certain age, you may not recognise the name Nolan Bushnell. But in the videogames world, he is an iconic figure - his pioneering efforts conjuring the games industry as we know it out of thin air. Those efforts are about to be recognised by one of our own institutions: on 10 March, Bafta will honour Bushnell with a fellowship at its Games awards.Bushnell didn't make the first videogame, nor was he the first to design and sell a home videogames console. But with Computer Space, he introduced videogames to the arcades, and the company he founded, Atari, was the first to turn games into big business on the back of Pong and then with the 2600, the first console to achieve any measure of success.His background helped - he was in the right place at the right time and, crucially, with the right interests. Now 66, he's sprightly, articulate and considered, and acknowledges that, as an electrical engineering student in the late 60s, he was lucky to come across the first ever videogame: "I sort of stand on the shoulders of a guy named Steve Russell, who programmed Spacewar on the DEC PDP-1 mainframe in, 1962. I played it when I was in college, and I thought: 'Hey, there's a business here if I can drop the cost.' So I did, and it worked."By then, Bushnell had another area of expertise: "I was the manager of the games department of an amusement park when I was at college. That was an easy place to enter, because you didn't have to drive costs down so much." So in 1971, Bushnell and his friend Ted Dabney designed Computer Space, inspired by Spacewar, and persuaded Nutting Associates to manufacture it. It wasn't a success - 1,500 were sold - as the public found it somewhat baffling: "I like to say that all my friends loved it, but all my friends were engineers."Pong proves a big hitUndaunted, Bushnell and Dabney formed Atari in 1972, and hired a programmer, Alan Alcorn. The three had developed paper designs for a home console when Bushnell had a sneak preview of the first home console, the Magnavox Odyssey, created by another games industry pioneer, Ralph Baer. It featured a basic tennis game, which reminded Bushnell of an even earlier effort than Spacewar: "The very first game was an oscilloscope tennis game by a guy called Willie Higinbotham. We played one of those on the university machine, and seeing the Magnavox kind of reminded me of it. So I said: 'This is not a very fun game - let's make it better.'"Thus, Pong was born: "The essence of Pong is that where you hit the ball on the paddle determines the angle at which it comes off. That little tweak turned it from a non-game into a game, and I've always felt that that innovation Al made was what made Pong really special." But Baer wasn't happy and threatened to sue. Bushnell simply licensed the tennis game from him, establishing a practice that remains pivotal in the games industry.Getting the 2600 on sale proved to be a struggle, as illustrated by a story from that period. Two young uber-geeks approached Bushnell with designs for a home computer that they wanted Atari to manufacture and sell for them, but Bushnell turned them down. Their names were Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. Bushnell explains the decision: "Atari was very underfunded all the way along - the venture-capital community and financial community didn't get the fact that games were a business. We were using every bit of capital that we had just to keep up with the growth. So, to take on anything else that would alienate any of that capital just didn't make sense."Selling up and moving onSo Bushnell sold Atari to Warner Communications in 1976; the 2600 arrived in 1977. But after fierce disagreements with Warner, he left the company, and industry, he founded in 1978: "I really saw that they were going to totally screw it up. The only thing that I was wrong about is that it took them two years longer than I thought it would." Bushnell then founded the Chuck E Cheese restaurant chain, but is involved with games again now, with a restaurant-gaming business, uWink, and a game-advertising company, NeoEdge.And he has watched his baby grow up. He selects Breakout, Asteroids and the vector-based Tempest as his favourite games from the early days, as well as Doom and Myst as "monumental games" that had a huge impact. He adds: "I'm a big believer in the Wii. I love the physicality of the Wii controller, and how you can get the feeling of throwing a bowling ball or swinging a golf club."But he agrees that early games had a purity that can get lost in modern bells and whistles: "Occasionally, there can be so much time spent on the graphics that it actually introduces a little bit of ambiguity. So the simple, classic games, where we didn't have those graphics to fall back on, had to be really well tuned. We focused more on gameplay than I think people do today." He says videogames of the future will "become less console-centric and much more network-centric" but adds a note of caution: "If I say: 'My photo-realism is better than your photo-realism,' you'd say: 'I don't care.' It will be much more a war based on innovation, as it should be."Bushnell is overjoyed by the Bafta fellowship: "I'm ecstatic - it's a very nice honour." So does it leave him feeling vindicated by the enormous success of the games industry? "Well, I don't know if it's called vindication, but I appreciate the fact that technology and games are a big part of life. I think, like any proud father, you're happy when your children do well."Back in the Atari dayWhen I was a child living in the idyllic, but then technologically backwards, environs of Athens, my dad returned from a business trip with an Atari 2600. My brother and I approached spontaneous combustion as we unwrapped it - until then we had been unaware of the very existence of videogames.In itself, the 2600 didn't disappoint - although we swiftly discovered that we'd have to resort to elaborate subterfuge to dislodge our dad. Even with its quaint wood-effect finish, it seemed thoroughly futuristic, an impression reinforced by its myriad controllers.The games were basic and blocky, but at least they were plural - the 2600 was the first console with games on removable cartridges, rather than hard-wired into its circuitry. Even among the launch titles, there were recognisable driving, shooting and sports games. We played Pong the most.The 2600 awakened something in me; returning to the UK in the early 1980s, I discovered the arcades, and the 2600 helped hone my skills on games such as Space Invaders, Breakout, Asteroids and Defender. Perhaps the 2600's most surprising attribute was its longevity - publishers were still making games for it at the end of the 1980s, and (often inferior) versions of the next wave of arcade games duly arrived even though by then, Nintendo and Sega held sway. For me, it was the first proper games console.Steve Boxer
When my colleague Randeep Ramesh reported onIndia to unveil the £7 laptop, then I guessed it would be something like the old Tandy 100 much loved, in its day, by journalists. In other words, it would be a simple text-based machine with a four- or eight-line LCD display and a flat keyboard.But a report in the Times of India suggests it's not that good. In$10-laptop proves to be a damp squib, the paper says:at the inauguration of the national Mission on Education Programme organized by the Union HRD Ministry here on Tuesday, joint secretary N K Sinha said the computing device is 10 inches long and 5 inches wide and has been priced at around $30 at the event. However, he refused to comment as to why was it being projected as a laptop when it was not.It actually seems to be a storage device that can be plugged into a laptop. It says:Some delegates at the exhibition claimed that with the help of this device a laptop costing about $60 can eventually be manufactured. But for now at least the $10-laptop turned out to be damp squib.According toThe Hindu, which published a photo:The 10" long and 5" wide hand-held device, resembling a palmtop or a modem, helps e-learners access the Web easily. Priced versions of e-content available on the Net can be accessed through this device.The cost of the device shot up to between $20 and $30 against the initial plan to peg it at $10, forcing the department to resort to a cost-cutting exercise. R.P. Agarwal, Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education, who displayed the prototype to the delegates, expressed confidence that the cost would be brought down further.MediaNamahas the best account, and explainsThe storage device is somehow expected to play a key role in a new government initiative called the National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technologies. The mission entails setting up of electronic classrooms and making online textbooks freely available for download across 18000 colleges and 4000 universities across India. Four publishers Macmillan, Tata McGraw Hill, Prentice-Hall and Vikas Publishing have been engaged to upload textbooks and content for students.The device will be launched at University of Andhra Pradesh and later at hundreds of schools and colleges through the program. The government also plans to offer a 25 percent subsidy for broadband internet for private and public colleges and has earmarked Rs 46.12 billion for the program.There is a word for all this. The word is "shambles".Update: Randeep Ramesh has now written about it inIndia's laptop hoax, on his own blog. He also points toIndia's '$10 Laptop' Revealed as Nearly Useless Brickat Fox News. All round, a sad tale.
Just in case you haven't heard, Rockstar has announced that its San Diego studio is working on a follow-up to 2004 western shooter,Red Dead Revolver. Entitled Red Dead Redemption and set at the close of the 19th century, it's an open-world adventure following former outlaw John Marston as he moseys on through the final days of the Wild West. From the press release:Utilizing Rockstar's proprietary Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE), Red Dead Redemption features an open-world environment for players to explore, including frontier towns, rolling prairies teeming with wildlife, and perilous mountain passes - each packed with an endless flow of varied distractions. Along the way, players will experience the heat of gunfights and battles, meet a host of unique characters, struggle against the harshness of one of the world's last remaining wildernesses, and ultimately pick their own precarious path through an epic story about the death of the Wild West and the gunslingers that inhabited it.It's an intriguing set-up and frankly I've been waiting for something like this since first clapping eyes on Accolade's 1985 title Law of the West, a conversation-driven shoot-out adventure for the Commodore 64. Before Red Dead Revolver, you may also remember LucasArts' attempt at a cowboy FPS, Outlaws. None of them, however, promised a 'living breathing' Wild West universe, which seems to be what Rockstar San Diego has in mind. Imagine an interactive Deadwood...And while, we're on the subject of historical open-world games, which period wouldyoulike to see recreated as a GTA-style romp? Something based in Medieval Europe would be good - lots of feudal lords hacking each other up, while peasants wander by vomiting the plague at you. Boar-hunting and bear-baiting mini-games...Any more?
"The easiest thing to do on Earth is not write." - William GoldmanIt's Tuesday afternoon and, once again, I'm hurtling towards my column deadline. Back from Munich, I'm sitting in my London hotel room, in the world's most uncomfortable leather chair, surrounded by tiny little cans that once contained mini-bar drinks. I've just ordered a chicken club sandwich from room service in the hope it will help my brain start working. But it won't. Because I've just realised – nightmare or nightmares – that I've written myself into a corner.Anyone who writes fiction, particularly for the screen, will be familiar with the idea of writing yourself into a corner. It's a trick frequently used by blocked screenwriters to get their inspiration flowing and, in essence, it involves putting your character into a ridiculous situation that they can't possibly escape from – and then working out a way for them to escape.The Coen Brothers used itto brilliant effectin their screenplay for The Hudsucker Proxy which started with Tim Robbins jumping off a building. A setup that hopeless – fading in on your main character plummeting to his death – forced the brothers to use every gram of their creativity to work out how the hell to get him out of it. In the UK, Tony Jordan, the writer ofHustleadmits to using a similar technique – he writes the entire episode, including the final ingenious con, and only then tries to work out how the hell his characters managed to pull it off. It's one of the reasons why Hustle is brilliant – even the writer doesn't know how they did it until the end.And yet while the technique often leads to genius in fiction, until today I had no idea it was possible to do, accidentally and terrifyingly, in real life.As regular readers will know, in recent weeks I've turned this column into an ongoing postcard of my technological travels:Reykjavik,Paris,Las Vegas,San Francisco,Munich– every week a different city and a different event or set of people to write about. I've also – as I mentioned last week – developed something of a reputation for being "snarky" about those cities, events or people. With a formula like that – travel + new experiences + snark – the column basically writes itself, which is lucky because very often I'm drunk when I finally make it to my keyboard.But this week I'm in London, recharging and detoxing for a few days after months of constant travel and forcing myself to catch up with all of the dull administration –changing mobile phone contracts,moving bank accounts, that kind of thing – that I've been putting off for months. The problem is, while a week locked away in London is brilliant for my sanity and my liver, it's a disaster for my inspiration. A week ago I was watching Julia Allison riding around on adisturbingly phallic-lookingmechanical bull while waiting for Lady GaGa to perform at the DLD after-party.The week before that I'd just flown from Las Vegas to San Francisco and America was inaugurating its first black president. Today I'm sitting in a "boutique" hotel room – all pillows and preposterous shower gels – in West London, staring at a wall, with only a pot of room service Earl Gray and an episode of Flight Of The Conchords with the volume turned down for company.And it gets worse. Last week I urged internet commenters and bloggers to steer clear of bitchy personal attacks as a substitute for actual content, so I should really practice what I preach this week. That means my usual unblocking trick – to dig out aBen Cohenpress release and break it down line by line – is out too.I can't write about where I am, because I'm not anywhere, and I can't be a sarcastic wanker, because that would make me a hypocrite. I have written myself into a corner.Desperate for external inspiration, I fire up my IM client and ping all of the friends I can see online. "Blocked. Any ideas?" First to reply is my friend James. Fortunately James is one of the most creative people I know – if you haven't already watched the pilot episodes ofThe Sitcom, you absolutely must – and also has his finger firmly on the pulse of what's happening in the world of technology. If anyone can help, it's James."Why don't you write about not being invited toTED?" he suggests."Actually, that's not a bad idea. I've always wanted to set up an even more arrogantly exclusive conference than TED. Perhaps one where the entry eligibility requirements are the same as those for appearing on postage stamps. I'd call it DED...  Also, it would also be the only conference where people would be happy to see me on the attendees list.""Heh."His reaction says it all."Yeah … you're right … that's kind of a one-joke column. What else is happening?""Google are mapping the bottom of the sea.""Yes! They can't get their malware warning system towork properly, but they can somehow drive a Smart car around the floor of the ocean. Maybe I could write about how they seem to be focussing their genius in the wrong areas.""Meh."Well, quite. I close the chat window and turn my attention to the pile of newspapers on the floor. Maybe one of them will have a quirky technology story that can be turned into 900 words of pure gold. But no, it's all just snow, snow and more fucking snow. I waste a few seconds Twittering that over the past few days the British press have found so many different words for snow that the Inuit are making jokes about them. Wait – maybe there's column in that? But no, within a few minutes, Dave Gormanrepliesto tell me that the whole Inuit words for snow thing is a myth. Thanks, Dave.Another Twitter follower suggests that if I'm really blocked I should just go on a crazy Hunter S Thompson-style binge. I look around my hotel room; all that remains from the minibar is half a bottle of champagne, a tiny bottle of whisky, two cans of Britvic tomato juice and a little tube of Pringles. No matter where you are in the world, there's always a little tube of Pringles in the minibar. Who puts crisps in the fridge anyway? But I'm getting distracted again – what was it Thompson said? No need to panic. I'll just lash together a few raw facts, a little bit of wisdom, and this nightmare is over.I don't have any wisdom so I decide to Google for some. Half an hour passes, my sandwich arrives, inspiration doesn't, but if I ever want to open a fridge magnet factory, I'm sorted for slogans.This is hopeless – my column is starting to look frighteningly like Tim Robbins and that deadline pavement is getting awful close. I'm going to have to admit defeat; to email my editor and confess that without the crutch of snarkiness or global travel, I'm as useful as Adam West's Batman without his utility belt.PingBut what's this? An email from a journalist friend in the US. She's writing her column against a deadline as well, but she's doing a better job of it than I am. She's primarily emailing to gloat, of course, but she's also been following mybreakdownon Twitter and has a suggestion..."You should do a column onthis. Surely even the new Paul Carr is allowed to hate on sex offenders?"By God, she's right! Unless you're the Catholic church or a wearer of long, dirty coats, anyone's allowed to hate sex offenders without it being hypocritical.  I click on the link – in a nut, the story concerns Facebook "allowing" people on theUS sex offenders registerto sign up for accounts while rival MySpace hastaken stepsto ban them all. The fact that the scandal was brought to light by Sentinel, the company who MySpace paid to do the banning and which – coincidentally – hasn't been employed by Facebook, is irrelevant: people are outraged. "Gross, hopefully someone will force facebook to delete these people right away...  I cannot believe no one has called them out on this stuff before." says one commenter on Techcrunch. "This is disgusting. Does Facebook even care about this stuff?" asks another.And with those outraged words, I know I have my column. Because, you see, I just can't bring myself to agree with them. I just don't entirely understand why Facebook should be attacked for not banning sex offenders, when there is no equivalent ban for – say – mass murderers or kidnappers. When most people hear the words "sex offender", what they actually hear in their head is 'paedophile' but in fact the sex offenders register covers everything from people who have sex in public to teenagers who swap naked pictures of psychotherapy online. Banning everyone on the sex offenders register sends out a very strange message indeed...Made a webcam video for your 16-year-old boyfriend? We'll chase you away with pitchforks, you evil, sick scum.Murdered your wife and eaten her liver with a stir-in sauce? Welcome to Facebook! Come on in! Play Scrabble! Throw a sheep or two!Of course that's a simplistic view. Maybe sex offenders do deserve to be a special case because, overwhelmingly, they tend to be predatory and many of their crimes involve children. Or maybe the ban should be extended to anyone who has committed any kind of serious offence. Maybe the difference between Facebook and MySpace is that MySpace is an open system whereas Facebook generally only allows you to connect with existing friends. And maybe it's a worrying world in which people who have been convicted of a crime but have served their sentence are banned from connecting with their friends and continuing their rehabilitation back into normal society using social networking tools.There are lots of questions, but fortunately I have a whole column to explore them. I finish my sandwich, wipe most of the mayonnaise from my fingers, crank up Last.fm and start to type. At the very last second, I've found a way out of the corner. Everything's going to be alright.Sweet Jesus, that was a close call...• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
According tothe Institute of Engineering and Technology, just 7% of the IT workforce in the UK are women. To anyone who works in the industry, this figure won't come as a surprise. IT departments are notoriously male-dominated; even the 3-to-1 male-to-female ratio of sitcomThe IT Crowd(don't forget Richmond) is wildly overoptimistic.There's good evidence that girls who might go on to have careers in technology aren't being given the encouragement to pursue it. It's not news that science and technology are seen as being more "for boys" than for girls;a recent study of toys aimed at children as young as threehave shown that boys' toys tend to involve "activities around construction and technology" but girls' toys don't.This kind of bias has knock-on effects. Although girls do well at science subjects at GCSE, they often fail to take the subjects further.A study last year by the Royal Societyfound that only one in eight girls who gain an A* in physics or double science GCSE goes on to take physics at A-level. By contrast, nearly half of comparable boys do so. A similar pattern also recurs in maths and chemistry.Why is this important? There is of course a point about basic fairness. The IT industry is set to become increasingly important to the UK economy.Gordon Brown recently saidthat building "digital infrastructure" to support the "communications revolution" is one of his key measures to get us through the current economic crisis. The tech sector is set to grow, and for this reason alone women should be encouraged to enter this potentially lucrative field.But if arguments about equality of opportunity aren't enough, consider this: companies which are more gender-balanced perform better.Research by Catalystshows that Fortune 500 companies with the most gender-balanced top management teams perform more than 40% better for both return on equity, and shareholder return.And there's the simple fact that, as so many girls who get great science GCSEs aren't going on to A-levels and careers in the field, we're narrowing our pool of talent in this crucial sector. If we want to improve our economy, we need to get more women involved in technology.So can anything be done to increase the number of women going into technology jobs?Kate Craig-Wood, who runs server and hosting company Memset, has an interesting perspective on this question. She is transsexual which, as she says on her website, means that "during gestation my body differentiated into one gender (male) and my brain differentiated into the opposite (female)".She describes how she, physically a boy, was given a great deal of encouragement to get interested in computer programming, while "my sister… was encouraged away from such activities, both at home and at school, even though I believe we are both equally capable." This experience has led her to raise money forComputer Clubs for Girls, an organisation which aims to change girls' perception that IT is not for them.This kind of initiative is welcome, but needs to be given even more financial and partnership support. If the UKreally is going to be hardest-hit country in the world by the global recession, we just can't afford to ignore an untapped pool of talent in one of our key industries any more.
Social networking sites have been urged to do more to protect their young users after MySpace announced it had identified and removed about 90,000 registered sex offenders from its site in the last two years.The figure was almost double the number the company had originally estimated last year.Roy Cooper, the North Carolina attorney general who is leading US efforts to improve safety on social networking sites, said the figures came as no surprise."These sites were created for young people to communicate with each other," he said. "Predators are going to troll in these areas where they know children are going to be. That's why these social networking sites have the responsibility to make their sites safe for children."Cooper said that MySpace and its rival Facebook – which together claim to have more than 280 million users – had to "do more to protect children and teenagers".He and Connecticut attorney general Richard Blumenthal co-lead a taskforce on social networking. They received assurances last year from MySpace and Facebook about tougher security, and both sites implemented dozens of safeguards, including finding better ways to verify users' ages, banning convicted sex offenders from the sites and limiting the ability of older users to search members under 18.Blumenthal, who received MySpace's updated numbers yesterday through a subpoena, said the information "provides compelling proof that social networking sites remain rife with sexual predators". He added that while Facebook had yet to respond to a recent subpoena, a preliminary search showed the number of sex offenders using the site was "substantial".MySpace executives said they were confident in the technology they use to find, remove and block registered sex offenders. The company uses Sentinel SAFE, a database it created in 2006 with the names, physical descriptions and other identifiable characteristics of sex offenders that cross-references against MySpace members."Sentinel SAFE is the best industry solution to ensure these offenders are removed from social networks," said a spokesman yesterday.MySpace, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, says it has more than 130 million active users worldwide.A spokesman for Facebook, which claims to have more than 150 million active users, said that protecting them has always been a priority."We have a policy prohibiting registered sex offenders from joining Facebook," said a spokesman. "We are glad to be able to report that we have not yet had to handle a case of a registered sex offender meeting a minor through Facebook. We are working hard to make sure it never happens."According to Cooper, however, much more still needs to be done: "Technology moves forward quickly, and it's important for these companies to stay ahead of the technology. And they're not moving fast enough for us."He and Blumenthal called for tougher restrictions on people joining social networking sites.The British government is currently looking at how to protect young internet users following a report on the subject last year by psychologist Dr Tanya Byron.
Next time you feel your fragging skills are below par, crank up the saturation on your screen. According to researchers at University of Gävle and Malmö University in Sweden, the colour of the gameplay environment has an impact on gamers' play performance. Igor Knez and Simon Niedenthal ran a digital game with two hues on two groups and found that players with the red condition fared better. They reported their findings inCyberPsychology and Behaviorlast April.From the abstract:As a means of extending the significance of findings in experimental psychology and nonvisual psychological lighting research to digital game research, the present study was designed to investigate the impact of warm (reddish) and cool (bluish) simulated illumination in digital game worlds on game users' affect and play performance. In line with some previous findings, we predicted that lighting in a digital game world might, as in the real world, differently influence the nonvisual psychological mechanisms of affect, which in turn might enhance or impair the players' performance. It was shown that the players performed best and fastest in a game world lit with a warm (reddish) as compared to a cool (bluish) lighting. The former color of lighting also induced the highest level of pleasantness in game users. A regression analysis indicated tentatively that it was the level of pleasantness induced by the warm lighting that enhanced the players' better performance in that digital game world. It was also shown that high- as opposed to medium- or low-skilled players engage almost 2.5 times more per week in game playing. Given their skill, they performed significantly faster and felt significantly calmer and more relaxed in doing so.Ironically, many competitive shooters have the steely blue of spaceship innards. Just imagine the pwnage if the artists chose a red palate instead?
What's floated our gamesblog boat this week?• Audiosurf: Ride Your Music &gt;&gt;audio-surf.com• Putting the fun in functional: applying game mechanics to social media (by Amy Jo Kim) &gt;&gt;slideshare.net• Game Browser | Global Game Jam - Jan. 30 to Feb. 1, 2009 &gt;&gt;globalgamejam.org• Gears of War screwup makes PC version unplayable &gt;&gt;arstechnica.com• Mario is a menace &gt;&gt;i41.tinypic.com• Video game conditioning spills over into real life &gt;&gt;newscientist.com• GROW TOWER &gt;&gt;eyezmaze.com• An Interview with LittleBigPlanet's Leading User-Content Creator &gt;&gt;gameplayer.com.auFollow us on the go ondelicious.
Enough of the awards for the US games makers Harmonix. I like them, I like their games, but come on; they're not innovative, they're not new. Their phenomenally successful Guitar Hero and their blinding Rock Band are popular western adaptations of games which originated within a Japanese arcade genre called Bemani.I say this now because Activision has bizarrely chosen DAVOS, the World Economic Forum, as the platform toannounce their (likely) forthcoming music simulation DJ Heroin which - wait for it - the player interacts with a turntable interface. They proclaimed excitedly,We have this product called DJ Hero coming out later this year, which is a turntable that you actually can play competitively and spin discs and mix songs," said Kotick. "So there's definitely some physical interface that is starting to have an impact on the consumer.Starting to have an impact on the consumer. Let me dredge up a very embarrassing moment from my past to demonstrate how DJ Hero is not an innovation. About a decade ago I walked down the streets of Glasgow with two large speakers strapped to my head with a full turntable slung around my neck. I was doing a review for Beatmania, a spinning game from Konami released for the PlayStation (complete with turntable) for a TV show called Bits. No, I don't have any photos. And here's avideoof someone playing the handheld version of the game (very irritating after 30 or so seconds).I feel like an old granny telling the kids that their latest gadget isn't new. But I guess I am. So come on, folks. Don't do a Three Men and a Baby on me here. Respect the originals and stop giving the very talented people at Harmonix 'innovation' awards. Love their games, yes, but accolade them for their novelty, no. And educate yourself with the following:BeatmaniaRelease date:1997What's the point?The player is a club disc jockey (or DJ) who must manipulate the controls according to the instructions on screen to win the praise of the audience. Each game consists of a set number of songs of various difficulties, and each song must attain a certain degree of satisfaction from the audience in order to progress to the next.Key Features:turntable controller for wick-wick-wicked scratching. Yo.Non-Japanese remakes:the forthcoming 'DJ Hero' (please please change the name before it arrives)Guitar Freaks (aka Gitado)Release Date:1998What's the point?GuitarFreaks is played using a controller designed to imitate the shape of an electric guitar, most like the Fender Jazzmaster or Fender Mustang. The neck houses three buttons, colored red, green, and blue. On the main face of the guitar, a pick lever is used to simulate the picking and strumming of an actual guitar. A small metal knob near the pick is used to alter the sound produced by the game, such as adding Chorus/Delay effects.Key Features:guitar controller. Lots of versions.Non-Japanese remakes:Need I say Guitar Hero?DrumManiaRelease Date:1999What's the point?What do you think?Key Features:drum kit controller in a soundproof enclosure. There are at least 5 versions already out there. It's very very difficult.Non-Japanese remakes:part of the Rock Band panoply of interactivityKeyboardmaniaRelease Date:2000What's the point?In this game up to two players use 24-key keyboards to play the piano or keyboard part of a selected song. Notes are represented on-screen by small bars that scroll downward above an image of the keyboard itself. The goal is to play the matching key when a note bar descends to the red play point line. The arcade cabinet has two screens - one for each player.Key Features:keyboards, folks.Non-Japanese remakes:none yet, but I'm sure there's one in the making.Dance Dance RevolutionRelease Date:1998What's the point?The general premise of Dance Dance Revolution is to move one's feet to a set pattern. One player can play using one dance pad (Single mode), two players can play using one dance pad each (Versus mode), or one player can play using both dance pads (Doubles mode).Players must step to the beat, matching their beat to the arrows presented to them on screen by stepping on arrows on a dance stage. A judgment is displayed for each step, depending on the player's timing; Perfect!!, Great!, Good, Boo or Miss.... An on-screen life meter, known as the Dance Gauge, begins halfway full at the start of each song. Perfect and Great steps slowly fill the Gauge, while Boo and Miss steps quickly deplete it. Good steps have no effect either way. If players accumulates too many Boos or Misses, and the Dance Gauge becomes empty, the song fails and the game ends.Key Features:Released initially for the arcade, where it caused a sensation. Still around in many selected game emporia. Dreamcast owners will know that, long before the PlayStation version arrived, you could control a game with your feet and that it was a bloody hard workout.Non-Japanese remakes:Released in Europe and North America as Dancing Stage
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Facebook, as I'm sure everyone will be telling you today, is nowfive years old. Other things that happened five years ago? George Bush won a second term in office, serial killer Harold Shipman ended his life and South Korean scientists announced they'd cloned human embryos (and then revealed that they'd faked it).It wasn't necessarily a vintage year.I'm not knocking Facebook, but I think I've had it with social media. Not social networking per se, but the incessant chatter about how "social media" is changing the world. How it's going mainstream. How it's the biggest change we've ever seen. Here's why:Listen. I have blog. I use Twitter. I idly flick through lists of people I'd forgotten I ever knew on Facebook. I've even got a MySpace page, although I don't like to talk about it. They are great ways of connecting people, and they're very exciting when you start using them, because they allow virtual contact in ways that are analogous to - if not the same as - real life. You know, communicate with people. That old thing.The particular event that sent me over the edge wasn't Facebook's birthday, but readingthis post on the Mashable blogclaiming thatBatman actor Christian Bale's incredible hissy tiradewas an important milestone for social media. I quote:Perhaps the biggest "social media going mainstream" event since a plane landed in the Hudson River, the Bale incident has sparked an endless number of Tweets (it's been the #1 or #2 trending topic since the story hit), blog posts, and parodies.Note: it's the biggest social media going mainstream event since the last onethree weeks ago. The "proof" that it's going mainstream? That it has produced a lot of activity on Twitter.Nobody talks about people down the pub laughing about Bale's expletive-laden bullying as a "social drinking sensation". They don't call people giggling about it on the phone as a "social telecommunications sensation". They call it joking, or they call it gossip, because that's what people do. Whether they do it online or offline, down the pub or on Facebook doesn't matter. "Social media" is mainstream - we don't need to claim any more victories for it.So, that's it. I'm sick of "social media experts". (If I know you and you are one, thenobviouslyI'm not talking about you). I'm sick of "social media sensations". And I'm sick of social media.Social media is people. People talk about stuff. The end.
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss, Vic Keegan and Charles Arthur as they take Tech Weekly listeners on a cruise around the technology highway.In the studio, Jemima and Vic grill analyst and new media mogulAzeem Azharabout the on-the-ground implications of last week's interimDigital Britain report.What role should government play in the startup scene? How will they pay for universal broadband? And why is so much of the report centred on old media, like television and newspapers, rather than on fast-growing digital businesses?Charles tracks down theDownadup virusthat's been infecting millions of PCs over the past few weeks. He speaks withAlex Eckelberryfrom Sunbelt Software to look at the rot that the worm has been feeding on.All this, plus the latest news.
For years the world's biggest computer manufacturers have been locked in a race to see who can build the most powerful machine - regularly trading places with each other as they develop faster and more impressive systems.But IBM today smashed the existing record as it unveiled the world's fastest supercomputer, a machine that is almost 20 times more powerful than the previous record holder.The new system, dubbed Sequoia, will be able to achieve speeds of up to 20 Petaflops - 20 quadrillion calculations per second - the equivalent of more than 2m laptops.Sequoia will consist of around 1.6m computer chips, giving it the ability to perform an order of magnitude faster than the 1.1 Petaflop Blue Gene/L computer, which is currently recognised as the world's most powerful.It is being built by IBM for the US department of energy and should be installed at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California by 2012. The LLNC is one of the world's leading laboratories dedicated to national security, where teams of scientists work on projects linked to nuclear energy, environmental protection and economic issues.Sequoia will be used to simulate nuclear tests and explosions, alongside a smaller machine, known as Dawn, which is currently being built."Both systems will be used for the ongoing safety and reliability of our nation's nuclear stockpile," IBM spokesman Ron Favali said. "Sequoia is the big one."Supercomputer speeds are advancing rapidly as manufacturers latch on to new techniques and cheaper prices for computer chips. The first machine to break the teraflop barrier - a trillion calculations per second - was only built in 1996.Two years ago a $59m machine from Sun Microsystems, called Constellation, attempted to take the crown of world's fastest with operating speeds of 421 teraflops, or 421tn calculations per second. Just two years later, Sequoia could be able to achieve nearly 50 times the computing power.Costs remain high, but the latest generation of supercomputers are more powerful and less expensive than at any point in history."We were just talking about teraflops and the fact we just broke the petaflop barrier is pretty amazing," said Favali. "The next speed is 'exaflop' - 10 to the 18th power."The move comes less than a week after IBM announced that it is laying off almost 3,000 employees worldwide.
If the buzz is to be believed, the games industry is well-placed to ride out the economic recession. But scratch the surface of the spin, and it's apparent that, with layoffs continuing in offices of some of the major players like EA, Disney, NCSoft and EIDOS, and losses recorded by Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft, the headlines are spouting feel-good rhetoric to soothe the fears of markets around the world and the predominantly young, highly (specifically) skilled workforce.Gulp.Is there any light at the end of the tunnel, or is the crunch going to create a hyper-protectionist industry even more reliant on sequels, franchises and other-media spinoffs? Well, for the mainstream, this is the unfortunate vision I have in my crystal ball.However, a lateral, more positive approach is to point out that from the lay-offs of said highly-skilled, predominantly young workers is likely to be born a smattering of innovative new companies focussed on both development and publishing. Now, before you get too excited, it's important to preface this by reminding everyone that we've yet to see any evidence for this hypothesis. There are precursors (read: the 1980s), which demonstrated a phenomenal outpouring of creativity and entrepreneurial activity that set the wheels in motion for the thriving and technologically robust British industry that exists today, but I've not seen any stats to suggest that there are new games companies springing up around the country. Yet.There's also a rumour that casual games, peddled on the web and the consoles, could really boom in this time of economic crists. Indeed, digital media research group comScore recently announced that there was a 27% increase in the number of Americans playing online casual games in 2008. During a roundtable conducted byCasualgaming.bizwith CEOs of the leaders in this space (including PopCap, Oberon Media, RealArcade, Playfirst, Muskedunder Interactive, SPIL and Nickelodeon), the conversation was (of course) buoyant:From the consumer standpoint, it is very interesting to spend more time at home and less money on travel and entertainment. Many will move more activities to the online space where more can be done with their time for free or inexpensively. Casual games are a perfect fit as they provide a place where consumers can play for free online, download a game for a small fee, or purchase in-game items for a fraction of the costs of other entertainment options.So said Peter Driessen, CEO of SPIL. However he believes, as others on the panel did, that there will be a hit in the Research and Development budgets which will translate into future issues for sectors like mobile gaming. John Welch from PlayFirst is even less optimistic:I do believe the economy is already having an adverse effect on the casual games sector because the lack of investment capital flowing into the sector will strain businesses and therefore reduce the amount of content developers are able to produce. Add in the competitive pressures squeezing margins in casual gaming and you see a further reduction of available content. As this comes on the heels of a gold rush a few years back that led to a glut of copycat content, a diminished supply might actually be a good thing. But I fear the recession could bring a diminished capacity to innovate breakthrough content and expand the sector. Time will tell – there are still a lot of great companies with passionate people putting out new games.So let's take off those rose-tinted spectacles and be realistic here. The games industry will be kicked by the economic slump, and the most obvious hit point will be innovation. Yet as I said inmy column in last week's paper, with so many new channels of distribution available to bedroom programming talent, gamers will still find new and extraordinary gaming opportunities, even if it doesn't make their makers millionaires.
A senior Google official could face up to three years in jail, after prosecutors in Italy arrested him as part of a two-year privacy case.Peter Fleischer, the internet giant's global privacy counsel, will appear in a Milanese court today over allegations that the company failed to protect an Italian teenager who was the subject of a bullying video posted online.The short film, which featured a 17-year-old boy with Down's syndrome being harassed by four other children, was uploaded to Google Video in September 2006. Two months later, following a complaint from an advocacy group, Italian authorities asked for the video to be taken down. It was removed by Google less than 24 hours later.Despite the action, however, Italian officials argue that the company's failure to prevent it from ever hitting the internet was an invasion of the boy's privacy.As a result prosecutors launched a case last year naming four Google employees, including Fleischer and the company's chief legal officer, David Drummond.The company has continually rejected the claims that it should have acted earlier, suggesting that there is no legal reason it should be expected to pre-screen the millions of items uploaded to its servers via services such as Google Video, YouTube and Blogger.com."As we have repeatedly made clear, our hearts go out to the victim and his family. We are pleased that as a result of our cooperation the bullies in the video have been identified and punished," Google said in a statement yesterday."We feel that bringing this case to court is totally wrong. It's akin to prosecuting mail service employees for hate speech letters sent in the post."Fleischer, who is based in Paris, was arrested after he gave a lecture at the University of Milan in January. He will appear at the Criminal Court of Milan today, facing a maximum penalty of 36 months in prison in a case that is expected to last several months.According to the International Association of Privacy Professionals, where Fleischer was previously a board member, current European legislation stats that while ISPs not responsible for third-party content on their sites, they must remove content considered offensive if someone makes a complaint."It seems to me that the public prosecutors in Milan almost did not take into significant consideration legislation currently in force," it quoted Rocco Panetta, a former lawyer for the Italian data protection commission, as saying.However, such arguments may not be enough to protect it from the Milanese authorities. Broadband and telephone providers are able to argue that they are not responsible for transmitted over their lines – what is known in UK law as a "mere conduit" defence.However, the legal situation is less clear regarding website owners. In America, the company is being sued for $1bn by the media conglomerate Viacom, over allegations that it's failure to pre-screen YouTube videos encourages copyright infringement.And internet companies have also experienced the manner in which can chase them across national borders – even if the actions it takes are legal within its own country.In 2006, a change to the way that US gambling laws were applied led to the arrest of a number of British web entrepreneurs, including Sportingbet boss Peter Dicks and David Carruthers, the former chief executive of BetOnSports.com – who is still awaiting trial.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Update: the identity of the course tutor is described belowWorld of Warcraft candemotivate college students, but Starcraft can help them graduate. It's all about how you spin it, right?Indeed, if the FCC representative and the student advisor had been more clever in tackling their concerns about Blizzard's massively multiplayer online games, they could have come up with a solution to their 'gamer apathy' problem: create coursework around it and assign the game as homework. That's the system implemented at the University of California at Berkeley with Blizzard's other big seller,Starcraft, a space-based real time strategy game which now contributes to college credit.And rather than mop up the gamer geeks who'd rather be playing than learning, the tutor on theStarcraft Decal 2009course has created a rather rigorous syllabus. Here's thecourse description:UC Berkeley students with an interest in real-time strategy games and the competitive gaming landscape are encouraged to participate in this class.This course will go in-depth in the theory of how war is conducted within the confines of the game Starcraft. There will be lecture on various aspects of the game, from the viewpoint of pure theory to the more computational aspects of how exactly battles are conducted. Calculus and Differential Equations are highly recommended for full understanding of the course. Furthermore, the class will take the theoretical into the practical world by analyzing games and replays to reinforce decision-making skills and advanced Starcraft theory.Class will start with lecture and usually include a special discussion topic having to do with the day's lecture to inspire new and original thought. At the end of lecture, there may be time to analyze student-submitted replays to illustrate a point or to improve analysis. Homework will be assigned at the end of each class and is due at the beginning of each lecture.The objectives outline critical thinking, quick decision making and game theory skills, plus  understandings which can be applied offline. There's a reading list and workload. A fascinating adventure, indeed.What's not clear is who the facilitator, Alan Feng, is. As I recall from my US college days at an institution calledOberlin College, we had secondary tier of classes in which students could lead organised, term-long sessions for fellow students, resulting in a few credits towards graduation. I took a class on The Beatles and one on Clowning (juggling, falling over and the like). Others learned a language that wasn't offered on the official coursework, or trained as massage therapists. All in the name of liberal arts. So is Alan Feng a student, offering a similar course for Berkeley-ites? It seems so, as none of the credits contribute to any major.UPDATE: Indeed, he is.Stuarthoughtonsent in an article fromfidgitthat identifies the course as part of the DeCal, student-developed programme. This doesn't make it any less interesting; students still receive credit for their work, and the game is treated with a bit of academic rigour.If you do fancy popping along during one of the in-world sessions, theofficial course blogoffers dates, times and videos.
You have to hand it to Ryan Carson, the boss at trendy web companyCarsonified, for his determination to live his life - and make his mistakes - in public. In recent months, he's stoked the fires of controversya few times- including by making hisonly web developer redundantbefore hiring him back a week later onwhat seemed like worse terms.The latest instalment in the ongoing Carsonisaga came last month, when heannouncedthat the company would be auctioning off its email advertising application, Amigo, via eBay. The reserve price, $25,000, seemed fairly arbitrary but he was bullish about the sale, suggesting that"I've been proven right because we've already gotten two offers at $25K". And yet when theauction closedafter a week, it had precisely zero bids. As Ryansaid: bummer.I dropped him a line when the auction closed and asked what was happening since he hadn't offloaded the business? Was the plan to do a private sale? And would he get the price he'd previously had offers at?"Yes, we're currently working completing the sale with another buyer," he confirmed yesterday by email. But when I pressed him on who that might be, he said they were "still negotiating"... so the mystery continues.
Honestly. A few flakes of snow and you'd think it was the apocalypse. Walking through West London today was like wandering into Cormac McCarthy's The Road, re-written as a knockabout farce. Couples clutched together for warmth, cars skidded into post boxes, I wouldn't have been surprised to see groups of feral children scrabbling in the bins for dead pigeons.It was perhaps a fitting backdrop to my interview with Resident Evil 5 producer, Masachika Kawata, who I met at Capcom Europe's office in Hammersmith today. Both Resident Evil 4 and 5 deal with societies on the verge of collapse; it's just that in London the problem is snow, not brain-controlling parasites or zombifying pandemics. Driving through the slushy streets of the capital seems to have had a profound effect on Kawata - when I asked him if he had any locations in mind for the next Resi title, he replied 'Why not London?'. Apparently he enjoyed the contrast of the ornate neo-classical buildings with the many dark alleys and shadowy side streets. It is perfect Resi stuff really. Perhaps he wasn't joking.I won't go through the rest of our interview - I'm hoping to post it as a video soon. But it was interesting to meet him. Like Kojima, he has a great sense of cinematic detail; he thinks and talks in terms of images and visual moments. While discussing the use of sunshine as a source of horror, he talks about how some enemies will reveal themselves initially as looming shadows, coming out at you from behind walls. Often, enemies will be obscured by the brightness at first.He also talks about how Resi 5 is very much an evolution, rather than a revolution. The key aims were to update the graphics for the current generation consoles, and to introduce the concept of co-op play (all Jun Takeuchi's idea apparently). However, Kawata-san doesn't expect these to reproduce the epoch-shattering impact we saw with Resi 4. He hints that there will be a Resi title in the future that will catapult things to a new level once again, just as RE4 did. That isn't what Resi 5 is about. The changes, when they come, will be more drastic than, say, a slightly tweaked interface. First, a big decision needs to be made on the future direction of the brand - back toward horror, or onward into action adventure...With RE5, there was also a concern to get back to the core story of Resident Evil, after Resi 4's Las Plagas diversions. Hence the return of Chris Redfield and of Wesker. It sounds like the climatic fight between these two will be the mother of all boss battles.Oh and finally, just for the Gamesblog community, I asked Kawata-san what his weapon of choice will be when the zombie apocalypse comes. "Shuriken" is his almost instantaneous reply.
The Indian government is saying that it will soon begin production of an educational laptop for 500 rupees, about £7 in today's money. Well, the initial price will be twice that, but the Indian government expects the price to drop oncemass production introduces economies of scale. Details are scarce at this point so it's difficult to say, apart from huge government subsidies, how India plans to produce such an inexpensive educational laptop.We'll know more soon enough as the National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Techology will show off the laptop on Tuesday, and we know that they saved design costs by pulling together students at the Vellore Institute of Technology with help from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and the partially-public Semiconductor Complex. and we already know that it will have 2GB of RAM as well as ethernet and wireless connectivity. It will only use 2 Watts of power. For comparison, Intel's power-sipping Atom uses only 2.5W.That begs the first question. What processor will it use? I would doubt that the system would use any commercially available processor. Even if purchased at volume, most commercial CPUs are more expensive than the total cost of this laptop. For example, when introduced last year, theentry level Atom cost $45when purchased in large quantities. I'd expect the processor to a be a system-on-a-chip, integrating as many functions as possible on one piece of silicon. Those chips are cheaper, such as ones based on the designs ofCambridge-based ARM,but still not cheap enough to hit this $10 price point.There is also little information on what kind of display the laptop would use, another significant cost. And Stephen Schenck at Obsessable.com scratches his head at how India will build a laptop at this cost when2GB of RAM alone costs $20.All of this has lead to more questions than answers. Tech bloggers are very sceptical.Amulya Gopalakrishnan at Indian Express says:If that sounds fabulous, it probably is. Even with a huge Government subsidy, it is unclear how ten dollars can get you much more than a souped-up calculator.There is no hard drive. There is no CD or DVD drive. However, one can run Linux systems off of a compact flash card for cheap storage.But as Amulya says, even low-end netbooks cost ten times as much. The laptop is based on a bet to best Nicholas Negroponte's $100 One Laptop Per Child. The Times of India accusedNegroponte of "trying to hardsell" the OLPCproject and said the laptops had'hidden costs' that boosted the price to $200.However, the Indian e-laptop will also have additional costs. Macmillan, Tata McGraw Hill, Prentice-Hall and Vikas Publishing will all be uploading texts to use with the laptop, but only about5% will be free. All of these questions will be answered soon enough when the laptop gets its debut on the 3 February. In the meantime, tech bloggers will continue to cost out the parts trying to figure how India could produce a laptop for the cost of a couple of London cappuccinos.
We mentionedGlobal Game Jam, an international make-a-game-in-two-days event, a couple of weeks ago, and now we can report that it was a massive success. Congrats to the attendees, who between them created 300+ games!People from around the world - from Colombia to South Africa to the USA to jolly old England - produced a phenomenal index of games which, as the organisers declare on theirlatest post, "Some of them are genius, some of them of funny, some poignant, silly and some…not so successful."Each one is publicly available and is listed on theirGame Browser, which you can navigate by location, platform and characteristics. Each game also has a rating, which means you can sift out the "...not so successful" from your search.A few taken at random (based on a search for MacOS - Intel) with a four or five star rating include:Micro, from team Nose from Costa Rica, is a casual, Flash 2D platformer that "wants to show that co op is no always good :P" (also available on Windows)Bipole, from the six-person team at Spil P;us in the Netherlands, is a Flash puzzle game described as:Two little balls are trapped in a sphere, aching to be reunited. Unfortunately, these balls are not just your everyday, run-of-the-mill little balls – they are magnets. Normally opposites attract, but for our spherical friends life isn't that easy. Their quest for unison is troubled by many a challenge, such as thick walls, trap doors, and magnets that change the polarity of our little heroes. Tilt the game world to guide them on their path, and make sure to magnetize them oppositely when they meet– or their presence to each other could turn out to be just what keeps them apart.Do It, developed by the four-person Food Poisoning team from Chicago, is a Flash rhythm shooter, "a test of endurance inspired by not having control over the music we listen to when in public. The object of the game is to endure some of the most horrible music ever made while staring into the eyes of someone who just wants you to end his misery. Tools provided."MMOFRGGR(Mildly Multiplayer Offline Frog Fragger), developed by the three folks on team Fragger in Israel, "presents a twist on the classic Frogger gameplay, in the world's first multiplayer frog/car simulation. Each player must take on a role in the endless struggle between frog and tire. Play as the frog and follow your destiny to forever cross the road back and forth, using your quick wits to avoid traffic... Or grab a mouse and manipulate traffic to create the ultimate frog trap. What will be your weapon? Quick fingers, or quick thinking? Choose your strategy and outrun or outsquish your friends."With so many to get through, I'm going to have to block out a whole day devoted to playing. Shall we split it up between us?
FindAnyFilmis a new site from the UK Film Council, and it does pretty much what it says on the tin (well, except for the "pretty"). How successful it will be is another matter. It has been launched to fill a niche that I don't think needs filling. And its ulterior motive – to encourage people to buy rather than download pirate versions of films – looks doomed from the start.FindAnyFilm brings together a number of different feeds and attaches them to a database of films. The main feeds are what's on at British cinemas, the films that you can buy or rent on DVD (Region 2 only) or Blu-ray, places where you can download or watch a film online, and what's on TV. Typically this gives you seven options for seeing a film, each of which is marked either Available or Alert me.Obviously, to get an alert when something becomes available, you have to register an email address.There are several ways to find films on the site. The most obvious is to use the search box, but you can also use an A-Z index, browse by genre, or check the charts for the most popular movies. The genre search runs from Action to Western, and does include some less mainstream options such as Anime, Bollywood and Gay. It does not include Adult.The search engine works well, and provides free text searches of the database. For example, a search for Hamlet also finds films such as Babette's Feast, because Babette found herself in "a remote Danish hamlet". There are progressive search tips but you must usually ignore them. The fact that there is no search suggestion for the title, director or cast member you want doesn't mean they aren't in the database.The pages are not particularly stylish, being in stark black and white, but at least they're very legible. However, browsing is a somewhat stuttering experience, as you have to wait for each page to download. It seems to be the site's own Flash adverts that hold things up.But the real problem is: Why would anyone want to use FindAnyFilm in the first place? If you want detailed information about a film, you'll go toIMDb, the Internet Movie Database. If you want to buy or rent a DVD, you'll start at Amazon, Play.com, LoveFilm or whichever site you prefer. If you want to go to the cinema, you'll look up listings to find out what's showing locally. And so on.It's possible that you might decide you wanted to watch, say, Kurosawa's Throne of Blood, and that you'll decide later whether you want to buy it, rent it, download it, or hunt for a cinema showing it. But I suspect this would be the last thing you'd try, not the first.And if your first thought is to go and search for a movie as a bitborrent download, then I don't see how FindAnyFilm will make the slightest difference. It loses on price, speed and convenience.
In myDenki featurelast week, I mentioned that the studio has a singular approach to development, inspired more by stage practice, than by the usual grabbag of well-worn industry staples. There seem to be quite a few aspiring game designers reading Gamesblog, so I thought I'd ask Head of Development, Gary Penn, to go into the approach in more detail.Penn is, of course, an industry veteran, well-known as a games journalist in the eighties, and later as Creative Director at DMA Design. It was during his watch that the original GTA was crafted into the cult classic we now fondly recall. Recently, he has briefly reconnected with DMA founder Dave Jones, now head honcho at Realtime Worlds; Penn provided some design consultancy on the original Crackdown.Back to Denki and it seems that the key rule about coming up with new game ideas here is to just run with them right away. "Immediacy is about proving something as quickly as possible, by any means possible," says Penn, "you can do it through pictures, play acting, animation, video, anything it takes to make shit happen." It's very much the indie gaming ethic - the same approach that inspired Kyle Gabler to set up theExperimental Gameplay Project, which of course led to the awesome World of Goo."Quarrel is a great example," continues Penn, referring to the company's forthcoming XBLA word puzzler. "[We made] a tangible board game of Quarrel that you can actually play. We've done this a lot of over the years – we had a Tetris-style game that we prototyped with bits of paper…"Importantly, the board version of Quarrel allowed the team to experiment with and refine the experience without recourse to an Xbox dev kit. It could have been a good solid game before they'd even written a line of code.The message is, forget poring over design documents for months on end, just start making stuff. As Penn asserts, "It's about trying to get results as soon as you possibly can, using things like repertoire – as in, the known, the familiar, the practiced, the repeatable. Things like middleware would fall into that category. Use any tools you've used before, any code you've used before, any frameworks you've used before; because getting the results is the most important thing. You've got to get shit happening – you can talk about it, you can write it down, it means nothing until you actually make it and think f**k that's nothing like what I thought it was going to be! That happens most of the time."As I wrote last week, Penn mentioned that he has formulated ten very simple rules that govern Denki's approach to game design. Five have to do with the design process itself, while another five are about the end product and what it must contain. "None of those saying things like 'fun' or 'quality' because they're pretty nebulous," explains Penn. "These are things we can use to measure games. And to see how effective these rules were we took a load of titles that we liked and didn't like and applied the rules to them, to see how 'Denki' they were – it worked really well..."So to finish off, here are the latter five rules...Feel"This is about trying to create products that feel good - they are substantial, they aren't sloppy, the controls feel responsive, and you feel in control. But it also makesyoufeel good, so there's some emotional resonance going on there. It's not some deep meaningful need to create a game that exploits the emotions of love or hate, it's just… hey, you know…feel something, feel good. Smile."Drama"By that, it's more in terms of thinking about spectacle, performance and emotive, meaningful moments. So you're focusing on dramatic intention, dramatic actions, dramatic interactions, dramatic reaction. War games, lately, have been pretty good at it, but by and large I don't think we're too good as an industry at dramatising stuff."Alive"We try to make products that feel alive. And that kind of operates on two tiers - informative and attentive. You're never in the dark for too long, the game never feels like it's crashed, which can still happen when you get this… dead air they call it on television, it's horrible when you get that in games. It's making sure the game is keeping you informed at the right times, with the right kind of absorbable information. The main thing we think of is, we as developers are performers, we're building toys, the tools of play, for players who are also performers. Performing on your own is tedious, but performing in front of an audience is much more interesting. That's where the attentive element comes in – if the product has life, it's evocative and attentive, it says 'hey that was pretty cool, I like the way you did that'.Convenience"Conceptually, games have to be convenient to understand; you shouldn't have to go, 'sorry, can you explain that again?' So it's convenience in terms of being able to pick it up and play, to understand how to play it. It's sort of streamlining and minimalising things, providing that focus. It's convenient, I can play it whenever I want. In theory, there should be a short critical path to play. At Denki, we set ourselves a ridiculous benchmark but effectively the gamer must be able to start playing with in a certain number of seconds."Twist"There has to be some sort of meaningful twist in there. And that doesn't mean it has to be wholly original, it just has to havesomethingthat distinguishes it from everything else. It can be a twist in the concept, a twist in the execution, and it has to kind of manifest throughout the product."You can do an awesome version of something, there's nothing wrong with that, but why do it exactly the same? Why not put some stamp on there that's you? It could be 99% like everyone else's but just that one percent that's different. I like word games, for example. We did a game called Word Crunch on Sky [players have to make as many anagrams as possible out of a series of words] which did extremely well for us. There are some little tricks in there – some really simple obvious things like arranging the words in alphabetical order. People said "that makes it easier!", yeah but it also makes it more fun! Compelling fun underpins the whole thing."
Awful name, very good game. Yes, I've been playing a lot ofKillzone 2over the last month. The PS3 first person shooter is out on the 27th Feb - a demo will be up on the PSN store from the 5th Feb - and is definitely worth the wait. Heck, it almost banishes memories of the pre-rendered/in-gamefootage fiascoof E3 2005. Almost.Initially, however, the game feels underwhelming. The art design and settings are tediously reminiscent of Halo and Gears of War – think monosyllabic muscle-bound marines firing rockets around grey alien landscapes.  Ok, you won't yawn but you may think "is this it?". Luckily things get a whole let better, primarily because the action itself is so intensely exciting.It takes a few minutes to realise that running and gunning will get you nowhere – Killzone 2 is surprisingly tactical.  Ok not, say, Rainbow 6 levels of strategy but Killzone 2 certainly involves more use of your brain than you may have expected. The enemy AI is worrying clever, up there with the best. Forget basic cover and shoot - enemy Helghast will use smoke grenades, flank you and generally give you no time to give peace a chance.A quick glance at screens or trailer does the game a disservice – Killzone 2 is a gorgeous looking game. You won't have the time or inclination to gawp at the scenery Oblivion-style – although there are some very special set-pieces – but it's the attention to detail that really impresses. For example the lighting and particle effects give the landscapes a lived-in, realistic feel.Despite a sad lack of co-op play – don't they know co-op is the future of gaming?! - multiplayer is clearly the long-term option. On paper it sounds great – different classes, role-playing-game levels of customisation - but it will take until full release to get a real feel on how successful it will be. Chances are, given the PS3's relative paucity of top-notch shooters, the answer will be "very".In many ways Killzone 2 feels like a shooter designed by Blizzard. No, sadly you can't shoot Night Elves with a rocket launcher. Rather it takes all the conventions of the first-person shooter genre – weaponry, locale, cover/control mechanics – and polishes them until near perfection. Ok, maybe not perfection, but you get the point. Killzone 2 is a very pretty, very polished first person shooter.Killzone 2 won't win awards for originality or narrative. And chances are in 15 years time when you dig your dusty PS3 out of the loft and start reminiscing it will be the likes of LittleBigPlanet that stir the greater memories. But in 2009 Killzone 2 is a state of the art first person shooter and a great way for the PS3 to start the year.
Monday's snowy edition of Chatterbox
'Women and children first" is not a cry you hear often from computer companies: they know male geeks and gamers are more profitable targets. But handbag- and schoolbag-sized netbooks are the latest craze. They're cheap, too, unless you want the &pound;850 Sony Vaio P.Asus got the market started in 2007 with its dinky Eee notebook PC. This had a 7in screen, like a portable DVD player, and a tiny keyboard to match. Which was fine, because Asus was selling them to schools for use by quick-fingered children. Grown-ups quickly became interested: they cost only &pound;200. So Asus and Acer brought out new models with bigger screens and more user-friendly keyboards.Other companies noticed sales were taking off and brought out their own mini-notebooks, which by then we had decided to call netbooks. Today's examples have 10.2in screens, plus built-in Wi-Fi. Increasingly they'll also connect via the 3G phone network (in which case look for a netbook that takes a Sim card).These machines are less powerful than full-fledged PCs. They are not good for serious gaming, video processing, or cracking secret codes before breakfast. They are, however, fine for web browsing, word processing, email, instant messaging, Skype, and using the fast-growing range of online applications. Which is what most people do.Unlike conventional laptops, which are increasingly 17in monsters, netbooks are light enough for you to carry around without noticing the weight. That may be bad news for physiotherapists, but it's good for everybody else.
Since Google Earth launched in 2006 ­millions of people have used its virtual globe to "travel" around the planet without leaving home, climbing a digital version of Mount Everest and even flying into space thanks to the program.Now the internet company plans to take on one of the last bastions of the unknown: the depths of the ocean.At a high-profile event in San Francisco, Google is expected to announce the addition of vast amounts of underwater imagery and seabed maps to the Google Earth project.The move will take Google Earth closer to its aim of creating a complete digital representation of the planet.The existing site, to which an estimated 400 million people have had access, already includes three-dimensional representations of large cities around the world and includes images from street-level and aerial photo­graphy covering thousands of miles across Britain and elsewhere.The new additions to the program are expected to include views of the ocean, and portions of the seabed. They will also ­provide detailed environmental data that will enhance information about the effect of climate change on the world's seas and oceans.To showcase the transformation, the site's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, will introduce dignitaries including the former US vice president and environmental campaigner Al Gore, and the ­veteran ocean­ographer Sylvia Earle, who is an  "explorer-in-residence" at National Geographic.Although, so far, there has been only limited data collected about the sea floor, with just 10% of the habitat mapped at any useful scale for science, bathymetry experts said that the public's ability to "interact" with the oceans and gain better understanding, as well as see the evidence of global warming, could have quite an impact on perceptions."This is the part that's really exciting, for me: people will understand that we know almost nothing about a lot of these places, and Google will do it for us," said David Sandwell, professor of geophysics at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, at the University of California, San Diego. "There are big voids everywhere, but there are a few little spots where we know quite a lot."The inclusion of environmental information forms the latest part of the company's plan to offer the public more data about climate change. In 2007 Google convened a high-level meeting of experts to help it develop sources of submarine information and environmental data. It seems likely that the company will later unveil partnerships with institutions in Europe and the US as part of the project."It's a really useful tool for scientists, to [be able to] share data on the oceans," said Sandwell. "For me, it's the detailed global tectonic structure of the sea floor … if you're a physical oceanographer, the important thing is that the currents and tides are affected by things that stick up from the sea floor."The development has a less serious side, however. It is also believed people using the site will get the chance to take a virtual dip at some of the world's most famous diving spots, including at sites in the Bahamas, the Red Sea and the Great Barrier Reef.Despite the project's long gestation, speculation about the precise details has grown since Google announced it would be holding the event. Many observers said they were hoping for something spect­acular. "I don't think this announcement will be confined to just Google Ocean," wrote Frank Taylor, who catalogues the development of Google Earth at gearthblog.com. "When Google makes an announcement like this, they always try to push the envelope on multiple fronts. And, with Al Gore headlining the event, I'm sure we're going to get some data about the environment."The new system could potentially be combined with another program to let people ­"virtually" move about anywhere in the world.At the Macworld Expo in January, Google engineers unveiled a program called EarthSurfer, which combined Google Earth with Nintendo's Wii Fit to create an exercise game that allows players movement "around the landscape" by way of balancing on a board. "You control it by leaning forward to go forward, and back to go back," said David Oster, the EarthSurfer programmer on the project at the time. "It's great stuff."• This article was amended on Tuesday 3 February 2009. David Sandwell is professor at the University of California, San Diego, not the University of San Diego and Google Earth is a program rather than a website. This has been corrected.
Whether netbooks are secondary purchasers or replacement purchasers is a big topic for coputer manufacturers. If they are secondary purchasers then they are nice extra business. If they are replacing sales of bigger, more expensive and more profitable PCs -- either notebooks or desktops -- then they are bad news for the big manufacturers.The answer, of course, is that the market includes both types of purchase, but which one is likely to predominate?Well, there's now some US research, so interested parties can buy areport:In November, 2008, ABI Research conducted an online study among adult US consumers concerning their interest in and expectations of a number of consumer technology products, including netbooks and mobile Internet devices (MIDs).According toABI's press release:Among many other results, the research found that only 11% would use a netbook as their primary computer, while a massive 79% view netbooks as a secondary device to be used in addition to a laptop or desktop computer.However, principal analyst Philip Solis says:"Even as a device that is secondary to the PC, this has to cut into the laptop market somewhat. When considering another laptop as an additional device mostly for browsing the web and using other Internet-based communications applications, consumers will find netbooks to be an appropriate alternative."At the moment, netbook sales are counted as regular PC sales: they're not a separate category. Life will get a bit more interesting if we get lots of netbooks that can't run Windows, such as the ones that we anticipate with run a version of Google's Android operating system on ARM processors: in effect, very large phones with proper keyboards.
TechRadar has a trenchantinterview with Steve Green* about DAB digital audio broadcasting and the UK's approach, which has been put forth by the Digital Radio Working Group (DRWG). Steve is a columnist for Hi-Fi World magazine and runs theDigital Radio Techsite. I think of him as being on the extreme right of the argument, where Ofcom is on the extreme wrong.I'm not against digital radio -- I'd like it to succeed -- but I have two complaints. First, I think the UK should accept that DAB+ is the future (it is, after all, the new world standard), and that we should be openly planning migration to DAB+, not pretending it isn't going to happen. Second, I think sound quality matters, and we shouldn't be trying to move radio to a standard that sounds worse than CD or even FM radio. DAB as broadcast in the UK does sound worse than FM, and has much worse stereo, due to the bit-rates chosen.What's happened more recently is that internet radio has started to become a viable medium, and in this interview, Steve is arguing that the DAB lobby -- which basically controls the UK radio industry -- is ignoring it. He says:The DAB supporters [such as Pure and the BBC] face a bit of a conundrum here, because for the last few years they've mainly been promoting DAB on the basis that it provides greater choice. But a typical DAB listener can only receive around 35 stations (people in London receive more stations, people out in the sticks usually receive less), whereas there are 10,000 plus internet radio stations and thousands of on-demand streams, such as the radio programmes on the BBC iPlayer and podcasts. There's no contest: internet radio wins hands down on choice.Because of the low bit-rates used by UK DAB, the internet can also offer better sound quality. And the gulf is going to get wider in the future. Steve says:Internet radio has the big advantage that the streams can use modern audio codecs, such as WMA and AAC/AAC+, whereas DAB is stuck using the prehistoric MP2 codec that dates all the way back to the 1980s. But the main reason why so many internet radio streams now provide higher quality than DAB is because internet bandwidth has become dirt-cheap over the last couple of years.Furthermore, because the price of bandwidth is linked to Moore's Law, the price of bandwidth is expected to continue falling for another decade or more. So, the quality of internet radio will only improve over time, and it's basically inevitable that internet radio will outclass both DAB and DAB+ in terms of audio quality.DAB still wins on convenience, but internet radios have become easier to use, and that process will continue. Also, over time, pretty much every electronics device is going to be able to connect to the internet, so pretty much every device can be given some capability to work as an internet radio.One thing Steve doesn't go into is in-car internet radio, but I think this could become a critical issue. At the moment, hardly any cars have DAB, because DAB isn't widely used outside the UK. Steve says this "led to the car and mobile phone manufacturers choosing not to integrate DAB into their products, because they will only integrate Europe-wide standards."So the problem boils down to how you make internet radio viable in cars on a pan-European basis. The obvious answer would seem to be Wimax (or if not, why not?). Wimax could also take broadband to rural areas, solving the government's universal broadband problem, and Wimax can easily be built into portable PCs, netbooks and mobile phones.As I've pointed out before, Intel is developing chip sets that do both Wi-Fi and Wimax, so that's a no-brainer.OK, now have a read of the Digital Britain interim report and see if you can find out where internet radio and Wimax are part of the government's vision of the future. Then you can ask Lord Carter why not.Watch some of the BBC's free advertising for DAB radios, then ask why it doesn't even mention that you can get internet radios or even DAB/FM/IR combo sets.Whether Steve Green is right or wrong, I really can't see any honest reason for not facing up to these issues and providing answers -- apart, possibly, from incompetence.* The interview had been reduced from four pages to three when I went back to it. At the moment, I don't have time to check what has been cut…
Facebook intends to capitalise on the wealth of information it has about its users by offering its 150 million-strong customer base to corporations as a market research tool. The appearance, later this year, of corporate polls targeted at certain parts of the Facebook audience because of the information they have posted on their pages, is likely to infuriate privacy campaigners.Last week Mark Zuckerberg, the company's 24-year-old founder and chief executive, showed the audience at the World Economic Forum in Davos how the social networking site could be used to poll specific groups of users.He asked users in Palestine and then Israel about peace issues before relaying the results back to the audience within minutes. He also polled more than 100,000 American users of the website, asking them whether they thought President Obama's fiscal stimulus package would be enough to resurrect the economy. Two out of five said it was not enough.Giving consumer brands the chance to use such a wide audience to get a quick response to targeted questions would do away with, or at least reduce their reliance on, expensive and time-consuming focus groups.Speaking to well known tech blogger Robert Scoble at the event, Zuckerberg said 2009 will be Facebook's "intense" year as it tries to justify some of the mammoth valuations that have been placed upon it by making some serious revenues through advertising. He was evenseen sporting a tie,a sartorial extra which the Harvard drop-out has so far eschewed.He added the company has been experimenting with analysis of user sentiment, tracking the mood of its audience through what they are doing online. Such information is potentially very interesting to large brands, which are always seeking to measure what their customers think about their own or competitors' products.Facebook's advertising technology already allows advertisers to choose which sort of customer will see their ­display adverts when they log on to the site. Advertisers can choose from such ­categories as where the user is located  and their age and gender, based upon what the user has uploaded on to Facebook – which is adding about 450,000 new users a day.Last year, Facebook launched its Engagement Ads tool, which allows advertisers to publish a poll on people's home pages. They are then able to see how their friends and other Facebook users have voted. The polls, which can include actions such as watching and rating a movie trailer, are being tested by companies including AT&amp;T and CareerBuilder.com.The American recruitment website tonight used its trial Facebook polls to ask people what they thought of the advert that was played during the coverage of the 43rd Super Bowl. The first widespread use of polls is expected in the spring.Facebook also has a tool called Facebook Lexicon, which is a bit like Google Trends, in that it allows users to track what topics are being discussed by people on Facebook. While Google Trends uses the search terms that are entered into its site, Facebook Lexicon looks at one of the most visible parts of a user's profile page – their wall, where people and their friends exchange public messages. It provides a searchable database of trends over time, showing how the incidence of particular words or phrases has increased or decreased in wall posts.Facebook Lexicon shows that the company already has a significant database of user information which it could exploit and the tools are in place to allow companies to use its information for market research purposes.
In a recent post, I linked to the numerous Guardian stories about the new interim report on Digital Britain produced by Lord Carter:Digital Britain: Lord Carter reports, we reportIt's a somewhat tricky one because Digital Britain covers radio and television broadcasting and the internet on both TVs and PCs, as well as other devices. It covers both media and technology.We've now made your life a bit easier by pulling all our coverage together on aDigital Britain page.
Today, some searchers found every site in Google's search results carried the warning that: "This site may harm your computer".Google's official blogsays:This was clearly an error, and we are very sorry for the inconvenience caused to our users.It turns out someone made a mistake when updating search with a list of risky sites. Google says:We periodically update that list and released one such update to the site this morning. Unfortunately (and here's the human error), the URL of '/' was mistakenly checked in as a value to the file and '/' expands to all URLs. Fortunately, our on-call site reliability team found the problem quickly and reverted the file.Google implied that it obtained a list of risky sites from StopBadware.org,which replied:This is not accurate. Google generates its own list of badware URLs, and no data that we generate is supposed to affect the warnings in Google's search listings. We are attempting to work with Google to clarify their statement.Anyway, the problem was resolved in about 40 minutes, which isn't long, but the goof naturally attracted a lot of attention. Dozens of sites reported the story, including theBBCand theGuardian.Normally, I'd expect any site that Google flagged as possibly harmful to suffer a loss of traffic and therefore a loss of revenue: well, you wouldn't go there, would you? In this case, it shouldn't have been a problem because almost every site was fingered, including Google.But what did you do, or what would you have done? Go to sites despite the warnings, or try searching somewhere else?
On 01-29L&amp;B:IN THREE DIMENSIONS&gt;&gt; you can see that a new display somewhere, which was fresh rather than an upgrade, or a new games machine in an arcade, is a much more likely venue for 3D than a television screen near you anytime soon. The expenditure is only the first of the reasons. The second is that the equipment needed to generate the 3D image is much more complex when it comes to filming real people - who make up the majority of the pictures on TV - than a logo, game animation or anything else that originates on a screen.So be ready for a new set of skills to learn if you're into the animation or display market.http://www.daniweb.com/blogs/entry3842.htmlGOOGLE AND SEX&gt;&gt; What I appreciate about Seth's point of view is that he's got deep expertise in the nuts and bolts of how these things work, he's not given to conspiracy theories, but doesn't give an inch to the powers that be.  He's also a lucid and entertaining writer, with a sense of humor as dry as a leaf in Winterhttp://www.comstockfilms.com/blog/tony/2009/01/22/the-google-god-wields-great-power-over-commerce-%e2%80%93-seth-finkelstein/LIBRARY SEARCHESI was surprised that you could have an article on this subject without mentioning copac.ac.uk which covers all British academic libraries on line - and some others as well.Colin Cohen, Barford St Michael&gt;&gt; Why you can't find a library book in your search engine. Mostly because Worldcat is evil, according to the Guardian. Of course they don't come right out and say it. I can't help thinking, if you could type in the title and Google told you the nearest library, the Guardian would think that was evil.Meanwhile, you can still use interlibrary loan to borrow almost any book in the world for free. (Unless you live outside the city limits. Then, since you aren't already taxed for the library like the rest of us, you have to pay for a library card to borrow books. Oh, the injustice!) Or you can buy any book in the world on line and have it delivered to your house. Or go to the bookstore, sit in the comfy chair, and read a chapter a day. Or sit in the library and read. Granted, you have to leave at closing time.http://mondayevening.wordpress.com/2009/01/23/finding-and-reading-books/&gt;&gt; Well of course you can – sometimes - it's just not that easy – as the article says the search results are dominated by commercial booksellers. Apart from the fact that restrictive contracts like OCLC's World Cat prevent opening up catalogues for libraries that subscribe to this cataloguing service, a key reason why you can't find books in online library catalogues is that retailers are better at getting their web sites ranked higher in search engines than libraries – it's their job to promote their wares.http://suehill.typepad.com/shrweblog/2009/01/why-you-cant-find-a-library-book-in-your-search-engine.html&gt;&gt; On a broadly related note, the Guardian reported this week on the spat over OCLC's revision of their data use provisions that all member OCLC libraries are expected to abide by. This report is slanted against OCLC but nevertheless the organization has handled the whole issue horribly, and management has now been forced to do what they should have done in the first place which is to hold a open forum (which will now be an open bitch session).http://personanondata.blogspot.com/2009/01/bibliographic-studies.html&gt;&gt; Now I believe OCLC has rights. But I'm not sure what they are or should be. Should all records "sold" to libraries before 2009 become public domain records since OCLC policy was not clearly established? And then should libraries decide whether to continue their relationship with OCLC for their future cataloging needs?This is the problem I've always had with electronic product: what are we really paying for, and what do we own? For example, now that Apple is making their content DRM-free, iPod customers need to repurchase music they already owned in order to own it again for real. I always ask this about our library databases that we purchase and then discard our print resources that are now available electronically. What do we own? Can we download the database and keep it on our server and then cancel our subscription? What if you change the content and remove something we value and put that content into another database that we now need to buy (again)? Why the hell did we dump all those perfectly good books?http://effinglibrarian.blogspot.com/2009/01/oclc-vs-everyone.html&gt;&gt; Unfortunately, OpenLibrary is under attack by a backwards-thinking company called WorldCat that hopes to shut down the "little guys".  I'm sure WorldCat has something to offer the world, but if they hope to get onboard with the 21st century web, they'd better start thinking inclusively.http://blog.inquirylabs.com/2009/01/23/need-a-library-book-have-it-scanned-free/&gt;&gt; The writer observes that finding books in your library should be a simple matter of a web search. This is not the case. You can look up books in OCLC's WorldCat but most of these records are not shared with Google Books. Instead of trying to find new ways to share library records, OCLC recently introduced more restrictive licensing on them. Set to be implemented in February, the library community roared, and the date was deferred. It is a time for OCLC to pause and reflect.http://johnmiedema.ca/2009/01/23/youve-heard-of-worldcat-now-meet-fuzzycat/&gt;&gt; The article implies that the reason "OCLC shares only 3m of its 125m records with Google Books; none of them show up in an ordinary search" is becuase OCLC is unwilling to share more records for more uses. My understanding was that OCLC was happy to share all it's records with Google (but not with you and I, for free), and would like them to show up in ordinary searches, but Google says it's too much data and they don't know what to do with it! (Contrary to popular belief, even Google is not omnipotent against the genuinely hard problem of dealing with our gigantic legacy corpus.)http://bibwild.wordpress.com/2009/01/22/oclc-in-the-guardian/&gt;&gt; So all the eager modern-day librarians out there who so want to share their collection of great books with the wider public just aren't allowed. That's really, really sad. I hope - but am not counting on - that whoever in Obama's administration this thing sorts under will do something and break the monopoly of this kill-joy in Ohio. Read the whole article, it's not that long and it's interesting. There's more in it than just the above.http://labeet.dk/wordpress/?p=306&gt;&gt; It is a good overview of the broader issues surrounding the OCLC Licensing problem, and is written for the general reader (i.e. this is the article you should recommend to all your non-library friends (and perhaps even some of your library friends).http://www.davemenninger.com/cincinnati/?p=971&gt;&gt; The article asks the simple question, "Why you can't find a library book in your search engine?"It's an obvious question. The answer isn't quite as simple as they put it. Libraries would be in Google if their library catalogs could be spidered. But they'd still be hampered by OCLC in various ways. Anyway the coverage of OCLC, Open Library, LCSH.info and LibraryThing are spot-on. And the subtle nationalist angle—an American site!—can't hurt.*Three cheers for the Guardian. Next up, the New York Times? We can hope.http://www.librarything.com/thingology/2009/01/guardian-asks-why-you-cant-find-library.php&gt;&gt; Flooding the Web with multiple copies of metadata about multiple copies of books is non-trivial to get right (just think of the issues around sensibly assigning 'http' URIs to this kind of stuff for example) such that link counting, ranking of books vs. other Web resources, and providing access to appropriate copies can be done sensibly.  There has to be some point of 'concentration' (to use Lorcan Dempsey's term) around which such things can happen - whether that is provided by Google, Amazon, Open Library, OCLC, Talis, the Library of Congress or someone else.  Too many points of concentration and you have a problem... or so it seems to me.http://efoundations.typepad.com/efoundations/2009/01/why-cant-i-find-a-library-book-in-my-search-engine.html&gt;&gt; It's good to see the ongoing OCLC debacle is starting to be picked up by the mainstream press in the UKhttp://www.daveyp.com/blog/archives/632&gt;&gt; It is rare for the Guardian to report on library catalogue intellectual property issues, but OCLC appears, though without glory, in a piece in the technology supplement this morning on the records ownership controversy.http://www.roper.org.uk/tr/2009/01/guardian-on-oclc-records.htmlIWORK, YOU WORKThank you for your piece on iWork.  I fall into the 'do I need the new features' existing user camp!  One thing that might be worth adding is that Apple's education discount puts this package at a mere £34.50 – far more palatable to Apple's large academic user base.Just a thought!David Jarman, EdinburghIS THE DOWNLOAD DEAD?&gt;&gt; Once this remote version [of Spotify] goes mainstream and proper favourites storage has been sorted out, we'll never have to mess about with music mp3s in portable devices again and if the service adds podcasts or talking books in the future, assuming the cost of using the web drops, that's the mp3 market dead with some types of music radio looking depressedhttp://feelinglistless.blogspot.com/2009/01/obligatory-spotify-post.html&gt;&gt; Access is key. Ownership is redundant.http://mbf.blogs.com/mbf/2009/01/is-the-download-dead.html&gt;&gt; Is this the solution to online music piracy?http://www.blog.big-andy.co.uk/life/~clouds-and-aeroplanes/&gt;&gt; I'm getting a bit confused about what it logically implies though. Recently I have mostly been listening to music via Spotify, and discovering new stuff, and occasionally indulging in nostalgia to old things like Ebenezer Goode and Frazier Chorus. I have been feeling very clever for making it work on my office computer. But now I'm back where I was a year or so ago, when I listened to lots of stuff on my ipod, but everything I had for playing music out loud wanted CDs, so that I either sat around at home with headphones on or I could only listen to stuff I could physically find, which was a very last century way to live. I sorted it out by getting ipod dock speakers to take to Italy, and now I only use those and have never bothered to unpack my hifi. But now I am back to the same situation where I have to listen to stuff at home with headphones on, because my laptop's speakers aren't any good. I might need to set up some AirPort streaming system. Technology is complicated and confusing. Suddenly my ipod looks all out-dated. Could we all just stop and catch our breaths?http://bagford.blogspot.com/2009/01/hard-work.htmlINDIA'S PHONE CHALLENGEPaul Munford (Connecting with Rural India) overlooked the biggest challenge facing operators in India and indeed in developing countries around the world:  how to   find a way to provide telephone services to remote rural areas where ARPUs are very very low – and still make a profit from these  customers.Luckily for India's rural community they don't have to 'whistle at the moon'. Zero opex [operating expense] solar-powered GSM base stations are being developed to reach people who have less than $3 a month to spend on their calls.  In addition, the microtelecom model is emerging. Like microfinance, microtelecom is based on the belief that "bottom of the pyramid" consumers can be profitably served — as long as the product or service is designed appropriately.  It centers around local stakeholder entrepreneurs who partner with operators to deliver mobile services within their communities.Anil Raj, CEO VNL  www.vnl.inMACS REDUXWhilst Roger Larkinson is correct in saying that the Mac mini is a  great piece of kit - it is - it should not be forgotten that it is  also a stand alone piece of kit. By the time you have also bought a  monitor (and these days it has to be flat screen) keyboard, mouse and  an external hard drive (and you wouldn't want anything but Apple kit  of course) you are well on the way to the price of an iMac, which has  a higher spec anyway.Perhaps the Mac mini will go down as one of Apple's design exercises which was stunning, but in the end, no-one quite worked out what to do with it.Alan Gent, CheadleLINUX OR...The Guardian should be doing more to promote software that is safe by design.That means everyone should replace their Windows operating systems with well thought out ones.I mean Linux, and the easiest I think is still by far Ubuntu, which is easy to install on your computer - almost any commercially available one in the last five years.You will find installing Ubuntu far easier than even starting up a newly bought Windows computer for the first time.And, if you're scared of what it might do to your computer, you can run it from a CD, a USB drive or set up a dual boot system on your computer.The operating system and a vast amount of software is absolutely free, and almost any conceivable software package can be downloaded for free.And if there is that special Windows package you think you still need (there isn't) a utility called WINE will let you run your windows program, but will not allow your machine to be infected.Ubuntu, GNU, Linux, are all based on longstanding programing principles going back 30 years and more which have worked out methods of allowing programs to run on computers which don't allow them (or others out there in the wild) to take over control of your machine, techniques which we must believe Microsoft has purposely decided not to use.It's entirely free (you never own the software, but you don't Microsoft's malware either) but you use it under a 'copyleft' as distinct from copyright licence.Occasionally Microsoft blows hot about its patents, but in fact nothing in the Linux core is owned by Microsoft, and the engineers who have built the Linux engine have long ago replaced any code that might be possibly held to infinge Redmond's property. The one company SCO that decided to go after Linux (a difficult thing as Linux is not a company, it's a community) imploded in an expensive bankruptcy.Why is it the best program environment in the world is free and not directly owned by anyone?In principle it's because there isn't a billionaire at the top feeding on it to fund his own agenda (however meritorious Bill Gate's charitable efforts are, he's only been able to do them because he has been able to charge you top dollar for his rubbish) ;that there's a community of people (who should be thought of as the computer equivalent of conservation volunteers) who think that a free software environment is a good thing, and willingly contribute to it, who know how to produce good software (rather as a good conservation volunteer learns good practice from bad in the environment); that there are a number of firms (a community rather than a monopoly) who put up the relatively small amount of money needed to keep the movement alive and people like us who want decent stable software.I don't have to pay a fee to anybody for the operating sytem in my TV. I have to pay for the content (licence fee or advertisements or Sky tax) and I have to buy my set, but I'm not required to pay an entirely bogus charge to some American capitalist for the right to turn it on.If you continue to pay Microsoft that spurious charge, it is your free choice, but there isn't any need to! And by deserting Microsoft you will never have to worry about some mysterious security patch again.Charles Norrie, LondonVIRTUAL LONDONSSecond Life's "London" may be a great achievement, but it is also  something of a hollow experience. There are two kinds of virtual  urban re-creations : Amsterdam for example, where the frontages are  photorealistic but completely static, pasted on to inaccessible non- buildings - rather like walking through a film set.Then there is London, where the textures are slabby and unrealistic  (as they have to be to reduce lag), while the shops and clubs are  like those you see everywhere in Second Life. Visiting either city  just once is fascinating and eye-opening, but only die-hards would  return regularly.Until computer power, broadband speeds, and server capacities make it  feasible, then the fully interactive, realistic, virtual city is  still only a dream. Better to visit the fully imagined locations  instead, where Second Life really excels.Tid Kidd, Second Life Volunteer Island, Second LifeIPHONE GAME PRICINGYou mentioned today that Rolando on the iPhone is about as pricey asiPhone games get - they just reduced the price today to £3.49:http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/rolando-price-cut-to-gbp-3-49Paul Haine, LondonSKY COPY PROTECTIONI have just read with interest your article regarding the above issue:http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2008/dec/04/television-sky-programme-backupsI experienced the copy protection problem for the first time only 2 weeks ago, i.e. after the supposed fix.  Following two lengthy conversations with Sky Technical Support in which they denied the existence of the problem I insisted that they send an engineer out.The engineer said he'd never heard of the problem and declined to read, let alone take away, a copy of your article, which I had printed out for him.  He then tried to prove that the problem was with my DVD recorder by disconnecting it from Sky and showing that the copy protect message still appeared when trying to record.The engineer managed to get rid of the copy protect block by connecting the DVD recorder to the terrestrial input (which worked fine) and then back to Sky again.  He acknowledged reluctantly the possibility that if there had been a copy protect signal with the Sky output it could have upset my DVD recorder's settings, causing it to stick on copy protect. My problem is resolved for now, but I wonder for how long.  Will there be another randomly generated block signal by Sky in the future?I thought that you might like to know that copy protection is still a problem for Sky customers.Martin Langan, ClanfieldDOWNLOADING SAUCERSAccording to McKinnon,  "These folders [NASA imagery folder] were full of images in a proprietary NASA format, or in a format I'd never seen before: no jpegs or gifs. They were also 200 to 300 megabytes in size. And being on a 56K dial-up modem, there was no way I was going to download that at five minutes per megabyte."So what I did... The remote control program that gives you graphical control of the machine - I turned the resolution right down to, I think, 4-bit color and then on the desktop on the NASA machine, navigated to the folder, double-clicked on the first image. The application launches. The image comes up on the screen, but it's still very, very slow."And what I saw, or was hoping to see, was what she was describing as a saucer, very definite imagery. And what instead I saw I assume was the Earth. This was in shades of gray. You had the Earth's hemisphere taking up about 2/3 of the screen and then halfway between the top of the hemisphere and the bottom of the picture there was a classic sort of cigar-shaped object, but with golf-ball domes, geodesic domes, above, below, and this side [gesturing to the right], and I assume the other side as well. It had very slightly flattened cigar ends. No seams. No rivets. No telemetry antennae or anything like that. It looked... it just had a feeling of not being man-made. There was none of the signs of human manufacturing."Source: http://www.projectcamelot.org/gary_mckinnon_interview_transcript.htmlFirst obvious question - what was the craft McKinnon saw? Can you tell me if anyone from The Guardian has asked NASA about the image McKinnon claims to have seen?McKinnon also said that he could enter the NASA network easily, as, bizarrely, they had either no or the default network password.  That is asking for trouble.  Additionally, he states other hackers were also present at the times he entered this network - why have they not been arrested?  Why has McKinnon been singled out for prosecution?In my opinion, McKinnon is being prosecuted for two reasons 1)punishment for what he saw and 2)to be used as leverage by NASA/DoD as "evidence" that hackers can be equated with "terrorists" and therefore we i.e. NASA, needs more money for "security".  Maybe Obama will put a stop to this nonsense.Richard Martin, Newmarket
Google placed the internet on a blacklist today after a mistake caused every site in the search engine's result pages to be marked as potentially harmful and dangerous.The problem affected internet pages across the whole planet, and lasted for around 40 minutes before engineeers were able to fix it.The glitch centred on Google's malware detector, which is designed to keep internet users from visiting sites Google believes may install malicious software when users browse them. Google blamed "human error" when an engineer tried to add one web address to the list of those deemed suspicious, and mistakenly added them all."We periodically receive updates to that list and received one such update to release on the site this morning. Unfortunately (and here's the human error), the URL of '/' was mistakenly checked in as a value to the file and '/' expands to all URLs. Fortunately, our on-call site reliability team found the problem quickly and reverted the file," Google said in its official blog.The incident occurred at around 2.40pm.Apart from lost advertising revenue – which one expert estimated at $2-3m (£1.4-2m) – the incident is embarrassing for the world's most popular search engine, known for its reliability.Users across the globe were puzzled as all searches were met with the warning: "This site may harm your computer."A spokesman for Google said: "A lot of people were woken up in California when the problem broke. Clearly Google was labelling every website as malware."Google's paid search results appeared not to have been affected.
Consoles have been able to access the Internet since Sega's Dreamcast over-promised "6 billion competitors" all those years ago. While online play is now an excellent way of extending the life of games for an almost indefinite period of time, using your console to surf the web is still a senseless ordeal of text that's too small to read from halfway across the room and fumbling interactions with your joypad when everything has been designed for a mouse. With the admission that, actually, all most people do online anyway is watch YouTube for hours comes the ability to do exactly that on your Nintendo Wii and PS3 consoles. With a big, easily clickable interface, nice simple videos to watch and no tedious text to distract you, it's the perfect console-internet experience; something only underlined by the fact that it's completely free. No downloads, just point your console's browser atyoutube.com/tvand prepare for happy-slapping hilarity.
Silent Hill HomecomingAlex Shepherd is a returning soldier haunted by dreams about his missing younger brother and shocked by his mother's strange inertia about doing anything to help find him. The town's emptiness, shrouded in mist, with streets in some cases entirely missing, will be familiar to anyone who's played a Silent Hill game. As will the lurching, deformed horrors crouching around many corners, the customary crackle of static from your transistor radio as a new beast approaches and the succession of puzzles that involve rearranging sets of items. Your beleaguered antihero now has two different attack speeds and the ability to dodge, however these tiny departures do a poor impression of innovation when games like Dead Space have shown that survival horror just doesn't have to be this clunky. While Silent Hill still has an atmosphere entirely its own, it's a franchise in urgent need of fresh thinking.• Konami, £34.99-£49.99Fable II: Knothole IslandFor players of Fable II's delicious, witty, interactive fairytale, the fun eventually has to end when you've righted all wrongs (or got to the point where everyone fears and despises you) and own all the property in Albion. Thank goodness for downloadable content and Knothole Island, a throwback to the original Fable and home of an entirely new mini quest in which you help its tribal elder sort out a little problem they're having with the island's weather. Expect a few extra hours' key-collecting, shrine-exploring and monster-slaying, as well as a load of Knothole-exclusive items and weapons, notably including a variety of slimming potions, presumably in response to the weight problems that, owing to a quirk of the control scheme, afflict a majority of Albion's heroes. For the amount of game on offer, £7 is steep, but the allure of even a little new Fable is a powerful temptation.• Lionhead, 800 Microsoft Points (approx £7)
• Theevolutionof Apple• WhatMichael Stipe'spad looks like•Torontois the capital of the bad pun shop name•Bratzdolls may give girls unrealistic expectations of head size• Not to takeViagrain church• Anyone can pretend to beLex Luthor• You don't need to gooutsideto play frisbee• IsHilary Swankhot? Yes, she is• The Verve'sBittersweet Symphonyno longer seems so majestic• There's amusical recapof Lost if you miss an episode
As with The Black Cab Sessions, The Fly's courtyard and the French site blogotheque.net, which likes to ﬁlm bands in vans, persuading music acts to perform acoustically in unusual places is quite the internet trend at the moment. The idea here is to kidnap touring bands and take them on a minor excursion into the deserted parkland and housing estates of London town and get them to play three songs while they shudder in the barren wind. In the case of sensitive Swedes Loney, Dear, this resulted in a small audience of gooﬁng teenagers, but apart from the occasional stray duck, most of these quaint indie types perform to no one at all. That's about to change with the posting of times and venues of forthcoming acts; hopefully applause won't ruin the whimsical appeal.
Micha Albacow is a 16-year-old beat machine from Uzbekistan. He is also the star of a new viral campaign by the makers of a popular small mint (his favourites are the orange ones which he likes to suck after swimming in the Aral Sea) because, as a child, he noticed the rhythmic possibilities of the aforementioned tiny confectionery and began making instruments from them, including a pan pipe and drum. Micha's street show is actually pretty good, as is a game that's like Guitar Hero (except with mints).
Hamster TrackerKeeping count of how many metres pampered rodent Lucy clocks up on her lickle treadmill.Cute Things Falling AsleepUnbearably schweet footage of elephants, kittens, parrots and puppies nodding oﬀ.Zoo BornsThe latest baby arrivals in zoos, from sloths in Costa Rica to peanut-sized monkeys in London.Animals Who Need KissesCelebration of the forgotten inhabitants of the animal kingdom who need a bit of respect. And, worryingly, a kissy.Cute OttersRiverbank hooligans turn it on for the cameras. World fooled. Ha ha ha!Cats In SinksCats love sitting in sinks and looking like mean ninja bastards.Dogs In OutﬁtsDogs love wearing fancy dress clothes and looking like idiots.
Many people expected the Digital Britain report by Lord Carter (Report, 30 January) to provide a clear way forward, but we are left with promises of more watching and assessing, which is frustrating for the millions of households missing out on the full capabilities of broadband.The report seems to back a fibre-to-the-kerb solution at a cost of around &pound;5bn. However, it falls short of recommending how funds should be made available to ensure a true future-proof fibre network is rolled out. The universal service obligation looks set to be delivered by a mixture of first-generation broadband solutions, and 2Mbps by 2012  will be quickly outpaced by applications and changes in internet usage.Parts of the UK will have 50Mbps in 2009, and 40% of homes by 2012 will have the choice of 50Mbps from Virgin Media and similar speeds from BT, but the question still stands as to how far the firms will go and whether their plans can be carried out during a recession.This report was an opportunity to ensure the UK had a clear path towards a future-proof e-economy, but with the current proposals we are going to have campaigns every four or five years to resolve broadband speed/coverage issues.Andrew FergusonEditor,Thinkbroadband.comIntroducing a levy on all broadband users to offset the cost of illegal downloading to the industry will antagonise consumers and effectively legitimise illegal downloading, without addressing the root cause of why some turn to illegal content. Our own study shows that 26% of people using video on demand (VOD) services engage in illegal downloading. But this behaviour is often driven by a frustration with legitimate VOD services, rather than a desire to break the law. For mainstream consumers, the current UK VOD market is characterised by confusing rights restrictions which limit the range of available content in one place, and by a highly fragmented delivery model which requires viewers to visit multiple providers to find the programme they want. And 42% of those using illegal services are motivated by a desire to watch American shows before they screen in the UK.Illegal providers can provide a better choice than many legitimate VOD services. By failing to come together to provide a coherent way for viewers to find the right content, the media industry is pushing viewers to illegal providers.Stuart KnapmanDirector, Essential ResearchBroadband access for all means whole communities will have the opportunity to collaborate online. The rise in popularity of online social networks has already enabled users to connect with friends and family all over the world. More than just creating "virtual" friendships, access to broadband will build meaningful communities on an international and local level.Although Lord Carter's interim Digital Britain report and Hazel Blears's recent Guidance on Building a Local Sense of Belonging document show that politicians understand that community cohesion matters and that the internet can play a role in this, new government guidelines offer little incentive or clear funding in terms of making this a reality.The key to implementation of these guidelines is to empower communities by making available the tools to bring about change. Accessible broadband is a step towards improving communication, but it will require meaningful social networks, properly managed, online and off, to help communities establish common goals and work together to make a real difference in real-life neighbourhoods.Paul FoxManaging director,Neighbo.comIf "broadband is fast becoming something that everyone is entitled to have" (Leader, 30 January), it ought to be the government's responsibility to ensure its delivery to every home and school. The failure to invest in adequate railway infrastructure 30 years ago means our public transport system compares poorly to most of Europe's; failure to invest in digital infrastructure in a way that ensures fair access to truly high-speed internet will cost us dearly in years to come. We must learn the lessons of the past, avoid reliance on a risk-averse private sector, and urgently lay fibre optic cables to every home in the UK.Prateek BuchLoughton, Essex
If you ever have the urge to take your Chevy to the levee, then do take the precaution of ensuring that your model is not a Matiz. The Chevrolet Matiz may have a number of virtues - its low price, for example, and the fact that it can double as a child's toy - but it's not the sort of vehicle in which you'd want to impress a bunch of good ol' boys drinking whiskey and rye.Instead it's much more suited to those A to B journeys, in which the uncomplicated need to get to B from the position of A is such that all aesthetic concerns and social anxieties can be stored away in the boot (there is, after all, little room there for anything else).The Matiz was originally produced by Daewoo, the South Korean car firm that got into financial trouble a decade ago. The idea was to produce a compact five-door city car without unnecessary expense. And the idea was realised in every detail, and in particular the lack of detail. Streamlined is the word marketing people tend to give to this kind of reduced styling. To put it another way, Daewoo did not stint on stinting.Everything about the car said basic. But when GM bought Daewoo, it decided to file the Matiz under the Chevrolet brand, which is rather like taking a 10 quid guitar from eBay and calling it a Fender. The irony is that if GM has a future, it probably lies more with cars like this than any that possess the character to be immortalised in song.Once you overcome the fear of being crushed by a reversing dustcart or turned over by an angry toddler, driving the Matiz around town is not unpleasant. There's enough pep in the engine to get you away from most potential scrapes.The real challenge comes when you take on a more demanding trip than just dropping off the dry-cleaning. So it was that I drove to Oxford (and back!) on the M40. Everything was going quite well. As motorway drivers in Britain tend to view the inside lane as an extension of the hard shoulder, I had it pretty much to myself. Then I hit a section with one of those crosswind warning signs. The experience was what I imagine it must be like walking through a hurricane with nothing but a cotton summer shirt for protection. Terrifying, obviously, but also quite exhilarating.Indeed at one point, thereafter, I found myself in the outside lane, overtaking a languishing Audi at a crazy 75mph. So what that I had both feet on the accelerator and we were going downhill with the wind behind us. Here was definitive proof that the Matiz, in all its dull, compressed, dispiritingly utilitarian glory, need not be restricted to the mundane tasks of city living. But as far as the levee is concerned, leave it.Chevrolet Matiz 1.0SEPrice&pound;6,908Top speed97mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 14.1 secondsAverage consumption50.4mpgCO2 emissions137g/kmEco rating8.5At the wheelDon McLeanBound forThe bike laneIn a wordCheap
Remember, WALL-E was only a filmThe US army has its own small, unmanned ground vehicle, which looks very much like the clean-up robot from the Pixar film. Except he was able to get himself out of the mud – unlike this one.So what's the 'one more thing'?It was 25 years ago that a fresh-faced STeve Jobs unveiled the computer he called "Macintosh" (no definite article). He seems to have retained the same excited-at-anything crowd ever since.Do you have it in dark brown?Going somewhere dangerous? Need a fashionable, bulletproof jacket? We'll even fire a bullet at you to check it.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments..
I'm still reeling from having to read the word porridge of the interim report on Digital Britain, handed down yesterday by (Lord) Stephen Carter. What a mish-mash of quangos, incomplete thinking, and bars set so low you can walk over them. 2 megabit per second connections for all by 2012? When people in South Korean cities today think things are bad if their speed drops to 30Mbps? A "rights agency" funded by content providers and ISPs (ie, in the end, us) that will come together to dream up a way to "enable technical copyright-support solutions that work for both consumers and content creators"?I have never, ever heard of a quango writing a piece of code, nor even spotting the best stuff. (Generally, it's quite the opposite: hello, English NHS record computerisation.) Getting the "right" DRM is an intractable problem. You'll never reach the end: the only DRM that really works for consumers is none; the only DRM that really works for content producers is either zero or lots. But not all content producers agree with zero DRM. There is no single solution, and the Rights Agency will simply burn up our money failing to find it.What's more concerning is the Carter approach to "net neutrality". That, you'll recall, is the proposition that a network operator should not discriminate against data packets purely on the basis of where they originate. Thus packets with video or sound should, as they pass over the network, be treated in the same way as other video or sound packets (they tend to get priority over plain old text); data packets should not be held up purely because of where they started.Simple enough: that means that a video site can be anywhere and, bandwidth along the path allowing, its content will reach you just as fast as from somewhere nearby. (That's not quite true of course because your ISP will have video cacheing strategies for frequently accessed content.)Carter, however, suggests that net neutrality is a waste of the chance to squeeze some money from customers. (That's us – you know, the people funding that Rights Agency above.)The Government has yet to see a case for legislation in favour of net neutrality. In consequence, unless Ofcom find network operators or ISPs to have Significant Market Power and justify intervention on competition grounds, traffic management will not be prevented."Will not be prevented." Neat double negative from the world of Sir Humphrey. In other words, ISPs will be allowed to demand money from sites aiming to stream content to you.Step back a moment. Let's try to see if this can make sense. Let's argue the case against net neutrality.ISPs are struggling with ever-narrower margins. Organisations like the BBC come up with products like the iPlayer, which consume huge amounts of bandwidth. How are the network companies (BT Openreach, Virgin Media) to fund high-speed networks able to cope with 100Mbps? The money has to come either from other operations, such as phone line rentals, or from ISPs paying for bandwidth.This is where you hit a chicken-and-egg problem. Who's going to install the high-speed fibre? BT Openreach or Virgin. Who's going to pay for it? BTOR or VM. How will they pay for it? By charging ISPs (including BT Retail et al). How will the ISPs pay for it? By charging their customers and/or the providers of bandwidth-hungry services.Will customers pay for it? Unlikely – it's really expensive putting in fibre. Like £5bn expensive, minimum. Will subscribers pay? Unlikely.But the BBC says it shouldn't have to pay ISPs. (At least, its then-director of future media and technology, Ashley Highfield,said so last April.) Google (which, don't forget, owns YouTube) has lobbied repeatedly for net neutrality; it doesn't want to pay ISPs either. Google especially will resist any political imprecations. If it starts paying in the UK, every network infrastructure company in every country will start standing by YouTube's internet pipe holding a chainsaw and raising their eyebrows meaningfully.Who's left to pay for the high-speed links, then? Businesses that want high-speed videoconferencing? I can't see a business case for widespread installation of fibre to the office out of some companies. That's really, really unlikely to happen.What I'm amazed by, generally, is that Carter is happy to put his name to this report. It's full of nonsense.But there's a sliver of hope. This isn't the final report; it's an interim one. There's still time, if we get the right person to write the final one.Watching Clay Shirky discussing it last night on BBC Newsnight (watch it via the BBC's iPlayer- enjoying the irony, of course - until February 6th; the item appears at about 19'40"), and pointing out that you don't really understand the impact of these connectivity systems until people start to use them socially (one person using Facebook? Pointless. Millions and millions? Essential) I had a sudden realisation: he's the person to get to do it. Shirky is smart: in 1995, when most of us didn't have much idea about the internet, he wrote a fantastically insightful piece called "The price of information has fallen and it can't get up". If more – in fact, any – newspaper barons had read that, they might not be laying people off by the hundred now.Shirky could cut through the thickets. He sees that you can't dictate technologies; you have to go with what people are doing. Dictating fixed-line broadband when 20% of people have given up having a fixed line (as the report acknowledges) is just retro. Hand it over, Lord Carter. Let Shirky at the keyboard.There is a precedent for getting someone who actually knows about an internet topic to write a government report. ThePower of Information review, about the usefulness of social media and the web for central and local government and civil servants, was written byEd MayoandTom Steinberg. Then it's up to the government to implement it.Well, there's still time. Shirky's phone number must be somewhere around. In fact, he's coming to the UK next week to give a lecture. Perhaps Lord Carter could take him aside and whisper in his ear. It might be the smartest thing he ever does.
