Let's play a game. You pretend to be a clock, and then I'll tell you how stupid you are at being a clock. Or how about this: you flail around your living room trying to bash mice as they poke their heads out at you (avoiding the spiky ones, of course) and then I'll tell you how shamefully pensioner-worthy your rodent-smashing is. Or – this one is definitely going to be fun – I ask you a load of primary school maths questions, and you answer them by kicking an imaginary ball into goal. When you get an unacceptable proportion of them wrong, I'll let you know how pathetically exhausted and close to death your brain is. Ha!Brain Training isn't supposed to feel like a round of mockery and humiliation. Instead, it's intended as a collection of bite-size exercises to stretch your brain and apply some gentle calisthenics to your body. Despite the title, there's no real body training going on here: you're no more likely to break a sweat turning yourself into a human "greater than" sign to answer mental arithmetic questions with Kinect than you are solving the same problems with a stylus on the bus, unless a hot flush of embarrassment when someone catches you at it counts. As activities go, this is only mildly more strenuous than sitting down.Instead, the theory is that your arm-waving and foot-poking will reinforce the effect of the various maths, logic and reflex routines on offer, allowing you to restore your pulpy grey stuff to the pristine condition of childhood. At the start of each session, you take a test everyday to ascertain your (essentially spurious) "brain age" which is then recorded on a planner for you: this gives you an incentive to return every day and beat your (inevitably depressing) score. This takes around 10 minutes, so while an Xbox doesn't have the same portable convenience as a DS, it wouldn't be a particularly time-sapping habit to acquire. Kinect works typically cleanly with the game, and although there are a few "I didn't do that!" moments, it's mostly accurate and responsive.After the assessment, you can stick around with the beatifically smiling Dr Kawashima and his strangely endearing dancing lightbulb buddy Watson for the euphoric music (I wish I'd had ascending chords to mark my classroom struggles with the times tables), or for a bit of solo training. The game recommends exercises based on previous performances, and allows you to choose your own in Custom Training – perfect for refining your weird bubble-popping skills.There's also Group Training, which is where the game seems to 'fess up to what it really is: a collection of good-natured and pleasantly daft mini-games. What we've got here is basically Bishi Bashi Special in a lab coat. Peel back the neuroscience trimmings and veneer of virtuous well-being, and you've got multiple opportunities for frenetic competition as you attempt to trounce your friends and family. There aren't enough games that give you bragging rights for your skills in, say, being a bridge and coaxing vehicles to colour-coded exits by raising and lowering your arms appropriately. Slightly sinister alone, fun together, and not really all that science-y, this is the games equivalent of pretending to work in a hospital.
1983:Founded as Control Video Corporation by Bill von Meister, its sole product is an online service called GameLine for the Atari 2600 videogame console. Control Video becomes Quantum Computer Services in 1985. In 1991, Steve Case, Quantum's chief executive, changes the name of the company to America Online. Under Case, AOL expands quickly through a series of acquisitions, including rival CompuServe.April 1998:AOL buys Netscape, a web browser, for $4.2bn. Despite its pioneering status,Netscape is crushed by Microsoft's Internet Explorerin the first"browser war"that subsequently enmeshes Microsoft in a lengthy, andexpensive antitrust case in the US.January 2000:Time Warner, the US media giant whose interests range from the CNN news channel and Time magazine to Warner Bros cartoons,announces merger with AOL. The $350bn (£220bn at the time) deal sets a record for the world's biggest merger – it remains so to this day – creating the world's fourth-largest corporation. At the time it was seen as a ground-breaking convergence of "old" and "new" media businesses.December 2001:AOL Time Warner's chief executive, Gerald Levin, a key mover in the merger, resigns.April 2002:AOL Time Warnerreports losses of $54.2bnfor the first quarter, the largest in corporate history, due to a massive $54bn writedown in the value of Time Warner since the AOL merger.January 2003:Steve Case, who engineered the AOL-Time Warner mergerquits unexpectedly as chairmanafter bowing to investor pressure. The 44-year-old Case leaves amid mounting criticism of the company. He says he feels he has become "a distraction" as the firm lurches from one crisis to the next.May 2005:The Huffington Post launches as a liberal alternative to rightwing news websites.September2005:AOL becomes the first internet company to win an Emmy award.March 2008:AOL Time Warner acquires Bebo, the social networking site for $850m.2009:AOL and Time Warner agree to separate, marking the end of the biggest and most disastrous deal of the dotcom boom. The rationale behind it crumbles during the recession and Time Warner takes a mammoth $100bn writedown. The merger also leads to along-running fraud inquirythat leaves the company nursing a $210m fine.June 2010:AOLsells Bebo to Criterion Capital Partners, a small private investment firm, for an undisclosed sum – reportedly between $2.5m and $10m. The Bebo deal was described as one of the worst deals made in the dotcom era.February 2011:AOL buys Huffington Post, the ground-breaking online news and opinion site founded by Arianna Huffington on a shoestring budget, for $315m.
Sony Ericsson chose an ad break in last night's US Super Bowl final, to officially announce its PlayStation-branded Xperia smartphone. Named the Xperia Play, the handset is based on the Google Android 2.3 'Gingerbread' OS. It will be the first mobile device to comply with the PlayStation Suite certification, a programme set up by Sony to mark out handsets capable of running its forthcoming conversions of classic PlayStation games.Sony has said that it will reveal more about the phone's capabilities (and launch date details) on 13 February. For now, the Super Bowl ad showed that the handset's games controller slides out from beneath the screen. In itshands-on preview of the devicelast month, Engadget reported that the Xperia Play has a 4-inch multitouch 854 x 480 LCD, driven by Sony's Bravia screen technology. The site also claimed to have been tipped off that it features a single-core Qualcomm MSM8655 CPU.But why a PlayStation smartphone, and why the big announcement now, so soon after revealing the Sony NGP portable gaming system?It's clear, Sony has spotted the rise of the powerful smartphone as threat to its games hardware business. The latest mobile devices from Apple, Samsung, LG and so on are more than capable of playing quality casual games with plenty of connected features. And with handsets now featuring dual- and even quad-core processors and advanced graphics processing hardware, we're seeing 3D gaming experiences that rival those on Sony's PSP handheld console.The company's plan is to engage with hardcore/traditional gamers via the NGP, while also grabbing a slice of the casual gaming market via the Xperia Playandits PlayStation Suite certification programme.But there are two potential problems here. One is brand dilution. PlayStation has always been a pretty straighforward proposition for the consumer: there was a home console and a mobile platform, and these were discreet but also 100% compatble. Introducing an extra smartphone into this equation may well confuse customers who don't immediately get the differences between the NGP and the Xperia Play. This is not even Sony's first PlayStation phone – 2009's Sony Ericcson Aino featured PlayStation 3 compatibility, but it was complicated to initiate and the functionality was limited.It was this sort of fragmentation that effectively destroyed Sega's console business. After the successful lauch of the Mega Drive console in 1990 (1988 in Japan), the company sought to follow up with a range of devices to meet all potential consumer needs, including the Mega CD and 32x add-ons for the Mega Drive, and the Sega Saturn, a whole new generation of hardware. Instead, the company split its market, allowing Sony to clean up with its original PlayStation.There is also the problem of intense competition within the smartphone marketplace. Xperia Play looks fine, but already this week, LG has announced its new Optimus 3D smartphone, complete with a glasses-free 3D display. The handset, which will be revealed at theMobile World Congressin Barcelona next week, allows users to run 3D applications as well as take 3D photographs and movies. LG is also introducing a tablet-style device, currently codenamed the G-Slate, at the event, which is also expected to have a 3D display.The Optimus 3D uses the same "parallax barrier" technology as the Nintendo 3DS console to provide stereoscopic 3D viewing. Other handsets are also employing this tech –SharpandHTChave similar devices – but it could well be the first to get a full global launch. As for specifications, the Optimus is set to feature a dual-core Nvidia Tegra 2 processor (more infohere), a stunningly powerful chipset. Quite a compelling prospect for gamers, then.The PlayStation name has previously existed in the relatively leisurely five-year console cycle – but everything moves a lot faster in the smartphone space, and if the Xperia Play is rapidly eclipsed by its competitors, will that have consequences for the brand? It will be interesting to see what else Sony has to say about the handset next week. Perhaps we currently know only a fraction of the phone's capabilities.
The UK top ten video games chart, week 4 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (43)PC (3)22 (3)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (31)Wii (7)PSP (6)193 (4)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)124 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (34)Wii (7)PC (3)135 (2)Littlebigplanet 2(7+)PS3 (100)36 (6)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)177 (7)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)Wii (7)PC (5)128 (9)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)109 (13)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (29)PC (21)PS3 (20)DS (20)2810 (8)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)62UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
My gaming time was limited this weekend. Red Dead Redemption's online mode got a brief but invigorating go, although it was very quiet. Was everyone playing the Black Ops DLC? If my 360 friends list was anything to go by then very probably. Elsewhere the ipad and iphone got a look in, with World of Goo and Dungeon Hunter 2 getting a go. For the health of my Wii Classic controller Super Star Wars remained switched off though. What about you then? How was your weekend gaming?
The loose hacker collective Anonymous says it has taken revenge on a US security company whose principal claimed to have penetrated the group and identified some of its key people.They hacked theTwitter account of Aaron Barr, the chief executive of HBGary, and sent out a series of angry tweets while many Americans were watching the Super Bowl match on Sunday night, allegedly including Barr's social security number and address, and his mobile phone number.The tweets link to torrents of the company's emails. Members of the group also put up a brutal set of claims: "Anonymous has:"entire control of all emails for the company ofhbgary.com. we have full admin control of"hbgaryfederal.com. we have wordpress control ofhbgary.com"all emails will be put up in a torrent."full access to all their finincials"their ssns [social security numbers]"their w2s [US tax reporting statement]"their 1099s [US tax identification certificate]"their software products"their malware data (although Anonymous rm'd [deleted] their entire terabyte of data sorry)"their backup server was wiped."access to their pbx system via8x8.com"control of their support server and their clients logins"root access torootkit.com, personal website of greg hoglund"aaron barr's ipad is now wiped"Barr could not be contacted to find out how many of these details were correct. The HBGary site had been replaced by a placeholder this morning.Anonymous claimed that theyreplaced the front page of HBGary's sitewith an image rebuking the company and saying "you're nothing compared to Anonymous. You have little to no security knowledge. Your business thrives off charging ridiculous prices for simple things like NMAPs, and you don't deserve praise or even recognition as security experts."It added: "If you swing a sword of malice into Anonymous' innards, we will simply engulf it. You cannot break us, you cannot harm us, even though you have clearly tried."The company was targeted after Barr wasquoted in the Financial Timessaying that he had identified two key members of Anonymous, including a co-founder in the US, and senior members in Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy and Australia. He said he had picked up clues about their identities via online sources such as email, Facebook and Internet Relay Chat (IRC).In January UK police arrested five people accused of having taken part in attacks against sites such as PayPal in December asrevenge for its withdrawal of payment facilities for WikiLeaks. US authorities and other European police forces have also arrested people accused of taking part in the online attacks.The Anonymous attack was claimed to have been carried out by five people who alleged that Barr had planned to meet US authorities on Monday morning and sell his findings to the FBI. The attackers made the file with the details Barr had planned to release public, but asserted that the numbers given were incorrect and that the names were "random".In asarcastic press release on the AnonNews site, someone from the group posted a release (though dated 6 January, it was actually posted on 6 February) saying "Mr Barr has successfully broken through our over 9000 proxy field and into our entirely non-public and secret insurgent IRC lair, where he then smashed through our fire labyrinth with vigor, collected all the gold rings on the way, opened a 50 silver key chest to find Anon's legendary hackers on steroids password."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop is preparing a major shakeout of the company's executive board and the recruitment of a new head of its research and development division and of its operating systems division, according to reports.The company's stock has already risen by around 10% in the past week on the expectation that a tieup between Nokia and Microsoft, Elop's former employer until last September, will be announced later this week which would see the US software giant providing the operating system for high-end smartphones in some parts of the world.The Wall Street Journalreported on Sunday nightthat Elop is finalising his plans for the shakeup and that they will be announced on Friday at a meeting with analysts in London.Elop will brief the executives on the Thursday, the WSJ reported.The need for a revamp of the Symbian operating system brand, which Nokia presently uses to sell smartphones around the world, is seen as increasingly urgent. Though Nokia dominates the market for lower-end "feature phones" and has maintained the largest single market share in the smartphone market for some years, it is now under threat principally from Google's Android operating system and from the cumulative incursions of Apple and RIM in the US market.In the fourth quarter of 2010, Symbian's share of the smartphone market fell from 41% a year ago to 31%, though the smartphone market overall roughly doubled to around 100m units worldwide, and the company sold a total of 100m smartphones in the year, up 48% on 2009."The [remaining Nokia executives] have to come up with something bold", one person familiar with the thinking told the WSJ, because "Symbian continues to decline".A tieup with Microsoft, even only in the US, could benefit both sides. Nokia has a tiny share of the US smartphone market, estimated at 2%, while Windows Phone 7, launched only in October, has yet to gain any widespread traction with customers or mobile carriers.Nokiahas also seen falling profits over the past three quartersand warned that the present quarter will not be strong either.The speculation of a tieup hadpushed Nokia's shares up by 10%over the past week.The expectation follows analysts' urging of Nokia to form an alliance with Microsoft on smartphones. Some suggested that it should abandon Symbian, which it presently uses across its smartphone and feature phone range, on all high-end phones; others that it should stick with Symbian outside the US, and just use Microsoft's platform there.There is little expectation that Nokia will go with Google's Android mobile operating system for smartphones, however.Oracle, which bought Sun Microsystems and its Java code, is suing Google claiming copyright infringement of Javain the implementation of Android; the case also opens any company that incorporates Android up to being sued (though this does not indicate whether the case has any merit).Discussing the fourth-quarter results in January, Elop said that the company was open to "create and/or join other ecosystems".
Some good interface stuff is happening in the mobile space.First, Nokia, which has the really intriguing idea of"Bubbles":"a fun and efficient way to take a shortcut to timely or useful things on your phone.  Bubbles appears when you press the "Apps" key while your device is in sleep mode (instead of the black screen with clock and unlock button).  Simply grab a bubble and drag it to one of the available drop points to initiate the corresponding action."Very smart - because one of the problems that people often have with a mobile phone is that locking the screen is important (sometimes, completely password-protecting is essential if it has corporate data) but you want to be able to do things like call a spouse or work without going through the whole foofarah or the total unlock.Here's the video:Good to see that Nokia is making some use of those many engineers...And next we have a detailed five-minute look at Honeycomb,courtesy of Techcrunch(which also has a long writeup). This is on a Xoom production unit at Google's launch last week.Honeycomb does indeed look to be the business - but as I say, the price and the battery life are going to be key points too. Interface is only one thing. A big thing, but only one of them.
Broadcasting analysts are predicting a fresh tide of television piracy in the wake of the launch of Sky Atlantic, the glossy satellite channel that has bought the UK rights to many of America's most successful drama series, includingMad MenandThe Sopranos.Fans of popular and acclaimed US shows such as theProhibition-eraBoardwalk Empireand comedy dramaEntourageare already honing new, illicit ways of accessing episodes of the shows they love without the need to pay at least £20 a month to subscribe to Sky.Analysts say "streaming" from unofficial websites will peak in the next few months. After that, many believe, increased demand will bring new and cheaper ways to watch television over the internet into the mainstream.While many non-subscription viewers are still happy to wait for the release of DVD box sets, younger audiences are already resorting to streaming bootleg episodes from sites not sanctioned by the programme's "rights-holders"."If I have a good connection I will download a whole show in bits, with Torrent, and see it whenever I like," said Jake, a 21-year-old trainee chef from Bournemouth, "but otherwise I will stream a show from somewhere. It is not about the money. It is about impatience and getting some power back."Jake and his peer group tend to watch television on the screens of their Macs, occasionally gathering together around a traditional set for a live show such asX Factor.The trend is growing among those who are used to accessing music from pirate sites, says John Enser, a partner at media law firm Olswang. "Young people already know where to stream from. And, broadly speaking, they know a legal site from an illegal one," said Enser. "Most of the time it is pretty clear. If you Google 'Lady Gaga download', certainly not every site that comes up is legal. We tried it forTop Gearand the official BBC site came about halfway down."Enser admits there is complexity around the edges of the law. Yet the truth is that few who transgress will ever be fined, or even reprimanded. "Most programme rights holders are not interested in pursuing individuals who download illicit material. The record industry did play with the idea of taking a tough line, but it doesn't necessarily get the right people," said Enser.Broadcasters would not enjoy seeing their name linked to a legal action against a 12-year-old who has downloaded from the wrong place. As a result, the chances of any individual being sued are tiny. Instead, rights-holders have to deter people – and this will only be achieved when technology provides simple methods of watching TV, on demand, across national borders, he said."What matters to the industry is what the vast majority of the public are doing," Enser summed up. Online, or "connected", viewing has a way to go before it achieves commercial "traction".Once "connected" viewing grows, DVD sales will slump. And broadcasters are already taking action against piracy in the scheduling of popular shows in different countries. It was greater co-ordination between broadcasters that, for example, drove the decision to show the last episode of the concluding series ofLoston the same day in Britain as the American finale went out. Series four ofMad Menwas also shown on this side of the Atlantic soon after the US transmission – with the slim time gap intended to stop fans resorting to illegal methods to catch up on the action.Last Thursday's advice to the European court of justice from one of its eight advocate generals thatpubs should be allowed to choose which broadcaster to paywhen they screen live football is also predicted to alter the way in which British audiences watch television. The move could cause a big change in the way live programming is sold, according to Enser, but may not influence home viewing. "The decision taken last week is not binding yet," Enser said. "If the court does go the same way, it could lead to a complete revision of the way rights, particularly sports rights, are handled around Europe."The impact of Sky Atlantic, launched last week, might appear limited so far. The debut of the seventh series of the HBO dramaEntouragedrew an average of just 18,000 viewers. Over on ITV2, an average of more than 200,000 viewers an episode watched the last series.But BSkyB argues that high ratings are not its aim. Like Sky Arts, Sky Atlantic is designed to change the image of Sky, to attract new subscribers and to undermine the BBC's claim to be the only purveyor of quality television.
Grindr is going straight. The mobile app that helps gay men track their nearest potential date is launching a new service that will allow women to turn their  mobiles into GPS-powered dating tools.Joel Simkhai, Grindr's 33-year-old founder, said he had received tens of thousands of requests from women asking for a straighter, female-friendly version of Grindr. Project X, which will be named in the next few weeks, will  be very different to the gay version. "Proximity is less of a turn-on for women than it is for men," said Simkhai.But Simkhai said location would still be the service's key selling point. "This desire to meet is not just a gay thing. We are all social creatures. But men and women are different. Grindr was made for a man. If we are going to bring women in to this we have to do things differently." He said he hoped to launch the new app in "the very near future".Simkhai said Grindr would work for straight men as it is, if it were populated by straight women. "The way their minds work is pretty much the same," he said. "For gay men just the fact that there is someone 400ft away and gay is interesting." But the new app will incorporate specific features to appeal to women. "For a straight woman, a guy who is 400ft away from her? So what. It happens all the time. We have got to provide more," he said. "Grindr is very photo-centric. Women obviously want to see someone that they might find attractive, but they need to know more than that."Simkhai said that, while he is most interested in getting women to sign up, people will be able to sign up as gay, lesbian, bisexual or any mix of the above.Grindr now has more than 1.5 million gay members and is available on smartphones including iPhone, BlackBerry and Android mobiles. London has the most Grindr users in the world, ahead of New York and Los Angeles. Users sign up with a photo and the barest of stats – age, height, weight. No graphic nudity is allowed. Once you sign on, the app presents a grid of pictures of potential dates sorted by proximity using GPS technology accurate to a couple of hundred feet. People interested in meeting can text each other or send more photos using the app.The app has become a gay phenomenon. BlogThe New Gaycalled Grindr the "biggest change in gay hookups since the 'hanky code'"."I don't know about that," said Simkhai. "It certainly has allowed new possibilities," he said, adding that the service had removed the guesswork from spotting fellow gay men. "You walk into a new room and you can find out who is gay. I was in London recently, and when I landed at Heathrow I was on Grindr. I didn't have to figure out who was gay. Every time you go somewhere new, you have a new set of guys."The app has its critics who argue it reinforces a gay male stereotype. "We provide what we provide. I'm not going to tell people you have to go out on a date with someone, and you have to hang out for at least three hours before you do anything else. That's not going to happen," said Simkhai. "We show you who is there around you. That's all we do. To me what you do with that information is up to you. Sometimes you meet people and you become friends, sometimes you fall in love, sometimes you have a sexual relationship, sometimes you want nothing to do with them. That's life. Grindr is just part of what real life is all about."Other dating sites have advised users not to meet people just because they are close, said Simkhai. "I'd say the opposite. Why not just go and meet the people who are close to you instead of spending hours and hours chatting online only to meet and find there's no chemistry?"Scott Valentine, a New York-based artist, has been using Grindr to find gay men for a portrait project,Project Targeted. He said he was fascinated by the service. "It shows the whole range of gay men, from 70-year-olds to teenagers, muscle guys, really straight-looking guys, skinny, fat, tall, bald. It's all there." But asking them to take their portraits has proved difficult. "They just want to hook up," said Valentine. "I don't know that that's going to work for girls. They can walk into any bar and have that already."
'Silicon Roundabout' was what Matt Biddulph, of social network Dopplr, sarcastically dubbed the drab Old Street and City Road junction in July 2008. London's fume-filled, concrete roundabout may not have had the glamour or scale of California's Silicon Valley, but the label helped pinpoint a new generation of tech talent that included music site Last.fm and printworks Moo.com.Two and a half years later and the joke has worn thin. Comparisons with the sun-soaked US technology scene no longer feel relevant to a startup community that's thriving in London and in pockets of energetic industry across the UK and Europe.That many of those businesses started up without government help might explain the suspicion towards David Cameron's plans to create East London Tech City. "Our ambition is to bring together the creativity and energy of Shoreditch and the incredible possibilities of the Olympic Park to help make east London one of the world's great technology centres," said the prime minister in November. It sounded hard to argue with; superfast broadband, hubs set up by Facebook and Google and startup advice from McKinsey. But the idea seems to have deflated, perhaps punctured by indignation that Cameron is trying to claim some of the cool for himself.Joe White, chief executive of London-based web design service Moonfruit, says he thinks the government is missing the point: "If we need more grass roots, then large tech corporate sponsors are not the answer. Supporting local entrepreneurs who can inspire and support each other is the answer. Create more seed startups, allow more failures, start again then eventually you'll have enough experienced, inspirational entrepreneurs to drive the startup community, and even start to drive the investment community."Back at that Old Street roundabout, an outfit called TechHub had created a focal point for the startup community long before the government's Tech City plans emerged. Co-founder Elizabeth Varley says that TechHub has supported more than 200 entrepreneurs, and that the model has proved so popular that there are plans for TechHubs in Edinburgh, Paris, Berlin, Seoul and Sydney."It's not really helpful to be compared to Silicon Valley," she says. "It's about looking for elements of that ecosystem that could help here – like introducing students and graduates to entrepreneurs, which we've done."Unfortunately, it seems easier to the government to start something new and impose its own vision than it is to understand and integrate with what already exists. Varley says: "We need support for people who have taken the risk."What draws entrepreneurs is a community that includes coffee shops, libraries and galleries as much as technical resources. Ultimately, it centres not on a roundabout but on a gathering of entrepreneurs.Nor are the homegrown successes profiled here only found in London.  From ingenious game developers to those disrupting traditional industries, there's stellar talent to celebrate.THE OLD MEDIA REFUGEEAlice Taylor - MakieworldAlice Taylor was trawling the aisles of a toy fair in London's Olympia last year when the seed for Makieworld was sown. "I was struck by the total lack of innovation and creativity," she says. So she began devising an "entertainment playspace for young people" that will invite users to download and print 3D dolls and accessories. Taylor wants to build on the success of digital favourites Stardoll, Moshi Monsters and Habbo, which all offer safe fantasy characters and environments for children to explore online.Taylor has the perfect background to lead a business reinventing dolls for the digital age. After four years at software company Stor, she joined the BBC as a producer in 2002, and five years later became commissioner for education at Channel 4. Mother of a three-year-old girl, she is well versed in the tyranny of pink girls' toys, and adamant that Makieworld will be equally for boys. "Action figures," she says, "are just dolls with more jointing."Taylor is a loss to Channel 4, where her imaginative digital commissions helped to reinvent the station's educational offering. She admits that she won't miss the pressures of the job: "Being a commissioner meant having to say no 15 times before breakfast."It's early days for Makieworld. Taylor has a space near "Silicon Roundabout" and is looking for investment. She hopes to be ready to launch by September 2012. Eventually, Makieworld could offer safe social networking and a store in which users could make and sell dolls' clothes and accessories.Much of Makieworld's magic comes from the extraordinary development of 3D-printers and a DIY aesthetic that will appeal as much to the craft community as to children. Plus Taylor spies another opportunity. "A recession is the best time to start up," she says. "If you can survive that you can survive anything."THE VISIONARYChris Thorpe - ArtFinderThere's a real "wow" moment when you realise whatArtFinderis about to unleash. Fine art has been very difficult to index on the web until now, but a small team working in London are building a database of 2 million fine art pieces, and combining that with visual-recognition technology and smartphone apps. Point your phone at an artwork, and ArtFinder will identify it, along with contextual information about the work, the artist and their contemporaries.Chris Thorpe, left, and the team developing Artfinder. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the ObserverThe visionary behind it is Chris Thorpe, formerly of games firm MindCandy and theGuardian, among others. Thorpe is working with Spencer Hyman, who spent three years as head of music recommendation site Last.fm. The pair describe ArtFinder as "the Last.fm of art". Linking with major museums and artists, ArtFinder's launch at the end of this month will reveal iPad, iPhone, Android and other smartphone apps for the National Gallery, Oxford's Ashmolean Museum and the Art Gallery of Ontario, among others."ArtFinder is a kind of mission control for art, that will let you build up a collection of everything you've ever liked," says Thorpe. Users can "favourite" a piece, explore other works by the artist and follow recommendations for similar artists, based on ArtFinder's user base, to build an "art atlas" of work they love. They could also plan a tour through the gallery based on their favourite works, and choose to buy prints of work; revenues will be shared."Apps are a democratic route for the youth market," says Thorpe.THE BRIGHT IDEASiún Ní Raghallaigh – TuneprestoTunepresto is a big idea in a very small package. Upload your video, andTuneprestoscans the images to analyse the tone and content, combines that with your choice of music style and automatically generates a piece of copyright-free music to be used on your video.Siún Ní Raghallaigh, of Tunepresto. Photograph: Patrick Bolger for the ObserverTunepresto's chief executive Siún Ní Raghallaigh left her job in TV production when she spotted the need for copyright-free soundtracks. With funding from Ireland's development agency, Raghallaigh worked with the University of Limerick to create desktop composition software. Four years on Tunepresto, formerly known as Albatat, has relaunched as a consumer web tool; producing one track and publishing to YouTube will be free, downloading it will cost €7.50.Based in Galway, Ireland – indicative of the fact that startups can flourish outside London – Raghallaigh (left) claims Tunepresto goes some way towards rethinking copyright for the digital age, at a time where copyright violation and piracy is widespread. "It's a proactive solution for the public and for the industry," she says. "There needs to be much more done to help musicians." Some composers already use the site to illustrate styles to potential clients.Now, Tunepresto's eyes are fixed firmly on the US market, which accounts for 80% of its business.THE DISRUPTERJamie Murray-Wells – Hearing Direct"I like causing trouble – that's the fun bit of starting a business," says Jamie Murray-Wells, who's embarking on a fresh project disrupting the fusty hearing aid industry. He's using the same model of discounts and strong customer service as his first company, Glasses Direct, which he founded in 2004 with the remains of his student loan. That caused plenty of trouble, because Murray-Wells started the discounted glasses site when he discovered what he claimed were significant markups by high street opticians. Infuriated, some rivals sent legal threats, conspired to keep Glasses Direct out of the General Optical Council and even sent threatening letters to his home address.Jamie Murray-Wells, of Hearing Direct and Glasses Direct. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer"The more they kick and scream the more it means we are doing a good job for our customers," he says.His success is not based on developing whizz-bang technologies himself; rather he identified, brilliantly, potential that the web held in an area that hadn't bothered heeding it.So undeterred is Murray-Wells that he is now troublemaking again withHearing Direct, launched last February. It is targeting the 9 million people in the UK who have some hearing loss. "Older people are more computer literate than people think, and have more time to spend online," he says. With just five staff, Hearing Direct has already turned over £600,000 in its first year.Murray-Wells doesn't care that hearing aids and spectacles might not be the sexiest products. "It's a traditional industry that, like glasses, hasn't changed for decades and hasn't been tapped on the web. There aren't many industries like that left." He paints a picture of the hearing aid industry as one that has relied on a network of Mercedes-driving door-to-door salesmen. "I did a lot of research. There are old ladies in cottages in Aberystwyth paying £6,000-£8,000 for iPhone-compatible, Bluetooth-enabled hearing aids when they didn't even own an iPhone. It just smacked me in the face."THE GAMES WIZARDPaul Canty – PreloadedHow do you help teenagers address the philosophical and emotional issues around death? Faced with a tough brief from Channel 4 Education, east London games studioPreloadeddevised an intricate and compelling life skills game calledThe End. It asks questions such as "Do you want to live forever?", inviting answers that are plotted on an open graph. Developed with theorist Tom Chatfield, responses are compared to those of philosophers including Ludwig Wittgenstein.Paul Canty, of interactive educational game company Preloaded. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer"We always have it in the forefront of our minds that games have to be fun, encourage people to explore and want to find out more," says Paul Canty, Preloaded's managing director. "And if we can help people think differently about problems in their lives then we've won."The studio has also developed games such asThingdomfor the Science Museum and1066for Channel 4 – an intricately crafted battle game that has been played 25 million times since launch.With the BBC, a crucially important commissioner for the UK's independent production scene, now lacking the budget and creative confidence for digital commissions, what does the future look like?"Games are only going to become more mainstream," says Canty. "Users will be best served with work that explores platforms we're only just beginning to understand."
For Vince Cable, the news could hardly have come at a worse moment. Any business minister would be depressed by the axe falling on more than 2,000 jobs, and the closure of a sleek, hi‑tech research facility. But with the coalition under fire for failing to set out its "vision" for growth, and rising fears of a slide back into recession, theannouncement that the US drugmaker Pfizer was closing its lab in Sandwichwas the last thing Cable wanted to hear.Britain lacks the "national champions" beloved of governments in Germany and France – and arguably even the US, where the collapse of the carmaker General Motors at the height of the financial crisis was deemed so unthinkable that Washington stepped in and nationalised it. But with the global giants GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca based here, pharmaceuticals is probably as close as Britain gets to a strategic industry.So Pfizer's decision to close the plant, with the loss of up to 2,400 jobs, cast a shadow over the government's hopes for an economic renaissance, with hi-tech, knowledge-intensive jobs helping to take up the slack as the bloated financial services sector shrinks and the Treasury's axe-swinging results in hundreds of thousands of public-sector layoffs."It was very disappointing," says Cable, who met local councillors on Wednesday to discuss how government can help safeguard some of the jobs. The science minister David Willetts will visit next week, underlining how seriously the government is taking the decision.Unemployment has risen to hit 2.5&nbsp;million, according to the latest official figures, and the coalition urgently needs a jobs boost from the private sector. But with the coalition's "growth strategy" yet to appear, Pfizer's decision underlines how difficult it may be to keep employment up in the face of tough global competition.Low-skilled manufacturing jobs have been heading overseas to cheaper locations for decades, hollowing out the UK's industrial base, and that process continued under Labour – more than 1.5m manufacturing jobs have been lost since 1997. But politicians and economists often comforted themselves with the idea that, with its highly skilled workforce and liberal capital markets, Britain could hang on to higher-value jobs in research and development.Jeegar Kakkad at the manufacturers' organisation EEF says we shouldn't kid ourselves. "There's no such thing as a sustainable competitive advantage," he says. "The Chinese and the Indians were never going to be satisfied with just doing low-value manufacturing." He says emerging markets' rising importance is acting as a big draw. "The reason production is going abroad these days is not because it's lower cost; it's because it makes sense to be closer to the customer."Pfizer itself was quick to insist that its decision was not a vote of no confidence in the UK as a business environment but rather reflected a broader rethink of priorities. "We have chosen to focus our efforts in areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial impact," said a spokeswoman. "We propose to exit certain therapeutic areas, including allergy &amp; respiratory, which is based at Sandwich." She also stressed that Pfizer would press ahead with research collaborations with other firms and universities.This approach reflects a growing shift among drugs firms globally away from in-house research and development (R&amp;D) departments towards buying in research by swallowing up new firms or tapping the expertise of university researchers – a model known as "open innovation", which has also been adopted in the hi-tech sector.But the shadow business secretary, John Denham, says the news from Sandwich is "hugely significant", adding: "What it tells us is that the growth strategy we need now has got to meet much harder tests than a few years ago – it certainly can't come from a few tax cuts or a few incentives."Stian Westlake, director of research at the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, agrees that the trend towards open innovation means that instead of wooing a few high-profile investors, ministers must now wade through rules and regulations to ensure the UK nurtures the kinds of innovative start-ups where the most exciting R&amp;D now takes place.He points, for example, to tax rules which mean that when a charity such as Cancer Research collaborates with a company, even on just 5% of a research project, the full value of that project becomes liable for VAT – hitting exactly the kinds of partnerships the government would like to encourage."We have got to create the environment for high-growth companies to thrive," he says. "Some of those things benefit everyone, such as having a highly skilled workforce, but you also need to have a sectoral perspective."Rebalancing and growthIn Rotherham on Friday to set out the coalition's approach to "rebalancing" the economy, Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, derided the industrial policy decisions made in the dying days of the Labour government as a "pick-and-mix" of help for particular sectors. The £80m loan to steelmaker Sheffield Forgemasters to help them build parts for nuclear reactors, for example, was cancelled by the coalition as unaffordable."Growth is going to come from the private sector," Cable says. "It's going to come from exports and manufacturing. We have identified a series of market failures where government can step in. We are concerned about looking at all aspects of government policy, like planning, like competition policy, and ensuring that the whole government works together."But many share the concerns of the outgoing CBI boss, Sir Richard Lambert, who warned in his valedictory speech that instead of a "vision" for growth, the government had produced "a few rather vague ideas about the scope for supporting a number of predictable sectors".Insiders paint a chaotic picture of a "growth paper" being drafted, signed off and shown to lobby groups before being pulled at the last minute. The much-vaunted "green investment bank", offering state backing for innovative new firms, has yet to open and ministers have still not agreed how it will work. When Cable called a "manufacturing summit" with business leaders last month, the press conference had to be put back for three hours because he got stuck in traffic on his way back from a visit to bike-maker Brompton, in west London.Labour's John Denham suggests ideological ambivalence may explain the government's reticence in setting out a new economic direction for Britain. "They're basically tied to the idea that if government does less, and they cut corporation tax, the private sector will come through."Adam Lent, head of economics at the TUC, says it has been easier for the coalition to focus on the more concrete challenge of tackling the deficit. "They don't really know exactly where they stand. They want an export-led recovery, they want us to be like Germany; but Germany did that over a number of decades, through quite extensive industrial policy – they had state investment banks, they had skills levies, for example".But Cable insists: "We're not laissez-faire." He cites "a series of steps", first tackling the deficit, then introducing pro-business measures such as extra funding for apprenticeships, banking reform and the green investment bank, details of which are due in May.The government is also proud of the so-called "patent box", proposed by Labour and implemented by the coalition, which grants firms a tax cut on products developed from technology patented in the UK.Glaxo cited the patent box as a reason for its recent launch of a new £50m "venture capital fund" to invest in university spin-outs and early-stage healthcare firms, and to spend £500m on expanding manufacturing in the UK. Andrew Witty, Glaxo's chief executive, said: "The patent box has… changed the game: why would we build anywhere else except Britain? It is very attractive for us to invest here."Another of Cable's plans is a network of "technology and innovation centres" to help develop scientific discoveries into commercial products – often a difficult step. But one business source noted that the £200m the government set aside for the centres is little more than the £185m Princeton University is spending on a single giant chemistry lab, financed by the proceeds of the cancer drug Alimta, discovered by one of its scientists.
William Hague revealed on Friday that his own staff were hit in December by data-stealing viruses, as he called for agreement on "acceptable rules" for how countries behave in cyberspace.The foreign secretary's announcement at the Munich Security Conference, which deals with international security issues, follows the revelation that the US and Israel collaborated to create the "Stuxnet" worm to disable Iran's nuclear fuel facility, and that government-backed hackers tried to break into Google's systems in 2009. Now, Britain's government is calling for agreement on how countries should behave in cyberspace.The attempt to impose rules on cyberspace may be thwarted, however, by the fact that it is almost impossible to confirm the source of hacking because it is so easy to hide one's digital footprints. Despite evidence of US, Israeli and Chinese involvement in attacks, they have never been proved.Even so, Hague has offered to host a conference on the matter and at Munich gave among examples of internet attacks on "British interests" his own staff and a defence contractor being hit by "Zeus" malware that evaded defences by pretending to come from the White House.Hague said "there is a need for a more comprehensive, structured dialogue" so that countries will not engage in all-out internet war which could cripple their infrastructure.Thegovernment warned last year that cyber attacks posed one of the gravest dangers to security. Hague said the UK wants "to explore mechanisms for giving [cyber] standards real political and diplomatic weight". It would push for agreements so that governments act "proportionately" and "in accordance with national and international law", he said.But with the head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation calling on Friday for an investigation into the Stuxnet claims, it is likely that government will prefer to let hackers continue to do their work as they already do – unaccountably and invisibly.
Sex is everywhere on the web and you're most likely familiar with such content, whether you are a purveyor or you've stumbled across an article or television show that claims the new technology corrupts society by exposing us to unheard-of sexual practices involving harnesses and balloons. These exposés are then usually followed by detailed descriptions and photos of the harnesses and balloons.It is true that one in 10 websites features pornographic material, and also that you need only to barely scratch the surface of the upstanding face of the web to find communities gathered around all kinds of debased kinks. But when it comes to reflecting on the impact of online sex on our offline lives, there needs to be less sniggering and fewer accusations about social corruption. The politics of sex are being transformed by the web."British culture has been fascinated by talking about sex for a very long time," says Professor Feona Attwood, academic and editor ofPorn.com, a collection of research from specialists in this field. But pre-web, we had a much more puritanical view of what the possibilities were. "Older media are dominated by a view of sex as scandalous and dangerous, and its whole depiction of sex has been pretty predictable," she tells me.Our exposure to a seemingly bottomless pit of debasement doesn't mean we're becoming more adventurous, however. Dr Petra Boynton, a sex educator and online relationship agony aunt, says that people still come to her with exactly the same questions and concerns that they always have – men about their anatomies and women about their relationships – it's just that the language they use now is more explicit. And there's no evidence that people who meet online are more likely to hook up quicker than people who meet offline. "Places like Facebook haven't caused an outbreak of infidelities," she says. "It simply enables people to meet up and form relationships."Does this make the web the ultimate sex toy? Sure, on the surface, there's plenty online you can get off on, but sex isn't just the physical manifestation of stimulation; there's an important mental element involved as well. And the web is all about helping people establish emotional connections. Throw in some erotic imagery, augmented teledildonics technologies, or a bit of sexting or Skyping, and you have the makings of a rather extraordinary, albeit mediated, relationship. Boynton believes that is far more intimate than what you can get from the pages of a magazine and reflects more closely the entirety of the sexual experience. This is potentially transformative."If you are using old-media porn, it's something someone makes for you and you pick what appeals to you," she says. "The web permits you to write your own stories, describe your situation, inhabit another character, expand on existing stories, detail your sexual life through blogging or create your own." Interestingly, the sexual content that people generate is pretty traditional, despite the library of kinks that can potentially inspire us.This interactive relationship with explicit content offers the possibility of ushering in a new age of sexual enlightenment: by having the opportunity to get involved with and generate sexual material, people are learning to express themselves as sexual beings and to develop a deeper understanding of what does and doesn't excite them. But in a culture that ridicules, vilifies and commercialises sex, this is laden with politics.Here's a classic example: a recentPanoramadocumentary that examined the sexualisation of British children ignored the effects of the web on girls' blossoming sexuality, suggesting instead that online content was only changing boys' attitudes and behaviours; girls, proposed presenter Sophie Raworth, were being sexualised at a younger age because of fashion and pop music. Yet girls and women often express their sexuality on blogs or websites and they are exposed to the same kinds of online material as the boys. Why the disparity?"There's an idea about how women express sex and sexuality," says journalist Zoe Margolis, the sex blogger outed as The Girl With a One-Track Mind, "and there's a real double-standard about how women are able to portray themselves online."Attwood believes this will change. "The most striking thing, for me, is the way porn has become accessible to women; earlier forms of porn distribution, which relied on visits to sex shops or being passed among men, made it really difficult to get hold of," she says. "The web has made it possible for women to access porn easily, which is important for the way it will develop."Generally, the focus of discussions about sex online tends to be on possible dangers, rather than on enlightenment or mental intimacy. The experience most people have is of searching for information about psychosexual problems, not looking for a good time. Yes, the kinks are out there – they always have been – but there is no evidence that simple exposure to the vast database of online fetishes has sexualised our society any more or less than previous media have. If anything, it's reversing the trend towards commercialisation. Online interaction, frank discussion and play are transforming our sexualities. The result will, with luck, be sexual enlightenment rather than social destruction.
Around 10 years ago there was what might be viewed as a golden age of Mario Sports games. It was led by an extremely talented Japanese developer called Camelot, which had a long-running partnership with Nintendo. Camelot would work just the right amount of random chaos into solid recreations of tennis and golf to give them a real Mario flavour, without completely destroying the balance of the sports themselves. It would even, sometimes, turn the sports fun into deep, rewarding role-playing games, letting you play a self-created character with the eventual goal of becoming good enough to challenge Nintendo's icons. Since then, however, standards have slipped somewhat; Mario Sports is not nearly as well-regarded a franchise nowadays. The games are often frustratingly random, irritatingly saccharine, or just plain boring.WhileMario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, for example, is good at what it is – an accessible collection of family-friendly, motion-oriented mini-games – a more traditional sports game featuring Nintendo's character catalogue has been lacking for some time now.Sports Mixis Nintendo's answer. Four mini-games in one package: hockey, basketball, volleyball and dodgeball, played in teams of two or three. They're simple to learn, tricky to master, competitive and (usually) fast-paced – all the crucial attributes of a multiplayer hit.Hockey and basketball are the best of the selection. Working dodging, feinting and other devious techniques into a simple control system, they offer just the right amount of competitive interplay between teams. Dodgeball and volleyball lack the same competitive punch. They're not terrible – just bland and over-reliant on shaking the Wii remote to throw, spike and intercept the ball. The sense of control isn't nearly as tight.The real flaw, though, is the tournament structure. Each sport has its own set of competitions, but it's difficult to imagine why you'd play through them on your own. The computer-controlled opposition is so startlingly dimwitted in the early and intermediate stages of tournaments that its players will regularly stand absolutely still with the ball/puck for seconds at a time. As a single-player offering, then,Mario Sports Mixcan be pointlessly patronising to the player and badly paced.But this isn't a game that you'd buy for the single-player; it has full two-on-two and three-on-three multiplayer, online and offline. With a team-mate beside you in the living room or against other people, the sports reveal their true complex, competitive natures, and if you're looking for the next step afterMario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games– a multiplayer-friendly sports selection with more emphasis on skill and teamwork and less on the waggle – this could be just the thing.
When we look back from a ravaged future on the war between man and machine, will a cheery gameshow take the blame for starting it all?This monthJeopardy!, a US quiz show that has broadcast there for decades, will televise a contest between two of its past champions and a super-intelligent computer. Built by IBM, Watson, as the computer is known, can answer questions in a silky digital voice and knows a hell of a lot of trivia on everything from children's fiction to archaeology and the musical oeuvre of Maurice Chevalier.Sounds fun. But in just about every apocalypse-scenario science fiction has given us (The Terminator,The Matrix,anything by Asimov or Dick) it's the creation of a fun-sounding robot that kickstarts humanity's woes. Man builds a sentient computer: it's friendly and here to serve. And the sentient computer plays nice for a time, all the while rooting around in the Pentagon's mainframe for those nuclear codes…"That's science fiction," saidJeopardy!host Alex Trebek, posed a question about the likelihood of Watson going rogue and killing us all. If anything, said Trebek: "IBM sees Watson more like the computer inStar Trek" – able, in other words, to comprehend questions posed in conversational language and answer likewise. The idea is that it will also learn to understand tricksy human traits such as irony, jokes and puns.Hence theJeopardy!outing. The gameshow poses its questions in roundabout fashion: the quiz master reveals an answer ("Star ofThe Terminator") and the contestants buzz in with a question ("Who is Arnold Schwarzenegger?"). Watson needs to be clever to untwist the obtuse questions, all the while coping with Trebek's folksy conversation.Crucially, according to IBM whizz David Gondek, Watson has the ability to learn, and so engineers have been feeding it with tens of thousands of books' worth of information. "Just like the other contestants, Watson has been studying up," said Gondek last month. He didn't mention whether Watson had yet been exposed to military textbooks, or karate manuals – but the machine had been let loose on reams of information culled from the internet, especially to analyse human interaction and better learn how people speak.Though Watson's episode ofJeopardy!won't be broadcast in America until 14&nbsp;February, journalists and bloggers got a glimpse of him in action at a test event last month at IBM headquarters in Yorktown Heights, New York. The event featured a short, three-minute round of trivia questions. Watson, appearing on the set like an upended flatscreen TV emblazoned with a colourful animated avatar, was flanked by his human rivals, Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter. Ken and Brad had both triumphed on the show in the past, winning a combined $6.3m (£3.8m) through their exploits.They were creamed.Watson bossed things from the start, buzzing in with answers on questions about the walls of Jericho and Agatha Christie before either man could get to his button. Watson answered in a mellifluous computerised voice – think Stephen Hawking with extra zing – and in a neat visual trick its screen avatar changed colour depending on how sure it was about each answer. It was 97% certain Agatha Christie had once taken part in an archeological dig in Syria,and so glowed green; whether Macaulay Culkin had appeared inMy&nbsp;Girlproved more of a challenge and Watson, only 67% convinced, glowed yellow.The machine is so powerful, IBM claims, that the average home computer would need two hours to deconstruct and answer live questions like these; Watson can do it in less than three seconds. Powered by 2,880 processor cores and using 15TB of ram, it's thus a cumbersome beast. The flatscreen was only a front for the cameras; the real work was done backstage where Watson's 10 racks of computer guts whirred away at up to 80 teraflops, taking up roughly the same amount of space as a room-size wardrobe.Because of its size Watson currently resides behind thick glass at IBM's New York HQ, but the company is looking forward to a day when miniature Watsons will be commercially available. Future iterations, says Gondek, will be "smaller, use less energy… Everyone could have one." The humanitarian ideal – and ask any sci-fi writer, there'salwaysa humanitarian ideal – is that the machine will one day be canny enough to aid busy doctors by diagnosing patients and assessing x-rays. No word about potential jobs at the Pentagon.Instead, Watson awaits his American television debut. After such a dominant performance at the test event the machine looks certain to secure the most high-profile victory for artificial over organic intelligence since 1997, when Garry Kasparov was beaten at chess by another IBM-made computer, Deep Blue. Brad and Ken's best hope might lie in there being a lot of questions about Macaulay Culkin.Although in truth it might be safer all round if Watson wins. During the test event, when Ken or Bradfinallybuzzed in to answer a question first, Watson's avatarbriefly flashed an angry orange. It all happened in a split-second and nobody on set seemed to notice, but Brad later made a crack about being "afraid of Watson's progeny coming back from the future to kill me". For all our sakes, Brad, don't provoke it.
Following the success of Dr Kawashima's Brain Training on Nintendo DS, the series has now been ported on to Xbox, incorporating the motion-capture tech of its Kinect hardware and hence the unsurprising additions of "body" and "exercise" to the mix.As before, the doctor's cheerful face greets you each morning (or so he would have it), with a reminder of your hopelessly deteriorating brain age (somewhere between 20 and 80) and urgently prescribing fun puzzle games to slow the imminent onset of codgerdom. Or words to that effect.Of course, your brain age doesn't correlate with actual intelligence, but, rather, tracks quick wit, numerical and verbal dexterity and physical co-ordination, the latter being brought to life here by Kinect. The interface is now controlled by sweeping hand gestures, with puzzles requiring, for example, the use of arms to signal the time, pop balloons in numerical order or precisely co-ordinate discrete movements, among a host of others.Where Kinect has worked is in transforming the series from an individual pursuit, which can start to feel like a daily chore, into an inclusive and sociable party game, suitable for all ages. The challenges are simple but intense under time pressure and highly competitive, proving again that the simplest games, whatever your (brain) age, are often the best.
Apple has steadily been moving towards integrating mobile products, such as the iPhone and iPad, and their computers – so the release of an App Store for Macs feels, to some extent, like the final piece of a puzzle. The way it works will be familiar to anyone who's downloaded anything from the iTunes app store – making downloading and installing games and programs to the Mac a breeze. There's already plenty available, and the chance to playBraid(£2.99 for a limited time) – a time-twisting platformer that was one of the best games of last year – on the Mac is a treat.At the same time, the amount of power Apple now packs into tiny packages such as the iPod Touch, means that games unimaginable on a mobile platform are starting to come into their own.Football Manager 2011(iPhone/iPad/iPod touch, Sega, £6.99), for example, is a revelation. It's as worryingly addictive as the full game, scouting and transfers are both there and the interface (pictured above) is simple, with matches viewed via text or 22 little moving baubles. The only thing missing is the screen telling you how long you've been playing - nobody likes being told they've spent 72 hours staring at a set of shiny balls like a cat on the nip at Christmas.With Apple's next Mac operating system, Lion, due in the summer and said to replicate the features of the mobile iOS, the future of a seamless experience between desktop and train-ride computing is fast approaching.
The insatiable, and mostly inspiring, efforts of never-evil Google to contain all the world on a 14-inch screen took another giant leap forward with the unveiling of theGoogle Art Project. Working with 17 of the world's leading galleries and museums – from MoMA in New York to the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, from the Hermitage in St Petersburg to London's National Gallery and Tate – the project takes the corporation's street-view technology behind closed doors. It allows you not only to wander, at the touch of a mouse, the corridors and halls that contain many of the greatest masterpieces ever made, but also to view some of those paintings in finer detail than if you were standing in front of them.The sharp focus is made possible by 14bn pixel photography that brings the most delicate brush strokes into microscopic relief. So far, this headline-grabbing technology is restricted to one painting per gallery – Holbein'sThe Ambassadorsis the National's mesmerising example, Van Gogh'sStarry Nightis MoMA's – but it seems inevitable that it will eventually illuminate far more of the collections.The almost magical potential resource raises many questions, not the least of which is whether viewing online will ever be a substitute for the real thing. (Along with the not-insignificant supplementaries: if it is, what effect will this have on gallery attendance and on our idea of art?)After spending a few hours on the site (yet another new way of digressing on a screen), the answer to the first part feels like a qualified no. Looking at a painting on screen, however vivid the detail, is wholly different in kind from standing in front of it. Though there is genuine wonder in the backlit clarity of the images – in Bellini'sSt Francis in the Desertfrom the Frick Collection in New York, for example, you can make out the artist's fingerprints in the surface of the paint – as with any reproduction, what is lost is a sense of the painting as a physical object, as a little framed force field.Mostly absent too, therefore, is that uncanny sense of communion that great paintings sometimes provide, the feeling that you are in the human presence of something that can talk to you directly across time and space; one element of that latter feeling undoubtedly derives from the sense of effort that brought you in front of the painting in the first place (the closest many of us get to pilgrimage).You look at the on-screen pictures, as a result, with a somewhat more academic than emotional eye. It's not a reductive experience (how could this extraordinary level of free access to some of the world's most enduring images ever be that?), but neither is it the same thing, quite.Despite this reservation, Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate, was probably right when he claimed the Google project as "the first global art collection" and one which gives us the clearest sense yet of "the digital future for museums".There was also, from Serota, inevitable talk of the website bringing "communities of like-minded visitors together to connect in ways that aren't always possible in the gallery", which I suppose means that visitors to the site will be able to share responses to particular paintings in a way they might feel reluctant to do while standing next to a stranger in front of a Botticelli.The gallery directors involved in the project are of course confident that the online versions of their collections will extend curiosity rather than satisfying it; that the art project will act as an advertisement for those who can get to the galleries.One can only assume that the museums not involved – the Louvre in Paris and the Prado in Madrid, for example – are less sure of that equation. As always, with the digitisation of culture, the answer will not be long in coming.
When they first came to office, the Obama team had a mantra: "Never waste a good crisis". They then spent the next two years doing exactly the opposite. In the past few months we've seen a couple of decent crises – the first involving WikiLeaks, the second involving the political upheavals in Tunisia and Egypt. Both involve the internet in one way or another. So, in the spirit of Obama Mk I, let us ponder what might be learned from them.As far as the leaked US cables are concerned, the fury of the US administration and of certain US politicians was, for a time, positively comical. It stopped being funny when they began talking about prosecuting Julian Assange for "espionage", given the draconian penalties that a conviction would carry. But the State Department's indignation over the leaks of allegedly valuable secrets was, and remains, preposterous.Why? Because there is absolutely no way that a huge database containing 250,000 "secret" documents that can be lawfully accessed by more than a million officials can ever be secure. Any security engineer will tell you that it cannot be done: if you want to keep things secret online then the only way to do it is by compartmentalising the system. Huge, monolithic systems are intrinsically insecure.Ironically, that is how the Americans used to do it. They kept stuff in data silos. But in the recriminations after 9/11 there was a great deal of angst about the government's failure to "join up the dots", because it turned out that some of these silos had contained useful intelligence about the hijackers. So the silos were breached and linked – which is how Private Manning was able to access the system and download a quarter of a million documents on to the CD-Rom which eventually found its way to WikiLeaks.The moral of the story: if governments want to keep information secure, then they have to think architecturally about system design. And if the UK government thinks that the NHS can put all our health information into a single, national system that can be accessed by more than 100,000 staff, and still keep it secure, then they ought to think again.The WikiLeaks story has lessons for the rest of us too. The speed with which Amazon and PayPal dropped WikiLeaks should be a wake-up call to anyone who thinks that Cloud Computing services can be trusted to protect the interests of their customers when the government cuts up rough. The idealistic kids who signed up to participate in denial-of-service attacks on PayPal and the credit-card companies as retribution for cutting off WikiLeaks's funding need to learn how to conceal their IP addresses before they engage in "hacktivism" – as many of them discovered this week when the police came knocking.For hardcore geeks, the WikiLeaks saga should serve as a stimulant to a new wave of innovation which will lead to a new generation of distributed, secure technologies (like the TOR networking system used by WikiLeaks) which will enable people to support movements and campaigns that are deemed subversive by authoritarian powers. A really good example of this kind of technological innovation was provided last week by Google engineers, who in a few days built a system that enabled protesters in Egypt to send tweets even though the internet in their country had been shut down. "Like many people",they blogged, "we've been glued to the news unfolding in Egypt and thinking of what we can do to help people on the ground. Over the weekend we came up with the idea of a speak-to-tweet service – the ability for anyone to tweet using just a voice connection."They worked with a small team of engineers from Twitter and SayNow (a company Google recently acquired) to build the system. It provides three international phone numbers and anyone can tweet by leaving a voicemail. The tweets appear ontwitter.com/speak2tweet.What's exciting about this kind of development is that it harnesses the same kind of irrepressible, irreverent, geeky originality that characterised the early years of the internet, before the web arrived and big corporations started to get a grip on it. Events in Egypt make one realise how badly this kind of innovation is needed. The way in which the Mubarak regime was able to shut down the net provided a sobering reminder of the power of governments that are prepared to take extreme measures. As the country disappeared from cyberspace I was suddenly struck by the thought that if PCs still came with steam-age built-in dial-up modems, Egyptians could have logged on to servers abroad and stayed connected. The only way of stopping that would be to shut down the entire phone system. And even Mubarak might have balked at that.
Movies I Don't RememberCan you remember a film you watched five, 10 or 15 years ago? Chances are, especially if it wasn't a classic or contained a particularly unique plot, only sketchy memories remain. It is in such vague recollections that this blog rejoices. The idea came from TV listings for movies that had very obviously not been watched by the people writing them (we'd never do that at The Guide, of course). The results are occasionally funny – especially the more you know the film – but what's remarkable is how astoundingly forgettable a large percentage of the movies we see (like, say, Tom Hanks woofer Turner &amp; Hooch) actually are.White People Rapping PoorlyWhite Rappers Rapping Poorly.Holding Marshall Mathers up as a gold standard, this collector of crimes against hip-hop reckons that, according to science, "for every Eminem, there are approximately 598,467 white people that try to rap but can't". Here, we are presented with the irrefutable YouTube evidence and "the best of the worst". It is indeed toe-curlingly bad – from teens who really should have written stuff down before committing lines such as "Ima ride my bike in the motor life" to a webcam and making "stupidly random" raps with bad British accents, to TV commercials that make R Kelly's Trapped In The Closet video look like Citizen Kane. Most terrifying of all is Joe Pesci's offensive, wiseguy attempt at Blondie's Rapture that surely puts him up there with Bruce Grobbelaar in Anfield Rap as the worst MC of all time.Blog roll: AnimalsGIFCAT.GIFCATServicing the internet with  flashing kitty gifs.Fugly Horse Of The DaySnarking now extends beyond the red carpet to include "poor quality horses" – but in the hope of rescuing many.Obsessive Corgi DisorderCan you be addicted to a dog breed? This site for the comical Welsh low-riders would suggest you can.Daily Squee!Home to regular "Acting like animals" spot in which our furry friends do their best human impressions.Pets Looking At SnowDogs and cats hypnotised by cold weather.Animal LookalikesThe cat that's a dead ringer for George Takei and the stunning likeness of Big Bird and the Queen.ASPCA AnimalandAmerican site for kids, with info on squirrel and duck animal cops.What we learned on the web this weekMmmm, Soviet mayonnaise.The exoticworld of Soviet groceriesSwedish mealtime is awesome but violentDexter's mostsatisfying killsThe averagejourney time of a Boris bikeMel Gibsonis the 32nd most loathsome American of 2010Little Big Planetnow available in real world formatA visualway to share your nightmaresHow tofly a paper plane from Germany to California
Dead Space 2, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360When Isaac Clarke wakes up in the Sprawl, a vast human mining colony on one of Saturn's moons, he is no doubt overjoyed to discover it is liberally infested with the same terrifying pointy-armed mutants that he encountered in the previous Dead Space instalment. Starting out securely strapped into a straitjacket, your first job is to run like hell before finding the means to defend yourself. Again, the unlikely name of the game is dismemberment: rather than the traditional action game head shots, dispatching enemies in Dead Space is a matter of lopping off limbs until they're no longer a threat, in what amounts to an unlikely homage to the "only a flesh wound" scene in Monty Python And The Holy Grail. Peppered with spectacular vistas and unsettling set-pieces, Dead Space 2 grafts significantly more character and plot on to its central conceit of necromorph de-limbing, making this feel far more polished and less grindingly depressing than the first outing. The result is one of the best survival horror games in years.Electronic Arts, £34.99-£49.99Ascendancy, iPad &amp; iPhoneAscendancy.In 1995, Ascendancy was a state-of-the-art PC game; in 2011 you can play it on your iPhone. Touching down on your mobile device with all functionality intact, Ascendancy gives you a giant cube of galaxy to conquer, along with an initially bewildering selection of 21 alien species, each with its own distinct advantages. Success involves playing to those strengths as you expand your territory through a mixture of aggression and diplomacy. After conquering a planet, you can start erecting new buildings to manage investment in research, industry and prosperity. You can also construct and equip spaceships for a variety of missions, from colonising new worlds to all-out war, with ever larger vessels and more outlandish technologies becoming available as your empire proliferates. Like many older games it takes some getting into with only minimal instruction, but once you're acclimatised, Ascendancy proves itself an absorbing game that demands careful attention to strategy.Logic Factory, £4.99Games newsPSP2.Despite looking significantly more grown-up than Nintendo's handhelds and selling in respectable numbers, PlayStation Portable has never been the blockbuster its console big brothers were. And it's not for lack of trying, with PSP's most recent iteration doing away with boxed games entirely, letting users conveniently download new software directly from Sony. EnterPSP2, due in time for Christmas and coming with a welter of new toys, including social-gaming enablers like front and rear-facing cameras, microphone, multi-touch screen and 3G connectivity. It will also have proper thumb sticks to replace the not terribly useful "nub" joystick on current models. It's set to remain the most powerful handheld on the market, easily outstripping Nintendo's upcoming 3DS in technical terms, although as it stands there's no indication that it will support 3D gaming, the key feature of Nintendo's new machine.
Ah, now we're talking.Thisis why I do this – so the neighbours come out, double-take and go, "What the...?" Ha. Well, you&nbsp;know, business has been going pretty well lately. These wheels are worth more than £65,000&nbsp;with the extras. What do you mean, it looks like a Vauxhall Insignia? Cheeky.So, where to go in a car worth more than £65,000. Well, nowhere initially, if&nbsp;you're me and my girlfriend. It's like&nbsp;a stately frigging home inside, and so much warmer and more comfortable than our own front room. So we spent the evening parked on our shabby north-west London street, taking turns to run back to reality for another bottle of Pouilly Fumé or more olives. And when we got bored with pressing buttons and sniffing the leather, we watched TV.Big Cat Diarywould have been good, but there's no BBC, so we watched something about sharks on Channel 4 instead.The weekend came, and we decided it would be appropriate to motor to the English countryside for&nbsp;lunch. The journey started brilliantly. The Jag was a joy – it purred, then roared, when told to. The performance is extraordinary for a diesel. And Elgar via aBowers &amp; Wilkins1,200-watt premium sound system and 20 speakers is intensely moving. Yes, I know Jaguar is Indian-owned now, but bhangra would have been wrong.Then the snow came. Not just snow – this was the Big Dump a week or so before Christmas. We were on the M40, going up a gentle incline. And suddenly we weren't going anywhere, stuck by the side of&nbsp;the road. I promise you, there's nothing I could have done about it. The combination of big car, rear-wheel drive, automatic transmission and highly sophisticated traction control means this car is absolutely useless in the snow. Even with the traction control off, it simply wouldn't move. It wasn't just us: all the big Mercs and BMWs were paralysed, while Fords and Fiats nipped by. Snow inverts the social hierarchy.So what to do in a situation of such seriousness? We watched Friends. And eventually a nice man in a 4x4 towed us off the motorway. There we abandoned £65,000-worth of car in the middle of nowhere and walked through the snow to a village with a hotel. One unscheduled minibreak. InStokenchurch.The following day the car was still there, and we managed to get it back on the road, which had been gritted. And we just about got home, not purring, certainly not roaring, more like whimpering. And then, when we needed to go to the supermarket, we took the old Polo, to be sure of getting there. Guess where we spent the evening though?Jaguar XJ 3.0L DieselPrice£64,400Top speedLimited to 155mphAcceleration0-60mph in six secondsAverage consumption40.1mpgCO2 emissions184g/kmBound forDubai (no snow there)At the wheelJay-ZIn a wordPhat (if you're an idiot)
A law firm that sent out hundreds of letters to people it accused of illegally sharing copyrighted files has shut down, days before a key court decision on whether it defendants could claim damages from it.ACS:Law, which had sent out "speculative invoicing" letters to people accused of illegally downloading content on behalf of its client MediaCAT - and threatening court action if they didn't pay - apparently closed on Monday 31 January. MediaCAT is understood to have closed down as well.The closure marks the end of a tumultuous chapter in rows over filesharing and piracy in Britain. Although a number of people have been sued in the past decade by record companies, it appears to have had only minimal impact on levels of piracy and filesharing. The use of "speculative invoicing" - alleging infringement without definitive proof - had looked like a new front in the battle.But instead it turned into a three-way row between ACS:Law, the alleged infringers and internet service providers from whom user details had been demanded.The closedown comes ahead of a judgement due on Tuesday afternoon at the patents county court at which 27 people who had received letters were seeking a definitive ruling from the judge on whether they could claim damages after both ACS:Law and MediaCAT declined to put forward any evidence.MediaCAT had signed up a number of copyright owners who gave it permission to pursue people it accused of file-sharing based on data it had collected. It then sought the names and addresses of those people from internet service providers (ISPs) including BT. That in turn led to a row in which some ISPs said they would not cooperate with requests.Andrew Crossley, the lead solicitor at ACS:Law who set the firm up, had previouslysaid that he would exit the fieldfollowing threats to his family.MediaCAT and ACS:Law tried to drop the cases that came to court, but Judge Birss said that it would not be simple to drop the case because the copyright holders themselves were not in court. That meant in theory that if the MediaCAT case were discontinued, then the copyright holders could still come after those accused.He also questioned MediaCAT's decision to drop the case: "I want to tell you that I am not happy. I am getting the impression with every twist and turn since I started looking at these cases that there is a desire to avoid any judicial scrutiny," he told its barrister.Some of the defendants had said they would seek to sue Crossley for harassment, but it is not known whether they can now pursue an individual case against him for actions taken by his former firm.The letters provoked a huge row because hundreds of the accused claimed that they had been wrongly identified. The Solicitors Regulation Authority was investigating ACS:Law's practices before the company closed down. It is not clear whether the investigation will be carried on against Crossley as an individual following ACS:Law's closure.The issue was made worse for Crossley and ACS:Law after the personal details - including names, phone numbers and addresses - of thousands of Britons leaked online via an attack on the company's website. Many also saw their names or postcodes linked to pornographic films which MediaCAT was claiming they had illicitly downloaded. The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) was investigating the breach, and could have levied a file of up to £500,000 if ACS:Law were found to have been holding the information insecurely. It is unclear whether that case can be continued against Crossley as an individual or whether it lapses with the company's closure.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My iPhone. Having it means I can now only lose or break one expensive item every time I leave the house.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Right now, to answer these questions.What additional features would you add if you could?I would make it waterproof or smash proof. Basically make it indestructible (a bit like Iron Man).Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?This model will be.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When it doesn't do what I tell it to, or outsmarts me in a frustrating game of "Important Data Hide and Seek".If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't read the instructions until you're a month in. It will force you to figure it out yourself, and your survival instinct will kick in.Do you consider yourself a luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in between but veering slightly towards a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My TV – I bought it five years ago and refuse to upgrade. No HD, but it's massive in size.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – because I have an iPhone and everything just gets along better.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download all my music, but I still buy movies on DVD. I can't get my head around someone wanting to wait five times the length of the movie to download it, when you can just walk into a shop and buy it instantly. My last purchase was Cee Lo Green – The Lady Killer.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Bad idea – you would only get a robot butler so you didn't have to do anything mundane, but who's going to put the robot on charge?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A flux capacitor.• Stephen Hagan stars in the BBC's multi-platform teen drama The Cut, and will soon be seen in the ITV legal drama Injustice.
Once in a while we like to inform you of art events with a video gaming slant – and two have dropped into my inbox this week. First up, Brooklyn-based digital artist Cory Archangel has an exhibition at The Barbican's Curve gallery from February 10 until May 22. EntitledBeat The Champ, the installation features a series of monitors showing various bowling games, from the earliest virtual version of the sport on the Atari 2600 to modern iterations on current consoles. The machines playing the games are also being exhibited, each of which has been hacked by Cory to endlessly play the games.I've written about Archangel's work several times on the Gamesblog,and interviewed himwhile he was curating an exhbition in London. He's best know for his hacked game installations, including Super Mario Clouds, which features the popular platformer with all the visuals removed apart from the clouds, and I Shot Andy Warhol, a version of the old lightgun game Hogan's Alley, with famous icons replacing the standard targets. His work is often about changing the contexts and challenging the semiotics of game design and game meaning – but the visual impact of all these games flickering away along the Barbican's walls will be worth catching in its own right.Similarly, you can now also visit the online exhibition,The Semiotics of Video Games. The site collates various videos and digital images that analyse how games impart meaning through graphics and icons. There's some fascinating stuff in here, includinganother interesting Super Mario work, this time showing one level from the point of view of two Gombas. Some of the prose is rather academic, but the ideas about the nature of empathy, assocation and immersion in video game worlds are worth thinking over and arguing with.
In an office in London, a web designer uses a larger version of a web logo to create a "favicon" – a 32-by-32 pixel version that will be visible in the address bar of a browser when people visit the Information Commissioner's Office website.Though the creation process is quite simple, confirming that it has been done correctly is not: what's been generated has to be created against a set of "functional specifications" laid out in the contract for the job – colours, sizes, a long array of confirmations quite separate from the task of making the actual item.That bumps up the time taken to between two and three "billable hours" for the designer, who works at Reading Room based in Soho – one of the UK's biggest web agencies, with turnover of £12m and 170 staff whose time is charged at £600 per eight-hour day, significantly lower than many in the business.But the favicon can't now simply be sent to the ICO site ready for uploading. First the company has to get approval from Capita, which has the contract to manage the site, and which may make its own comments about what it thinks, and at the very least has to check that it's the correct size; and then from Eduserve, which hosts the site and has to check it can in theory be uploaded; and from the Central Office of Information, which manages the ICO contract with Reading Room.All in all, getting everyone involved to approve the favicon that has been created means the time taken balloons to a total of nearly seven billable hours – which means Reading Room, as a commercial outfit, charges about £500; add VAT at the rate prevailing in 2010 and you reach £585.And that is the magic number that appears in the ICO'sPDF on the cost of its £40,569.79 corporate identity rebrandinglast year (in the 10 February to 20 April slot), and which was the subject of a separatefreedom of information requestby Mark Bowen, who says he filed the request because "I'm a web designer myself and knowing that a favicon has never taken me more than five minutes to create and install on any server I've ever worked on (and I've worked on many different types) I was quite astounded at the cost shown for such a simple task."Margaret Manning, the chief executive of Reading Room, is not so much astounded as frustrated. Namedfemale entrepreneur of the year in 2008, she finds the number of hoops that have to be jumped through to create a tiny icon frustrating too – and feels that it is part of a culture in government that needs to change."What adds to the cost is the approval process, the editing and annotation and confirmation," she told the Guardian. "It's as though every piece of work were an encyclopedia article which had to go through a group of editors."The unwieldy structure of the contract – with Capita, Eduserve and the COI all adding to the time taken to make amendments – suggests to her that some sort of change is needed in government contracts and their organisation."A lot of government contracts involve outsourcing the IT, which sounds like a great idea in many cases. But if you look at the hoops you have to go through ... it can make the amount of time needed by outside organisations just go up and up to get anything done."She thinks there is a culture within government which doesn't try to reduce spending. Instead, she suggests, there is a culture of fear that something will go wrong whenever something is put on the web, which leads to a belt-and-braces approach that in turn pushes up costs and times above what any commercial organisation would spend."They're scared because they're accountable to the public, unlike a commercial business," says Manning.But she's also perplexed by the choices the government has made. "What commercial entity has Capita running its IT?" she asks rhetorically. (According to Capita's site, private sector clients include Zurich Insurance, The Children's Mutual and eircom.)The problems with excessive spending by government on what seem in the private sector like simple contracts are not new. Incoming Conservative politicians and local councillors have pointed to the high costs of managing computer "desktops" (the systems used by civil servants) compared with the outside world. Last August Liam Maxwell at the Royal Borough of Windsor &amp; Maidenheadreckoned that councils could save at least £51m, and potentially up to £200m, by shifting to open source from Microsoft Office – but it would require a mandate from central government. That hasn't come.In fact, one person recently told the Guardian privately of the experience of going to a meeting with a government department to talk about the Direct.gov website, and pointing out how it could be done for about £20,000 rather than the multimillion-pound costs presently involved."We're the government," replied one of the civil servants. "We don't have to do things cheaply."As the person at the meeting points out, that confuses "cheap" and "less expensive" – and it's the latter that the government needs to implement as swingeing cuts are implemented in the coming years.The idea that a favicon that takes a web designer five minutes to create could end up consuming more than six hours of a designer's time – plus uncounted (but certainly billable) hours inside at least three other organisations – indicates that all the criticisms of government IT as unwieldy, overpriced and inflexible remain true.On the high cost of the favicon, an ICO spokesperson said: "The old environment meant contractors had to liaise very closely to ensure successful implementation of the favicon and other changes. The new environment is easier to use and we can now update our website more quickly and easily."Our systems have to be highly secure and the site must adhere to government accessibility standards. They must be contractually sound with robust processes for all projects, however large or small. The cost reflects this – not just the design of the favicon."On corporate ID costs, an ICO spokesperson said: "We phased the new corporate identity in over a period of several months in order to keep costs down and to minimise our impact on the environment. Information about the costs has been published on our website since November 2009."A spokesperson for Reading Room said: "Reading Room's work in relation to the ICO's favicon was undertaken as part of an ongoing maintenance agreement we have. Under this agreement, all work must go through stages before it is published live to the ICO website. This multi-staged process is typical for many large government websites and is necessary to avoid security breaches and ensure that the correct information is published."As you can see, the time and effort spent creating the favicon is a very small part of the overall process. As for our costs, in an independent survey conducted by YouGov in September 2010, Reading Room ranked sixth in the UK for the excellence in our value for money."
This could be a first, even for Best of Chatterbox: a week's worth of compiled discussion arriving a week after the following week's edition. Yes, we've alreadyreminisced over the week of January 17-21, so now, let's head back, prequel-style, to the seven days that immediately proceeded it. Perhaps that way we can work out how and why the chat developed as it did. Though I seriously doubt that.So let's forget continuity; let's embrace the concept of a quantum universe in which causality and linearity are mere illusions, rebounding along the planes of the multiverse.Edited by Lazybones, this week's Best Of may contain boasting, a Doom boardgame and a Chatterbox text adventure.MondayPeople have conducted studies and found the second Monday of January to be the most depressing day of the year. Some will have you think it's the first Monday, or even the third. But they are wrong. The most depressing day of  2011 was Monday the 10th of January.Misery loves company, however, and what better way to spend it than with a miserable bunch of borderline sociopaths, on the internet.A day like this might read as follows:People boasted. They boasted about their weekends. They boasted about how much they could drink. They boasted about how big and expensive their houses were, their cars were, their gardens were. People boasted about what games they'd played, completed, bagged platinum on, then traded away (at a profit). They boasted about how fast they could fall asleep in public. They boasted about what music they liked, what bands they had been in, how many millions of records they'd sold. People boasted about how their dreams were better than everyone else's."A friend of a friend of mine is a professional footballer" said one.Impressive.A 90 minute break for lunch, and the inevitable sandwich boasting followed. People then began to moan about how things were so overrated. "The Day of Heresy", they called it. Killzone 2, pensioners, Scott Pilgrim, Bob Dylan, fat people in mobility scooters. Star Wars. All rubbish. All cultural tat."A couple of choice efforts aside, The Beatles were a bit shit," someone snivelled."**** off you ridiculously biased has-been", came the reply.TuesdayTuesday began, with several updates, from those with family affected by floods in Australia. No one had suffered any losses, thankfully, other than those of possessions and property. CountGinula offered his own balm to the Australian psyche: "Losing the Ashes in such a pathetic manner must burn deep." Sensitive stuff.The morning parade of gaming then began: AssBroHo, Blops, NFS, PES and BFBC2, followed by Blood Bowl chat as the Chatterbox Open League kicked off. This prompted the age-old quandary over which were the "cheatiest" Blood Bowl teams (Dwarves, Norse, or just anything CunningStunt picked.)SerenVikity thwarted a James Bond wannabe attempting to inveigle her into a workplace fraud. Limni was particularly praising: "Well done dealing with James Bond. You should try and give him some work to do, then when he says 'do you expect me to process all these invoices today?' you can say 'No Mr Bond, I expect you to die.'" You see, it is possible to have fun at work.WednesdayWere someone to picture the week as a typhoon – a whorling tempest of chat – then Wednesday would be the eye. The empty centre. Chat to not blow a house down.1. Blood Bowl2. Football3. Marvel PinballThree ball-based games. The chat itself was like a ball, languidly chucked about.The writing was on the wall but people would not format it. If this was graffiti, on the blank walls of the Guardian website, then it was penises and scrawled jokes. This was no cultural explosion. This was not the street ...EnglishRed was down on Gypsies.SerenVikity was down on London.SuperSmashin was up on London. A dunk in the net – a burst of positivity, but it was simply more boasting.CunningStunt told SuperSmashin to "man up".People made their excuses and left.ThursdayEver since übergeek Umboros fled the safety of the gamesblog to live the dream of working for Games Workshop there has been space for a new pretender to the bejewelled geek throne. One of the newest bloggers, R042, came out blazing: "If people are interested, I have been working on recreating the actual map layouts from Doom 2 to play in the board game, complete with secrets, where they should be and so on."Devotion.At lunch, thoughts turned to alcohol, and ended up at the British Film Institute bar. Accusations of poor service unless impeccably dressed were met with quick rebuttal by BeardOfBees: "the BFI is a serious place, for serious people to watch serious films. I'm guessing the bar is also serious."There then came grumbling. Things weren't as good as they used to be, people said. The chat had become moribund. Someone pointed out that making double entendres out of pedestrian statements was just well ... lazy: "a poor joke. It's not funny!" Seconds later new kid on the block Fegbarr earned his spurs: "Talking about your sex life again?""BOOM! That one is outta the park!"FridayA burst of life and Amipal greeted the dawn ..."Hello residents of Gamesblog City. To the south, we have the beach-side condos, where on any sunny day a bronzed TonyHayers may be seen topping up his tan. The financial district to the east is home to many bloggers whose unfortunate jobs are in banking, such as myself. Over to the west, the poet's district hosts those who have a way with words - enter a pub, and you're sure to find HereComesTreble holding a crowd transfixed with his rambling. And to the north, we have the suburban area for everyone else. Of course, we don't really talk about the shanty-town that has sprung up on the outskirts, home to the lurkers. A dirty place."There was talk of Blood Bowl, Black Ops and Bad Company 2, as usual, while the Chatterbox's NaN Clan appeared to be going from strength to strength. Some regarded this as a betrayal of the Clan's core values – namely to have fun whilst remaining useless. EnglishRed explained: "Being generally poor at games is what NaN is all about –if you're too good it smacks of being a socially inept recluse."SteveST cruised into view, gristly thighs pumping. The stogy being chewed? Classic D-Day film - The Longest Day. "... Couldn't help wondering how much it would cost to bring so many big stars together in one film nowadays, and indeed whether such a coming together could work at all let alone as well as it did in TLD."Amipal referenced The Expendables as a modern-day equivalent. A spurious claim. Pdmalcolm mooted A Bridge Too Far and The Great Escape, boasting, as they do, similar all-star casts. EnglishRed posed The Thin Red Line. A good shout.But the law of entropy soon took hold. The chat broke down into talk of  "big ones", implications and blood-stained pitches.Another week gone. The cycle of chat, again, complete.Quotes of the week"Scadenfreude is a valid emotion. Stop oppressing me or I'll bottle up everything and become a crazed gunman."Sheep2 – many a true word is said in jest (and, just in case, we have informed the authorities)"Most interview situations can be successfully resolved by the introduction of a signed picture of Dolph Lungren."Loser flexes his life-coaching muscles"I'm up to speak in 10 minutes. It's been incredibly boring so far. Time to take it to the max. Or not. Whatever, I'm not really in the mood today. Probably all the James Blunt I've been listening to. Have you heard of him? Fantastically talented guy. Just listening to his lyrics, it's like he can see into my heart or something. Powerful stuff."Herecomestreble – man enough to listenEnd gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Sexy Music' by the Meat Puppets[great choice, WeeCooper! – Keef]Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by Herecomestreble, Crispycrumb, Lazybones, RustyJames and Limni. It was edited by Lazybones
There are plenty of games I'd like to see "reimagined" for a modern audience –Gribbly's Day Out, for one. Or if the thought of that bloody spider thing chasing Gribbly around the map brings back too many nightmares, then something likeParadroidwould do as well.Yars Revengewouldn't have been on my list though, mainly because I never owned an Atari 2600. I had friends who did, and I vaguely remember this being one of the games – along with theEmpire Strikes Backtitle – that distracted me from trying to be Kevin Keegan in the back garden. The upcoming "reimagined" Yars Revenge – out soon on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC – is unlikely to have the same impact but looks pretty interesting all the same.Anyway, what do you think? Couldn't care less? Or do you remember the – gulp – 30-year-old original and want to see how the new one plays?
It's short, it's blurry, it doesn't tell us anything about the game, but this teaser for EA's forthcoming FPS sequel,Battlefield 3, will still send a frisson of excitement up the spines of military shooter fans.Due out this autumn on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 the game will be the first to use developer DICE's highly advanced Frostbite 2 engine. The updated version of the technology behind titles like Battlefield Bad Company and Medal of Honor features a whole new approach to environmental destruction, as well as real-time radiosity, a technique for simulating the play of light on reflective or diffuse surfaces in a game environment. DICE did a talk on the subject at Siggraph last year. There's a slideshowhereif you're feeling up to it.The Battlefield series, which started out with Battlefield 1942 in 2002, focuses heavily on large-scale online multiplayer combat, featuring ground vehicles and aircraft. While the original title was set during World War Two, Battlefield 2 had a near-contemporary setting, featuring a fictitious war between the United States, China and a Middle East Coalition. Battlefield 3 is a direct sequel to that scenario.Not much to gauge from the trailer just yet, although the music sounds like Trent Raznor performing the Terminator soundtrack while submerged in a swimming pool.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYet another delay hangs over release of Firefox 4 &gt;&gt; The Register"Mozilla is bracing itself for yet more beta releases and possibly another delay of its Firefox 4 browser." To blame: Hotmail. Seems this is the week that nobody can get their webmail services interfacing right.Apple Announces Date On Which It Will Start Screwing Publishers"Apple has told publishers that, as of March 31st, the publishers have to start cutting Apple in on all content sales. "We wrote up what we know about the new policyhere. "Basically, any publisher who sells content via its own site for iPads and iPhones will also have to sell it via Apple's iTunes--and pay Apple a 30% cut of all sales." Insidious, and bad. As one person put it: imagine if Microsoft demanded 30% of every transaction you made while using Windows.Counterfeit Lugaru on Apple's App Store (developing) - Wolfire Games Blog"This is a kind of software fraud we've never even heard of: a pirate simply downloading the app and resubmitting it to the same distribution channel at a lower price. We immediately emailed Apple explaining the situation, expecting them to quickly investigate the situation, shut down the fraudulent app, and follow up with us. We started this process a few days ago, and haven't heard back from Apple yet."Announcing Power Track – Full Firehose filtering for the Tweets you want &gt;&gt; Gnip Blog"The response to the commercial Twitter streams we've made available has been outstanding. We've talked to hundreds of companies who are building growing businesses that analyze conversations on Twitter and other social media sites. As Twitter's firehose continues to grow (now over 110 million Tweets per day), we're hearing more and more requests for a way to filter the firehose down to the Tweets that matter. "Today, we're announcing a new commercial Twitter product called Power Track. This is a keyword based filter of the full firehose that provides 100% coverage over a stream that you define. Power Track customers no longer have to deal with polling rate limits on the Search API and volume limits on the Streaming API." Though of course it comes at a price..ICO Website Favicon cost: 32x32 pixels, Â£585 &gt;&gt; WhatDoTheyKnowOur calculator says that's 57p per pixel. Though obviously cheaper if they did it as GIF, JPG and PNG. Then it's only 19p per. Well, sort of.Not Seeing Much Return on That Massive R&amp;D Spend, Are You, Nokia? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD$4bn on R&amp;D? More than Samsung which makes tons of other stuff? "What it should do, [Bernstein Research analyst Pierre Ferragu, who thinks Nokia's business is 'melting like an ice cube'] says, is redouble its efforts on MeeGo and make it a viable competitor to Android and iOS in markets like North America, while continuing to push Symbian to the rest of the world. And then it should integrate the two through QT, its cross-platform application and UI framework. Says Ferragu, "By migrating all UI developments of Symbian on QT, the company can generate significant cost savings, progressively drive the platform towards a single UI between MeeGo and Symbian and a single development environment for applications." So that's one vote for WP7, one vote for MeeGo so far this week...When water-cooled PCs go wrong &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogWell, you can sort of guess. Try to be in the room when it happens.Crime maps redrawn on Google Maps &gt;&gt; CrimeSearch.co.ukWell, only as reliable as the police crime maps, which as we know are chock-full of omissions and errors. But: "This website was built in one evening on the 1st of Feb 2011 and provides you with helpful information about crime and policing in your area, without costing 300k of tax payers money." Which has to be a bonus.Windows Phone 7 data usage: finger-pointing and bad communication &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Yahoo is encouraging Microsoft to use the unique IMAP IDs instead of message IDs: if it does this, Yahoo Mail accounts will no longer cause excessive data usage and things will go back to normal. Windows Phone 7 doesn't appear to be doing anything wrong as such: message IDs should in principle be unique, so using them to track which messages have been downloaded or not may make sense. It's just not normal behavior: IMAP has a unique ID expressly for the purpose of identifying messages, and Yahoo expects clients to use it. Microsoft is not entirely at fault for the root issue here... Yahoo's servers.. completely disregard the request for specific information, and return dozens of unwanted details about each e-mail, in addition to the explicitly requested information." So they're both at fault. Or neither. Either way, it's a mess; and did Microsoft not have to deal with it before in Windows Mobile? (Thanks @jabberwolf for the link.)Intel's Chip Troubles Are Causing PC Shipping Schedules to Slip &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAs predicted, really.Analyst Urges Nokia to Adopt Windows Phone 7 &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Some unsolicited advice for Nokia CEO Stephen Elop ahead of next week's big Capital Markets Day gathering: Scrap the company's Meego OS and forge a Windows Phone 7 hardware alliance with Microsoft. Otherwise, prepare to be eclipsed once and for all by the upstart rivals that have already bested you in the smartphone space. "That's the gist of Berenberg Bank analyst Adnaan Ahmad's open letter to Elop and former colleague Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer. '[Stephen] announce an EXCLUSIVE deal with your ex-colleague, Steve: you get access to their Windows Phone 7 (WP7) intellectual property scot-free and access to the US market where your share has dived to the low single-digit level, and in so doing cut your bloated handset business R&amp;D budget by at least 30%' Ahmad writes." The rumbling begins...Google offers $20,000 prize in annual hack-off &gt;&gt; The RegisterIt's Pwn2own time (hack the machine, get to keep it) again, and Google has put up extra money to make sure that Chrome gets included: "At last year's event, Chrome was the only browser entered that didn't take a stomping. By contrast, Safari, Microsoft's Internet Explorer, and Mozilla's Firefox all succumbed to exploits that allowed them to be remotely commandeered."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Sony today reported double-digit percentage falls in its music, film and TV divisions in the last three months of 2010, despite a rise in digital music sales and the strong performance of box office hit The Social Network.Sony Music said revenue fell 10% to $1.7bn in the three months to the end of December as the company continued to struggle with declining sales of CDs and albums.The world's second largest music company reports in US dollars as well as yen, and said sales fell 14.5% year on year to ¥139.8bn.Sony said that the decrease was primarily due to the "continued contraction of the physical music market", although the fall was "partially offset" by an increase in digital sales.Operating income fell by more than 10% to $241m, a fall of 15.7% to ¥19.5bn. The company said that the fall had been partially offset by decreasing marketing spend in the quarter.Overall, parent company Sony Corporation saw net profit fall 8.6% in the three months to 31 December to ¥893bn.Film studio Sony Pictures reported a 26.7% fall in sales to ¥149bn, a 20% decrease in US dollars to $1.8bn, with operating income collapsing by 66.7% to ¥4.7bn or $58m.Sony said that while The Social Network, the film charting the rise of Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook, performed strongly, revenues declined "significantly" because in the same period last year disaster film 2012 and Michael Jackson's This Is It performed so strongly. The company said television revenues had increased due to higher advertising and subscription revenues from international operations.Operating income plummeted due to a loss on the "lower than estimated" performance of the Reece Witherspoon romcom How Do You Know, as well as lower home entertainment revenues and higher marketing expenses.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Namco Europe has now officially confirmed that it will be distributing From Software's latest RPG adventure Dark Souls in the UK. The game, a spiritual successor to Demon's Souls, will be out on Xbox 360 and PS3 later this year. I love this description from the press release:Dark Souls breaks down barriers with a seamless world design that encourages exploration and fosters an adaptable gameplay experience. As players encounter terrifying enemies and discover new areas, the unerring foundation of challenge and reward permeates to offer an unparalleled sense of achievement.Wow.Meanwhile, over on iPhone...Handicraft visuals are all the rage again with Little Big Planet 2 and ilomilo leading the pack. ButCardboard Castle, a physics puzzler fromBulkypixlooks interesting, incorporating the flimsy nature of its 2D objects and characters into the gameplay. Want to see off a dragon? Set fire to it with a match!
Xbox mouthpiece Major Nelson has been digging his way through databases and Excel tables to track down which games performed best on Xbox Live last year. He's created three charts, all based on each game's first week performance  – which is a little disappointing as it tells us nothing about longevity, or about games that proved to be Live sleeper hits (although Nelson does explain in the comments section that this was to 'normalize the data' and ensure all games got a fair chance of figuring on the lists).Anyway, top of the online multiplayer chart is......Call of Duty: Black Ops, to no one's great surprise. The success of the Cold War shooter's online mode has recently been celebrated by developer Treyarch inquite a nice infographic. Apparently, 1.1 trillion shots have been fired so far in the game, with a death count equal to the world's population – times nine. Does anyone fancy working out the kills-to-shots ratio on that? I certainly don't. The most popular weapons, by the way, have been the Famas, the AK-47u and the Galil.Anyway, there aren't many shocks on the main list – although Fable III in fourth place is rather impressive considering the dominance of shooters. On the Top 20 list of XBLA titles, it's good to find indie gem LIMBO at number two, just beneath Dead Rising: Case Zero (so that 'release DLCbeforethe launch of the retail game' experiment worked out nicely for Capcom). Disappointing to find the brilliant Super Meat Boy down in 17, but I suspect that game picked up more traction later on as word spread.Finally, the Xbox Live Indie chart shows the importance of coming up with a catchy name in this sector – Baby Maker Extreme, Try Not To Fart, Get Rich or Die Gaming and So Many Girls So Little Time, all being compelling examples.Xbox 360 Top LIVE Titles of 20101. Call of Duty: Black Ops2. Halo: Reach3. Red Dead Redemption4. Fable III5. Battlefield: Bad Co. 26. Medal of Honor7. Mass Effect 28. FIFA Soccer 119. Fallout: New Vegas10. BioShock 21. Madden NFL 1112. Splinter Cell Conviction13. Assassin's Creed Brotherhood14. Dead Rising 215. Kinect Adventures!16. NBA 2K1117. Crackdown 218. Aliens vs Predator19. Mafia II20. Army of TWO: TFDTop Arcade Titles of 20101. Dead Rising 2: Case Zero2. LIMBO3. Perfect Dark4. Toy Soldiers5. Monday Night Combat6. Deadliest Warrior7. Dead Rising 2: Case West8. X-Men Arcade9. Castlevania Harmony of Despair10. Plants vs Zombies11. Scott Pilgrim12. Sonic 4 Episode 113. Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light14. Blacklight: Tango Down15. Hydro Thunder Hurricane16. RISK Factions17. Super Meat Boy18. World of KeflingsTop Indie Games of 20101. Baby Maker Extreme2. Avatar Showdown3. Avatar Paintball4. Avatar Ninja!5. Avatar Racedrome6. Try Not To Fart7. Nuclear Wasteland8. Avatar Onslaught9 . Yet Another Zombie Defense10. Zombie Estate11. Breath of Death VII12. MILITARY SNIPER-SIM 3.1813. Get Rich or Die Gaming14. Avatar Bumper Cars15. Avatar Meet Up Live!16. GET TO THA CHOPPA!!117. Shoot 1UP18. Toy Stunt Bike19. The Impossible Game20. So Many Girls So Little Time
I run three specialist websites with small hit rates – some tens a day. Is it a practical idea for me to run an internet server from my home office with broadband on a telephone line? I mostly work on an iMac.Terry HughesIt's possible to run a website from home, but it may not be worth the effort. You might want to try it if you are keen to learn how to do it, or you are planning to go into a web-related business. You probably should not do it if you don't have the time to spare or think you are going to save a lot of money.Professional web hosts can run a hosting service cheaper than you can, serve pages faster, and do it more reliably. I don't know how much you are paying now, but I'd guess your sites would run under Heart Internet'sStarter Prodeal at £2.49 a month. (I don't know this company personally, but it scored well in PC Pro magazine'sreader survey of web hosts.) You could also look atZen Internet,1&amp;1, andEukwebhost. Some internet service providers (ISPs) also offer free web space with some deals.Home and hobby sites are generally cheaper to host than business sites, so you could see if one of the hosts will accept any of yours as hobby sites.If you plan to host a website from your home office then ideally you should have a static (or fixed) IP address, not one that changes whenever you renew your internet connection. Also, running a website may be against the terms and conditions of your current ISP, so you may have to find a new one. Switching to a proper business service with a static IP address may cost you more than you will save on hosting. However, a Broadband Choices guide,Get a static IP address, says: "Some broadband providers offer a free static IP address on selected packages, likeBE Broadband Propackage andO2 Broadband's The Workspackage.Bear in mind that you will not get the same level of reliability from a home broadband service as you would from a professional web hosting company. Your connection will probably fail from time to time, and when it does, your websites will be offline.One of the main problems with ADSL broadband is indicated by the A in its name: it's asymmetrical. In other words, the upload speed is much lower than the download speed. You may get downloads at 10Mbps, for example, and uploads at 1Mbps or less. This should not be a problem if your sites have low hit-rates, but it could well be a problem for a popular site. Either way, you will have to cope with the peak traffic load, not the average daily rate.You will also need a web server, which means running web server software such as Apache on a spare PC or Mac. I would rather you didn't use your work PC as a web server because of the security threat, and because of the risk of downtime. (If your iMac crashes or needs to be restarted for some reason, your websites go offline.) It's perfectly possible to run a small website from a low-power system, and any ordinary PC should handle yours, but someone with a popular site ought to set up a proper server with fast hard drives.You can set up a web server using a Mac, Linux, or Microsoft Windows. If you have a spare Mac with Mac OS X 10.3 or later, then it already has Apache on the hard drive. Mac Instruct has an introductory page,How to Turn Your Mac Into a Web Server. However, this won't get you very far, especially if any of your sites needs PHP, MySQL or other software. Wesley's Tool-Box has more information in a five-part series,Use Mac as a Web Server. This covers the "port forwarding" that you will need to set up on your router.No doubt configuring a web host is easy if you know what you are doing. If you are learning everything from scratch, it can be a struggle to get everything right.Finally, as well as any initial purchase price, your home server will use some electricity. If you know your machine, you can look up the power consumption on the web. It could be up to 365W for a 27in iMac going full blast, but a more reasonable assumption is 100W. If so, check your electricity bill or price list and add 876 units per year.I suspect that your best bet is to move to a cheaper web hosting service. If this is what you decide to do, readBest practices when moving your siteat the Official Google Webmaster Central Blog. The last thing you want to do is to damage your sites' rankings in Google or lose your indexing.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of seven links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Merchandising and Billing Features on Android Market &gt;&gt; Android Developers BlogNew site, new currency and, finally, in-app billing: "After months of hard work by the Android Market team, I am extremely pleased to announce the arrival of In-app Billing on Android Market. This new service gives developers more ways to monetize their applications through new billing models including try-and-buy, virtual goods, upgrades, and more."News Corp. Takes $275 Million Charge on MySpace &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"For the record, News Corp.'s $275 million charge on its digital operations, announced today, breaks down this way: $107 million of that is for restructuring, and the remaining $168 million is a writedown, presumably focused on Myspace."News Corpâ€™s MySpace Sale Options Include New Investors, Management Buy-Out &gt;&gt; paidContent"With a new structure in place, now is the right time to consider strategic options for this business," COO Chase Carey told analysts. "The new MySpace has been very well received by the market and we have some very encouraging metrics. But the plan to allow MySpace to reach it's full potential may be best achieved under a new owner."Unreleased Apple iPad spotted at News Corp event &gt;&gt; Reuters"A Reuters eyewitness saw what appeared to be a working model of the next iPad with a front-facing camera at the top edge of the glass screen at a press conference to mark the debut of News Corp's Daily online paper in New York on Wednesday."Introducing the Android Market website &gt;&gt; Official Google Mobile Blog"Over the past two years, developers around the world have helped make Android Market the go-to place for more than 100,000 apps, games and widgets. Previously, you could only access Android Market directly from your device, but today, we are introducing the Android Market website that lets you browse and search for great apps right from your web browser."Little Big DetailsA blog pointing to little details that make a subtle - but cumulative - positive difference to user experience. Bookmark it. (And think: is that the best way for bookmarking to work?)Greater Interoperability for Windows Customers With HTML5 Video &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsMicrosoft announces on its developer blog: "Google recently announced that its Chrome web browser will stop supporting the H.264 video format. At Microsoft we respect that Windows customers want the best experience of the web including the ability to enjoy the widest range of content available on the Internet in H.264 format. "Today, as part of the interoperability bridges work we do on this team, we are making available the Windows Media Player HTML5 Extension for Chrome, which is an extension for Google Chrome to enable Windows 7 customers who use Chrome to continue to play H.264 video." Someone's going to have to remind who is unbearably evil and who the good guy is. We're getting confused.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
James Dyson understates how disadvantaged UK plc is in manufacturing (The deficit of invention, 1 February). Decades of inflating property values and giveaway privatisations have ensured the financial sector is used to making easy money, so why would it work longer and harder to finance manufacturing? Increasingly, offshore-controlled utilities find it easier to finance the acquisition of non-UK-made capital goods. In addition, there are the private finance initiative deals that will drain the public finances for decades ahead, and will further send UK capital spending abroad. Look at theSerco-Denholm PFI, worth more than £1bn, where the building of 29 hi-tech tugs and auxiliary vessels to serve the Royal Navy will take place in Dutch and Romanian yards. Not only would other navies find this inconceivable, but it would be illegal in the States, where domestic and navy vessels must be US-built.Dyson quotes the wholesale import of German and Japanese locomotives – he could have added Italian and American. How can the UK be expected to pull out of recession at anything like the rate of our competitors when such a tranche of public and unavoidable private spending, as a result of successive government policies, is committed to foreign-made capital goods and has ensured the demise of whole UK industries?Robert StraughtonGrange Over Sands, Cumbria• James Dyson is right when he says that in order to generate economic growth we must create the right environment for research and invention. And there are reasons to be cautiously optimistic that the government understands this. Measures already in train, such as the"patent box" tax incentivefor intellectual property, are one of the ways to create an environment that fosters innovation and growth, as are Dyson's calls for an enhanced research and development tax credit and more high-quality teachers to inspire young people to take up careers in science and engineering.But when Dyson says that we need to back things that we can make and export now, that means backing the UK's world-leading life sciences, including pharmaceuticals, bioscience, medical devices and diagnostics. The latest government statistics show that in the UK medical biotechnology sector alone, employment grew by 3% in the last year to 36,700 and turnover increased by 18% to £5.5bn.The future growth of the UK life sciences also has a double dividend for the country – not only will it help to grow the economy but it will also provide new treatments for patients. We would be mad not to champion an industry which, through our researchers, universities and companies, is shaping Britain's place in the world, now and in the future.Nigel GaymondChief executive,BioIndustry Association• I hope that James Dyson's reasoned plea for the British economy to be much more geared towards invention and technology does not fall on deaf government ears. I would add that green technology should be a major component of the mix, partly financed by the Green Investment Bank called for by many major companies and institutions in the advertisement on the Guardian's back page on the same day.It must be right that our future should become much more dependent on these areas of importance to the world and much less on fantasy finance. Unfortunately, the huge salaries and bonuses that are trousered by the latter inhibit productive industry from attracting graduates to do something much more useful than the often "socially useless" activities (to quote Adair Turner) which are a part of the banking industry. Which is another reason for controlling them.Peter SladeGuildford, Surrey• James Dyson calls for "patentable exports" in his piece. Is this the same James Dyson whoclosed the Dyson factory in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, in 2002 to move production to Malaysia, resulting in the loss of 560 jobs? Sack British workers, move production abroad, still made£190m profit last year– no wonder he is one of Cameron's&nbsp;advisers.Alan QuinnManchester
Get ready: here comes Android 3.0, aka Honeycomb, the next iteration of Google's free Linux-based mobile operating system, which it says is "built entirely for tablet".Plus Google has updated and improved its Android Marketplace, turning it into a web-based store from which you can navigate and download apps direct to your Android device.(That lack of definite or indefinite article before "tablet" is very Apple-y - recall how it's "iPod" and "iPad" and nevertheiPod oraniPad.)Honeycomb - release date soonish, but unknown - certainly does look to take Android and tablets to a new level. AsRyan Faas reports at IT World,"It provides a new set of developer APIs that allow developers to create apps optimized for a tablet experience. It includes a major makeover of the Android home screen, offers the concept of code fragments that developers can use to make apps optimized for both tablets and smartphones as well as for different screen orientations, includes a robust new 3D visual rendering system, offers updated music and video capabilities, and includes support for dual core processors. While some of the new features and interfaces seem pretty iterative of Apple's work with iOS on the iPad, some are also unique and offer functionality beyond the iPad."Certainly the Gmail app looks like it borrows heavily in user interface design from the iPad Mail program, but other things certainly do go beyond what iOS on the iPad does. The YouTube app is interesting (though a more interesting approach might have been "stacked videos" rather than "circle round"). But there's a lot that isn't shown, which is perplexing.In fact the video here looks almost exactly the same as the one that was running on the Motorola Xoom at CES (because that wasn't running even a prototype of Honeycomb) - which makes one wonder what exactly has been done in the month since. Possibly the team has simply been squashing bugs - always sensible.Over at Betanews, Tim Conneallyhas a good overview of Honeycombtoo.Certainly too this will mean that the next generation of Android tablets are going to have some very nice user interfaces that will have a certain amount of "wow" factor. Add to that support for dual-core processors, and something designed to support 10-inch screens, and you have a worthy rival to the iPad - in fact, with Honeycomb and its notification system, something arguably better than the iPad.ThefirstiPad, that is. Although Apple hasn't offered even the suggestion of a release date, you can pretty much guess that the following will be true about the iPad 2:• it will have front and rear cameras• it will have a much faster processor• it won't have a "retina display" screen (here's why)• it won't have a SD card slot (Apple likes encouraging its hardware ecosystem to sell accessories that do it)• it won't have a USB port (see SD card slot explanation)• the 30-pin dock and home button will be there, in the same place at the bottom of the device• the battery life will be about the same (smaller processor structure, but running faster equals roughly the same battery life)• the back of the case will be more curved• it will come out around April.Those details emerged from people I spoke to, designs I saw at CES, plus some obvious extrapolation.Update: after writing this,spotted on Reuters:Spotted at Rupert Murdoch's splashy digital newspaper launch on Wednesday: a prototype of Apple's newest iPad."A Reuters eyewitness saw what appeared to be a working model of the next iPad with a front-facing camera at the top edge of the glass screen at a press conference to mark the debut of News Corp's Daily online paper in New York on Wednesday.A source with knowledge of the device confirmed its existence, adding that the final release model could have other features. News Corp and Apple declined to comment.The next version of Apple's popular tablet computer is expected to be announced in the next few months.Manufacturing sources have said it will sport two cameras -- one in the front and one in the back -- enabling users to make video calls.The question is, will the iPad 2 be able to compete with Android Honeycomb tablets? Certainly those tablets will be able to compete on screen size and on processor speed.As Faas writes:"Overall, I was extremely impressed by this preview. When Honeycomb tablets like the Motorola Xoom and LG G-Slate go on sale later this month, it seems pretty clear that Apple will finally have some serious competition in the tablet space. In fact, some of the Honeycomb features may make Android tablets a more compelling choice than the current iPad (or even a next-generation iPad until Apple provides a major update to iOS, which isn't likely to happen until this summer)."Very good points all. Unknowns: how competitive they will be on price, availability and battery life.Also a bit unknown: how apps designed for smartphone screens will be scaled up for tablets. Apple and its developers went through this pain last year; many apps have been rewritten, and there are some iPad-only apps which use the larger screen. Scaling can look ugly, or (if Android is clever) it can look great. Google has some pretty smart coders, and the 3D maps and Street View looks great. But beware: those aren't real Street Views running on real tablets. They're CGI.And also a bit unknown: how you're going to find stuff in the Android Marketplace. It's nowon the web, which is a big improvement. As the New York Times's Bits blogheard:"When users click to buy an app, it simultaneously downloads to their phone. That is when "some of the real cloud magic happens," said Chris Yerga, Android's engineering director for cloud services. "There's no wires, no syncing with computers, none of that sort of nonsense.""True (it works by letting you download once you've signed in - a-ha!- with the Google account you use on your phone, which then syncs with Google's cloud computers). Neat.However, the app store isnot like the web. There isn't the same power of linking and reputation that you get on the web and which made Google so powerful. Every app stands alone, which means you can getkeyword stuffing, skewed reviews and so on.So asearch on "monitor data usage"gives you a mix of apps whose quality is difficult to disentangle; this is the same problem that Apple has with the App Store (only on an even bigger scale). You can view it either as the wisdom of the crowd, or you as the guinea pig - possibly both.Meanwhile, Honeycomb looks like a terrific update to the tablet interface. Now all we need is a release schedule and some tablets that run it.
Technically it's because the current system can only support 4.3bn  machine addressable numbers, the last of which is soon to be  allocated. But the simple explanation is this:the internet's full. In a year's time it could even be rendered useless. How did people do things before the internet? For the young, a primer:Social networking.In the past people engaged socially mostly by prior arrangement, using the now-defunct RSVP protocol. One's offline presence was visible to anyone, so you had to constantly check to make sure you weren't going outside in your pyjamas.Gossiping.Malicious gossip was conducted orally over a peer-to-peer network. It was slow, and information could become distorted along the way. On the plus side, you weren't limited to 140 characters, and no one ever checked to see if you might be lying.Stealing music.Connect  cassette player to radio, wait for good song, press "record".Finding and buying stuff.All shops had phone numbers, gathered in "directories". Next time someone drops one of those yellow-paged composting blocks at your door, look inside.Making several hundred holiday photos available for viewing by friends.If I told you how we used to do this, you wouldn't believe me.
Can the Lego series of adventure gamesreallystill be cute and funny? It seems so. Due out in May on DS, PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Lego Pirates of the Caribbean incorporates characters and stories from all three of Disney's ludicrously successful movies, as well as from the forthcoming fourth instalment, Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides.With Lego Star Wars: Clone Wars out in a month it's going to be another busy year for developerTraveller's Tales, which, judging by the blockbusting sequels expected in cinemas this year, is probably already gearing up to announce Lego Twilight Saga, Lego Transformers and Lego Final Destination.
January has seen some excellent iPhone and iPad game releases – here are five of my favourites, most of which are doing interesting things within some densely populated mobile gaming genres. I'll be covering the latest Google Android and Windows Phone 7 titles soon.Oh, and if you have downloaded any enjoyable mobile or smartphone games recently, please do add them in the comments section.Mad Skills Motocross(Turborilla, £1.19)There's no shortage of physics-based motorbike games out there, thanks in part to the success of the excellent Trials HD on Xbox Live Arcade. This latest take on the genre gets you to race across a series of undulating dirt tracks against a computer rival, using touch screen controls to accelerate, brake or alter your rider's position backwards and forwards. As with Trials, it's all about getting those landings just right – if the angle of entry is slightly wrong, your ragdoll character flies from his bike and makes bone-crunching contact with the ground. The tracks are challenging and unforgiving, but the rider physics are accurate and sensitive, allowing for a genuinely skilled, measured approach. With five leagues to race through and Open Feint support for global rankings and achievements, there's plenty here for dirt bike fans who prefer to keep their own limbs intact.Grim Joggers(10Tons, 59p)InCanabaltthe seminal office worker escape game, a teeny character runs unstoppably over a series of rooftops; the player's only control input is jumping which avoids obstacles and chasms. Adam Saltsman's browser-based classic has inspired a whole mini-genre of 'auto-run' games of which Grim Joggers is a hilarious example. Your aim is simply to help a group of 15 runners live as long as possible as they peg it over a series of three different and equally deadly environments. Tapping the screen once makes them all jump to avoid smaller obstacles such as spear traps, while a double tap gets you a longer leap to clear wider chasms. It's sort of a turbo-charged version of Lemmings, but with no special abilities; the skill is in timing your jumps and quickly planning the safest route through the deadly landscape. Grim Joggers sounds like throwaway stuff, but it's worth playing for the horrible squelching noises your joggers make as they fall into a pit of spiked sticks, or their yells when they plummet down a cliff. There's also masses of replay value as the levels change each time you play, and high score junkies will want to keep adding a few extra metres to their longest run.Cover Orange(FDG Entertainment, iPhone 59p, iPad £1.19)We're only a month into 2011, but the unexcitingly named Cover Orange could already be this year's Angry Birds or Cut The Rope, attracting over two million downloads in its first week on the App Store. It's a 2D physics puzzler in which players must protect cute little oranges from evil acid rain. At the start of each stage you're given a series of objects that you can drop on to the environment to cover your fruit before the rain starts falling. Initially, this involves building little huts out of barrels and crates, but later you need to cause complex chain reactions to ensure the safety of your juicy friends. There are bombs to let off, deadly holes to plug, and various troughs and gates to knock over, and you're often required to accurately dink your orange with a falling wagon wheel in order to knock it to safety. As in Cut The Rope, timing becomes vitally important, especially when there are two or more oranges to tease through a moving obstacle like a windmill. It's an ingeniously designed game, certain to provide puzzle fans with many hours of engrossing trial-and-error fun.Legendary Wars(Liv Games, £1.79)Yes, it's another game occupying a suffocatingly crowded market place – this time the castle defence genre. But Legendary Wars, the debut title from indie studio Liv Games, is not just another Plants vs Zombies clone. Instead, it cleverly stirs RPG, real-time strategy and brawl-'em-up elements into its potent strategy mix. The aim is to protect your kingdom against incoming hoards of mythological monsters. Throughout each battle, miners are sent out to dig up gems, which can be used to buy soldiers, who then fight wave after wave of skeletons, zombies and other infernal beasts. After every victory it's also possible upgrade your army, miners and castle defences, spending gems you've earned n the game or bought via micro-transactions. The chunky comic book visuals and tongue-in-cheek humour recall XBLA hack-n-slasher Castle Crashers, and there are even levels where you control one super-powered warrior against your foe. But there's real micro-management depth to the action, especially as your soldiers can swap lanes (not possible in most tower defence titles), allowing them to avoid projectile attacks and gang up on enemy units. A seriously meaty challenge.Peppa Pig: Polly Parrot(Strawdog Studios, £1.79)As a dad, I wanted to include at least one title aimed at children, and this is a nice example. There's already a very decent Peppa Pig game available for iPhone, but this follow-up, based around Grandma Pig's talkative bird, will be equally popular with fans of the animated series. Such as myself. There are three mini-games to play: in Talking Polly you re-arrange picture cards to get Polly to say silly sentances based on your selected images; in Feed Polly you must stuff the right number of correctly coloured crackers into its beak; and in Where's Polly you need to search Peppa's house for the escaped bird. Admittedly, they're variations on games already available via the Peppa Pig website, or in the Nintendo DS titles, but they've been carefully re-designed for iPhone and are perfect for quick diversions when you're on the road. Your kids can also collect virtual stickers as they play and these can be used to decorate a series of little Peppa Pig scenes.
The newly released crime maps site are a fundamentally unreliable source of information, because they are subject to unreported changes by the police forces compiling them both before and after they are displayed, and the data will not be stored on the site for comparison over time, observers say.There is also growing concern among developers who want to use the data to paint a picture of the UK's crime and policing strategies that the maps will give a distorted picture of crime in neighbourhoods – and that the apparent transparency in publishing them instead hides behind-the-scenes decisions about what crimes to report.Adrian Short, a Sutton-based developer, says that "what we're looking at here isn't a value-neutral scientific exercise in helping people to live their daily lives a little more easily, it's an explicitly political attempt to shape the terms of a debate around the most fundamental changes in British policing in our lifetimes." He accuses the maps of being "pseudo-transparency", and says that the site is "worse than useless".Additionally, police forces have indicated that whenever a new set of data is uploaded – probably each month – the previous set will be removed from public view, making comparisons impossible unless outside developers actively store it.That also means that datasets from each previous reporting period will not be available through the government's overarching data portal,data.gov.uk– a move that has angered some inside government who have been pushing for better and more open data.One source close to government told the Guardian: "I get the strong impression that the Met [police] were forced into this by National Policing Improvement Agency and Home Office – [but] they [the police] don't care about this stuff and will not take any action to make the point data accurate unless there is some significant pressure on them."That contrasts sharply with the US, which trailblazed the concept of crime mapping by allowing third-party developers to use crime data published by local police forces to map reports of incidents. One of the first, chicagocrime.org, was set up in April 2005, and began mapping at once. There have been no reports of adverse effects from the detailed crime mapping - which includes times and locations of reported crimes - from any cities in the US where it has been tried.However in the UK the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) advised that tying crime reports to postcodes or streets with fewer than 12 addresses would render the individuals involved too identifiable. The police have also decided to remove data about murders or sexual assaults.William Perrin, who has run a local blog for the King's Cross area in London for a number of years,says in a blogpostthat"A tiny minority of crimes are privacy sensitve and would have the victim protected in court. Surely they can be filtered out. The information commissioner's role in the background is odd – why would they not consult publicly and widely on how to handle privacy issues?"Now Perrin has entered afreedom of information request to the ICOdemanding "all correspondence, records, emails, texts documents, presentations, meeting notes etc and any other information you hold that discusses issues around crime mapping from May 2010 to date" on the basis that "there is a strong public interest in understanding how your office arrived at the advice to which your press notice refers and the nature of your dialogue with the principal actors as they formed their opinions. In particular how your office balanced the public interest factors with privacy issues".Overall, there is widespread dissatisfaction among developers with the quality of the data, its presentation, and especially with the vague and arbitrary nature of the content. Many newspapers have picked up on the fact that so-called "crime hotspots" are nothing of the sort; instead, they are sometimes just the location of the police station where nuisance calls were received.Jonathan Raper, an external developer who has developed a number of local data sites using government information,notes five key flaws in the map data:• Locations used are approximate (so that "top 10 crime streets" may actually be places which have had no crime).• Data for streets with fewer than 12 postal addresses is apparently not recorded "to protect privacy".• Some data such as sexual offences and murder is removed – even though it would be easy to discover and locate from other police reports.• Data covers reported crimes rather than convictions, so some of it may turn out not to be crime.• The levels of policing are not provided, so that two areas with the "same" crime levels may in fact have "radically different" experiences of crime and policing.UK police forces have a longstanding antipathy to making crime maps available to the public, however. In May 2008 Brian Paddick, a former deputy assistant commissioner at the Met,told the Today programmethat the police think there are "significant downsides" to public crime mapping and that "it's not a very British thing to hold people to account in front of their peers".
When it comes to Massively Multiplayer Online games, the PC is king. Whether it's World of Warcraft, Lord of the Rings Online or a host of free to play browser MMOs, the PC is the platform of choice.For a start, keyboards and mice are easier than joypads when navigating often complex interfaces and communicating with others. Culturally too MMOs – all queued up attacks and deferred gratification – often put off console gamers who are used to fast action and instant hits.DC Universe Online is looking to change that. Available on PS3 as well as PC, the game is a faster paced, more instantly rewarding MMO. Creating your character is where the fun begins. Players can change everything, from the cut of their cloak to the symbol on their lycra suit. Compared to most MMOs, the level of customisation is high and the game recognises the vanity of online gamers – namely, how you look is sometimes more important than what you can do. The next choice is more permanent – will you be a hero or a villain? The former get Batman, Superman and other goodies on their side; the latter get Joker and co.It's not until the action starts that the real differences are felt, the most obvious being the pace of the action. Your hero pounds, punches and fires in real time here, exactly in the way they would if you were playing an offline single player game. Button-bashing – surprisingly effective in the early stages – is as mindlessly entertaining as ever but it isn't long before enemies can overwhelm.While the action may be more hardhitting than the MMO norm, the quests are worryingly familiar. Kill 20 of this or interact with 10 of that are the fundamentals of far too many quests. Some excellent voice acting helps keep the immersion up, but all too often the quests are fairly mindless. More strategy is required for the four player sections, but the in-depth tactics required by the likes of WoW will not be needed here. That isn't necessarily a bad thing in the short-term. As far as pick up and play goes, DC Universe Online is one of the best.Initially, The atmosphere is incredible. Entering the dark and rainy streets of Gotham and seeing fellow players whizzing around is jaw-dropping. Metropolis too feels like a playground waiting to be discovered. If your character can fly, then taking to the skies is the best way to take all the landmarks in. But sadly, the illusion doesn't last.While your imagination suggests a teeming city full of players and opportunity, the reality tends to be a rather lifeless environment. Players tend to congregate in certain areas, leaving the city to the criminals and police you have come to help or hinder. Where the likes of World of Warcraft engender a real sense of a living breathing world, the space here feels rather under-developed. Things will certainly improve though, and the game certainly makes you feel – and look – like a hero.Technical issues – while improved – still hurt the game. Voice communication, for example, is very hit and miss. The interface is fiddly and slow. Changing from quests to, say, inventory on the menu bar takes two or three seconds a time.Despite the issues,there is lot to admire here. The action is accessible and rewarding from the off and flying round Metropolis and Gotham will take a long time to lose its appeal. The game will need more variety in quests and better community tools to keep subscribers paying, but DC Universe Online is off to a solid start.• Game reviewed on PS3
With most racing games increasingly obsessed with licensing vast numbers of high performance cars, there's certainly room for something different and at first glance Nail'd seems to offer it.For a start, there's the grungy graphics and lightning fast 3D engine. Then there's the assortment of powerful dirt bikes and ATVs that would look more at home in Mad Max's Thunderdome than anything you're likely to see on a real racetrack. These can be "pimped" in an impressive number of ways – from cosmetic paint jobs to fine tuning brakes, gears and shocks. It's not quite Wipeout-scale futurism, but it makes for a game that looks and feels very different – something that also applies to the gameplay, although not always in a good way.Graphically, there's plenty to applaud with 14 courses that weave their way through mountains, deserts, even molten lava and offer an impressive range of racing conditions – including off-road events, stunt races and time trials in both single and multiplayer modes. The courses also make up for their relatively short length by using the third dimension far more creatively than most. Jumping off ramps and plummeting 100 metres to the level below feels more like being on a rollercoaster than a conventional racetrack.Just as impressive is the frame rate. Nail'd really does motor, something that clashes with the wimpy turbo boost you have to rely upon to overtake other bikes. Nevertheless, the first time you land smack bang on top of one of your competitors is undeniably brilliant – if only you could count on such moments being down to racing skill rather than pure coincidence.Unfortunately, there's a fairly significant drawback to Nail'd – and that's the physics, which too often feels like the developers are making up rules on the fly. These include the ability to perform 90% mid-air turns, drive on tunnel roofs and float unconvincingly across vast distances. And then, of course, there are the extreme sports cliches – the tedious thrash metal soundtrack from the likes of Slipknot that constantly battles the monotonous engine drone for dominance. There's also the "respawning" motif that supposedly saves time by avoiding crashing out but ends up interrupting the action with infuriating regularity.The pity of all this is that there's so much about Nail'd that is innovative and refreshingly bonkers. If only all that potential had been harnessed into a more consistent and rewarding racing experience.• Game reviewed on PS3
Photo byNoah Sussmanon Flickr.Some rights reservedYahoo has confirmed in a statement that the problem withexcessive data usage on Windows Phone 7 handsetsis connected to its IMAP mail account - but added that the problem is unique to WP7.In a statement released overnight, the company said:"Yahoo! Mail is widely available on tens of millions of mobile phones, including those running on Apple iOS, Android, Nokia Symbian, and RIM. The issue on the Windows phones is specific to how Microsoft chose to implement IMAP for Yahoo! Mail and does not impact Yahoo! Mail on these other mobile devices. Yahoo! has offered to provide Microsoft a near-term solution for the implementation they chose, and is encouraging Microsoft to change to a standard way of integrating with Yahoo! Mail, which would result in a permanent fix."Ouch. Microsoft, which is already fending off accusations that it has behaved in a non-standard way over its search results (could itreallyhave beencopying Google? It's such a weak approach, when Bing has a tieup with the orthogonally usefulWolfram Alpha), now faces Yahoo saying about 25 times more than seems comfortable about its implementation of IMAP on mobile.Dissect what's being said here: Yahoo "is encouraging Microsoft tochange to a standard wayof integrating with Yahoo! Mail, which would result in a permanent fix" and "The issue on the Windows phones isspecific to how Microsoft chose to implement IMAPfor Yahoo! Mail". (Emphasis added.)That's the sort of thing you normally say to slightly clueless startups which are hammering your servers because they don't know how to use cacheing, not to software behemoths with years of experience and some of the world's best coders.More and more, the need for the WP7 team to push through an update to the code that shipped on those handsets is becoming more urgent. When even Yahoo, which is apparently now letting services like Delicious run without a development team, is saying that you're doing it wrong, you are indeed doing it wrong.
JoinAleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthuras they tackle this week's technology news.This week's podcast is dominated by the effects of the web on global democracy. Charles explains how the Egyptian government is able to cut off 80% of the country's internet, and how satellite phones and Google's Speak2Tweet phone service are being used to get around the blockade.We welcomeJames Blessingfrom the UK Internet Services Providers Association to talk about how the technology that the web is based on is about to become obsolete. He leads the team through the real-world implications of the shift from IPv4 to IPv6, a change that will affect websites, domestic routers and, ultimately, access to the web.And Aleks finds out more about India's social media fromRajesh Llalwaniof Blogworks and the India Social Summit, andKarthik Nagarajan, from Nielsen Online India.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
