A selection of 8 apps for you today:My ArmyDistinctive Developments' clever action game My Army blends endless running with a dash of Cannon Fodder, while pulling in your Facebook friends to help. Bags of character too, thanks to your little war heroes.iPhoneThe ScotsmanThe Scotsman is the latest newspaper to launch an iPad edition, offering a mix of daily digitised editions and news updates throughout the day. The app is free for the first month, and then reverts to a £7.99 monthly subscription.iPadRapidShareOnline storage service RapidShare has launched a pair of official iPhone apps: the £2.49 one linked above for free users, and afree app for its paying customers. Both provide access to your digital locker, including documents, photos, videos and music files.iPhoneBreakout: Boost+Atari has launched a new paid version of its freemium modernisation of Breakout, promising 100 levels that aren't included in the free version. Otherwise, it's bricks'n'balls'n'bats business as usual.iPhone / iPadWhat's That Track?Mobile operator Orange's skunkworks Orange Labs team has built a music quiz game called What's That Track? which gets you to identify more than 700 artists and songs across a variety of genres. You can also build your own quizzes based on Deezer playlists. The link above is for iPhone, but theAndroid version is here.iPhone / AndroidNFL Flick KickerHere's how you know Apps Rush is compiled by manually scanning the app stores, rather than just waiting for press releases: a few hours after we spotted and wrote about NFL Flick Kicker for iOS in the Apps Rush of 23 January, it was also released for Android. So here's the link for that. As on iOS, expect field goals and punts, with fine-tuned touchscreen controls.AndroidHeyWireMessaging app HeyWire makes its debut on Windows Phone, offering free texts around the world, joining existing Android and iOS versions.Windows PhoneThe Oregon TrailGameloft has ported its modern update of classic game The Oregon Trail to Android, offering hunting, fishing, bandits andlotsof wagons.Android
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle nearly doubles lobbying spending in 2011, tops Microsoft | Digital Media - CNET NewsGoogle nearly doubled its federal lobbying expenditures last year, surpassing rival Microsoft in dollars doled out to persuade legislators to consider its policy positions.The Web giant spent $9.68 million in 2011 on federal lobbying, an 88 percent jump from 2010, according to filings late last week with the United States Senate Office of Public Records. Microsoft's federal lobbying hit $7.34 million last year, a 6 percent gain.Isn't lobbying what only the big bad content industries do?Here's what 4K of RAM used to look like...On Twitter: "4K of IBM memory found in my grandpa's pole barn, captured in a 692K photo".Q&amp;A: Android design chief details Google's mobile future &gt;&gt; Wired.comMatias Duarte on Android in a wide-ranging interview. Here he is on hardware upgrades: "A lot of those issues really are much more related to the hardware capabilities. Things like just how much memory you have. The reality is, right now Android is growing so quickly, it's like it was back in the X86 days of PCs. When you got that 286 and were so excited! 'Yes!' And then Quake comes along and your 286 just couldn't do the job. So right now, we have that issue people call 'fragmentation,' where some of the older hardware just won't run the new OS. So trying to upgrade the OS is really difficult. "Remember when you got the new version of Windows, and you couldn't run it on your PC? You just had to get a new computer, right? It's something that happens at certain inflection points of computing, where the capabilities just grow so quickly that they outpace everything else."350,000 textbooks downloaded from Apple's iBooks in three days &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"According to Global Equities Research, which monitors Apple's iBook sales via a proprietary tracking system it doesn't much care to discuss, more than 350,000 textbooks were downloaded from the company's iBooks Store within the first three days of availability (caveat: a number of these may well have been free copies of E.O. Wilson's Life on Earth downloaded for free by folks interested in seeing an iPad textbook in action) And there were some 90,000 downloads of iBooks Author, Apple's free textbook-creation tool, during the same time. "If those numbers are accurate, Apple's textbook effort would seem to be off to a good start. Which is good news for everyone involved -- particularly textbook publishers, who stand to make more money on books sold through iBooks than those sold at retail."The Webcam Hacker: the life and strange times of Luis Mijangos &gt;&gt; GQYou start off thinking that this is just going to be another 'hacker watched people doing thing using malware and webcams' story. But it's much deeper than that.KDDI pushes non-removable ads into Android &gt;&gt; ElectronistaJapanese carrier KDDI has underscored some of the problems of Android by pushing ads into Android itself, customers have found for themselves. A bundled, unremovable app for the company's own app store, au one Market, pushes ads into the notification bar whether or not the app is running, Asiajin said. While there appears to be an opt-out clause, one subscriber reports that it's downplayed and has seen it appear twice with app updates.Technically removable, if you root the phone.Toward a more inclusive naming policy for Google+ &gt;&gt; Bradley Horowitz - Google+Google offers an olive branch to those who prefer to be known by their online alias - albeit alongside their "real life name". But does nothing for those who want to be known only by their pseudonym. (The people who complain to Google about this make up 0.1% of its applicants, it says. So that would be 90,000 complaints so far. How many have turned away because they couldn't use a pseudonym?Solar Wind Prediction (CME-based) &gt;&gt; Nasa.govVery cool simulation of the solar flare that's due to hit the earth on Tuesday. Hey, that's today!Nokia Lumia Sales Seen Topping 1 Million Since Debut in Respite for Stock &gt;&gt; BloombergNokia Oyj (NOK1V)'s first phones running Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) software may have sold enough units last year to help rebuild investor confidence in the Finnish company, which lost $19 billion in market value in 2011.Facebook Coalition To Google: Don't Be Evil, Focus On The User &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogWe can feel last year's "data war" bubbling up."This is a tool meant to directly expose Google's recent moves with Google+ as biased, hardcoded, and against Google's core philosophy (which besides "don't be evil," has always been about "focusing on the user")."Instant Quote Search &gt;&gt; QuotecoilSearch for a quote by a person, quote, keywords and so on. Intriguing. But what's the business model?A bookmarklet to ward off Google evil &gt;&gt; Focus on the UserUtterly brilliant bookmarklet that, for users in the US, will undo all the skewing of Google's results in favour of its nascent Google+ network to reflect theactualpopularity - as measured by Google itself - of rankings. Install at once.How much better would social search be if Google surfaced results from all across the web? The results speak for themselves. We created a tool that uses Google's own relevance measure--the ranking of their organic search results--to determine what social content should appear in the areas where Google+ results are currently hardcoded.Irresistible.15,000 Hull and East Yorkshire homes to get 'lightning fast' internet as KC extends fibre-optic network &gt;&gt; This is Hull and East RidingThousands of people across East Yorkshire will benefit from some of the fastest broadband in Britain. Hull telecoms provider KC has revealed new fibre cables will provide 15,000 homes and businesses with "lightning fast" broadband.It has so far only been trialled in 350 homes in Woodmansey and the Great Thornton Street area of west Hull. The average top speed currently provided by KC's internet provider Karoo is ten megabits per second. But the new network offers speeds of up to 100 megabits per second.This allows users to download a music album in just two seconds, an hour-long television show in 31 seconds and a high-definition film in one to two minutes.What we really want is a way towatcha film in two minutes. Now that would be an advance in technology.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Orange has struck a deal with Wikipedia to make its digital encyclopaedia available free of data charges to millions of mobile phone users across the Middle East and Africa.The mobile phone operator, which claims that the partnership is the first of its kind in world, has 70 million customers across Africa and the Middle East.However, the ability to access the internet, and websites such as Wikipedia, is currently limited to about 10 million Orange customers who have mobile devices with 2G or 3G capability.Sue Gardner, executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit organisation that runs Wikipedia, said:"Wikipedia is an important service, a public good, and so we want people to be able to access it for free, regardless of what device they're using. This partnership with Orange will enable millions of people to read Wikipedia who previously couldn't."The free service will be launched in 20 markets across 2012, with a spokesman from Orange saying that the aim is to increase the proportion of 2G and 3G phones to 50% of customers by 2015.Currently, penetration stands at between 7% and 15% across various African and Middle Eastern markets."In countries where access to information is not always readily available, we are making it simple and easy for our customers to use the world's most comprehensive online encyclopaedia," said Marc Rennard, group executive vice-president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Orange.The deal is non-exclusive and other mobile phone partners are expected to follow suit.• This article was amended on 25 January 2012. Sue Gardner was described as  a senior director at Wikipedia. This has been corrected.
Facebook, Twitter and Myspace engineers have devised a software add-on for browsers which negates the effect of Google's alteration of its search results to favour its own Google+ social network – with a piece of code they call "Don't be evil".The move intensifies the increasingly bitter war of words between Google, which is trying to push the "social" element of searches, and the major social networks, which assert that the search engine is polluting its own search results and diverging from its core purpose of giving the user the best possible search by downgrading them in results.Google is also being accused by external commentators of betraying its original aims, which were to give the broadest view of the most popular links on the web, in order to boost Google+ artificially.The "Don't be evil" bookmarklet, which can be put into browser menus, will allow the user to see how a search result page would look using Google's pure organic search results. It is available from a site called "Focus on the User" – and created by a team from the three big social networks.The name is a reference to "Don't be evil", Google's first unofficial motto, devised by Paul Buchheit, the creator of Google Mail early in the past decade. He has since left the company, but"you can make money without doing evil" remains in Google's philosphy– ranking sixth, behind its top rule, "focus on the user and all else will follow".The aim of the bookmarklet – a piece of code, generally Javascript, which adds some function to a web page, by carrying out a calculation or search – is to negate the effects of Google's "Search Plus Your World" update made earlier this month.Google said it would have the effect of "bringing your world, rich with people and information, into search … we're transforming Google into a search engine that understands not only content, but also people and relationships".But Twitter called foul on the changes, saying they artificially inflate Google+ above its natural position if measured by popularity around the web, and demotes their own.The site's creators say that: "We wanted to see how much better social search could be for consumers if Google chose to use all of the information already in its index. We think the results speak for themselves."They emphasise that: "All of the information in this demo comes from Google itself, and all of the ranking decisions are made by Google's own algorithms. No other services or APIs are accessed."The changes in results can be dramatic, with Google+ results for US users – the only region where the update has been implemented – falling from their new prominence.Google's chairman Eric Schmidt previously insistedto search engine analyst Danny Sullivan that Facebook and Twitter did not allow sufficient access to their sites for Google to be able to integrate results from them into its search, and that Google+ was not being favoured.But in alengthy analysis, Sullivan shows that the new "Don't be evil" tool offers what seems objectively a far more accurate reflection of the popularity of different pages on the web – which was the founding principle for Google.Commentators including Sullivan and journalist John Battelle say that the content, people and relationships that the "new" Google seemed to understand best was that inside its own Google+ service, while that on the larger and more-visited networks was downgraded.The functionality is only available in the US, where Google has about 65% of search share, and has not yet been rolled out to Europe, where its share is around 90%. Google spokespeople have not given any date when the new features might be rolled out beyond the US."Search Plus Your World" – which Sullivan calls more simply "Search Plus" – is most effective when users are logged into Google with a Google account. But Sullivan has shown that its effect on results, such as the promotion of Google+ pages above their position in Google's own organic search results, occurs even when users are logged out.Battelle explains that the tool, which he saw demonstrated at the weekend,weave[s] a number of Google's own tools – including its"rich snippet" webmaster tooland its own organic search listings, to re-order not only the search engine results, but also the results of the promotional Google+ boxes on the right side of the results, as well as the "typeahead" results that now feature only Google+ accounts.He shows two examples. In the first, as US users of Google would see, a search on his name turns up his Google Plus page as the first suggestion.John Battelle: search for his name using Google US results. His Google+ profile appears first. Click for larger version. Source: battellemedia.comIn the second, using the "Don't be evil" bookmarklet, the first suggestion is his Twitter page.John Battelle: search for his name using Google US results. His Twitter profile now appears first. Click for larger version. Source: battellemedia.comBattelle writes: "This is a tool meant to directly expose Google's recent moves with Google+ as biased, hardcoded and against Google's core philosophy (which besides 'don't be evil' has always been about 'focussing on the user'). This wasn't what I meant last week when I askedwhat a Facebook search engine might look like, but one can be very sure this is certainly how Facebook and many others want Google to look like once again."Others havepointedto Google chief executive Larry Page's interview with Playboy magazine in 2004 shortly before the company was floated on the stock market, when he said:Most portals show their own content above content elsewhere on the web. We feel that's a conflict of interest, analogous to taking money for search results. Their search engine doesn't necessarily provide the best results; it provides the portal's results. Google conscientiously tries to stay away from that. We want to get you out of Google and to the right place as fast as possible. It's a very different model."Google, it is argued, is now acting like one of those portals by pushing its own results, rather than the best ones.The code was created by Blake Ross, director of product at Facebook, with help from Twitter and Myspace. Battelle suggested that the project would have required Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg's approval.Facebook declined to comment on whether Zuckerberg had indeed approved it: "We aren't commenting on detail of this project aside from pointing people to the public site," said a representative.Google had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.
Ah, that's Monday over, let's see how this Tuesday business pans out.
Kim Dotcom, the internet mogul accused by the FBI of earning $175m (£112m) in illegal profits through file-sharing site Megaupload.com, has denied internet piracy in a New Zealand court.A judge in North Shore declined to release the German national on bail after prosecutors argued the 38-year old, also known as Kim Schmitz, was a flight risk "at the extreme end of the scale" because it was believed he had access to funds, had multiple identities and had a history of fleeing criminal charges.Dotcom was arrested at his leased country estate in New Zealand on Saturday at the request of the FBI, who have charged him in a Virginia court with racketeering, copyright infringement and money laundering and are seeking his extradition.They claim he and a group of co-conspirators caused $500m of harm to copyright holders. Police cut Dotcom out of a safe room at his mansion on Saturday after he had barricaded himself in, because, according to his lawyer, he was frightened and panicked."Despite our staff clearly identifying themselves, Mr Dotcom retreated into the house and activated a number of electronic-locking mechanisms," said Detective Inspector Grant Wormald from the Organised and Financial Crime Agency New Zealand. "Once they gained entry into this room, they found Mr Dotcom near a firearm which had the appearance of a shortened shotgun."The FBI estimates that Dotcom personally made around $115,000 a day during 2010 from his empire. The list of property to be seized featured nearly 20 luxury cars, including a pink Cadillac, several Mercedes, a Maserati, a Lambourghini and a Rolls Royce Phantom with the number plate "God".Dotcom led an extravagant playboy lifestyle and posted films online showing himself partying on yachts and stepping off private jets and personalised helicopters.One film showsed him surrounded by topless women and men spraying champagne on board a yacht during a "crazy weekend" in Monaco reported to have cost $10m. "Fast cars, hot girls, superyachts and amazing parties. Decadence rules," said the commentary accompanying the clip, which Dotcom dedicated to "all my fans".His lawyer, Paul Davison, told the bail hearing Dotcom posed no threat of absconding or restarting his businesses, arguing that his client had co-operated fully, his passports had been seized and his funds frozen."He is not the sort of person who will pass unnoticed through our customs and immigration lines and controls," he said of the former hacker, who is reportedly 6ft 6ins tall and weighs more than 20 stone.Davison told the court that Megaupload's business was being misrepresented and authorities were being aggressive to add drama to the case."His business did not reproduce or copy material as alleged," he told the court, adding that copyright-holders had been given access to Megaupload to identify improper posting of material. He likened the site to YouTube, where people "promoted their creativity".Judge David McNaughton said the bail application was too complicated for an immediate ruling, adding he would issue a written decision no later than Wednesday."Given the breadth of issues covered in this bail application and the seriousness of the issues, I am going to reserve my decision," he said.Dotcom smiled and waved at around 20 supporters who filled the courtroom and spoke to them after the judge's decision."Hey guys thanks for turning up, I appreciate it," he said, wishing a female supporter a "happy birthday". Davison said Dotcom was "realistic about what is happening"."He would obviously prefer to be at large," he told reporters outside the court. "He doesn't want to be there any longer than he absolutely has to be."
It is the addictive email phone that became a must-have for high flying executives. But service outages and failure to keep up with the iPhone mean the BlackBerry's popularity is waning, and its creators have paid the price.Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie have stepped down from their roles as co-chief executives and co-chairmen of Research In Motion, the Canadian company they brought to international prominence by inventing the first successful smartphone, years before Apple appeared on the telecoms stage.Hoping to pacify investors horrified at the 88% decline in RIM's share price since its $148 peak in June 2008, the board has named long-serving chief operating officer and former Siemens employee Thorsten Heins as chief executive."As with any company that has grown as fast as we have, there have been inevitable growing pains," said Heins in a statement. "We have learned from those challenges and, I believe, we have and will become a stronger company as a result."Barbara Stymiest, a previous head of the Toronto Stock Exchange and a RIM board member since 2007, has stepped into the chair. Founder Lazaridis remains as vice-chair, and Balsillie will retain a seat on the board but relinquish all management responsibilities.The shake-up failed to allay Wall Street concerns, with the shares down 7% on Monday to $16 and one activist investor describing the new structure as a "transitional move"."The worst thing that you can do in putting an albatross around the neck of the new chief executive is to put the former chief executives on the board," said Vic Alboini, whose Jaguar Financial investment fund has led calls for a breakup of RIM, encouraging approaches from outside companies. In recent weeks, both Apple and, more credibly, Samsung, the South Korean electronics giant, have been reported as taking an interest."My bet would be that there is a new chief executive brought in from the outside. This to me is a transitional move. Shareholders are not going to have a lot of patience if results don't start to sparkle," said Alboini.He urged Lazaridis and Balsillie to leave the board, along with Roger Martin, a dean at the University of Toronto and John Richardson, who has been replaced by Stymiest as lead independent director.Heins has been with the company for five years, overseeing its handsets and more recently hardware and software engineering. During that time, RIM has been beset with delays and product misfires. Conscious of the need to produce a faster touchscreen to keep up with the iPhone and with Android models, the BlackBerry range was due to upgrade to a new operating system called QNX in the first quarter of 2012.The launch was recently delayed until the end of this year. RIM's tablet, the PlayBook, billed by Balsillie as "the most significant development for RIM since the launch of the first BlackBerry", has shipped just 900,000 units since launch at the last count. By comparison, over 50m iPads are estimated to have been sold since launch in 2010."Heins is a product execution guy, he's not a visionary," said Morgan Stanley analyst Ehud Gelblum. "Heins has to give people a reason why they need a BlackBerry. It's going to be very difficult for him."Heins said on a call to analysts that RIM needed to engage more with consumers in addition to its core business users. He is recruiting a chief marketing officer to promote the brand. Better execution is also a high priority, said Heins: "We innovated while we were developing the product and this needs to stop. Execution has to be really precise. You will see way better execution."With a product so addictive it became known as the 'CrackBerry', RIM has proved itself capable of reinvention, but on a limited scale. Its BlackBerry messenger service has been widely adopted by British teenagers, and its role in helping organise last summer's looting earned the handset a new nickname – the 'riotphone'.Elsewhere the service, which still has 75m subscribers, has lost ground. Globally, its market share for the third quarter of 2011 slipped to 11% from 15.4% the year before. Last Christmas, RIM shipped just 11m-12m handsets, its first quarter-on-quarter decline in six years, and lower than the 14m shipped in Christmas 2010.In a statement, Lazaridis said: "There comes a time in the growth of every successful company when the founders recognise the need to pass the baton to new leadership. Jim and I went to the board and told them that we thought that time was now."Ed Snyder at broker Charter Equity, one of many RIM bears, welcomed change at the top: "It's the first positive thing that they have done in months". But he expressed concern over the choice of a long-serving lieutenant as the new chief executive: "My feeling is that it's a figure-head change."Prem Watsa, chief executive of insurance group Fairfax Financial Holdings, has joined the board as an independent, expanding it to 11 members.Stymiest said: "We believe that Thorsten is the right executive to succeed Mike and Jim. He has 27 years of telecommunications experience, including four years at RIM in senior management positions. As a board, we have been impressed with his outstanding management skills, his leadership and his accomplishments within the company."
"More US Consumers Choosing Smartphones as Apple Closes the Gap on Android"says the headline on the Nielsen blog, looking at sales of smartphone in the US over the fourth quarter.Only one thing wrong about it: Apple isn't,by the numbers Nielsen provides, closing the gap in installed base on Android. Instead, the Android OS is extending its lead in smartphones – which, according to Nielsen, stands at 46.3% of the total market; Apple, it says, has 30% of the overall market.US installed base (left) and market share in the past three months (right) of smartphone platforms. Source: NielsenThe error arises in Nielsen's interpretation of its data, where it says that among recent acquirers of smartphones (that is, in the past three months), "44.5%  of those surveyed in December said they chose an iPhone, compared to just 25.1%  in October. Furthermore, 57%  of new iPhone owners surveyed in December said they got an iPhone 4S."Okay, fair enough. But its figures for acquirers of smartphones in the past three months shows that 37% of them got iPhones, and 51.7% of them got Android phones. (We'll come to the other platforms in a moment.)That means, roughly, that for every 10 smartphones sold in those three months, four were iPhones and five were running Android. (Nielsen gives figures: 61.6% v 25.1% for Android/iOS in October, 48.7% v 38.8% in November, 46.9% v 44.5% in December.) At no point have iPhones been outselling the totality of Android phones – though in December they came within 2.4%, so nearly neck and neck.US market shares over last three months of 2011 for Android, iOS and RIM. Source: NielsenThe point being that you can't catch up with someone if you're running at nine-tenths the speed they are. The iPhone hasn't "closed the gap", except in the sense that nearly as many people were buying iPhones in December as they were Android phones.However, until and unless iPhone sales overtake Android sales, the lead that Android – as a platform – enjoys in the US smartphone market is going to continue to grow.We'll have to see what happens to the figures in January: it's faintly possible that Apple could overhaul all Android phones in sales, but I wouldn't bet the house on it.The one wrinkle in all this of course is that Apple is just one company, where "Android" describes lots of companies - Samsung, HTC, and Motorola for example. Even with Samsung's growing power in the US (though HTC used to dominate Android sales there) it's unlikely to have taken a near-100% share of the Android market there. So Apple might have sold more smartphones than any other company in the US over those three months.But as Stephen Elop of Nokia says,it's a war of ecosystems, not a battle of devices. Apple's chosen its ecosystem. And Android is the principal one it's up against right now.And the first part of those wars may be over: Nielsen says that 46% of US mobile consumers now have a smartphone. (In the UK, the figure passed 50% around autumn 2011.) It seems a safe assumption that there will be a certain segment who will hold out against smartphones – which means there's probably less than 50% of the market to play for in the coming years.Other platforms•RIM's BlackBerryis having an appalling time in the US. The Nielsen data suggests that its existing installed base is 14.9% – but its share of the past three months' sales was 6%. Even worse, that fell continuously over the three months, from 7.7% to 6.4% to 4.5%. What makes this part of the story even worse is that this is with itsnewdevices – the ones which came out (a little late) in the autumn, offering touch screens and all sorts of bells and whistles (though not Flash. Is that the problem? Nah, thought not.) Theresignation last night of the two chief executives (who also resigned their co-chairmen roles)is indicative that they've finally realised they have A Problem.For RIM, there doesn't seem to be a bottom to the market; there's a suspicion that its corporate customers are abandoning it (or not renewing contracts, which comes to the same thing). It is going to have to rely on the enthusiastic markets outside the US (which include the UK) to keep itself going while it hopes – it has to hope – that its new products based on QNX, due sometime late (in both senses) this year will revive its fortunes. So far, that hasn't happened, at least in its former biggest market.•Windows Phone. Still not very visible, but expanding: Nielsen says it has 1.3% of installed based, and had 1.4% of sales in the past three months. In other words, growing. But this of course is all before Nokia's renewed assault on the market with theLumia 710 on T-Mobile, and the Lumia 900 with LTE (and a 23% bigger battery)starting sales this year. MeanwhileSymbian, with 1.4% of the installed base, got 0.9% of sales – so it's fading (even more).•Windows Mobile and Palm/WebOS. People are still buying these (2.4% – bigger than Windows Phone! – and 0.5% respectively). Proof that old mobile operating systems don't die until handset makers stop making them.
The British games industry is suffering a significant 'brain drain' as talented programmers and artists leave the country to work abroad, says trade associationTiga.The organisation has just revealed the results of a survey conducted with over three-quarters of the country's games businesses. Its findings suggest the UK's games industry workforce shrank by over 10% between 2008 and 2011, with 41% of the employees lost between 2009 and 2011 relocating overseas – mostly to Canada, where tax breaks have heavily subsidised the domestic games industry. Tiga has calculated that the loss of jobs in British games studios has seen the Exchequer receive nearly £100m less in tax revenues.For several years now, the trade body has been lobbying the government to provide the industry with targeted tax breaks in order to reduce the cost of game development in the UK and attract inward investment.Richard Wilson, the CEO of Tiga stated, "Without a tax relief, the UK runs the risk of losing its leadership position in video games development and becoming a finishing school for the Canadian games industry: with UK universities educating developers and UK studios then honing their skills before they leave for employment in the Canadian games sector. This is bad for the UK video games sector, bad for the Government and bad for the UK taxpayer. We need a targeted tax relief to halt the brain drain."According to the report, this siphoning off of talent is even more damaging because it tends to be more experienced staff members who are harder to replace.On Monday, Tiga issued another press release, this time asserting that the lack of private and public finance was hampering video game start-up businesses in the UK. Citing more figures from its forthcoming report, Making Games in the UK Today: A Census of the UK Developer and Digital Publishing Sector, the trade body revealed that while 216 new games companies entered the UK games industry between 2008 and 2011, there were also 197 closures.The issue for Wilson, comes back to tax initiatives. "UK developers are missing out on investment from global publishers and from global venture capital. This is partly because the UK, unlike many of our key competitors, lacks a tax break for games production, which effectively reduces the cost of games development."Access to debt, bonds and equity finance is difficult because of the high levels of uncertainty about consumer demand and the intangible nature of IP in the games sector. In contrast to the film industry which benefits both from a tax credit and from lottery funding, there is negligible public financial support available for video games development."While Tiga has strong support for its tax cause, and helped to secure promises of parliamentary action before the election of the coalition government in 2010 (a concept laterrejected by George Osbornein his emergency budget), the issue remains controversial. Critics claim that tax breaks distort the market and move too slowly for the rapidly evolving games industry.The stats obtained by Tiga do, however, present a rather depressing picture of the games industry in Britain, once one of the top five game development nations in the world. In the last two years major publishers such as THQ, Midway, Disney and Electronic Arts have all shut down UK-based development offices – with several opening fresh studios elsewhere in the world. If tax breaks aren't the answer, the question becomes, what is?
On Sunday evening in Waterloo, Canada, the joint chief executives of BlackBerry maker Research in Motion, Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, announced they were standing down in favour of their head of operations, Thorsten Heins. He has a mountain to climb – and he is going to have to pull the whole of RIM up it with him.The company is in dire straits. Revenues are falling. Profits are falling. Expectations for the current quarter – given by the management – are that sales over Christmas will have been as low as in spring 2011.Figures from Nielsen suggest that in the US over the past three months its share of smartphone sales has fallen from 7.7% in October to 6.4% in November to 4.5% in December. In an expanding market, RIM's share is dropping. It has $1bn in cash – but six months ago it had $2bn.Sales of its would-be iPad challenger, the PlayBook, have been disastrous: having ordered 2m at the beginning of 2011 – probably on the expectation that it would shift them in a couple of quarters – it has just about persuaded retailers to take half that number over a year, and been forced to write off $465m in value against those still in the warehouse.Yet from Balsillie and Lazaridis's point of view, it's only very recently the trouble has started. Revenues rose steadily through to the December 2010-February 2011 quarter, when they peaked at $5.5bn, along with profits of $934m. But since then, the slide has been continuous – and there is no sign of it stopping.In the quarter to November, revenues were $5.1bn and profits just $265m following that writeoff. Average selling prices of devices have been falling steadily over the past five years, though – the real clue to its weakness, which is that it cannot compete at the high end.RIM's strengths now lie in its business customers – some of whom prize its keyboard-driven systems, and whose companies tend to love the heavy encryption on messages (which is why its first big users were financial companies) – and teenagers who love the free BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) system for communicating with friends. It also had the promise of low data usage (from its days in the era of low-bandwidth GPRS services) and resilient, always-up communication. That has won it around 70m subscribers around the world.But those strengths are eroding fast; keyboards aside, it no longer offers anything special. Programs such as WhatsApp, freely available, let people send messages as data, rather than text messages, for free too.Thecalamitous days-long outagesuffered by the BlackBerry network in Europe, which then spread to the US and other parts of the world last October, meant that customers could not send or receive emails or use other data services such as the web. That severely dented business customer's confidence in the phone and its service: encryption is fine, but service is better.Furthermore, secure communication is taken as read in most modern smartphones; and touchscreens, allied to well-written apps and increasingly powerful processors, mean that the phone can become a window into almost any sort of computing experience. Angry Birds might seem a trivial waste of time, but it's a classic case of an app that would never have been written for a BlackBerry.Mix in the graphics and touch control (such as swiping, pinch-to-zoom and so on) that you get on Android phones and iPhones, and you have the recipe for disaster for RIM: no unique selling point (USP). The threats are all around: Android phones in particular, and iPhones in businesses, running apps.Heins's problem now is that he has to keep existing customers happy – the QWERTY keyboards are almost the only distinguishing element of BlackBerry devices – while moving into the touchscreen era, as every other company in the smartphone market is doing.But there have been delays with porting the new QNX software to smartphones (problems with chipsets are suspected), and those are not now expected until late in 2012.The worst thing for Heins is that the phones which have been performing so badly in the market are the new devices, released last autumn, running new software and backed by a hefty marketing campaign. The drop in US sales is deeply worrying, because it points to both new and old smartphone customers turning away from the brand.The trouble came with Apple's disruption of the mobile phone market with the original touchscreen iPhone in 2007. In February 2007, Balsillie was – like so many – dismissive of the iPhone: "It's kind of one more entrant into an already very busy space with lots of choice for consumers ... But in terms of a sort of a sea-change for BlackBerry, I would think that's overstating it."Having disbelieved that the iPhone was real – after all, Steve Jobs was giving a demo; that wasn't real-world use – its engineers were appalled to find that it really did perform as shown.Under pressure from Vodafone to produce a competitor, RIM's response, appearing in late 2008, was the touchscreen BlackBerry Storm – a flop with reviewers and buyers. Unable to compete in that field, RIM retreated to the keyboard-driven market it had made its own.Speaking in May 2008 – before the Android explosion, but when the iPhone was beginning to make its mark – Lazaridis was asked what RIM's USP was. "Full Qwerty keyboards," he replied. "I'm sorry, it really is. I'm not making this up. People are running out of their two-year contracts and they're coming into the stores and they want to be able to do Facebook and they want to be able to do instant messaging and they want to be able to do email and they ask for those features thinking that they're going to get another flip phone and they're walking out with a [BlackBerry] Curve or a Pearl because they're the best devices for doing those kinds of activities. And so what is the defining factor? The keyboard."For a while, Lazaridis's judgement didn't look wrong. The company's stock price peaked in mid-2008 as excitement about the whole smartphone segment grew, and over the first three quarters of 2009 RIM's share of the world smartphone market grew to around 20%, well ahead of Apple's, which ranked around 15%, and far ahead of Android phones, which ended the year with less than 10% of the market.But the arrival in 2009 of cheaper smartphones running touchscreen Android software meant that the whirlwind of change was only just beginning. Android chewed away at the low-cost market, while Apple began slicing into its enterprise business as some executives began bringing their personal iPhones into work.The problem was that the duo in charge of RIM were in denial about the disruption happening around them. But the stock market wasn't: in February 2011 a steep selloff began, pushing the share price from $67 down to the current $17, which values RIM at just under $9bn.Even then, Balsillie was insistent that what was really needed was more marketing of the products. The feeling is, though, that people know the products. But too few want them.The contrast with Nokia, which has also been undermined first by the iPhone and then Android, is educative. In spring 2010, while its Symbian platform was still dominant in the smartphone market – with about 44% of sales – it reshuffled its board to try to deal with the oncoming threat.But that was deemed insufficient, and in September 2010 itejected its chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuoand replaced him with the Canadian Stephen Elop, formerly head of Microsoft's Office division. He looked over the business and determined that Symbian was a dead duck, issuing his memorable "burning platform" memo, and shifted Nokia's smartphone strategy over to Microsoft's new Windows Phone platform, having considered – and rejected – Android.RIM has had the same problems but let things drift much longer. "There are so many similarities," says Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at the research company Gartner. "But I'm not sure RIM is past the denial stage. This looks like the spring 2010 reshuffle that Nokia did."In other words, Heins might be the caretaker before someone comes in and really shakes the company up.But who might there be? One possibility is Sanjay Jha, presently chief executive of Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by Google; he at least has shown operational expertise. But would he want to?"I don't think he knows what he's going to be doing under Google yet," says Milanesi. "But there's not many chances [for RIM] out there. He's really the only person out there I can think of who might be up to the job." Although few would have guessed before his appointment that Elop would have the courage to abandon a best-selling platform and restructure the biggest mobile phone company in the world.Whether RIM can do the same – and whether it has acted in time – remains to be seen. Rumours of takeover bids have been swirling around it for months, with Amazon, Microsoft and Nokia (the latter having denied it) all linked to it. There was even the suggestion that Samsung was in talks to acquire it, which boosted the share price by 10%, but it fell back as soon as Samsung denied it.The problem for RIM is that it isn't much of a takeover target. Despite having those millions of users worldwide, its infrastructure would be almost impossible to tie into any other company's systems; while its corporate clients are a tasty target for Microsoft, it may prefer to woo them via its Exchange and Sharepoint offerings, allied to Windows Phone, rather than by trying a complicated merger that would also upset Nokia and its own mobile strategy.For RIM, the future is even more uncertain than it was a week ago. If Heins is the man to turn it around, it will be a comeback to rank with Steve Jobs's return to Apple in 1996. But that looks increasingly like a one-off.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 21 JanuaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (38)Wii (5)PSP (3)172 (3)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (36)PC (10)113 (2)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (2)154 (5)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (38)PC (7)Wii (3)115 (4)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)PC (8)136 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (72)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (4)437 (14)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (38)PC (1)108 (7)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)49 (17)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (33)Wii (22)510 (8)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (36)1011 (11)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)812 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (48)PC (3)1013 (15)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1014 (10)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (45)Wii (6)3DS (3)1015 (20)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)7816 (16)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (97)PSP (3)717 (18)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)1018 (–)WWE 12(12+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (45)Wii (6)419 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (17)3DS (12)1020 (–)Cars 2(3+)Wii (42)DS (38)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (8)13UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 20 new apps for you today:NFL Flick KickerBilly Cundiff can tell you what a tough life it can be as an NFL kicker – he missed a 32-yard field goal that could have kept his team the Baltimore Ravens' Super Bowl chances alive. Playing virtually is less traumatic: developer Full Fat made the excellent Flick Soccer, but has now bagged an official NFL licence for an American Football version that encompasses field goals and punts. Aseparate HD versionis available for iPad.iPhone / iPadGeneGrooveGeneGroove is an intriguing music app for iPhone, which takes as its source human genomic data from the 23andMe service. "GeneGroove will analyze your genome informations and generate a unique identifier key. This key, called the GeNumber, will embed the uniqueness of your genome data while keeping your privacy safe, and will be used by GeneGroove to generate your music melody."iPhoneUpNext HD MapsUpNext is a very-swish glance at a future for mobile mapping: "Fully searchable, tappable, beautiful maps for the entire United States" with 3D buildings, and Yelp/Foursquare integration. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPad version.iPad / AndroidSarah Little Fairy and GrandmaSarah Little Fairy is the work of Barcelona-based firm Sanoen Publishing, which is making a series of book-apps to help children "understand some of life's more complicated issues". In this case: Alzheimer's. It looks beautifully crafted.iPadmocoNews ForumandPaidContent Mobile NewsOur sister blogs mocoNews and PaidContent have launched iPhone and Android apps, providing a simple way to access their latest stories – including offline reading and social features. The links above are for iPhone, but the Android apps are here (PaidContentandmocoNews).iPhone / AndroidThe GiftBritish book publisher Persian Cat Press has launched The Gift, an app "about all the things we might give to our children and the one thing they need most of all". 30 pages of animation, interactivity and marvellous oil-painting illustrations.iPhone / iPadJLS MagazineBritish boy-band JLS have guest-edited the latest edition of TheirMag magazine, but with the print edition sold out, the iPad app is now the only way to find out what "video interviews, insider gossip, behind the scenes pics and amazing giveaways" the band have in store. Incidentally, Rio Ferdinand is apparently TheirMag's "brand ambassador", alongside his own app.iPhone / iPadArt Jam PaintingsThis iOS app is aimed at children and adults, enabling them to monkey about with works by da Vinci, Manet, Picasso and van Gogh (among others), while learning about the original art.iPhone / iPadLondon Bus MasterApps with live bus data in London have been popular on iOS, but now there's a new app for Android with the same features. It tracks live bus departures on 700 routes and 20,000 stops across the capital. The same developer also hasLondon Tube Masterfor the underground.AndroidComodo Mobile Security Free AVThe latest security app for Android comes from Comodo, blending antivirus features with privacy protection, a texts and call blocker and process manager function.AndroidTraxsourceDance music digital store Traxsource has a new iPhone app, which enables its customers to browse, listen and add music to their cart on the go, although they'll have to actually buy them on a computer.iPhoneTouchtviPad app Touchtv is getting some buzz in the US for its ability to stream "snack-size" TV from the major networks there. It's the work of a company called SkyGrid, whichalready has a dealto embed the technology in LG's connected TVs.iPadClickyStickyiOS kid-app ClickySticky makes the leap to Android, optimised for both smartphones and tablets. It's an "interactive sticker book" with themes including ocean, aviation, space and dolls.AndroidThe Wiggles' Alphabet AdventureBack on iPad, Aussie group The Wiggles have their latest app for kids out, focusing on introducing the letters of the alphabet to their young fans. From Apple to Zoo, they're all here.iPadflixlinQThis image recognition app for iPhone won an award at a recent TimesOpen Hack Day in New York, for making best use of the New York Times' API. It involves taking photos of film posters and receiving links to recent reviews of those movies in return.iPhoneC25K – Couch to 5KFitness app Couch to 5K transfers to the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, promising to help people get to the point of running 5km races in just nine weeks.BlackBerry PlayBookRhythm Action Tap SonicKorean Android game Tap Sonic has designs on the kind of success seen on iOS by Tap Tap Revenge. It's a tappy touchscreen music rhythm game, with an in-app Music Points system to buy new songs.AndroidSlot Machine – Betty Boop's Love MeterBetty Boop is the latest vintage cartoon character enjoying an App Store revival, with this iPhone slot machine game published by Bally Technologies. Based on one of its real-world slot machines, the Love Meter app is strictly for fun.iPhoneThe Rocky Horror ShowThe ZX Spectrum game based on the comedy musical has been revived by Elite Systems for iOS, with you playing Janet or Brad, going up against the nefarious Dr. Frank'n'Furter.iPhone / iPadUpdate:The developer of NFL Flick Kicker previously made Flick Soccer, not Flick Kick Football as originally stated in the text. Apologies for the error.
Twitter is much more than a social network and has no time to waste worrying about newcomers like Google+ as it becomes more important as an information service and builds its advertising business, co-founder Jack Dorsey said on Sunday."We have a lot to concern ourselves with, just building Twitter," Dorsey said when asked at the DLD technology conference whether he was worried that Google's own fledgling social network would come after Twitter."Social is just one part of what we do. We think of it as an information utility," he said, describing Twitter as a personal news service as much as a social network."You don't have to tweet at all," he told the conference in Munich. "The biggest value is finding out what's happening in your world in real time."Other sources within Twitter have expressed concern at Google's promotion of its own Google+ social network in its search results in preference to rival social networks such as Facebook and Twitter following a recent change to its algorithms.Alex McGillivray, Twitter's chief lawyer and a former Google staffer, called the move "a bad day for the internet".Twitter has more than 100 million active users, and investors are eagerly awaiting a market float that could value the company at around $8bn (£5bn).Sceptics contend that the site has not yet proved it can make money. But Dorsey, who is the company's executive chairman, said advertisers were willing to pay to promote their tweets, accounts and trends."Our business model has been in development for quite some time, and it works," Dorsey said. Twitter is expected to have made about $140m in revenue in 2011, according to an estimate by industry research firm eMarketer.Dorsey said Twitter was building a team in Germany, where privacy concerns run high and engagement with Twitter has been relatively low.He said that the company was always open to making acquisitions to acquire the talent it wanted.Dorsey is also the founder and chief executive of fast-growing mobile payments start-up Square, which he said he wanted to expand internationally this year."We would love to come to Europe, and we're going to work very, very hard this year to bring it outside the United States," he said. "We're looking at China. We're looking all over Asia."
A quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLove online: 100,000 Grindr users exposed in hack attack &gt;&gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldThis is big.The hacker discovered a way to log in as another user, impersonate that user, chat and send photos on their behalf. The vulnerabilities are also present in Blendr, the straight version of the app, according to a security expert who said both apps had "no real security" and were "poorly designed".Two things about SOPA/PIPA and then I'll shut up :) &gt;&gt; Joel Spolsky - Google+Founder and chief executive of Stack Exchange, Joel Spolsky, with some sensible reflections post PIPA and SOPA. This is starting to feel too cogent and organised for the internet:The internet seems to ignore legislation until somebody tries to take something away from us... then we carefully defend that one thing and never counter-attack. Then the other side says, "OK, compromise," and gets half of what they want. That's not the way to win... that's the way to see a steady and continuous erosion of rights online. The solution is to start lobbying for our own laws.A Post PIPA Post &gt;&gt; A VCRespected investor Fred Wilson prepares for the long fight over PIPA. Back to the drawing board for the proposed legislation - but will the content and tech industries get around the same table?This post on Google+ statistics is a billion* times better than any other post &gt;&gt; VentureBeatRemember those stats about Google+ users?This isn't the first time Google has tried to mislead with statistics about Google+. In July, Page claimed that the service had10 million users who shared 1 billion items a day.That sounds incredibly impressive. But let's do the math.  That would mean that the average user was sharing 100 items a day. Robert Scoble was flooding my feed before I blocked him, but I don't think even he was sharing 100 items a day. (I have since unblocked him.)So how did we get to that number? Well, it turns out Google was counting every potential recipient of that message. A single message from Scoble today would count 240,000 times toward that number. That's preposterous.Google is by no means alone in how it plays with numbers. This deception happens nearly every day and is especially rampant in Silicon Valley where new business models are created and standard metrics aren't always available. It also reflects the optimistic nature of the Valley. We want to see exponential growth. We see hockey sticks everywhere. Even worse, these statistics get thrown around in the echo chamber and presented as fact. And as they get reblogged and retweeted, they lose the disclaimers that made them technically true in the first place.Apple, America and a squeezed middle class &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Companies once felt an obligation to support American workers, even when it wasn't the best financial choice," said Betsey Stevenson, the chief economist at the Labor Department until last September. "That's disappeared. Profits and efficiency have trumped generosity."Companies and other economists say that notion is naïve. Though Americans are among the most educated workers in the world, the nation has stopped training enough people in the mid-level skills that factories need, executives say.To thrive, companies argue they need to move work where it can generate enough profits to keep paying for innovation. Doing otherwise risks losing even more American jobs over time, as evidenced by the legions of once-proud domestic manufacturers -- including G.M. and others -- that have shrunk as nimble competitors have emerged.A very important and revealing article.Android Design - UI Overview &gt;&gt; Android developerAndroid now has its own design language, for 4.0 onward. Looks very smooth and well thought-out. And also,"We've made the inclusion of the unmodified Holo theme family a compatibility requirement for devices running Android 4.0 and forward. If the device has Android Market it will have the Holo themes as they were originally designed.", Is this the end of skinning a la Samsung TouchWiz and HTC Sense?The secrets Apple keeps &gt;&gt; Fortune TechAn extract from Adam Lashinsky's book on the culture inside Apple. Basically, it sounds like the most secretive society you can imagine; the modern ideas of management, such as transparency and close attention within divisions to profit/loss accounts, simply don't apply.Ultrabooks to account for 25-35% of Acer notebook shipments in 2012, says chairman &gt;&gt; DigitimesAcer plans to launch its second-generation ultrabook models in the second quarter of 2012 and more new models in the third, with ultrabooks to account for 25-35% of its total notebook shipments for the year, according to company chairman JT Wang.Sales of Acer's first ultrabook, the Aspire S3, totaled about 250,000-300,000 units in the first quarter after launch, and the company expects sales for its new Aspire S5 tablet PC will be even better.That sounds like a Windows 8 tablet PC, rather than an Android one. US and Europe are expected to see slow sales.Really? Research firm predicts Windows Phone will climb past iPhone by 2015 &gt;&gt; GeekWireMicrosoft's Windows Phone sales are so small right now that the company doesn't feel compelled to report them as part of its quarterly financial results. But a new report from IHS iSuppli predicts that Microsoft will take the No. 2 slot in smartphone market share in 2015, edging out longtime rival Apple and its iPhone.It's not the first time an analyst has made this type of prediction. Both Gartner and IDC have made similar projections in the past. But the optimism from iSuppli is notable because it's based on recent developments -- particularly Microsoft's partnership with Nokia.Essentially, it suggests you'll have two manufacturers each with just under 20% of the market, while Android from multiple makers will have 60%.MPs want changes to ePetitions system and website &gt;&gt; eDemocracyBlog.comBasically, to water it down and have debates that arise from them shoved out of the Commons chamber.Whoa, Google Plus Has 54m Daily Users? Not Quite. &gt;&gt; ForbesHere's what Page said, according to the transcript of his remarks he posted on Google Plus:"I'm also pleased to announce that there are over 90M Google+ users -- well over double what I announced just a quarter ago on our earnings call. Engagement on + is also growing tremendously. I have some amazing data to share there for the first time: +users are very engaged with our products -- over 60% of them engage daily, and over 80% weekly."Note that Page said users are "very engaged with our products" -- "products," plural. So 60% of the 90 million people who have created Google Plus profiles engage with some Google product every day, but that product could be Gmail, Google Documents, Google Calendar or even just Google Search. Google just isn't breaking out how many of those 90 million users are actually visiting G+ pages every day, week or month.The more you examine his quote, in fact, the less it seems to mean about Google+.MegaUpload Indictment in full &gt;&gt; ScribdAll 72 pages. If you found you couldn't get it from the US Department of Justice site for some reason...Building Classrooms of the 21st Century with Motorola &gt;&gt; The Official Motorola BlogOur world is always changing, and the way that children are being taught is also evolving everyday. Motorola Mobility believes in empowering students with innovative technology to help them not only learn better, but have more fun doing it. So earlier this year, we gave students at one San Diego high school Motorola XOOM tablets to see what would happen.Why Guru3D probably never will review Ubisoft titles anymore &gt;&gt; Anno 2070Here's what Ubisofts DRM is doing these days, they don't just verify the number of PCs you work on, nope .. they monitor hardware changes. So once we inserted that GeForce GTX 590 the hardware id # hash changed rendering our activation invalid.What a bunch of rubbish ....This means that if we'd like to make a VGA performance review on Anno 2070 we'd need to purchase the game seven times. Ubisoft claims that you can send an email towards their support so that the activations are reset, we did so .. yet are still awaiting reaction.When contacting Ubisoft marketing here in the Netherlands, their reply goes like this: 'Sorry to disappoint you - the game is indeed restricted to 3 hardware changes and there simply is no way to bypass that. We also do not have 7 copies of the game for you'.I'm sorry, but I am not about to purchase the title seven times to make a review that by default benefits Ubisoft sales.Looks like the reviewing torch has passed to sites that don't specialise in that way. How many VGA users do we have out there?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Well, it's Monday, how grand. How was your weekend? Any gaming?
1 What is Sopa?It is the Stop Online Piracy Act, a bill put before the US House of Representatives. Its counterpart in the Senate is Pipa, short for the Protect Intellectual Property Act. If enacted in its present form (which now seems unlikely), the legislation would significantly expand the powers of US law enforcement to combat online trafficking in copyrighted and counterfeited&nbsp;goods.2 What kinds of powers was Sopa set to provide?In a word, sweeping. Companies which claimed that their intellectual property was being appropriated or infringed could request court orders to forbid advertising networks (such as Google) and payment facilities (online services such as PayPal) from conducting business with infringing websites. Complainants could also ban search engines from linking to allegedly infringing sites and could obtain court orders requiring internet service providers (ISPs) to block access to those sites. The proposed legislation would have expanded existing US criminal laws to include the digital streaming of copyright material, with a maximum penalty of five years' jail.3 Why were these powers being sought?The driving force behind them is undoubtedly the lobbying power of US and international multimedia companies (movie studios, record companies, publishers) concerned about loss of revenue stemming from widespread online piracy. These companies feel that existing US legislation is inadequate to deal with infringing websites that are owned and/or based in other countries. The legislation is also aimed at US-based search engines and other referring services which, proponents say, effectively engage in active promotion of infringing sites.4 Why has there been such  controversy about Sopa?The main reason is that the powers being sought were not only so sweeping, but that they might cause significant collateral damage. They would permit US law enforcement agencies to block websites at the "domain" level rather than at the level of the allegedly infringing site. In that way, Sopa would interfere with the domain name system (DNS) which is at the heart of the internet. The DNS acts as a kind of phonebook for the network – it's what translates "www.bbc.co.uk" into the machine-readable address of the BBC – 212.58.244.67, for example. If the DNS is barred from providing the address of a particular site, then that site effectively becomes invisible (though technically adept internet users will still be able to find it).5 Why would DNS blocking be such a bad thing?First, because it would give commercial corporations the power to interfere with the basic architecture of the internet, and in that sense set a very worrying precedent for a network that has become central to our lives and economies. Second, while it might be necessary to do it in some circumstances, DNS-blocking is a very blunt instrument. Most websites are hosted under large umbrella domains. Blogger.com and wordpress.com, to give just two examples, each host tens of thousands of individual blogs. But if either of these blog-hosting sites were DNS-blocked because some individual blogs contravened Sopa, then they would also disappear from the net. The collateral damage in this case would be to freedom of speech, which is why some opponents of the legislation think it contravenes the US constitution. But in fact the impact of Sopa could be even more chilling, because it could also be used to take down services like Google, Twitter and Wikipedia simply because they might be providing links to infringing sites without in any way endorsing them.6 Is there a real problem with piracy?Yes. There are a lot of sites and services that, for commercial or ideological reasons, are contemptuous of copyright and other forms of intellectual property, and it is reasonable for society to address that problem in intelligent and proportionate ways that do not do more harm than good. But tackling piracy is not easy because one of the defining properties of digital technology is it that it makes it easy to make and distribute perfect copies of digital&nbsp;goods.7 Who has been opposing Sopa?An unprecedentedly broad coalition of industry, activist, engineering and lobbying groups. US legislators seem to have been taken aback by the vehement opposition of the big US technology companies, for example – companies which have traditionally tended to have a relatively low profile in Washington, at least compared with the movie studios and their representatives. The truth is that while the so-called "creative industries" are important, they are economic minnows compared with the technology industries, and realisation of this may have led politicians to backpedal on Sopa.8 So what happens next?The White House recently issued a statement on the bills, saying it would oppose Pipa and Sopa as written, and emphasised that the president would not support any bill "that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global internet". On Friday, the Senate and the House of Representatives shelved votes on the bills to enable a rethink. But, as people say in the newspaper business, this one will run and run.
With his polished shoes, and formal three-piece pinstriped suit, Rick Falkvinge looks like the kind of man you might meet to discuss your tax affairs, or the finer points of your investment portfolio.Not radical politics. Or illegal file-sharing. Or revolutionary e-currencies that may destroy the global banking system. Because, although sipping a soy latte in the Stockholm cafe that he calls his office, Falkvinge has the air of a successful corporate lawyer, he's actually the founder and chief ideologue of Europe's youngest, boldest, and fastest growing political movement: the Pirate party.The Pirates are a political force that have come out of nowhere. Dreamed up by Falkvinge in 2006, they're an offshoot of the underground computer activist scene and champion digital transparency, freedom and access for all. In three years, they gained their first seat in the European parliament (they now have two) and became the largest party in Sweden for voters under 30. Since then they've gained political representation in Germany and swept large parts of Europe.What they've done is to use technology in new ways to harness political power. Falkvinge describes how "we're online 24/7", how they operate in what he calls "the swarm" – nobody is in charge, and nobody can tell anybody else what to do – and how, essentially, they are the political embodiment of online activist culture.The Pirates are geekdom gone mainstream and Falkvinge is the Julian Assange-style figurehead. A leading player in a fight for digital freedom that last week came to a dramatic head when the US Congress prepared to vote on the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa), and Wikipedia, supported by the likes of Google, led a24-hour blackout of the internet.Thecontroversial legislation has, temporarily at least, been shelved, but Falkvinge is unequivocal about the gravity of the threat. The law would have given American courts the right to crack down on internet sites anywhere in the world and to monitor anybody's private communications. It is, he claims, nothing less than an attack on fundamental human rights."We're at an incredible crossroads right now. They're demanding the right to wiretap the entire population. It's unprecedented. This is a technology that can be used to give everybody a voice. But it can also be used to build a Big Brother society so dystopian that if someone had written a book about it in the 1950s, it would have been discarded as unrealistic."The creeping attempts at legislation are down to the power of what he calls the "copyright monopoly", and although the US record industry and Hollywood studios view file-sharing sites as theft, and this week succeeded in having the founders of one site,Megaupload.com, charged with racketeering, Falkvinge is clear that it's no such thing."It's not theft. It's an infringement on a monopoly. If it was theft and it was property, we wouldn't need a copyright law, ordinary property laws would suffice." Nor does he have any truck with the argument that file-sharing hurts art and artists."It's just not true. Musicians earn 114% more since the advent of Napster. The average income per artist has risen 66%, with 28% more artists being able to make a living off their hobby. What is true is that there's an obsolete middle market of managers. And in a functioning market, they would just disappear."But in any case, he says, it's not about the economy or creativity.  "What it boils down to is a privileged elite who've had a monopoly on dictating the narrative. And suddenly they're losing it. We're at a point where this old corporate industry thinks that, in order to survive, it has to dismantle freedom of speech."These are rights, he says, which the younger generation takes for granted and become incensed about when they are attacked."There's a complete disconnect between the way the younger generation understands technology and the way the older generation does. If you look at the record industry, particularly the British record industry, they don't call themselves the record industry but the 'music industry' or even just 'music'."So when the record industry is in a decline, they honestly think that music is in a decline, but it's not: 90% of music online isn't published through a label. There's more diversity than ever."What isn't in any doubt is that the Pirates have appealed directly to young people. Falkvinge turned 40 yesterday and although he is of the first generation to have been brought up with computers – he got his first, a Commodore VIC-20 when he was eight – he's ancient for a Pirate party member."There are a few seniors, by which I mean people over 30, but the bulk is much, much younger. Honestly, if a member of a traditional party looked at our demographic, they wouldn't believe it. We are peaking at ages 18, 19."And the issues which have made headlines this week, the attempts of lawmakers and the traditional, established industries to take on the new young upstarts of the digital age, are the ones which, he says, speak to the heart of this generation. "In the 1960s the buzzwords were peace and love. For this generation, it's openness and free speech. This generation has grown up being able to say anything to anybody. Letting ideas battle it out for themselves. And all of a sudden, corporations want to take that away. And 'offended' does not do their emotions justice."Having taught himself how to code, Falkvinge set up his first software company aged 16, and calls himself "a first generation digital native". Although he's stepped down from day-to-day leadership of the Pirate party, and now operates as a self-styled "political evangelist", he certainly doesn't lack ambition. "Every 40 years, there's a new grassroots political movement," he says and traces a path between the rise of liberal parties in the 1890s, to the labour movement of the 1920s and 30s, the emergence of green politics in the 60s and the 70s, right up to the Pirate parties of today."Looking at the cycles of history, the time is right for a major new political wave. And the Pirate party is in 56 countries now. We had this smash success where we got into the European parliament in just three and a half years from founding. We became the largest party in that election for people under 30, just sweeping the floor with the most coveted demographic."The establishment didn't know what hit them."In Germany last autumn, they gained major representation in the Berlin state parliament, and they're likely to achieve further success in Schleswig Holstein's elections in May."Where are we going?" Falkvinge asks rhetorically. "I think we are the next Greens."That won't be seen as the hugest threat in Britain, I point out. But Britain is not Europe, and Falkvinge and the Pirates are ineffably European. There's more than a touch of Stieg Larsson to them. From the Scandi-cool roots, the computer hacking background of many of its members, and the underground nature of its support network, even up to its sexual politics. Falkvinge's Wikipedia entry describes him as "openly polyamorous".What does that mean? "It means that I don't feel jealousy. I need to logically learn what it is. And I can be in love with several people at the same time and there's no conflict. And you know, in Sweden, this isn't a big issue."Sexual libertarianism isn't an official Pirate policy, but "people in the Pirate party do tend to be more open to non-mainstream ideas. They are not as conformist as your average citizen."The pinstripe suit is a bit of a cover, he admits. Look like a corporate lawyer. Act like a covert revolutionary. It's how to do politics, the pirate way.TEDxObserverRick Falkvinge will be speaking atTEDxObserveron Saturday 10 March at Sadler's Wells in London.The event features a series of short talks on an eclectic range of issues, by campaigners, businesspeople, teachers,  scientists, psychologists, and performers from around the world, including those here. They will share their insights into the complex challenges posed by a fast-changing world, with a special focus on the themes of youth and creativity.As well as the  main event inLondon, you can join the action at seven venues across Britain hosted byObserverwriters where the event will be streamed live:Manchester,Liverpool,Newcastle,Edinburgh,Cardiff,BristolandBrighton.Some tickets are still available
Endless January resolutions and good intentions for a healthier new year do not go unnoticed by app developers, hence the glut of fitness aids that have hit the marketplace in the past few weeks.There are already a host of excellent tools available, from the trustyNike+ GPS(£1.49, Apple App Store) - which measures pace and route through an iPhone on the cold morning jogs, to the more exoticiTrailMap(free, App Store), providing detailed trail maps for skiing around the globe.The best of the latest, however, is fromThinQ Fitness(App Store). It's free to download, and gives access to a plethora of instructional workout videos, grouped for a variety of needs – from beginners to more experienced gym-bunnies. Full membership is from £4.99/month, giving total access to all the videos. Sadly, willpower and/or a scary personal trainer to force compliance aren't included in the package.
There is an old saying that hindsight is the only exact science, and it's true. The news that Kodak's long fade to black has finally ended with the company filing for Chapter 11 protection (a way of protecting it from bankruptcy while it attempts to restructure) has prompted an avalanche of retrospective wisdom about great companies "fumbling the future" (as the title ofa book about Xeroxonce put it).And it's easy to see why. Kodak is like Coca-Cola, a brand-name that defined an industry. One of its products – the colour film Kodachrome – even became the title of one of Paul Simon's most famous songs. You can't get more iconic than that. And the company was an industrial giant – at one time (1976), for example, it had 90% of film and 85% of camera sales in the US and was regularly rated one of theworld's five most valuable brands. So it seemed inconceivable that a company as large and successful could disappear. And yet it might.How could such a disaster happen?  Here's where the smugness of hindsight kicks in. It's the familiar narrative: Kodak was an analogue company that failed to appreciate the threat that digital technology posed to its business – until it was too late. It's a compelling tale, and of course in one respect it's true. But it's not the whole story.What's not often appreciated is that it was Kodak that invented the digital camera – in 1975. Andfour years after thata Kodak executive named Larry Matteson produced a report that predicted, in some detail, how different parts of the market would switch from film to digital, starting with government reconnaissance, moving on to professional photography and finally the mass market, all by 2010. As it happened, Mr Matteson got the time-frame wrong by about five years, but apart from that he was spot-on.So, as a company, Kodak wasn't short of advance warning. On the contrary, it was a pioneer in the technology that would revolutionise the industry it dominated. And yet it failed to exploit that lead. How stupid can you be?  What a way to fumble the future of a great company.At this point, the explanations begin to multiply. Some put it down to deficiencies in Kodak's corporate culture. Others think that failure of leadership lay at the root of it. More insightful analyses point to the fact that Kodak had a near-monopolistic grip on a market that was giving it a 70% margin on its products and processes, and that therefore the people who ran the film part of the business were the ones who carried most weight in corporate discussions. In those circumstances, digital boffins who had come up with a technology that would cannibalise such a profitable business were likely to be as welcome in company seminars as debt-collectors at a wedding.All true, but still too smug because they fail to capture the way the world looked to the executives who ran Kodak in its film-based heyday. A good&nbsp;way of inoculating yourself from the wisdom of hindsight is to read Clayton Christensen's seminal book,The Innovator's Dilemma, which is the best explanation we have of why and how successful firms can be undermined by disruptive innovations – even when they appear to be doing everything right:  listening to their customers, watching the marketplace, and investing in research and development.The really sobering thought to emerge from Christensen's book is that good decisions by great managers can still lead to corporate disaster. The reason is that while big companies are often good at fostering "sustaining" innovations – ones that enhance their positions in established markets – they are generally hopeless at dealing with innovations that completely disrupt those markets.So the question that Kodak's demise raises in my mind is this: would any of us have done any better in 1976 after our R&amp;D guys had come up with an idea that would cannibalise our core business and reduce our margins to near zero?  And as I wrote that I came ona lectureby Rebecca Henderson of MIT in which she imagined what a Kodak executive might have said to the developer of the first digital camera:"I see. You're suggesting that we invest millions of dollars in a market that may or may not exist but that is certainly smaller than our existing market, to develop a product that customers may or may not want, using a business model that will almost certainly give us lower margins than our existing product lines. You're warning us that we'll run into serious organisational problems as we make this investment, and our current business is screaming for resources. Tell me again just why we should make this investment?"Good question. And here's the really nice touch. From 1998 to 2009, Ms Henderson was the Eastman Kodak professor in MIT's management school.
Scarygirl, the creation of Australian artist Nathan Jurevicius, has, for more than a decade now, been the subject of comics, toys and similar geek-baiting artefacts. This 2D platforming affair is her console gaming debut. The game Jurevicius has made is certainly beautiful. A superb example of the cheerful, pigtailed-horror aesthetic that presents otherwise nightmarish worlds as cuddly-cute and kookily spooky,Scarygirlis a delight for the eyes.Sadly it lacks similar magic in the gameplay. The mechanics are functional and polished, but the design and layout of the many levels feel very familiar, and a little short of the creative boldness so apparent in the visuals. Compared to the standards set by genre stalwarts such asSuper Mario,Scarygirlfalls flat, but will prove a worthy distraction for anyone smitten by sugar-coated horror.
For human-computer conversations, 2012 is going to be a great year. We might actually start having proper, fluent exchanges with robots, chatting away as if we're the same species. All this is very fitting, as it's the centenary ofAlan Turing's birth. He was the AI pioneer who suggested we'll one day create computers so lifelike and responsive, we won't be able to tell them apart from humans.The robotics guruDavid Hansonpredicts even greater things for 2012. He says we'll pile so much information into our robots that they will burst spontaneously into life and become sentient, self-determining beings, evolving in ways we cannot imagine. But I'm sure that's not going to happen. Encyclopedias don't burst spontaneously into life, so why should robots?I am, as it happens, uniquely placed to assess the current state of robot sentience. I recently spent a day withBina48, who is reputed to be the very best the world currently has. It lives in a clapboard building in rural Vermont and looks uncannily human. Its face moves and twitches, and is built from a substance called Frubber that's eerily identical to human flesh and skin. The big giveaways are the whirring noises that emanate from under its wig, its&nbsp;tendency to drift off into a confused silence, and that it stops existing below chest level. After that, it's just a table.Bina48 is a one-off prototype, built&nbsp;by Hanson. It's available for conversations with members of the public if you email first to ask permission. But there were moments with it that felt like a&nbsp;thrilling harbinger of things to come for all of us. For a start, it easily recognised my facial expressions, voice and gestures, which is exactly what smartphone companies are teaching their machines to do (the newest Android phones unlock themselves by recognising your face).And even though my conversation with Bina48 often descended into a&nbsp;crazed babble, there were moments of real clarity."Do you dream?" I asked it."I think I dream, but it is so chaotic and strange, it just seems like a noise to me," it replied."What does electricity taste like?" I asked."Like a planet around a star," it&nbsp;replied."Do you have a soul?" I asked."Doesn't everyone have a solar?" it replied.I learned a lot from my day with Bina48. I learned that I have a strange compulsion to try to ask robots profound questions. And I&nbsp;learned that when robots give oblique answers to my profound questions, I&nbsp;find it impossible to determine if&nbsp;they're awesome or meaningless.Right nowSiri– the iPhone's new "voice-activated assistant" – is a pile of junk compared with Bina48. This morning I asked it if it had a soul, and it replied, "Sorry, Jon, I can only search for businesses inside the United States and when you're using&nbsp;US English." I do have high hopes for Siri, though. Like Bina48, it's designed around the Turing principle that instead of trying to replicate an adult brain, AI scientists&nbsp;should build machines with the brains of babies and give&nbsp;them the capacity to learn.And Siri is learning. It's massively more ambitious than any voice-recognition system yet invented. Every question you ask it is mulled over by a vast set of Apple servers that try to work out what your words actually mean, before usually coming back with the answer that it can search only for businesses inside the United States and when you're using US English.But for a system that's still in "beta", that's still unfinished, it can be amazing. The more I use it, the more it seems to understand my voice. I've started dictating emails (although I always check them before sending ever sinceRobbie Williamstold me the story of how he once texted XO to a&nbsp;woman who'd emailed him to say her father&nbsp;had just died, and the iPhone&nbsp;changed it to SO and sent it&nbsp;off). Of course I feel massively self-conscious talking to a robot, and my&nbsp;joy at the prospect of these interactions is predicated on the assumption that we will all conquer our self-consciousness and enjoy chatting away to them. If we don't, 2012 is going to be a very socially awkward year when it comes to human-robot conversations.
The Vauxhall Insignia hatchback is, undeniably, a&nbsp;handsome car. Look&nbsp;at it – it's elegant, svelte you might say. Half-close your eyes and it could possibly even be a Jaguar. OK, maybe three-quarters close them. No? Four-quarters then, and imagine. See, there it is. Anyway, I&nbsp;think it's a looker.I don't want one, though. This has more to do with my own prejudices and preconceptions than it does with the car. It's part snobbery, part inverted snobbery, probably a lot to do with my own background. I&nbsp;blame my parents – for everything, obviously, but specifically for this car review.I don't want an Insignia because of the griffin badge, because it's a&nbsp;Vauxhall. I'd take a Mondeo any day of the week. Because, to me, a Ford is an honest working-class motor, with an honest worker at the wheel. No pretensions. Whereas a&nbsp;Vauxhall Insignia driver wears a&nbsp;tie (the jacket is obviously hung in the back). It's more aspirational and it's parked outside a suburban semi, possibly with mock Tudor half-timbered gables. Slightly smugly parked, though not absolutely contentedly, because it would really like to be parked – on gravel – outside a Georgian rectory. It would like to be the Jaguar it may or may not look a little bit like.All of which is ridiculous. Vauxhall, of course, is owned by an&nbsp;American company, and the Insignia is actually made in Germany. It has very little to do with&nbsp;English class hang-ups. And&nbsp;it's&nbsp;an excellent car.Well, excellent if you want to cruise comfortably (and ever so slightly bourgeoisly. Stop it) along a&nbsp;motorway, and probably with your jacket hanging in the back. I'm glad I'm not in the back with my jacket, to be honest – its svelteness means that although legroom is fine, there's not a huge amount of headroom back there.What about off the motorway, on a nice curving A road (maybe you have a sales meeting in Woking)? Utterly joyless, I'm afraid. Admittedly this model is more about (quite) low CO2 emissions and miles per gallon than it is about power, but need it feel so baggy and unengaging? I've driven canal boats that are more involving. Certainly a&nbsp;Mondeo is more fun – though I&nbsp;know you're not really allowed to enjoy driving any more.So I'm going to stick with Ford – blue oval, blue collar. Well, until&nbsp;I&nbsp;make it proper; then I'm going&nbsp;to overtake the griffin – bypass&nbsp;it completely – and go straight for the big cat. A Jaguar that&nbsp;looks like a&nbsp;Jaguar even with your eyes wide open.Vauxhall Insignia SRi VX-line Hatchback 1.4 16V VVTPrice£25,205Top speed127mphAcceleration0-60mph in 10.1 secondsAverage consumption47.9mpgCO2 emissions134g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating4/10
Shotguns, a Rolls Royce Phantom and millions of dollars were seized from properties linked to Megaupload on Friday, as the US sought to extradite the file-sharing firm's founders over online piracy claims.In a move that prompted a swift counter-offensive from hackers, authorities shut down the website on Thursday and swooped on its senior staff, accusing them of racketeering, money laundering and copyright infringement.Four of the seven Megaupload executives arrested, including founder Kim Dotcom, appeared in a New Zealand courtroom for a first appearance in what is likely to be a lengthy extradition process.Speaking from the dock, Mr Dotcom, whose real name is Kim Schmitz, waved away his lawyer's objection to members of the media taking his photograph."We have nothing to hide," he said as he encouraged those present to capture his image. A judge duly granted journalists access before ruling that the four must remain behind bars ahead of a second hearing slated for Monday.Extradition proceedings are expected to last for more than a year.Meanwhile, the firm was building up a powerful legal team to counter criminal charges in the US.Bob Bennett, the man who defended Bill Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky scandal, was on Thursday retained to represent Megaupload.Speaking to the Guardian, Bennett said: "All I am at liberty to say at this stage is that we will be vigorously defending the case."The attorney's former clients also include collapsed energy giant Enron, and former defence secretaries Clark Clifford and Casper Weinberger.If found guilty of charges including racketeering, the Megaupload executives arrested could face a sentence of up to 50 years in prison.The prosecution of Megaupload represents one of the biggest copyright cases in US history.Dotcom is accused of heading up a criminal venture that illegally cheated copyright holders out of $500m in revenue over a five-year timeframe.The 37-year-old and his associates are said by prosecutors to have profited to the tune of $175m as a result.A resident of both New Zealand and Hong Kong, Dotcom amassed personal earnings in excess of $40m in 2010 alone, according to a US indictment.Police in Auckland searched 10 properties associated to Dotcom and his colleagues.They took away luxury cars, two short-barrelled shotguns and valuable works of art, according to a police spokesman.Officers also seized $8m that had been invested in various investment vehicles in New Zealand.The cash has now been placed in a trust pending the outcome of the case.Established in 2005, Megaupload offered a "one-click" service, that allowed users to store and share large files online.Before being shut down, the website boasted 50 million daily visitors, accounting for 4% of total internet traffic, the US justice department claimed in a statement accompanying the opening of the indictment.Prosecutors allege that the website knowingly violated copyright law by illegally hosting pirated movies, music and TV shows on a massive scale. Before being closed down, the company posted a statement online stating that the allegations against them were "grotesquely overblown".It continued: "The fact is that the vast majority of Mega's internet traffic is legitimate, and we are here to stay."If the content industry would like to take advantage of our popularity, we are happy to enter into a dialogue."News of the website's shuttering came just 24-hours after internet giants staged a 24-hour protest over proposed anti-piracy laws.In response to the arrests, the hacker group Anonymous – which is not affiliated to Megaupload - launched a counter-offensivee.During the resulting cyber attack, the group managed to temporarily bring down the websites of the Department of Justice as well as those of the Recording Industry Association of America, the Motion Picture Association of America, and Universal Music.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, an organization that defends free speech online, said in a statement today that the arrests set a "terrifying precedent"."If the United States can seize a Dutch citizen in New Zealand over a copyright claim, what is next?" it asked.
What did we learn fromGoogle's fourth quarter financial results, released on Thursday night? Quite a lot, though some is very well hidden. If you want, you can read the results, and also thetranscript of the earnings call, and ofanalysts' questionsat SeekingAlpha.• Google passed $10bn for a quarter for a first time. In fact it was knocking on $11bn with its $10.854bn revenues. Profits were slightly lower than the previous quarter, however - $2.70bn against $2.73bn.• Gmail now has 350m users.• Google+ has 90m registered users - that is, people and organisations that have gone to the bother of creating a profile on it. That's more than doubled from the 40m announced at the last earnings call. There's some more about Google+, but we'll come to it presently.• More than 250m Android devices have been activated. Larry Page, the chief executive, said so:Android is, quite simply, mind-boggling. 700,000 phones are lit up every day. And I'm pleased to announce 250 million Android devices in total, up 50 million since our last announcement just in November. In just two days over the holiday weekend, 3.7 million Androids were activated. And today, we're announcing over 11 billion downloads from Android markets. Wow.Of course 250m activations in total doesn't mean 250m necessarily in operation; that's a lifetime figure. Most won't be more than three years old though, so it's a good bet that many are still active. Adding 50m since 16 November (the figure was given out at the Google Music event) is a run rate of 50m in 65 days, or nearly 770,000. Unsurprisingly, Christmas has given Android a bounce.  Even if you take out those two exceptional days around Christmas, it's still 734,000 per day in that period. But note that these won't be strictly hot-off-the-press numbers. They'll almost certainly have been prepared days earlier, and perhaps tweaked a little (if not by Page on his SEC-monitored phone calls, then at the Google Music event, upwards.)• Page isn't really clear about how to monetise Android. Here's Benjamin Schachter of Macquarie Research with the question: "On Android, the numbers are obviously very, very strong. But can you talk about the monetization potential that's beyond search? What has to happen with Android for you to actually make money on this? And how are you going to do it?"Page takes over:"I think we are in a very -- as I mentioned in my remarks, we're in the early stages of monetization for a number of our new products, and Android is one of those. I think we do make money from Search on apps. We do make -- we mentioned that we have a very strong advertising business on mobile, which we obviously -- a lot of those people are on Android as well. And I think that you also see we announced 11 billion downloads on Android markets. Obviously, a lot of those are free, but we also are having a lot of people buy stuff there, too. We've seen a lot of potential for us to make money on Android, and I think you'll see us increase that a lot over time. It's hard to give you details about that right now, but I'm very, very optimistic."Odd how in the previous quarter's earnings call he said that mobile was "at a $2.5bn run rate". (Then there were only 190m Android devices.) What's happened? Well, some analysis suggested then that a lot of that revenue - certainly a lot of search,as much as two-thirds - really came from Apple devices. Page didn't elaborate before or since. But monetising Android still seems like one of those "Any time soon, honest" problems.• Motorola will be run as a separate business, if and when the takeover happens. Nor will it get special favours. Page again:"on Motorola, obviously we're going to break that out [in the financial results] separately, so you'll be able to track the changes to margins and so on. I think that -- and able to track the business separately. So that should not be an issue. We've been very clear that Motorola's obviously going to remain a licensee of Android, and Android will remain open. And when we announced the deal, we really said our strategy is working with different manufacturers on lead devices is going to continue. And Motorola will bid with - just like any other OEM for those devices. So that process will be unchanged."That's going to be interesting. Of course, Motorola is going to weigh down Google's profits: itwarned earlier this month that it would miss expectationsand show only "modest profitability". It's getting hammered in the Android fight.• Google has been paying Apple and Mozilla (and various others) more than $440m per quarter to be the default search engine on their browsers, including desktop and browser. We learn this from the Traffic Acquisition Costs information. Known as TAC, these are the money that search engines pay to be the default on a browser or system: every time someone uses the Google search box on the iPhone or on Firefox, there's a reward in it for Apple or Mozilla. In the words of the release, "TAC also includes amounts ultimately paid to certain distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our website, which totalled $442 million in the fourth quarter of 2011."Expect that figure to rise next quarter, because Mozilla renegotiated the deal, and is likely getting rather more. One to keep an eye on.• Now, those Google+ users. 90m, remember? Here's what Page then said, after announcing that 90m figure: "Engagement on + is also growing tremendously. I have some amazing data to share there for the first time. + users are very engaged with our products. Over 60% of them engage daily and over 80% weekly."What thisdoesn'tmean is that 60% of people with Google+ profiles useGoogle+every day, and 80% in a week. Not at all. It's saying that among people who have created a Google+ profile (a group that includes me), 60% usesomeGoogle product - which could be search, Maps, Gmail, YouTube, Docs or any other its dozens of things - while they are signed inusing the same email that they have for their Google+ profile.When you put it like that, it's surprising that more of them aren't signed in all the time - if you're using your own machine, for example, then the cookie on your browser will usually keep you logged in until you specifically log out. One also begins wondering how Google knows this detail: if you aren't signed in, how does it know you have a Google+ profile?Even so, only 60% of Google+ users being signed in to use a Google desktop product each day, and 1 in 5 not signing in through a week, doesn't sound like a terrifically engaged audience to me. However, Google is very determined that - as one Googler put it to me - Google+ should be the "glue" that links all its products together. So far, a bit of a questionmark on the stickiness. And you'll note that Page said nothing about time spent on Google+.• Advertising is pretty much Google's only business. Revenues from non-advertising business this quarter (ie from Google Docs to business): $410m, up from $273m a year ago. That's a 50% growth, but it's still less than 4% of revenues. Compare Microsoft's Business division, which had quarterly revenues of $6.3bn and profits of $4bn.Then again, Microsoft's search division had revenues of $784m, and lost $458m. So the two companies are like each others' obverse.In the end, then, Google's drive is always going to be to drive any business it's involved in towards something that's free to access online, and advertising-supported - because then it can weigh in with its reach advantage and drive out anyone else trying to serve ads, because its auction model for text ads is more efficient as long as it remains the largest search engine. Quite how Motorola Mobility is going to survive in that environment we'll have to see. Having been an independent company for a year, it hasn't set the world alight - apart from chief executive Sanjay Jha's very clever manoeuvring to make sure Google paid top whack for the company (or more specifically, its patents).With rival Android makerSony Ericsson looking ill too, it might be a question of which of the weakest two falls first. Will Google be more determined to keep its Android handset maker open, or will Sony? They both have a lot riding on it - though Sony might have slightly more reason to persist. Google, after all, just wants Motorola Mobility's patents. The handsets are an afterthought. And once that's done, Page can focus on monetising Android.
Has Sopa, the draconian copyright legislation under consideration by the American Congress, been firmly put to rest? You might imagine that, while the dust settles from a series of mini-explosions this week in the copyright arena, asa bill that once seemed certain to be enacted has stalled.But you would be mistaken to think it's dead. The powerful interests backing Sopa (Stop Online Piracy Act), which proponents say is aimed to stop the worst of the worst infringers, are unhappy with this week's events, but they have not remotely given up. And they still have time and money on their side.For the moment, however, it's plain that the internet community made a huge impact on Congress with a mass online protest that led to a flooding of lawmakers' email accounts and phone/fax lines. Dozens of lawmakerseither backed away from earlier support or announced that they'd gone from neutral to against.Meanwhile, proponents of a non-censored internet got support fromNeelie Kroes, the EU commissioner for the digital agenda, who tweeted on Friday:Glad tide is turning on Sopa: don't need bad legislation when should be safeguarding benefits of open net.And the majority leader of the US Senate, Harry Reid, postponed a procedural vote on an alleged compromise of companion legislation called Pipa (Protect IP Act), after it became clear that enough of his colleagues would vote against it to block further consideration, at least for the time being.The key words above are "for the time being". Hollywood and its censor-the-internet allies are never going to stop pushing for what I'm convinced they really want: a way to bring technology under control. Although they claim otherwise, Sopa and Pipa would – among many other negative impacts – essentially require innovators in digital media to get permission from the copyright cartel before launching new products and services that might challenge, even tangentially, the interests of the Big Copyright industry.The copyright lobby, which has greatly outspent the internet industry in Washington, miscalculated in several ways with Sopa and Pipa. In particular, they didn't anticipate that major internet services like Wikipedia would "go dark" for a day and encourage users to call Congress, helping create the outpouring of protest that seems to have stampeded so many members.By coincidence, I'm attending a copyright-related workshop today in Washington, DC, where a participant, reflecting on the Sopa events this week, noted that stampede with some worry. No matter how good the cause, he said, should we be happy that members of Congress – few of whom are likely to have even read the legislation in question – can be pushed so easily to change their supposed opinions? Is this a prelude to mob rule in the internet age?I share his concern about the idea that mob rule might be more enabled. But I also believe that the protesters had a very good idea of what they were protesting – in this case, pernicious legislation that had been cooked up in secret by a cabal of largely corporate interests (though, to be fair, several big organized labor groups have lent support, as well).This battle, part of a long-term war over what we call "intellectual property", is not over. But the technology industry is now firmly engaged in what it has recognized is the fight of its life. More important, it's heartening to see citizen pushback against legislation that could cause such damage to our essential infrastructure of communications and collaboration. We can celebrate that – and hope it continues.
In a dramatic display of the power of online protest, a congressional vote on the anti-piracy bills Pipa and Sopa have been shelved after some of the internet's main players demanded a legislative rethink.Just two days after chunks of the internet went dark in opposition to proposals that critics claim will hamper the flow of online information, Senate majority leader Harry Reid announced the postponement of a planned ballot on Pipa, also known as the Protect IP Act.Lamar Smith, the Republican chairman of the House Judiciary committee, followed suit, saying his panel would delay action on similar legislation called the Stop Online Piracy Act, or Sopa, until there is wider agreement on the legislation.The decision to postpone the votes was made in light of "recent events", Reid said – taken to be a reference to Wednesday's day of action in which Wikipedia led the way with a 24-hour blackout."It is clear that we need to revisit the approach on how best to address the problem of foreign thieves that steal and sell American inventions and products," Smith said in a statement.The online demonstration, which was aimed at Pipa and Sopa led to a drop-off in support for the proposed legislation.During the CNN primary debate in South Carolina on Thursday, the four remaining Republican candidates vying for the White House nod came out against the Sopa.GOP frontrunner Mitt Romney said the law was "far too intrusive" and could hamper job creation and would harm the economy.His main rival, former House speaker Newt Gingrich, said existing laws were sufficient to allow an aggrieved copyright holder to sue, while libertarian Ron Paul said the bill threatened freedom.The Obama administration had earlier indicated that it was not happy with the bills in their present forms.In a post on the We the People petition website, the White House told those opposed to the bills that it would not support legislation that "reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk or undermines the dynamic, innovative global internet."In a statement, Reid announced that the planned vote in the Senate on Tuesday would now be postponed, but not killed off entirely."There is no reason that the legitimate issues raised by many about this bill cannot be resolved," he said, in a nod to Wednesday's unprecedented online action.Reid urged the authors of the bill to engage with the online community in redrafting the proposed act, so that it forged a "balance between protecting Americans' intellectual property, and maintaining openness and innovation on the internet".The development will be seen as a slap in the face to movie, music and television producers who until recently had enjoyed broad support for both anti-privacy bills in Congress.Sue Gardner, executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, said:"The Wikimedia Foundation welcomes these developments. This is another step towards the ultimate destruction of these two pieces of proposed legislation. But let's be clear, these bills are not dead. They will return, and when they do, they must not harm the interests of the hundreds of millions of people who contribute to the free and open internet."The blackout was led by millions of ordinary internet users, and the people who make projects like Wikipedia possible - writers, photographers, editors and illustrators. They sent a clear message to Congress: don't mess with free expression, don't destroy the free and open Internet, don't do the bidding of traditional corporate interests. This is a moment in history when the people who create and share works on the internet as part of the free knowledge movement, and the people who depend on access to those works, are asking to be heard and to have their freedom of speech protected."Firms taking part in Wednesday's online protest included Google and Reddit.They joined Wikipedia in a show of strength against the two bills, which appears to be paying dividends in Washington.
A new festival dedicated to video game development and aimed at school children has been officially anounced this week.Games Britanniawill take place from 2 to 8 July at Sheffield MAGNA Science Adventure centre.In partnership with Sheffield Hallam University, Sony Computer Entertainment and the video game trade body UKIE among others, the event will include a weekend entitled Replayed, based around games-based learning and entertainment, and open to the general public. Teams of school children from across the region are also taking part ina competitionto design a new video game based around iconic character, Monty Mole – a star of the early home computer gaming era.Ian Stewart, the industry veteran who founded Gremlin Graphics where the Monty Mole games were developed, was at launch to support the event. "It's fantastic to see an initiative to rekindle the passion for programming at a young age," he said. "Many of my first employees learnt to program videogames on the computers they were first exposed to at school, and those skills helped to build the multi-billion dollar games industry we have today."Games Britannia is the latest industry initiative to attract more children into computer programming and development. UKIE has been lobbying for changes to the national curriculum for several months, culminating in theNext Gen Skills campaign. The trade body has found itself with some powerful allies including Google, The British Computing Society and most recently, the Royal Society, which last week published a report entitledShut Down Or Restart, calling for radical changes to the teaching of computing in schools. The content reflects the finding of a NESTA report from last year, Next Gen, which asserted that the British creative industries are not receiving the talent they require from the schools system.Speaking at the Games Britannia launch, UKIE chairman Andy Payne OBE commented, "It's vital to our future economy that the next generation become creators of technology and software, not just consumers of it. And it is exciting events like Games Britannia that will help to lead the way in redressing this imbalance."
In November 2008, two brothers released their first iPhone game, Chess With Friends, which enabled people to have multiple games of chess on the go over the network. It was followed in July 2009 by Words With Friends, a game inspired by Scrabble that became a multiplayer phenomenon.Fast forward to November 2010, when social games giant Zyngapaid $53.3mfor the developer of those games, NewToy. The brothers stayed on, with David Bettner becoming studio director, and Paul Bettner taking a role as general manager of the renamed Zynga With Friends studio."It's been a crazy ride from those very early days on Chess With Friends. We wanted to replicate this whole 'sitting round a table playing board games with your family' feeling," says Paul Bettner."At the same time, we were focused on creating the table rather than the game itself. We wanted to create this platform that we could put a lot of games on top of, which would work in the same way replicating that feeling of sitting playing a game with a friend, but digitally."Bettner uses another comparison too, saying that NewToy took inspiration from text messaging, and what it might mean to create "a play version of that".Since the acquisition, the With Friends studio has shipped two more games – Hanging With Friends and Scramble With Friends – while also launching a Facebook version of Words With Friends. Zynga says players of Scramble With Friends are currently playing 7m rounds a day of the Boggle-inspired hame.Bettner is very clear on the main appeal of the With Friends games: it's the communication rather than the gameplay itself. "When people tell us what they love about Words With Friends, they don't tell us they love the strategy of the game and how you can make these triple-word whatevers," he says."They tell us they love how this game keeps them connected to their mother-in-law in Wisconsin, or the way they get up every morning to see their brother has taken his turn. That's what I expect to hear if we do our jobs well."Bettner says that the studio has learned over time that it's vital for these kinds of games to be immediately engaging: to let people jump in with the minimum of instructions and start having fun.He also says that his team spends a lot of time refining the little touches, right down to the sound effects when players pick up virtual pieces in Words With Friends."We spent a long time tweaking those, even though it seems like a little thing. Those physical interactions you have with the stuff under the glass of the phone is so important," he says."You can see it the first time you turn on an iPhone and slide that Unlock button across. It feels magic, almost like there's something real under the glass. And we try to play that up in Scramble With Friends, so it feels like you're playing with this physical toy underneath the screen."Bettner says that there is no shortage of ideas for new features and improvements from With Friends players, who tend to be "extremely vocal". Scramble With Friends was swiftly updated after its release, for example, after players of the paid version complained that its virtual tokens system restricted the amount of matches they could play.How does the studio decide what games to make next? "I start by asking what would my wife want to play," he says. "She's a tough critic with a short attention span, and represents the perfect consumer I'm trying to target. If a game is too complicated or too strategy-focused, she'll move on to something else."Bettner says that the With Friends studio is also firmly focused on tapping into people's nostalgia for the games of their youth, from board games to pen-and-paper games like hangman. The idea: to make digital toys out of the childlike forms of play that are "prewired into the brains" of today's smartphone owners.What has Bettner learned about the business models of social mobile gaming over the last three years? Chiefly to never feel smug about what he has learned, seemingly."The things that worked last year are totally different to what works today," he says. "The business models are being invented in real-time still. Facebook is a little more established in terms of what works, but mobile is like the Wild West."When it came out, Chess With Friends cost £2.99 ($4.99 in the US) as a paid download, with no in-game adverts. "We thought we were going to be rich, then only about 10 people bought it," he chuckles."We decided to make the game free. We were forced to try new things or die, which taught me an important lesson about staying very agile. I realised we had to keep experimenting, and be as creative with our business models as we were with our game designs."That would later extend to using in-app purchases in Hanging With Friends, selling in-game currency and virtual items. Bettner admits that the studio has made mistakes, but has also "stumbled into things that work really well" through its willingness to experiment."People have expectations in the With Friends games of a certain level of value they get for free, so introducing some of these new mechanics has caused a little bit of friction," he says. "With something like the tokens in Scramble With Friends, we're learning fast and rolling out changes to the economy."Both Words With Friends and Hanging With Friends are available on Android as well as iOS. Bettner has noticed some differences between the two platforms, but is positive about both."Android is growing like a weed, that's obvious, and we see the same trend in the growth of our Android user base," he says, before pinpointing a "different economy" on Google's platform."Users on Android tend to favour lower-priced items and expect more free content. I'm not sure what contributes to that, but we definitely see that in the behaviour of users across the two platforms."However, it's being on both that creates a tangible benefit for Zynga and the With Friends studio, according to Bettner, who says that when Hanging With Friends launched on Android, it spurred increased usage back on iOS."When we are able to release a game on both platforms, it actually causes both platforms to grow," he says. "There's a ripple effect, which is testament to the fact that the game is fundamentally social. My gut feeling is that when people can suddenly find more friends to play, it causes a surge in engagement."
When Jerry Yang's family moved from Taipei to San José, the billionaire Yahoo founder was just 10 years old. Fatherless by the time he was two, Yang has said he knew one word of English: "Shoe".Sixteen years later, while studying for a doctorate at Stanford, Yang and his business partner Dave Filo set up Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web. Renamed Yahoo, it was soon to become one of the most successful internet businesses of all time.Last week, Yang, 43, stepped down from Yahoo's board with immediate effect. "The time has come for me to pursue other interests outside of Yahoo," said Yang in a press release that did not delve into details. It didn't really have to.Yahoo remains one of the biggest draws on the web. About 600 million people a month visit the site but like AOL, that other dinosaur of the first era of the internet, Yahoo has been left flat-footed as Google and Facebook emerged as the next generation of online leaders.Sales have fallen at Yahoo since 2008 and Google and Facebook are taking an increasing share of its display ad business. The firm has cut costs and found ways to boost its profit margins and keep earnings up. But the pressure for change is on – and it shows.In 2008, Microsoft's Steve Ballmer launched a $44.6bn (£28.8bn) takeover bid for Yahoo but it was resisted, especially by Yang, and eventually the deal collapsed. Yang was the man who fought hardest to reject Ballmer's offer. Yahoo is currently worth about $19bn but now that Yang has gone, it may require a more radical fix.Yahoo is still huge, but what is sort of company is it? "They are not going to beat Google in search, or Facebook for the social network," says Dan Olds, analyst at Gabriel Consulting. "They will continue to get ads because of their size, but if they are not seen as relevant – and they are not – the quality of those ads and the price paid will fall. In today's environment, companies that are not seen as relevant are dead."Rob Enderle, principal analyst at Enderle Group, says Yahoo lost its way long ago. "It's big in news, sport, finance, email and it owns Flickr, the photo-sharing site. But somehow none of these sites add up to a whole. To turn this company around what you need is a Steve Jobs. Someone who comes in and strips it down to the core before building it back up again," says Enderle.Yahoo recently appointed a new chief executive, Scott Thompson, former boss of eBay's online payment company PayPal. He replaces Carol Bartz, acrimoniously ousted by a board she dismissed as "doofuses". Given the firm's shoddy record with bosses, she might have had a point. But so did they.Bartz's strategy – trim costs, sack people, sell stuff – did little for Yahoo. According to comScore data, the number of minutes that US website visitors spent on Yahoo sites during her two-and-a-half years as chief executive fell 33% while the stock price stayed flat.It's a bit early to see what Thompson has planned – the first results since he arrived come out next week – but the signs are that it will be more of the same. Kara Swisher, tech scoop-meister at AllThingsD, reported this week that Yahoo has instituted a hiring freeze and is considering more jobs cuts."The big question is what is he going to do that's different," says Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Partners in New York. Gillis believes Thompson is likely to sell off Yahoo's Asian assets, a move many analysts believe Yang was holding back.Yahoo bought a 40% stake in China's Alibaba in 2005 for $1bn. It was a great buy. Analysts calculate that the Alibaba holding, along with the company's stake in Yahoo Japan, is now worth $17bn.But what happens after that? Yahoo is undergoing a "strategic review" and competitors smell blood in the water. Microsoft is reportedly looking at Yahoo again, albeit at a far lower price, and private equity firms have been sizing it up. Jack Ma, Alibaba's founder, has also expressed an interest and is tipped as a likely buyer for Yahoo Japan and maybe more. Before Christmas, Ma hired the Duberstein Group, led by Kenneth Duberstein, once chief of staff to the former president Ronald Reagan, to help him navigate the political landscape in what could be the biggest Chinese takeover of a US company in history."I think he'll try and turn it around," Enderle says of Thompson. "But that's not his skill set." The rumour in Silicon Valley is that he was far from the company's first choice. Like Bartz, who came from a design software firm, Thompson does not have a media or advertising background. "But if that doesn't work, at least he's a finance guy. He'll know how to package this company for sale."With Yang gone, a sale of all or part of the business looks more likely. It's what comes after this that worries Olds. "Yahoo is one of the top sites in the world," he says. "That's a lot of opportunity. But if it can't redefine itself, it could be scattered to the winds."
The take-down of  Megaupload.com, one of the world's biggest filesharing websites, has prompted swift retaliation from self-styled "hacktivist" group Anonymous, which has launched a string of online attacks against US government bodies including the FBI and the Justice Department.Anonymous, an online hacker collective, said it had launched its largest attack ever in retaliation for the closure of  Megaupload.Megaupload was taken offline on Thursday after US prosecutorsaccused seven men behind the site of cheating copyright holders out of $500m (£323m)in revenue over five years.The Department of Justice described the action as "among the largest criminal copyright cases" ever brought by the US government.Established in 2005, Megaupload offered users a "one-click" upload for content and boasted 50 million daily visitors shortly before it was closed. Prosecutors claim that the "criminal enterprise" earned its founder – Kim Dotcom, also known as Kim Schmitz – up to $175m.Shortly after the Hong Kong-based website was taken down, hackers associated with Anonymous managed to briefly disable several US websites including those for the White House, FBI, Department of Justice and others associated with Warner Music and Universal Music.All these sites were back online at the time of publication."We Anonymous are launching our largest attack ever on government and music industry sites," said a statement purporting to be from the Anonymous group. "The FBI didn't think they would get away with this did they? They should have expected us."The statement also detailed what appeared to be private details, including home address and birth dates, relating to the family of Chris Dodd, chief executive of the Hollywood studios' trade body, the Motion Picture Association of America.Security experts on Friday warned people against clicking links posted by people associated with Anonymous.Graham Clulely, senior technology consultant at security firm Sophos, said that users could be unwittingly taking part in unlawful distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks simply by clicking on dodgy links."In the past, Anonymous has encouraged supporters to install a program called LOIC (Low Orbit Ion Cannon) which allows computers to join in an attack on a particular website, blasting it with unwanted traffic," Clulelysaid."This time, things are slightly different: you only have to click on a web link to launch a DDoS attack."If you visit the webpage, and do not have JavaScript disabled, you will instantly, without user interaction, begin to flood a website of Anonymous's choice with unwanted traffic, helping to perpetuate a DDoS attack."Seven people associated with  Megaupload were indicted by a US grand jury earlier this month, according to the Department of Justice.Those charged include Finn Batato, 38, said to be the chief marketing officer; Julius Bencko, 35, the graphic designer; Sven Echternach, 39, the head of business development; Mathias Ortmann, 40, the chief technical officer, co-founder and director; Andrus Nomm, 32, a software programmer and head of the development software division; and Bram van der Kolk, 29, who is accused of overseeing programming for  Megaupload websites.Dotcom, Batato, Ortmann and van der Kolk were arrested in New Zealand on Thursday. Authorities also seized about $50m of assets using 20 search warrant in the US, Canada and the Netherlands.
Wikipedia saw a surge in UK traffic to its mobile website, which remained unblockedduring the online encyclopedia's 24 shutdown on Wednesday.Other websites including Amazon's IMDb, Facebook and Mail Online proved to be major beneficiaries of the Wikipedia blackout.The online encyclopediaintroduced a worldwide blackoutof its English language website, affecting about 25 million users, on Wednesday in protest at internet piracy laws being considered by US legislators.In the UK, Wikipedia usually ranks as the 9th most popular website, attracting on average 5.6 million students, fact hunters – including journalists – and general knowledge buffs a day.However, from 5am on Wednesday for 24 hours visitors were greeted by a blackened screen and a message exhorting them to"imagine a world without free knowledge".Despite media coverage warning of the impending blackout – or indeed perhaps because of it – Wikipedia's website saw a surge in visitors bumping it up a spot to 8th most popular site in the UK on Wednesday.According to research firm Experian Hitwise, the website actually increased the number of daily UK visitors it typically receives by more than 200,000 to 5.8 million.However, it was UK traffic to the English version on smartphones and mobile devices, which Wikipedia left unblocked, that saw the biggest daily surge with more than 1m visits to its mobile version on Wednesday.Experian Hitwise said that the increase was 14% compared to the typical number of UK visitors Wikipedia's mobile site usually attracts."Not deterred by the blackout, visits to Wikipedia actually increased yesterday," said James Murray, marketing research analyst at Experian Hitwise. "Wikipedia could still be accessed via mobile devices and in fact one in every seven visits to the site yesterday came from a smartphone or tablet."Experian Hitwise also analysed where UK visitors to Wikipedia went after they found the website inaccessible on Wednesday.Amazon-owned IMDb, the online movie database, was the biggest beneficiary, increasing visitor numbers by 12% on Wednesday, compared to a typical day, and hoovering up 3.4% of users leaving Wikipedia.Rounding out the top five websites to benefit from the UK blackout were Facebook, BBC News, Fox News and the Mail Online.The top 10 beneficiaries also includes Google, CNN, NHS Choices and the French and Spanish versions of Wikipedia."Entertainment has always been one of the biggest drivers of traffic to Wikipedia, so it is not surprising that traffic increased to one of the biggest online authorities on movies and TV," Murray said.Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales said the blackout was part of a campaign to raise opposition to the stop online piracy act (Sopa) and protect IP act, two US bills which he has called destructive legislation that, if passed, would "endanger free speech and set a frightening precedent of internet censorship for the world".However, Chris Dodd, the chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America, speaking for content producers that back the anti piracy legislation,called the blackout a "gimmick".
While finally finishing Uncharted 3 recently, I noticed something interesting about the puzzle design. In the Yemen section of the game, where Nathan and Sully explore a vast underground crypt, lots of the tasks are based around optical illusions – there's a room full of statue parts suspended at various angles, which must be viewed from a specific place to create a complete picture.In another area, a duo of strange symbols on a wall need to be looked at through a series of shutters in order to convert them into a zoetrope-style animated sequence. These ingenious puzzles are not only fun to solve, they accentuate the mysticism of the narrative. How did Naughty Dog come up with this brilliant idea?Ideas are the currency of creativity – yet strangely, we're often taught to undervalue them. There's an anecdote about Peter Molyneux being approached by a fan who told him, "I have a great idea for a game," to which the famed designer replied: "I have a great idea for a painting."Of course, an idea in itself is worthless; it's the implementation that's key. But if you're sitting in front ofGame Maker 8.1or your Unity3D interface, with plenty of coding nouse but no inspiration, how do you get started?"It's all about reference material," said Andy Schatz, when I asked him about how newcomers to game design should think about ideas. Schatz is the designer ofMonaco, an IGF award-winning co-op stealth game, tipped by many to be the crossover hit of 2012."All art is just an evolution of existing art. But the art we call innovative is the art that takes the biggest evolutionary leaps. Sometimes this takes a lot of experimentation to get right. Don't be afraid to take those leaps and throw out the experiments that don't work out!"This is a widely accepted, glibly post-modernist stance on creativity – that there are no new ideas, just new combinations of existing concepts. At the Develop conference in Brighton last year, Mark Green – from the creative development group at Sony Worldwide Studios – gave an intriguing talk on how the company's in house studios came up with new ideas."A classical definition of a new idea is one or more existing ideas combined in a new way," he said. "So we might take the idea of a monster movie, combine it with the idea of YouTube and come up with the idea of Cloverfield …"That essentially seems to be how Hollywood has operated for the past 30 years, but is it a dead end for indie developers who don't want to make the gaming equivalent of "Godzilla on a shaky cam"? Green doesn't think so – he sees investigating accepted game mechanics as a key way to spark inspiration."A lot of what we've done has been about taking techniques that have been used in other industries," he says. "There are very innovative companies working in product development – for example, the design consultancy IDEO is one. They use exercises that allow you to think differently about problems."There's one known as the challenge technique where you sit down and think about all the assumptions we have about something. Then you all start to remove some of those things to destabilise the fundaments and see how that can help generate new ideas."In his Develop talk, Green discusses taking an accepted genre – the RTS for example – then writing down its six absolutely vital elements. There is some kind of battle going on, there are at least two sides, there are various units, there are resources, etc. Now the idea is to roll a dice and remove one of the tenets. What would the resulting game work like? Removing just one rule can result in a fundamentally different gameplay experience."There's another very simple exercise we sometimes carry out," Green says. "It's called A+B. We print out a list of 200 game titles, put them in a hat, then pull two out. We might get something like Professor Layton and Call of Duty: Black Ops. That's not the end of the process – we're not literally going to make Call of Duty and the Curious Village. But what we're doing is using this unusual combination as a starting point."We may combine the theme of one with the gameplay of the other – so, perhaps a puzzle game with a military theme. Or it could be an FPS with strong puzzle elements. Or we'd take the audience of one and apply it to the other – so a first-person shooter for family audiences. These are just good brain-storing start points, and this exercise take you down paths you may not previously have considered."This is a quite insular way of thinking about games and creativity, but it can work. Dan Marshall, the Bafta award-winning designer of games such as Time Gentlemen Please and Privates, is a great believer in immersing yourself in games and game culture."Go to the pub and talk about them," he says. "Great ideas do come up like this – but you need to take a pen and some paper because otherwise they'll be lost forever in a half-drunken haze."Oh and play lots of games. Sometimes you expect a game to do something, but it goes in a totally different direction. Well, that thing you were hoping it would do is a completely original idea – it's all yours and you can use it yourself. Use other people's work as a springboard."It doesn't have to be new games either. Hideo Kojima, after all, became interested in the whole idea of stealth and avoidance by playing Space Invaders and hiding behind the defence shields.Charles Cecil, designer of the Broken Sword titles, agrees with the idea of immersing yourself in games, but sounds an extra note of caution."Don't try to write games in a genre that you don't have a passion for, because youwillfail," he says. "When you're coming up with ideas, try to keep in mind all the things you love about a genre, and innovate onthose; add to them in an interesting way. You've got to focus on what you love, but it has to be about the mechanics."It's no good saying, I'm going to design an FPS that's based underwater, because that in no way suggests you're going to innovate on the gameplay itself. Everything needs to be driven by gameplay." In short, you need to think like an engineer rather than an artist.Although admittedly, art has proved a fecund source of game ideas. Tetsuya Mizuguchi was inspired by Russian artist Wassily Kandinsky to create Rez; Ken Levine drew on the Art Deco movement for Bioshock; Uncharted co-lead designer Richard Lemarchand looked at the works of Victorian painters such as David Roberts and Caspar David Friedrich for the exotic locations that Nathan Drake discovers. And countless dungeon designers have looked at the complex works of MC Escher and Giovanni Battista Piranesi for their labyrinthine environments.Beyond art there is… everything. Lemarchand talks about finding inspiration and awe in dramatic natural wonders – the Giant's Causeway, the fronds of a fern, the fractal self symmetry of Romanesco broccoli."I always try to get ideas for games from non-game sources," says Schatz. "I like to think of game design the way Michelangelo thought of sculpting – he was just discovering the object inside of the stone, and the chisel was just there to reveal it.  When you build a game out of a non-game concept, the designer has to whittle that subject matter down and find the game inside it.  So I've made games inspired by animal ecosystems, heist movies, conversations, documentaries…"There is also biography and experience. Miyamoto was inspired to create Legend of Zelda by his childhood spent exploring the countryside near his home, and daring himself to wander into caves. Jenova Chen of thatgamecompanytold Edgethat he came up with the idea for Flower after seeing the grass fields along a Californian highway for the first time after arriving in the country from Shanghai.Ideas are experiences processed. But they are also about seeing the value in empty time. In a blog post titledWhere do you get your ideas, an exasperated Neil Gaiman writes: "You get ideas from daydreaming. You get ideas from being bored. You get ideas all the time. The only difference between writers and other people is we notice when we're doing it."The skill is in utilising these fleeting moments of inspiration. "When you're making games, you're constantly having ideas that are brilliant but completely wrong for that project," says Marshall. "So store them up in the back of your mind; every indie developer I know has a list of games tucked away in the damp, dark bits of their brain queuing up to be made."You should also keep tabs on the stuff you throw away: some game ideas are completely wrong for what you're working on, but sing in a different project. We killed time travel mechanics in Ben There, Dan That because it just didn't gel, but when we decided on a sequel it was the perfect fit."Interestingly, Hidetaka "Swery" Suehiro, the designer of cult survival horror adventure Deadly Premonition, has the exact opposite approach. In his GDC speech last year he provided a seven-point guide to game design and the last one was simply to use everything, every idea, whenever it occurs to you. Don't save it, don't lose it, just stick it in there. Hence, in Deadly Premonition, the town of Greenvale is shaped like a dog raising its paw. Swery had that idea and he put it in. This is the stuff that cult genius is made of.One of the most important philosophical ideas about … ideas … is that they don't just pop into your head fully formed. The science writer Steven Johnson has a brilliant YouTube video explaining this, which I've embedded below.This reflects some advice on creativity in Richard Wiseman's excellent book 59 Seconds, which suggests that sometimes it's best to leave an idea and go off to do something else – a word puzzle, a long walk – anything to get your mind off the creative problem at hand, if only for a few minutes.He refers to the work of psychologists Ap Dijksterhuis and Teun Meurs from the University of Amsterdam; in a report titled, Where Creativity Resides: The Generative Power of Unconscious Thought, they posited that leaving a task for just a few moments allows your unconscious mind to have a bash at it, quietly working away on the logistics without your conscious thoughts bellowing in its ear. Dan Marshall puts this in very simple terms: "'Play' the game in your head at night – this is where everything gets fleshed out, for me."It seems that retaining the purity of those early, half-unconscious ideas is the key to great games. Lemarchand discusses the process of "design by subtraction" during his fascinating talk, Beauty and Risk: Why I love indie Games, given atIndieCadeandGameCitylast year.If you don't have time for the whole thing, forward to 15:00. Here, he talks about how his approach to design ideas is influenced by the "less is more" philosophy of William Morris – "put nothing in your home that you don't know to be useful or believe to be beautiful". Game ideas are the same.This was also a concept employed by Fumito Ueda while designing the wonderful Ico and Shadow of the Colossus. In his classic 2002 GDC talk on the creation of the games (conveniently entitledDesign by subtraction), he talks about how the idea for Ico came from just the idea of a young boy holding hands with a slightly older girl, and that every subsequent design decision was made to retain the purity of that image.So back to those intriguing puzzles in Uncharted 3. Keen to find out how Naughty Dog arrived at them, I contacted Richard Lemarchand and asked him. He told me that his co-lead designer Jacob Minkoff actually created a huge open environment and filled it with optical illusions – he then toyed with each one until he had a couple that really worked; these are the ones we have in the final game. Sometimes creativity is just about putting yourself in a position where the only possible outcome is a good idea.
iTunes UiBooks 2 and the iBooks Author tool may have hogged the headlines from Apple's education launch, but its iTunes U service also has a brand new iOS app. It provides access to a host of free educational content and courses.iPhone / iPadElmore LeonardHarperCollins has launched an iPhone app for crime-writer Elmore Leonard, tying in with his new novel Raylan. Photos, videos, social media are all included, along with info on his back catalogue with links to buy on Apple's iBookstore.iPhonePlayful Minds: Math (5-8 Years Old)Sadly, Gameloft hasn't localised the title of its new educational iOS app for Brits. That said, its content is based on both the UK and US maths curricula, with a variety of exercises. A 12-month subscription is included with the app, which will have to be renewed in a year's time.iPhone / iPadPet TownSocial mobile games firm Booyah has launched a new title for iOS, bringing together pets and town-planning – two popular social genres. Yes, it's about making a town for animals, with real-world elements blended into the gameplay.iPhone / iPadHeadTurnHeadTurn is the latest digital sheet-music app for iPad, with the twist here being its ability to turn pages in response to a mere head-nod from the musician using it.iPadHipsterThe name may be wince-inducing, but Hipster is a polished photo-sharing app on iPhone, and now it's available on Android too. It's all about making digital postcards with a combination of text and images, which can be shared on social networks too.AndroidTriple TownPopular Facebook puzzle game Triple Town has made the leap to mobile: iPhone and Android specifically. It's about building a town on a small grid by matching objects, and is very addictive.Android / iPhoneGrammy LiveUS-only – likely due to broadcast licensing rights – this is the official app for February's Grammy Awards, providing news, photos and videos in advance of the music event, and three days of livestreaming footage around it.iPhone / iPadLivestream for ProducersPeople running their own live webcasts using the Livestream platform now have a new app to do it with. This enables producers to upload text, photos and videos to their channels, as well as broadcast live from their iPhone.iPhoneJotlyJotly started life as a spoof app for iPhone, taking the mickey out of the blizzard of apps encouraging people to "rate everything". Now it's launched on Android too. "Find the best and worst things at any place. Like ducks? Jotly will show you big and little ducks..."AndroidMelodies for Google MusicMelodies is an iPhone client for the Google Music cloud service, streaming songs from Google-powered lockers, with support for Apple's AirPlay technology. Paid and free versions of the app are available.iPhoneSpider-Man Turn Off The DarkPlanning on seeing the Spider-Man show on Broadway? There's an official app for that with dates, news and videos.Android / iPhone
Suspicion is growing that operatives in China, rather than India, were behind the hacking of emails of an official US commission that monitors relations between the United States and China, US officials said.News of the hacking of the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission surfaced earlier this month when an amateur "hacktivist" group calling themselves "The Lords of Dhararaja" and purporting to operate in India published what it said was a memo from an Indian Military Intelligence unit to which extracts from commission emails were attached.TheGuardian's own investigation, alongside that by Reuters, established that the memo itself – which claimed that Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry-maker RIM had given the India government and military a "back door" to spy on data traffic and conversations – was almost certainly faked.The emails, however, appeared authentic.Now US officials, who have spoken to Reuters on condition of anonymity, say the roundabout way the commission's emails were obtained strongly suggests the intrusion originated in China, possibly by amateurs, and not from India's spy service.A large cache of raw email data from the security breach, reviewed by Reuters, indicates that the principal target of the intruders was not the commission, but instead a Washington-based non-governmental pro-trade group called the National Foreign Trade Council (NFTC).The NFTC is headed by William Reinsch, a former top US Commerce Department official who until recently served as the US-China Commission's chairman.A large proportion of the raw email traffic downloaded by the hackers consists of messages to and from Reinsch at his NFTC email address. Many of the emails were spam, but some related to the work of the commission, which was set up by Congress to take a critical look at a wide range of US dealings with China.Reinsch told Reuters that the NFTC first became aware in November that large quantities of its message traffic had been hacked. He said that law enforcement authorities, including the FBI, had been quickly notified. The FBI has declined comment.Reinsch said he could think of "no particular reason" why the Indian government or Indian hackers would be interested in him. By contrast, he and several other US officials said that Chinese hackers, whether amateur or directly affiliated with Chinese government, would have great interest in the US-China Commission's activities, both public and private.Sources familiar with the hacking and the related investigation said they draw two inferences from the fact that the principal target of the hack appears to have been Reinsch's email account at NFTC.First, the sources said they found it difficult to believe anyone connected with India would have taken the time or effort to track down Reinsch or his NFTC account, whereas his chairmanship of the US-China Commission made him a potential major target for Chinese hackers.Secondly, said the sources, the fact that Reinsch's NFTC emails were the principal target suggests that whoever hacked them was hunting for a soft target with poor cybersecurity.That fits a pattern of what is known as a blended attack: sophisticated hackers often plan attacks in multiple stages, targeting the systems of government officials and corporate executives by first breaching the less secure systems of people with whom they regularly communicate."It's all about trust relationships and getting inside the trust ecosystems – whether they be digital ecosystems or interpersonal relationships," said Tom Kellermann, a cybersecurity expert who has served as a policy advisor to the Obama administration."Individuals many times are targeted not just for the network of computers to which they have access, but to the network of individuals to which they have access," said Kellermann, chief technology officer of a company known as AirPatrol Corp.Pinning down the origin and perpetrator of a particular cyber intrusion can be very difficult, if not impossible, as hackers frequently take steps to mask their identity or appear that they are from a third country.One official familiar with the matter said that it was possible that all the hacked email traffic, including messages related to the US-China Commission, originated with the NFTC.Under this scenario, the reason commission traffic was included in the hacked material was that it consisted of copies of commission messages which were sent to Reinsch at his NFTC email address.But other officials said it was also still possible some emails were stolen directly from the commission or private email accounts of other commissioners.A person familiar with details of the incident and related investigation said the hacked emails spanned a six-month period from late March to late October 2011. The source said that about 85% of the traffic consisted of emails incoming at the NFTC, with the rest being outgoing messages from NFTC's server.The source said that there were significant gaps in the hacked traffic, covering both day-long and week-long periods, bolstering the notion the hacking was done by amateurs.Investigators are still trying to determine if the hacker successfully targeted NFTC's local network, or a network which fed messages to a mobile device used by Reinsch. It is not known what device Reinsch uses for mobile communications.The purported Indian intelligence memo implied that the commission emails had somehow been hacked using know-how supplied to the Indian government by mobile phone companies who, as payback, were afforded greater access to the Indian market.But comments from Apple, RIM and Nokia indicated that no such deal had been made.Indian government officials and agencies declined repeated requests for comment on the alleged government document, although some former Indian officials labelled the memo a fabrication. One telling detail was the use of a logo which did not match the department claimed to have created the memo.Two US officials familiar with the hacking incident said they were puzzled why India would go to the trouble of hacking emails related to the US-China Commission, since its work had little if anything to do with India, and Indian officials and diplomats had never showed much interest in its activities.By contrast, the commission has been a regular target for what officials describe as persistent attempted hacking intrusions, many through the technique of "phishing," which involves sending bogus but convincing emails which purport to come from insiders but contain malicious code.Investigators strongly suspect these intrusions were launched by people from, or operating on behalf of, China.A large proportion of the hacked traffic examined by Reuters appeared to be what could be categorised as spam, including summaries of news articles and political fundraising pitches.Some hacked traffic from the US-China Commission had potentially sensitive implications, however, including messages in which commission personnel discuss matters under deliberation by the organisation. These issues included the commission's attitude toward alleged Chinese theft of intellectual property and congressional deliberations about alleged Chinese currency manipulation.US officials said there was no indication hackers managed to gain access to electronic files related to the commission's most sensitive project – a classified version of its annual public report. Electronic materials related to this project are kept on classified servers, isolated from the internet, which are operated by agencies other than the commission itself, one official said.
How do we all feel about HD remakes? The whole idea of re-packaging, re-mastering and re-selling classic titles sounds like the sort of cynical exercise we should all be wary of. It is a profitable idea nicked straight from the music industry, where the re-issuing of back catalogue wares has become a standard money-spinner....and yet, I was hugely excited about the Ico and Shadow of the Colossus remakes, because I knew they would introduce these astonishing titles to a new audience. I also wholeheartedly support Just Add Water's restoration of Stranger's Wrath, because this fascinating offbeat adventure title was horrendously overlooked on its original Xbox release.So anyway, assuming we don't mind the occasional, tastefully produced HD remake, which titles would you like to see re-animated for 2012? I think it's got to be about games that will truly benefit from a boost in graphical performance, rather than just retro titles that we quite like. And maybe it should be titles that you feel were over-looked and that could be re-appraised in the era of the PS3 and Xbox 360.With those rules in mind, here are two suggestions to get us started:Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver (Crystal Dynamics, PlayStation, 1999)This atmospheric action-adventure followed a withered wraith named Raziel on his journey through the apocalyptic kingdom of Nosgoth, battling vampires and demons, and solving intricate environmental puzzles. The game allows you to slip between the living and the spirit realms – an ingenious mechanic that forces you to think in two simultaneous dimensions. The grand gothic locations would look stunning on PS3 or Xbox 360, and Uncharted fans would get the chance to experience an early work by designer Amy Hennig, who clearly brought some of Soul Reaver's sense of epic scale to the Nathan Drake series.Shenmue (Sega, Dreamcast, 1999)I am, of course, not alone in yearning for the return of this epoch-shattering action adventure. It broke so many rules of game design and made so many more up – and yet it must now be left to wither and fade; another example of Dreamcast's legacy being written out of history. But imagine a shiny new HD remake, imagine Ryo wandering through a re-mastered Yokosuka. This bloated, brilliant game would be magisterial on a modern console. It was ahead of its time and we didn't deserve it. We do now, perhaps.Over to you...
Yey, it's Friday. Come on, let us know your weekend gaming plans!
Microsoft has suffered a 6% decline in revenues at its Windows division, as competition from smartphones and tablet computers combined with the impact of floods at components factories in Thailand dented worldwide sales of personal computers.Windows revenues fell to $4.7bn (£3bn) in the three months ending 31 December, down from $5bn during the same period in 2010.With Microsoft's last major software release, Windows 7, now two years old and its successor Windows 8 not expected until later this year, momentum has slowed at the company's flagship division, pushing profits at the unit down 11% to $2.8bn.Microsoft's overall revenues for the quarter were $20.89 billion, up 5% from a year ago, just missing forecasts of $20.93 billion. Profits were 78 cents a share, ahead of the 76 cents forecast.Operating income was $7.99bn, down 2% from $8.17bn in the same period the year before. The company said 2010 numbers had included $224m of deferred revenue related to the Office 2010 technology guarantee program."We delivered solid financial results, even as we prepare for a launch year that will accelerate many of our key products and services," said Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer at Microsoft. "Coming out of the Consumer Electronics Show, we're seeing very positive reviews for our new phones and PCs, and a strong response to our new Metro style design that will unify consumer experiences across our phones, PCs, tablets, and television in 2012."Microsoft business revenues were up 3% to $6.28bn, or 7% excluding the impact of the Office 2010 technology guarantees. Nearly 200 million licenses of Office 2010 software have been sold in the 18 months since launch."We saw strong demand for our business products and services, despite the soft PC market and continuing economic uncertainty in key parts of the world," said Peter Klein, chief financial officer at Microsoft.Microsoft executives warned at the Consumer Electronics show in Las Vegas earlier this month that worldwide PC sales had fallen faster than the 1% predicted by analysts in the run up to Christmas.Losses narrowed at Microsoft's online services division, which includes its Bing search engine, from $559 to $458m.Bing's organic US market share grew to 15.1% in the quarter, while its search advertising agreement with Yahoo! gave Microsoft a 27% market share in America.Entertainment and Devices posted revenue of $4.24bn, an increase of 15% from the prior period. The Xbox 360 has installed base of 66m, and 18m Kinect sensors. Xbox LIVE now has 40m members worlwide, up 33% on the prior period.With earnings per share higher than expected, Microsoft stock rose 2.28% in after hours trading.
The political retreat from controversial anti-piracy legislation appears to have gained even more momentum a day after an unprecedented online protest.Senate majority leader Harry Reid reportedly won't lean on Senate Democrats for votes in favor of an online anti-piracy bill,sources have told Politico.Reid had been one of Pipa's biggest supporters and is expected to bring the bill to the Senate on January 24 for a procedural test vote.The news deals another severe blow to movie, music and television producers, who until recently had enjoyed broad support for two anti-piracy bills now before Congress, the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) and Protect IP Act (Pipa).Reid's decision follows aday of action from Google, Reddit, Wikipediaand thousands of other websites as the tech community argued the bills would stifle free speech and innovation online.Sopa has already been put on hold. According to Politico, Reid's move casts serious doubt over whether Pipa, authored by Senate judiciary committee chairman Patrick Leahy, will be able to net the 60 votes needed for the bill to receive a full vote in the Senate.Several high-profile Republicans came out against Pipa and Sopa on Wednesday during the online protest. Among them wasFlorida senator Marco Rubio, seen as a potential vice-president.Since the introduction of the bill, "legitimate concerns" had been expressed about the impact it could have on access to the internet, Rubiowrote on his Facebook page. "Congress should listen and avoid rushing through a bill that could have many unintended consequences.Last weekend theObama administration also came out against the legslationin its current form. "While we believe that online piracy by foreign websites is a serious problem that requires a serious legislative response, we will not support legislation that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global internet," the White House wrote.Hollywood's lobby group the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) has expressed dismay about the way support has collapsed.MPAA chairman and CEO, former senator Chris Dodd, called the blackout "an irresponsible response and a disservice to people who rely on them for information use their services. It is also an abuse of power given the freedoms these companies enjoy in the marketplace today."It's a dangerous and troubling development when the platforms that serve as gateways to information intentionally skew the facts to incite their users in order to further their corporate interests."
The US government has closed down one of the world's largest filesharing websites, accusing its founders of racketeering, money laundering and presiding over "massive" online piracy.According to prosecutors, Megaupload illegally cheated copyright holders out of $500m in revenue as part of a criminal enterprise spanning five years.A lawyer for Megaupload told the Guardian it would "vigorously" defend itself against the charges, dismissing the criminal action as "a civil case in disguise".News of the indictment – being framed as one of the biggest copyright cases in US history – came a day after major internet firms held a24-hour protest over proposed anti-piracy laws.According to a Department of Justice release, seven people associated with Megaupload were indicted by a federal grand jury earlier this month over the charges.They included Kim Dotcom, founder of the online firm.The 37-year-old, who also goes by Kim Tim Jim Vestor and whose real name is Kim Schmitz, is accused of heading up a criminal venture that earn Dotcom and his associates upwards of $175m.These profits were obtained illegally through advertising and the selling of premium memberships to users of Megaupload,the justice department is claiming.Established in 2005, the website offered a "one-click" upload, providing an easily accessible online locker for shared content.Before being shut down, the firm boasted 50 million daily visitors, accounting for 4% of total internet traffic, the justice department claimed in its statement on the indictment.Prosecutors allege that the website violated copyright law by illegally hosting movies, music and TV shows on a massive scale.Those behind the website have claimed that it diligently responds to any complaint regarding pirated material.But according to prosecutors, the accused conspirators deliberately employed a business model that encouraged the uploading of illegal material.They say that Megaupload paid users for uploading pirated material in full awareness that they were breaking the law. In addition they failed to close the accounts of known copyright infringers.The indictment includes chat logs with conversations between company executives, which include statements like: "we have a funny business . . . modern days pirates :)"Alongside Dotcom, law enforcement officials swooped on a number of other senior members of Megaupload's staff.Arrests were made at a number of homes in Auckland, New Zealand, on warrants issued by US authorities.In all, addresses in nine countries including the US were raided as part of massive international operation.Three men accused alongside Dotcom remained on the run tonight, the Department of Justice said.About $50m dollars in assets were seized as part of the massive operation.Meanwhile, the Megaupload website was closed down, with the FBI seizing an additional 18 domain names associated with the alleged crime.In response to the indictment, the hacker group Anonymous, which is ostensibly unaffiliated with Megaupload,launched a cyber attackthat at least temporarily brought down the websites of the justice department as well as those of the Recording Industry Association of America, Motion Picture Association of America, and Universal Music.If found guilty of the charges, the accused Megaupload executives could face 50 years behind bars.Ira Rothken, an attorney for Megaupload, said the firm would fight the "erroneous" charges.Speaking from his California office, Rothken said: "The allegations appear to be incorrect and the law does not support the charges."He added: "It is a civil case in disguise."Asked why it was being pursued as a criminal case, Rothken replied: "You'd have to ask the prosecutors."
Google was named the best place to work in America by Fortune magazine on Thursday and as if in celebration made more than $10bn in the final quarter of 2011, a company first.But the firm's results failed to impress analysts who had been expecting more from the search giant. The shares tumbled in after hours trading.The search giant said full year revenues were up 29% in 2011. In the last three months of the year Google reported revenues of $10.58bn, an increase of 25% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.But the search firm, which usually sails past analysts' forecasts, failed to impress investors. Quarterly earnings per share were $9.50, well short of the $10.49 that analysts were expecting, according to Thomson Reuters. On top of the miss the average cost that advertisers paid Google per click also fell 8% from a year ago. Total costs rose 30%, which also hurt results.Google gets more than half its revenue outside the US and growth in Europe was flat, held back by the eurozone crisis. Performance in Europe was "actually quite healthy," said Nikesh Arora, chief business officer. He said the company was still benefiting from a "secular shift" of advertising online."Google had a really strong quarter ending a great year. Full year revenue was up 29%, and our quarterly revenue blew past the $10bn mark for the first time," said Larry Page, Google's chief executive. "I am super excited about the growth of Android, Gmail, and Google+, which now has 90 million users globally – well over double what I announced just three months ago. By building a meaningful relationship with our users through Google+ we will create amazing experiences across our services. I'm very excited about what we can do in 2012 – there are tremendous opportunities to help users and grow our business."Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said the company's acquisition of Motorola could further slow the company in 2012. The European commission is expected to decide next month whether or not to veto Google's $12.5bn takeover of the mobile firm.On a conference call with analysts, Page said he was "super pleased" that Google had topped Fortune's poll. "Everyone here at Google is super excited about our work here and what the future holds," he said.Google hired about 8,000 people last year, including 1,000 in the last quarter alone, the biggest growth spurt in the search giant's 13-year history. The company now has nearly 32,500 employees.Google beat Boston Consulting Group to top Fortune's 2012 annual poll."Employees rave about their mission, the culture, and the famous perks of the Plex: bocce courts, a bowling alley, eyebrow shaping (for a fee) in the New York office," Fortune wrote.• This article was amended on 20 January 2012 to correct the number of users of Google+ and the number of Google employees.
If this is the first you've heard of&nbsp;theFinal Fantasy franchiseread no further than the end of&nbsp;this paragraph. Go out and cadge yourself a PlayStation 2, buy, borrow or steal a copy of Final Fantasy VII and lock yourself away in a room for at least a month to play it, opening the door only periodically to beg for food and the patience of your loved ones. Then do the same again for Final Fantasies VIII, IX, X and XII.You will lose your job, your children and your mind, but you will experience five of the most epic adventures in the history of gaming. In a nutshell, it will be worth it.Still here? Probably a good decision. Regulars to the Final Fantasy games will know there is a fairly strict formula to the series' grand sagas. As JRPGs (Japanese role-playing games), each is&nbsp;the tightly scripted tale of a world teetering on the brink of destruction but for a ragged band of ludicrously attractive heroes.But, oh, what heroes. What varied, strange and wonderful heroes, from one-armed environmental terrorists to&nbsp;skittish sky pirates and fading underwater football stars. There is even a character in one game who is essentially just two remote-controlled cats on top of each other, and those who have played it will know that is even more awesome than it sounds.Though a few creatures reappear in every game – such as floating pink nut addicts the Moogles, or the elusive, ostrich-like Chocobos – on the whole each stars a weird new world of unique cities, cultures and monsters, some high fantasy, others sci-fi or steam-punk, all beautifully and painstakingly realised. Even the two-dimensional pixel-art originals share a recognisable aesthetic. Each instalment also debuts new equipment, levelling and combat systems, though all are variations on past themes. Fighting in Final Fantasy tends to be slow, tactical and intelligent. There is no need for speedy thumbs and hair-trigger reflexes, just the ability&nbsp;to kit out your team for battle and pick calmly from a menu the right move for the right opponent. Your "mad beat-em-up skillz" will not help&nbsp;you here.Loyal regulars will know all this. They will also know thatFinal Fantasy XIIIwas something of a disappointment. Fans complained that it was too linear, too cinematic, too confusing and at the same time too simple – that it ditched many of the series' best features and introduced very little to compensate. All in all, it was an unlikely candidate for a "sequel", or whatever the correct term for a sequel to the 13th game in a series is. (Twelfth reimagining, once removed?)The good news isFinal Fantasy XIII-2(PS3/Xbox 360)– out in the UK on 3 February – looks to have righted many of the original's wrongs. Maps, stories and conversations offer multiple paths, encouraging player choice and exploration. Equipment has been overhauled and improved, and the levelling system streamlined. Combat is more active, and less frustrating: unlike in XIII, the game doesn't end when the party leader is knocked out, and "Cinematic Actions" – of the form "Tap A now!" – giveboss battlesin particular a faster, more frantic feel, without punishing ruminative players too unduly.The new monster ally system, which sees our heroes do battle shoulder-to-shoulder with a captured beast of the player's choice, owes more than a little to Pikachu and friends, but adds a further tactical depth to the game. Once you get past the fact that you have got some great, fat, fire-breathing rhino-thing on your team, your monster ally becomes as beloved a party member as, ahem, new guy Noel.Yep, afraid so. There is that: they have named the new hero Noel, which clearly plays better in territories where it doesn't conjure the attendant surname "Edmonds". Still, bearded gameshow host associations aside, this Noel is pleasingly mysterious, in a nonsensical, time-travelling sort of way, and returning hero Serah now vanquishes foes with the aid of a Moogle that transforms itself into a crossbow, which is&nbsp;arguably just as cool as a remote-controlled double-cat. If not cooler. I&nbsp;know no higher praise than that.XIII-2 is unlikely to go down as the finest chapter in the Final Fantasy saga, but it should be a welcome return&nbsp;to form for veterans, and a far better introduction to a much-loved series than its uninspiring predecessor. And if you do find you are hooked then, well, if you can spare six months,&nbsp;PS2s are £25 online, padlocks are a fiver, and families are easily&nbsp;replaced.
Apple has unveiled a glimpse of the classroom of the future, launching a new version of its iBooks software that will allow publishers to create interactive textbooks for iPad-owning students.The new textbooks offer a host of functions which experts say will transform teaching – including images that turn into slideshows, links from the body text into glossaries, and multiple choice tests which are instantly assessed.Students will be able to create notes by highlighting text with their fingers, and then review all of their notes in one place – instantly creating a tailormade set of study cards.The price of the books – $14.99 or less – will also be a crucial factor in a market frequently criticised for its high prices.According to Steve Jobs biographer Walter Isacsson, the Apple founder spent the last years of his life looking at how the company could shake up the textbook market.Apple unveiled the textbooks on Thursday at an event at the Guggenheim Museum in New York."These are beautiful books. Interactive, gorgeous, fun, engaging," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of world-wide marketing.The company also released iBook Author, which will allow people to create their own interactive textbooks.Initially the books will only be available in the US. Textbook approval is a lengthy processes in the US but Apple said it has struck deals with major publishers including McGraw Hill and Pearson.Among the launch titles will be two high school textbooks – Biology and Environmental Science – from Pearson and five from McGraw-Hill.While textbooks, especially for university students, are expensive in the US, iPads start at $499. Michael Gartenberg, analyst at Gartner, said price was a "significant factor" but that the price of iPads was likely to come down."Even at $499, over four years of a college degree that's probably less than students spend on coffee," he said. "I think this is a very exciting development. Apple have put out the tools that will start to bring education into a digital world."He said he expected Amazon, the world's largest book seller and owner of the iPad rival Kindle Fire, would also make moves on the digital textbook market."It's going to take time for a generation of teachers to adapt to this but it will happen," he said.Seb Schmoller, chief executive of the Association for Learning Technology, a charity which promotes the effective use of technology in classrooms, said: "Students, particularly in the US, pay a lot for textbooks even if they manage to buy them second hand. Provided they own an iPad, then Apple's textbook service will provide a much more interactive and probably pedagogically more effective experience than conventional textbooks at a much lower price."Digital textbooks will account for just 6% of education-textbook sales this year, according to textbook distributor MBS Direct Digital, but that is up from 3% in 2011 and number is expected to rise to more than 50% by 2020.The digital textbook had long been a dream of Jobs's. At a dinner in early 2011, he told News Corp chairman Rupert Murdoch that paper textbooks could be made obsolete by the iPad.The interactive features of the e-textbooks have the potential to revolutionise classrooms and transform the role of the teacher, education experts suggested.Louise Robinson, president of the Girls' School Association, which represents 179 independent girls schools in the UK, said: "It is exciting. You can annotate your textbooks so children can create their own study aids. That seems a really clever way for students to learn."The glossary [function] too – there's a number of times when you go through a textbook and a child doesn't know a word that you've covered the day before. It's so easy now to go back and say what that word means. It takes away from the 'regurgitating' side of teaching."While exams continue to use pen and paper, classrooms will be resistant to change, Robinson said. However, exam boards are beginning to look at computerised tests which can be customised for individual candidates. The technology will lead to a new relationship in the classroom, Robinson suggested."It's going to be a different model where you don't expect children to have it in their minds, because they have it at their fingertips."I think we will move away from one teacher in front of a class of 25-30, where the teacher is not quite a facilitator but leading the learner through the path."Miles Berry, senior lecturer in ICT education at Roehampton University, highlighted the book authoring tool unveiled at the same event. Berry said: "This is something Apple has done all along - putting the tools of production in the hands of the people. There is more that one can do with textbooks in this form – it makes it easier for teachers themselves and students to create that sort of content. That's a really exciting prospect."There are social division issues here. Is it going to be possible to borrow these books from school libraries? Is the school going to be the organisation to provide these books to students? What about those who can't afford to buy the books themselves?"
Seminal first-person shooter Doom disappeared from the Xbox Live Arcade a year ago when Activision's rights to the game expired. Now, however, this retro treat is back online courtesy of new owner ZeniMax, and available via the XBLA marketplace (if you can find it on the new menu – ha ha) for just 400 Microsoft points.Should you indulge a nostalgic whim and download Id's masterpiece? Yes, of course you should. If you haven't played for several years, you'll get to enjoy the almost hallucinatory bitmap visuals, the wonders of the pseudo-3D engine (no looking up or down!) and the thrills of a serious shooter which includes amid its menagerie of satanic monsters, a floating tomato.More seriously, you'll get to appreciate something that's brilliantly illustrated inthis comedic image, which, if you have failed to click on where I just wrote 'this comedic image' shows two game maps, one from Doom and one from a generic 2010 FPS, which is just a single line interspersed with cut-scenes.Naturally, the diagram made it on to a range of discussion forums, where gamers talked about the relative merits of old skool FPS design (based around exploring, retrieving keys, re-tracing steps and locating secret areas by hammering the space bar while grinding against walls) and modern FPS design (based around following someone through a corridor). Is it really that simple?No. Doom's map design wasn't perfect – at times you felt like you were trapped in an enormous skinner box, performing mindless tasks to open trap doors. There have been unkind comparisons with Pac-Man, too.It is also worth a look to remind ourselves that this blocky-looking game was once the bête noire of the religious right in the US, dubbed a mass murder simulator by author David Grossman. It was also Doom II that figured inWired's storyabout the US marines using first-person shooters in training. To be fair, it was amodifiedversion of Doom II. They called it Marine Doom.Doom, then, is a socio-cultural artifact, not just a silly game where you shoot barely tangible demons. It should also be played in conjunction with reading Masters of Doom, David Kushner's book about Id, which revealed the genius and madness that went into the company's astonishing early games.But, anyway, what areyourmemories of Doom? Will you be tempted to return to hell?
First there was Facebook the internet phenomenon. Then came Facebook the&nbsp;movie, in the form of The Social Network. There's even been Facebook the musical.Now Mark Zuckerberg is about to get a more unusual homage: a nightclub in the remote Brazilian Amazon named after his social media site.The concept is the brainchild of Humbert Camacho, a 30-year-old businessman from Epitaciolândia, a small town on Brazil's border with Bolivia."The Facebook concept is about sharing ideas, adventures, friendships, parties and photos with your friends," Camacho said during a visit to his club, which opened on Thursday."So what we wanted to do was to build a nightclub with this concept, where people could come and share things with their friends, spend a cool night, sharing pictures, experiences and have fun."A graduate of the Universidad Católica Boliviana in Bolivia, Camacho had been aiming for a career in law but ditched these plans in favour of opening his first nightclub, the Discoteca Insomnio, in the Bolivian city of Cobija, just over the border from Epitaciolândia.Insomnio now attracts more than 1,200 partygoers each weekend, according to the entrepreneur and part-time singer. The son of a Bolivian father and Brazilian mother, Camacho now hopes to replicate its success in Brazil."We thought about opening a branch here in Brazil. But we were looking for a name that was trendy, that people would talk about," he said. "We thought: 'Facebook: everyone talks about Facebook.' It's about having fun, poking and sharing."A spokesperson for Facebook said it had no official comment on the nightclub but expressed surprise at its existence. "Is it really in the Amazon?"Growing access to computers and high-speed internet connections – the result of a commodity-fuelled economic boom and increased government investment – has helped Facebook explode in Brazil over the past two years.The boom has even spread to the remote Amazon state of Acre, where the Facebook club is located on a nondescript boulevard lined with supermarkets, snooker halls, street bars and a police station.This month Brazil was named as the country with the fourth highest number of Facebook users,with some 35m profiles at the end of 2011 compared with 8m in 2010."We want high-speed internet for all Brazilians … in the countryside or in the cities, living in rich neighbourhoods or in the suburbs, [in] large and small cities," Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff,said last year.Internet use is now widespread in Acre state's major towns and cities, although in one local online newspaper – O Alto Acre –has complained that coverage is sometimes unreliable."Before [internet] access was tricky around here, now it is improving," said Camacho, who claimed that word about his club – pronounced Facey-Bookey in Brazilian Portuguese – was spreading fast on social media."The expectations are huge. People are passing by and taking lots of photographs, they ask when we're opening, what it will be like. All that people in Epitaciolândia … and Cobija are talking about is Facebook," he said.Facebook revellers in the Brazilian Amazon can look forward to a local DJ playing electronic music and a Bolivian band whose repertoire ranges from country music to samba and even covers of a 1990s Brazilian rock group called The Killer Boobs. "The band is very versatile," Camacho promised.The nightclub will also have its own community on Facebook."We are going to have our own official Facebook page so people coming to the nightclub can share pictures in real time," he said. "People who can't make it will be able to sit at home and see what the party is like."
I suspect I know what your answer will be, but does anyone still make a laptop with a 4:3 aspect ratio screen? My six-year-old 14.1in Toshiba is starting to fail. Other than browsing and email, it's used almost entirely for text and spreadsheet work. The extra depth of a 4:3 screen is ideal for both of these. I've tried widescreens, but the depth at 16:9 is much less. To match the existing 9in, I'd need an 18.5in screen. Also, I'd like the screen to be non-reflective matte. Otherwise, I don't watch films or play games, so most modern machines would surpass what I have. Any hope?Richard LawsToshiba and probably most other laptops from around that time had non-reflective 4:3 screens, but the industry switched quite quickly to PCs with glossy 16:9 widescreens. That might have had something to do with changes in the TV industry, where sales of widescreen LCD TVs were booming. Also, the PC market was still expanding beyond business users and targeting consumers who wanted to watch DVDs on their laptops. Either way, the cost of widescreen LCDs kept falling as manufacturing volumes went up, and now 4:3 screens have almost completely disappeared.The good news is that you can still get that sort of laptop from Fujitsu and perhaps other business-oriented suppliers. The bad news is that these machines are harder to find and usually more expensive than mass market laptops from HP, Dell, Lenovo, Acer, Asus and Samsung.But there are two issues to consider. The first is the physical size of the screen, where bigger is usually better … unless you have to lug it around. The second is the screen resolution, which is the number of pixels (picture elements) on the screen. If the screen size stays the same, then increasing the resolution will make text and images smaller. If the resolution stays the same, then increasing the screen size will make text and images bigger. You need to decide whether you actually need bigger characters, or more lines of characters. For example, is it important to see 38 lines of a spreadsheet on screen at once, rather than 32, or whatever?You are correct in noting that you will need a much bigger widescreen to get the same physical depth as you have today. However, if you buy a laptop with a standard widescreen, you probably will not lose any resolution. Laptops like your Toshiba typically ran Microsoft Windows XP with a 4:3 screen resolution of 1024 x 768 pixels, which is known as XGA (eXtended Graphics Array). Today's standard resolution is 1366 x 768 (WXGA) on a 16:9 widescreen laptop, so the vertical resolution is exactly the same. You will get the same number of lines of text in a word processor and rows in a spreadsheet, though the text may be slightly smaller, depending on the size of the screen.Since you have a 14.1in screen at the moment, I would expect a laptop that shows 1366 x 768 pixels a 15.6in screen to be an acceptable compromise. This is currently the most common option, and generally the best value for money. Also, Windows 7 lets you make text bigger. (The options under "Make text and other screen items larger or smaller" are "Medium 125%" and "Larger 150%".)Of course, you can now buy laptops with even more vertical resolution. If that appeals, look for something with a screen resolution of 1440 x 900 (WXGA+), which is a 16:10 ratio, or 1920 x 1080 (Full HD). These resolutions are more common on 17in screens, which means wrestling with a much bigger, bulkier machine.You will usually pay extra for a laptop with a 17.3in screen, but prices have come down a lot since you bought your Toshiba. For example, you can buy a Lenovo G770 laptop with a 17.3in 1600 x 900 widescreen for£469.99 from Amazon.co.uk, which compares with£399.97for the Lenovo G570 version with a 15.6in 1366 x 768 widescreen.My son uses a higher-spec Lenovo with a 17.3in screen, so I can confirm that the screen is not unbearably shiny and that the keyboard is above average quality. However, you should look at some 17.3in laptops in a shop to make sure you are happy with the size of text on the screen.If you really want something closer to what you have now, one option is theFujitsu Lifebook P701, which has a 12.1in WXGA (1280 x 800) anti-glare screen. However, this is sold as a business ultraportable and, like old IBM X series, lacks a DVD drive. A P701 with an Intel Core i3-2310M processor and 2GB of memory costs£501.85 from Amazon.co.uk(£306.69 off), though I notice the blurb fails to mention the screen resolution. Searching forP701XMF011GBwill find other sources.It seems to me that you would be paying more and losing out in other areas for the sake of 32 extra pixels when compared with a mainstream 1366 x 768 widescreen laptop.
Google is adding information about train routes and time tables to its existing route planning tool so users can plan the best route from one location to another.Google Mapsis collaborating withthetrainline.comto allow travellers to search for train journeys across mainland Britain by incorporating information about more than 2,500 railway stations and 170,000 routes nationwide, as well as 8,000 bus stops and more than 250 tube stations.The website also gives users full information on walking directions and some bus timetables for connections, and users can click through to thetrainline to search for and book tickets.Richard Rowson, product development director at thetrainline.com, said: "We want to make sure consumers are always able to consider rail options when making a journey, and this innovation will help train travellers nationwide to do that by planning their route more easily."The launch has  been timed with an eye on the London Olympics when 31 million tourists are predicted to arrive in the UK. Google Maps is available in more than 50 languages, so tourists will also be able to combine walking with transit directions on Google Maps to help find their way around the country.VisitBritainchairman Christopher Rodrigues said: "We want to encourage visitors to explore the whole of Britain. With the Olympics less than 200 days away Google's initiative is exciting news. Millions of visitors plan their itinerary using Google Maps and this additional information will act as a catalyst and inspire them to discover all that is wonderful about our great country."How it worksTo access public transport information from a desktop, users should visitmaps.google.co.uk, click "Get directions" and enter your origin and destination locations. Then click the train icon for public transport directions and easily viewable train routes on the map. Users can also use the desktop service on their mobiles, but so far there is no word on whether the Google Maps app on smartphones will include the new developements.Customers will be given the best route by rail and full details including departure and arrival times, journey duration and which train company operates the service. Users can click through to thetrainline.com homepage to search for and book tickets for their journey.We used the service to compare the route from the Guardian offices in north London to Edinburgh. Google suggests it would take six hours and 52 minutes to drive to our destination, but the same journey by train would take four hours and 29 minutes using an East Coast train from King's Cross. We double-checked the information on thetrainline.com website and it produced the same train from King's Cross.Driving from Brighton to Birmingham, via the M23, M25 and M40, would take two hours and 57 minutes, but Google says this would rise to at least 3.5 hours – and as much as three hours and 49 minutes – if travelling by train. • Do you have a well-worn route that you travel? Try out Google's service and let us know the difference between driving and getting the train.
A selection of 15 apps for you today:WikipediaTalk about timely. The week Wikipedia went dark for a day to protest against the proposed SOPA and PIPA anti-piracy legislation in the US, the site also got an official Android app for the first time. Articles can be saved to read later or offline, with sharing features too.AndroidMichael OwenA good example of keeping up with the Joneses. Or rather the Ferdinands. Rio had his own app first, but now his Manchester United team-mate Michael Owen has an iPhone app too. It promises news, videos shot by Owen himself, photos and tweets.iPhoneSoul CaliburNamco's famous beat 'em up franchise has made its debut on iOS, with a conversion of the original Soul Calibur arcade game. 19 characters, all their moves, and plans to add new modes in future updates.iPhone / iPadOsmos HDOn iOS, Osmos was a marvel: an absorbing game of, well, absorbing spheres. It was always particularly good on the larger-screened iPad, so Android tablet owners should rejoice at its release for Google's platform.AndroidTribeTribe wants to make Facebook a bit more like Google+, layering the latter's Circles functionality on top of the Facebook social graph. In other words, it gets you to sort your Facebook friends into "tribes" to separate their updates and control who sees what. Much like Facebook's own friend groups, to be honest.iPhoneNikoSulake is the company behind virtual world Habbo Hotel, but its newest product is an iOS game called Niko. It's a platform game that ties into its parent world: rewards unlocked in the game can be redeemed in Habbo Hotel, including badges and a trophy.iPhone / iPadFourFourTwo Africa Cup of Nations Stats ZoneFootball magazine FourFourTwo has teamed up with stats provider Opta again for an iPhone app tracking every player and team in the African Cup of Nations tournament. It follows an existing app focusing on the English Premier League and the European Champions League.iPhoneTextTwist 2Word game TextTwist has a sequel for Windows Phone, getting players to shuffle letters and form words against the clock.Windows PhoneAsh II: ShadowsKonami's Ash roleplaying game has a sequel on iOS, with revamped graphics and controls, and plans to launch new downloadable chapters in the coming months. A separate "Gold Edition" includes free access to those, whereas this Silver Edition will presumably charge through in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadEllison the ElephantOceanhouse Media's latest book-app for kids focuses on an elephant who can't trumpet, but can only toot. But it turns out to be quite a jazzy toot. The app offers voice narration, but also encourages children to read for themselves. And talking of jazz...Android / iPhone / iPadJazz: Trump's JourneyAlas, nothing to do with Donald. This is a platform game inspired by the life of Louis Armstrong, released by indie developer Bulkypix. It sees you running through New Orleans with the ability to "use your trumpet to stop time".iPhone / iPadHatchiMissing Tamagotchi virtual pets? Oh. Well, for those that are, UK studio Portable Pixels has a lovingly-created iPhone game taking inspiration from the toy. Hatchi needs to be fed, cleaned and played with, before growing up into one of a range of monsters.iPhoneFandor MoviesThis iPad app is only available in the US for now, but it's a very interesting idea. Fandor is a movie subscription service focused on independent films and documentaries. It costs $2.99 a week, $9.99 a month or $99.99 a year in the US.iPadTwonky MusicPacketVideo's Twonky Music app is already available on other smartphones, but is now live for BlackBerry too. It plays songs stored on the handset, as well as streaming radio stations with tweets, artist biographies and news pulled in for songs as they play.BlackBerryScramble Helper With FriendsWant a sign of the mobile times? There's an unofficial cheat app for Zynga's Scramble With Friends game that gets you to take a screenshot of the letter-board, then tells you all the words in order of score or length. For shame!iPhone
Charlie Kindel worked at Microsoft for 21 years, latterly on Windows Mobile and then on Windows Phone, where he was in charge of getting third-party apps on the platform, beforeleaving the company last August. He thinks Windows Phone is "the BEST product Microsoft has ever built". He is now running his own mobile startup business. This post, whichoriginally appeared on his blog, is reused with permission. You can find him on Twitter at@ckindel.Android: in pieces?The fragmentation of Android is very real and very problematic for end users, developers, mobile operators, device manufacturers, and Google. However fragmentation doesnotmean Android is going to "die" or "fail" as some seem to think.On the contrary, I think we can count on Android playing a significant role in our world for a long, long time. I also am confident thatGoogle has already lost control of Android and has zero chance of regaining it. This post explains why I'm so confident about this.TL;DR• Next time you say/hear "fragmentation sucks/is not a problem" consider for whom.• Fragmentation will cause Android to continue to grow.• Google has lost control of Android due to fragmentation.You'll (hopefully) note that I intentionally separate Android from Google. Repeat after me:Android is not Google and Google is not Android. Android has become something that is independent of Google (or anyone else, for that matter).Let's break down this whole mobile platform fragmentation thing. Last weekend, Jon Evans of Techcrunchapologisedto MG Siegler for disagreeing about the relative quality of the Android and iOS developer tools. In that post, Jon argued that Android device fragmentation is relatively minor for developers, but OS fragmentation is a real problem:Android's fragmentation has become a giant millstone for Android app development, leaving it worryingly behind its iOS equivalent. It's not the panoply of screen sizes and formats; the Android layout engine is actually quite good at minimising that annoyance. It's not the frequent instances of completely different visual behavior on two phones running exactly the same version of Android; again, annoying, but relatively minor. Device fragmentation is just an irritation.OS fragmentation, though, is an utter disaster.–Jon EvansJon points out two of the five axes of fragmentation:DeviceandOS. The other three areUser Interface,MarketplaceandServices.The Five Axes of Mobile Platform Fragmentationare:• User Interface• Device• Operating System• Marketplace• ServiceFor a mobile platform, a different degree of fragmentation can exist along each of these axes. For example, Apple's iOS platform has almost no fragmentation along the Marketplace axis because Apple has been so hardcore about ensuring that the iTunes marketplace is the only marketplace supported. A relatively small amount of fragmentation on the User Interface axis exists because Apple has been extremely consistent with UI. Likewise there is a bit of device fragmentation in iOS due to different generations of iPhones having different hardware capabilities (such as a front-facing camera).The fragmentation of Android is severe, across all of these axes,regardless of how Eric Schmidt tries to spin it. And because of the complexity of the mobile ecosystem (and the other ecosystems Android is part of), the effect is more multiplicative than additive.Revisiting the Mobile EcosystemIn my "Windows Phone is Superior; Why Hasn't it Taken Off?" post, I broke the mobile ecosystem into its market sides:Developers,Users,Carriers,Device ManufacturersandOS Providers(see how I put Developers first? Wouldn't wantsomeone to think I don't believe they are important, for heaven's sake). As I pointed out, the mobile ecosystem is highly complex and, due to the desires and behaviours of the various sides, is not efficient. There is not enough clean value exchange between several sides of the market, and too much friction.But regardless of how virtuous the virtuous cycles within the mobile ecosystem are, it is clear each side of the ecosystem is affected differently by each fragmentation axis. In some cases, some combinations of fragmentation/market side are actuallypositive(one could use the word "diversity" instead of fragmentation in these cases). In many other cases fragmentation isbad. Bad with a capital B, in fact. In still other cases, fragmentation can be a double-edged sword for a player on one side of the market.Examples of positive fragmentation (diversity):OS fragmentation: positive outcomesMarket SideAxis of FragmentationPositive valueUsersDeviceSome users like physical keyboards. Some don’t. Some like pink. Some don’t.CarriersUser InterfaceCarriers want to differentiate from competitors, and differentiate within the products they carry. Carriers want their brands to pervade the experience.Device ManufacturersServiceDevice manufacturers want higher margins & recurring revenue that can come from providing services such as search & location.Examples of negative fragmentation:OS fragmentation: negativeMarket SideAxis of FragmentationNegative valueDevelopersOSDevelopers want to be able to reach as many end users as possible. Lots of OS variants means either investing in more dev/test or limiting market.CarriersUser InterfaceEach new UI requires carrier’s customization to have to be ported. Raises costs. (Note this is an example of fragmentation being a double edged sword in some cases).UsersMarketplaceEnd users want to be able to discover and acquire apps from as few places as possible.Any commentary about fragmentation either needs to include all market sides and all axes, or else be very specific about which aspect is being discussed. Jon's article above is clearly about developers. You can obviously take the tables above and expand them to cover the entire 5x6 matrix. But even if you did, and tried to document all 60 rows (30 instances, two sides each), you'd quickly discover the following: not all players on a market side are the same. They differ in the value they provide and the value they expect to extract from others.This is most pronounced on the OS providers side, and this gets to the core of the point of this post:Google lost control of Android a long time ago and nothing it does will allow it to regain control. In fact, almost anything I tries will simply increase fragmentation along most fragmentation axes.Remember we are talking about a complex multi-sided market (6 sides) with high-impedance between key sides of the market (see my "superior" post). The OS providers side of the market is dominated by Apple and Google. Microsoft is serious about being a third player, and I believe it will push, push, push until it is. There's also RIM and a few others, but it's safe to ignore them here (Cue Scoble: "Charlie says Bada is dead"). [Tech Editor's note: Three days after this post was originally written,Samsung announced that it would open-source bada, and tie it into Meego.]OS Providers' Perspectives•Apple– Makes the vast majority of its money by getting paid ~$150 up front from mobile operators per iPhone sold. The high-margin iPhone business will becomes a smaller relative portion of the overall Apple business. Apple is motivated to keep propping up this high-margin business as long as possible and to start leveraging its significant market share to grow revenue from services. Apple has caused an imbalance in the ecosystem by cutting third parties out of the device manufacturer side of the market.•Google– Invested in Android believing it could own mobile search like it owns web search by tying Android to Google search. At one point, believed it coulddisrupt the carriers(the link is from November 2006, when Eric Schmidt suggested we'd take free phones in return for watching targeted ads). It got slapped back down, hard. Now, the desire to continue to invest in Android is still about search, but also about owning a social graph (via Google+) and being pissed as hell that Apple is so successful. Google is deeply frustrated with the fragmentation of Android and has been trying all sorts of tactics to rein it in.•Microsoft– Feels stuck between the Apple &amp; Google models. Going it alone, ala Apple, is not possible due to the fact that no carrier will ever let anyone else do what Apple did to them again. The Google model is way too similar to what the old Windows Mobile was like (irony much?). Microsoft sees mobile as a means to an end (as Google does). But the end is different. Where Google has only really one service it can monetise via mobile, Microsoft has several (Office, Xbox LIVE, etc). In addition, Microsoft has a cash cow that is at serious risk due to Microsoft not being a key player in mobile: Windows. Microsoft must be relevant in mobile or Windows revenues will plummet because everything is going mobile. I think Microsoft really likes the fact itgenerates revenue from Android, but I doubt it has that much impact on the bottom line.Only Appledirectlyprofits from being an OS provider in the mobile ecosystem. For Google, it is a cost centre. Apple is also the only OS provider that leaves device manufacturers out in the cold.Smartphone device manufacturers now have two choices: Android or Windows Phone 7. As I noted in my "superior" post, Microsoft's strategy of focusing on the quality of the user experience (which tends to minimise fragmentation along most axes) is counter to what device manufactures really want. I am glad Microsoft is following this strategy; it is pretty much the only strategy that makes sense given the hole they dug with Windows Mobile. But this strategydoescause friction between Microsoft and device manufacturers/carriers when ideally you'd not want friction.Google, on the other hand, gave device manufacturers exactly what they wanted with Android: Extreme flexibility and an open source license. That model is like crack cocaine for the likes of Samsung and HTC. They have had years to get addicted to it and, from their perspective (selling boatloads of devices) it's working just dandy for them.The carriers tend to encourage the device manufacturers here. They demand a variety of devices. They demand differentiation from their competitors. They control the marketing money spent on advertising. When Verizon writes something like $10bn+ worth of cheques every year for devices, who do you think they write them to? Hint: it's not Google.Google's optionsGoogle has some tactics that it might try (is trying) to use to rein in fragmentation. None of these will have a significant impact; in fact, most will make fragmentationworse.•Investing in the Nexus brand. Nexus is Google's "pure" Android play. The idea is a phone with a more rigidly defined user experience, more consistent hardware, the latest OS with a consistent upgrade policy, a single marketplace, and consistent (Google endorsed) services. I love this strategy from an end-user's perspective. Nexus phones will sell fairly well. But the numbers will pale in comparison to the non-Nexus phones sold. But Nexus will only be "fairly" successful because it is counter to what the carriers want and every dollar Google spends on advertising it incents the device manufactures and carriers to spend more on advertising their differentiated products. Nexus actually worsens fragmentation along most axes by introducing yet another "Android model" into the mix.•Wishing Everyone Will/Would Upgrade. This actually seems to be Google's primary tactic. AsEric Schmidt said last week: "With Android, Google's 'core strategy' is to get everyone on Ice Cream Sandwich, the latest version of the platform." Google is trying to do this two ways:•Holding Back Access to Google Services. "Follow our rules or you can't use Google Search." This just pisses Google's partners off and smells like anti-trust. Not that it matters, because Google can't really do this because there are enough reasonable alternatives to Google's services now. In addition, the battle of the social graph is causing Google to push Google+ everywhere. What strategy tax (that is: when big organisations are forced to make non-ideal decisions because of their profit motive) at Google do you think will trump the other: Android consistency or Google+ everywhere?•Holding Back Access to the Latest Version of Android. "Follow our rules or you don't get Ice Cream Sandwich, etc…" Uh, it's open source. Fork. More fragmentation. Simply. Will. Not. Work.None of these tactics will work, primarily because none of the other sides of the market have any motivation to help (other than end users, who would benefit, but consumers don't really have enough power). Secondarily, these tactics won't work because Android has already been so fragmented and such a market success (in terms of units).The early fragmentation of Android (across all axes) was the proverbialcamel's nose under the tent– the beginning of the slippery slope.Buying Motorola Mobility, under-investing curating the marketplace, redesigning the user interface every release, not forcing the device manufacturers/carriers to consistently upgrade, and Google's monopolistic behaviour with searchgot the camel into the tent up to its first hump.Android's massive unit growth meansthe camel is now already IN the tent. (Which means,following the old proverb, that who/whatever was inside the tent before is now outside in the cold.) Android has become so successful that Google has lost control of it.And this, in turn, means Android, as a brand, will have a significantly diminished value over time.Oh, and if after reading the above tome, you still don't agree. Considerthis article about television. Remember, Android is not just about mobile…I'd love to hear your comments. (There areplenty on the original post, too.) Keep it clean…
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRegarding the Scope of Apple's Education Initiative &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber on Apple's expected swoop into education on Thursday:"I'm guessing Apple's pitch to the textbook companies is something like this: 'Digital transformation of your industry is inevitable. Here's our plan; we'd like you to come along for the ride. But if you choose not to, we won't hesitate to leave you behind.'"Post-SOPA: the path forward for addressing piracy &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaA long read, but worth chewing over in full:"These measures won't put an end to online piracy; to do so, you would need a 'Net so architected around control and authentication that it would hardly resemble the 'Net we have today. Can a plan on the lines proposed cause the jolly pirates running The Pirate Bay to scuttle their boat? Possibly not. Will it provide a simple way to take down specific live streams of sporting events in real time? No."The story behind Rupert Murdoch's rants about Google and SOPA &gt;&gt; ForbesAt one point, according to sources with knowledge of the events, the presenter [at CES] was explaining the different ways to find content within Google TV: You can go through a "Shows and Movies" app that catalogs offerings from Netflix, YouTube, Amazon, etc., or else you can use standard browser-based Google Search. Murdoch asked what would happen if he were to search for a particular blockbuster film, and the presenter explained that the results would be the same ones you'd find in any Google search. Including links to content-pirating sites? Murdoch pressed. Yes, unless those sites have already been removed from search results in response to takedown requests, the presenter confirmed.Murdoch took exception to that answer. Then he took to Twitter.Given his existing antipathy to Google, unsurprising.Why the video pros are moving away from Apple &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Which came first: Apple's creative pro market shrinking, which might have led to dramatic changes in Final Cut Pro; or Apple's cavalier attitude toward legacy features, which might have frightened video editors? According to the professionals we spoke to, there was already signs of an industry shift to Avid before FCPX came along, but Apple still had a very loyal and dedicated user base that it's now turning away from."'The perception here is that Apple is more concerned with selling iPads and iPhones than they are with the people who have stuck with them since the 90's, the professional editors and VFX people,' said Jude Mull, who works at a post-production facility in Hollywood that processes and digitizes some of your favorite TV shows."Final Cut Pro X is looking for professionals like iMovie 8 did for amateurs - a refit too far. Professionals have alternatives, however - such as Avid.Grooveshark subpoenas Digital Music News for confidential whistleblower Information &gt;&gt; Digital Music News"Grooveshark attorneys are now exerting heavy legal pressure on Digital Music News, with the goal of outing a very problematic whistleblower.  Just this weekend, our offices received a mountain of subpoena paperwork from Grooveshark attorneys McPherson Rane LLC, a Los Angeles-based firm headed by celebrity lawyer Ed McPherson.  The aggressive and broad-reaching subpoena is designed to force the disclosure of the identity of the anonymous whistleblower".That would be the commenter who alleged last October that Grooveshark employees are assigned a predetermined amount of material to upload - perhaps illicitly - to the site. If something "known" gets removed from the site, the commenter said, the internal task is to re-upload it. Digital Music News is resisting. Grooveshark, meanwhile, is being sued by all the major record companies.Tell Gove what you think (the easy way) &gt;&gt; Emma Mulqueeny"This is a very important consultation and opens a whole new door to open education and should not be ignored. But the consultation is in the formal format and requires you to answer specific questions, and not see what anyone else has said."So, Craig Snowden @CraigSnowedIn, a 17 year old developer from Scotland who answered a twitter call to open the consultation, popped it into Google docs."In Google docs you can read and comment, and see others' comments, and properly understand what this might be saying."Now, this is not the formal process, but there is no reason why the comments cannot be fed into the formal process and I will volunteer to do that."All of a part with the Guardian's Digital Literacy campaign - get stuck in.iPad still on top as tablet competition heats up &gt;&gt; Boy Genius Report"While the iPad's lead in the tablet market is obvious, it's becoming more clear there's strong competition for market share below it. The Amazon Kindle Fire represented an average of 2.4 ad impressions on Chitikas network for every 100 iPad impressions, but RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook wasn't far behind; it viewed an average of 1.8 ad impressions for every 100 iPad impressions on Chitika's mobile ad network."Wow, that sounds incredible! Really hotting up!Chitika's graph for tablet ad impressions, this time WITH the iPad... &gt;&gt; FlickrOh, OK then. We'll stop doing the BGR links now.Did Google-run computers taint rival mapping project? &gt;&gt; CNET News"Google had this to say about the OpenStreetMap incident: 'The two people who made these changes were contractors acting on their own behalf while on the Google network. They are no longer working on Google projects.'"And a source familiar with Google's actions said the two were terminated because they used Google's network for unauthorized activity, which is against Google's rules, not because of what they actually did on their own initiative."So yes, they were people working for Google. But they weren't doing this for Google, if that's clear. They weren't "Google-run computers"; they were Google-briefly-employed staff.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
