When historians of the future look back on the emergence of 3D home entertainment, they may well point out Nintendo's new handheld console as the minute it all went mainstream. Revealed amid much hype and fanfare at last year's E3 event in Los Angeles, theNintendo 3DShas become one of the most hotly anticipated games machines in history, attracting more than 100,000 pre-orders in the UK alone.But what is glasses-free 3D actually like, and what else does this chunky box of tricks have to offer? Should you be rushing out on Friday (or midnight on Thursday if you're especially committed) to buy your own?Well, let's flip one open and have a darn good look…The hardwareThere's no getting away from it – boasting a diminutive dual-screen clamshell design and a handy stylus for the touch-sensitive lower display, the Nintendo 3DS looks an awful lot like the Nintendo DS. It's slightly heavier and a bit smaller than the DSi and has a rather tacky gloss finish, which makes it look even more toy-like, but this is very much yanked from the same mould as the manufacturer's previous handheld series.Inside, there are some important changes to the controller set-up. On the left of the bottom screen is the new analogue thumb pad, which slides pleasingly around, providing a greater array of movements than the old cross-shaped DS d-pad. This works especially well with games that offer a full 360 degrees of movement, like the flight sim Pilotwings Resort. Also, just in case you need it, the 3DS does have a d-pad, too – though it is tiny and a bit awkward for those of us with thumbs like Glamorgan sausages.On the right are the usual Y, X, B and A buttons for gaming, while other functions like Select and Start have been moved under the screen along with a new Home button, which returns you to the 3DS main menu, pausing your game or application while you're there. The whole system handles a lot more like the PS3 XMB or Xbox 360 menu – or indeed, a smartphone – and it's clearly an attempt to make the 3DS feel more grown-up and multi-functional.Around the sides, you'll find an SD card slot (perfect for saving photos, music and other stuff), a slot for game carts (it'll play both 3DS and DS titles), a stylus port for the system's neat telescopic pointer, two really small shoulder buttons and a headphones socket. On the right side of the upper screen there's a slider control, allowing users to adjust the intensity of the 3D effect – you can move it all the way down to 2D if you fancy, which is handy if you DO start suffering from stereoscopic sickness, or if you want to hand it over to your kids to play (Nintendo recommends that children under six do not play 3D titles.)The technologyThere's not a huge amount of information available about the tech specs of the 3DS, though it uses an ARM processor (just like most smartphones and Sony's forthcoming NGP console) and features a motion sensor and gyroscope for movement controls. The 3.5-inch top screen offers a resolution of 800 x 240, but because of the way the 3D technology works, it's actually 400 x 240 twice: each scene is rendered two times – one for each eye.The 3DS employs a parallax barrier set-up, which consists of an LCD display overlaid by a film lined with precise slits – these direct slightly different images to the left and right eye. You need to hold the device directly in front of your face, at comfortable reading height, to get the most out of the effect. While it copes with the odd jerk of a moving bus or train, shifting less than a centimetre out of the sweet spot can be enough to make the image to go flat and blurry – especially with games that use a larger depth of field like Pilot Wings.When it's all lined up correctly, however, the stereoscopic visuals are immediately obvious, and can be rather magical. In Ridge Racer, helicopters and airplanes zoom overhead with convincing height and speed, while in Nintendogs, the animals tumble up and paw the screen, almost nodding their furry little heads out of it. We've also enjoyed the new behind-the-shoulder view in Street Fighter 4 3DS, which gets you right into the blood, sweat and hadoukens.Right now, most games are more comfortably geared toward 'concave' 3D, where the stereoscopic effect extends into the screen, rather than thrusting objects beyond it, but we'll see how it goes. Finally, although some players have complained of sore eyes and headaches after prolonged sessions, it's not something we've encountered – taking a break very half hour or so seems a sensible precaution.The cameraThe 3DS features an inward-facing camera and two outward-facing lenses so that it can capture stereoscopic pictures – all in a not-very-impressive 0.3 megapixel resolution (but then, you're not coming to a Nintendo console for those gorgeous arty sunsets). The 3D photos are a lot of fun, closely resembling the images on an old Viewmaster – that is, objects look like variously placed cardboard cut-outs. It's a quaint effect, spoiled only by the fact that you can only share the images by gathering everyone around your console (or giving them to another 3DS owner on an SD card, I suppose).There's also a range of special effects including Sparkle, which adds a flowery stardust effect to photos when you blow into the mic (seriously) and Merge, which takes a photo of one person using the inside camera and another person on the outside camera and than 'merges' the result into one new person ... great for couples considering starting a family. As with the DS, it's also possible to customise photos you've already taken with lots of silly items. There's no video facility yet, but it could well come in a software update.The connectivityThe 3DS features built-in Wi-Fi, allowing users to connect to the internet from any nearby hotspot or wireless router. As with the Nintendo DS, there will be an online store – or eShop – where players can buy downloadable games. A new version of the Wii's Virtual Console provides access to retro Game Boy and Game Boy Color classics, which should please old school Nintendo fans.The 3DS can also play downloadable DsiWare titles, and you'll be able to transfer games you've already bought from the DsiWare shop onto your new 3DS. There's no web browser yet, but one isdue later this yearbased on the Access Netfront platform. Apparently, you'll be able to access it mid-game, pausing the action to check the footie scores (or an online game cheat, you sneaky thing), before going back in.There are two neat little communication extras. 'Spot Pass' automatically connects the console to any nearby hotspot, allowing it to download game data, firmware updates and other extras, even when it's in sleep mode and tucked in your pocket. 'Street Pass' constantly looks for nearby 3DS owners and will then exchange game items, high scores and Mii avatars with their machines. Several games are set to support the Street Pass function: Street Fighter IV, for example, provides each player with a small set of digital figurines – when you pass another SF IV owner, your figures fight each other and the winner gets an addition to their collection. It's Pokemon meets conkers.This is fascinating stuff, potentially turning any walk down the shops into an item-swapping, high-score-comparing bonanza.The gamesThere are 13 titles set for the UK launch day:Pilotwings ResortNintendogs + Cats: (Golden Retriever, French Bulldog  and Toy Poodle editions)Super Street Fighter IV: 3D EditionThe Sims 3Pro Evolution Soccer 2011 3DLEGO Star Wars III: The Clone WarsRidge Racer 3DSuper Monkey Ball 3DSamurai Warriors: ChroniclesAsphalt 3DTom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Shadow WarsTom Clancy's Splinter Cell 3DRayman 3DAs you can see, the only first-party Nintendo titles are Pilotwings Resort and Nintendogs + Cats (US gamers are also getting the submarine game, Steel Diver – no idea why Europeans are being left out). The highlights from the third-party range are PES, Ridge Racer and Super Street Fighter IV 3DS. We'll have a look through the launch games tomorrow, and Friday will see a selection of the most anticipated titles from later in the year.The console also comes pre-loaded with a range of mini-games and apps. Face Raiders is a rather basic augmented reality shooter that takes your photo and then gets you to blast at flying representations of your own face which appear to zoom around your room – a sort of nightmarish LSD trip rendered into a light-hearted camera game. There's also Mii Maker, which lets you, erm, make Mii avatars to put into your 3DS games (though you can also import a Mii from your Wii, via an SD card). Then there's Mii Plaza, a little hub that displays all the Miis you've met via the Street Pass feature, and a collection of little AR games that work with the six cards included with your console. Simple select a card, point your 3DS camera at it, and a game erupts into action before your very eyes. It's basic stuff, but it hints at what developers might be able to do when they start exploring the technology.Oh and when in sleep mode, the 3DS acts as a pedometer, which (like a similar feature in Pokemon HeartGold/SoulSilver) provides virtual coins when you reach certain distances. These coins can then be used to buy items in compatible games. You see, says Nintendo, we're encouraging people to get fit! By gaming!The entertainmentAlongside 3D games, Nintendo's console will also be able to play 3D movies – though the details here are rather sketchy. At the European 3DS launch event last month, the company mentioned that Eurosport would be providing downloadable sports content, and that Sky would be bringing some 3D clips to the platform. Aardman Animation, the creator of Wallace &amp; Gromit, also revealed that it would be releasing a new series of one-minute Shaun the Sheep animations for the console. Warner Bros, Disney and DreamWorks have all signed up to bring 3D movies over to the system, though no timeframe has been announced. In the US, the 3DS will also stream videos from the Netflix online movie rental service – no UK equivalent has been revealed as yet.The batteriesNintendo estimates that you'll get three to five hours of play out of a single battery charge – though most players, including us, are finding the longevity to be at the lower end of that scale when 3D is turned right up. It's not great, but then, the poor machine is rendering the same scene twice at many frames a second. If you're playing Nintendo DS titles you can expect much more gaming time for your buck.The priceThe suggested retail price is £229.99, but you'll find much cheaper prices if you shop around. Most of the big supermarkets will be selling it at £200, with special offers chucked in – Tesco, for example, is slinging in one 3DS game for £10 to customers who pre-order the device. HMV and Game also have a range of trade-in deals, offering a reduced price 3DS in return for your old DS, PSP or console.
RIM is to release its BlackBerry PlayBook tablet in the US and Canada on Tuesday 19 April.The BlackBerry PlayBook with Wi-Fi will come in three models, featuring 16GB, 32GB or 64GB of storage at $499, $599 and $699 respectively, and go on sale in Best Buy stores and Best Buy Mobile stores in the US, as well as Best Buy and Future Shop stores in Canada.And the UK? RIM tells us that it will be launched internationally in "Q2" (April to June), but that neither pricing nor distribution channels have been announced. The software for the machines now out in the field in certain hands is still "pre-final release", we understand.Would-be customers in the US and Canada can place orders from today. "Previews of the BlackBerry PlayBook have generated tremendous excitement and we know that customers are eager to get their hands on one," said RIM's regional managing director for North America, Craig McLennan.The pricing for the PlayBook puts it exactly level with Apple's iPad 2, which launched in the US on 11 March and will start selling internationally on Friday.RIM has released a set of specifications for the PlayBook:• 7" 1024x600 WSVGA capacitive LCD touch screen• 0.9 lbs (425g) and 5.1" x 7.6" x 0.4" (130mm x 194mm x 10mm)• 1 GHz dual-core processor• BlackBerry Tablet OS with support for symmetric multiprocessing• MP3, AAC and WMA audio playback• Support for high resolution video playback (H.264, MPEG4, WMV)• 1080p HDMI output• Dual 1080p HD cameras for video conferencing and video capture (3MP front and 5MP rear)• 1 GB RAM memory• Up to 64 GB internal storage (16, 32 and 64 GB models)• GPS, Orientation Sensor (Accelerometer), 6-Axis Motion Sensor (Gyroscope), Digital Compass (Magnetometer)• Stereo speakers and stereo microphones• Wi-Fi (802.11 a/b/g/n) connectivity• Bluetooth 2.1+EDR supportMany of those features give it parity with the iPad 2, and in some cases put it slightly ahead. The key difference is in the screen size, which at 7" gives it slightly less than half the total area of the 9.7" iPad. The iPad is heavier at 601g (1.33 pounds) and of course larger (9.5" x 7.31") though it is apparently thinner at 0.34in.RIM has not, however, announced an expected battery life.
Today sees the official launch in the US of Amazon's Appstore for Android, offering a catalogue of free and paid apps for Android smartphones, while tapping in to Amazon's famous recommendations engine.The store appeared online this morning before being whipped down again, butTechCrunch explainsthat the official rollout will happen over the course of today.Amazon getting into apps is a big deal for Android developers, especially those who complain about the difficulty of making money on Google's Android Market store. The discovery element is one reason, since Amazon will be able to recommend apps to people based on their previous purchases, including a specific smartphone or tablet.When the store went live ahead of time this morning, it also appeared to show Rovio's new Angry Birds Rio game available for free, as a time-limited offer. TechCrunch claims this is the first of many "deal of the day" offers, with developers compensated with 20% of the original list price of their app, if Amazon decides to make it free.Making apps free for a day on iPhone, through services such as Free App a Day and Free Game of the Day, has generated millions of downloads for games developers, who then try to make money by in-app payments, advertising or by cross-promoting their other paid games. In theory, Amazon's daily Android deals offers this potential, but with a base payment per download on top.Another important feature of Amazon's web-based Appstore is the ability to play emulated versions of Android games in the browser as a "free instant trial" before deciding whether to buy them. Again, this is a feature with strong potential to stimulate paid downloads, especially for games.Amazon seems to be taking a hands-on approach to working with developers too. Late last week, it published a blog post on the officialAppstore developers blog with adviceon "choosing the right keywords for your app". It's clear that sneaky manipulation of search terms will not be appreciated."We review the keywords included in your submission during the testing process. If the keywords do not accurately relate to the app, we may update the keywords or ask you to re-submit with new, more relevant keywords," explains the post.Developers are told not to include "Free" or "Free app", or other app names ("eg 'Angry Birds' if your app is really 'Amazon MP3'"). Trademarks owned by other companies are also out, as are "vague keywords that aren't relevant to your app", and capitals, exclamation marks, question marks and other symbols.The overall sense is that Amazon plans to actively manage its Appstore, which is something Android developers will cheer to the rafters. That said, the store will be judged on the downloads and revenue it generates for those developers. Amazon has a policy of keeping numbers to itself for its Kindle ebook and Amazon MP3 music digital stores, so the Appstore is unlikely to be any different. If developers start reaping the rewards quickly, though, they won't be so loose-lipped.A threat to Apple?The company has just hit Amazonwith a trademark lawsuit over the "Appstore" term, but whatever the new store ends up being called, it has strong potential to make Android a more lucrative platform for developers.
Rights holders from across the music and film industries have identified about 100 websites – including The Pirate Bay and "cyberlocker" sites – that they want internet service providers such as BT to block under new measures to tackle illegal filesharing.Under a voluntary code that is under discussion, content owners would pass evidence of illegal filesharing sites to ISPs, which would then take action against those sites.However, the proposals are fraught with complications. ISPs are understood to be open to the idea of cutting off access to some infringing sites, but argue that an impartial judge should decide which get blocked. It is also unclear whether content owners or ISPs would be liable to pay compensation to a site that argues that it has been unfairly censored.The communications minister, Ed Vaizey, is leading a series of talks with rights holders and ISPs, including BT and TalkTalk, aimed at developing voluntary code on internet policy, including site blocking.The proposal is part of a contentious range of plans to curb illegal filesharing in the UK. Rights holders and ISPs have been at loggerheads over legislation due to be introduced under the Digital Economy Act, which facesa high court challenge by BT and TalkTalkon Wednesday.BT and TalkTalk – which together have 8.4 million UK subscribers – have already spent close to £1m in legal fees on challenging the act, the Guardian understands. The government, meanwhile, is keen to push through voluntary agreements on controversial issues such as site blocking, as the act faces a delay of at least 12 months.Issues such as how to give accused sites a fair hearing, indemnity and costs, as well as the governance structure of the code are yet to be ironed out."Cheaper than notice sending would be site blocking," said one rights holder present at the government meetings. "We're more interested in site blocking [thanmass notification letters]. We don't want to target end users, [the mass notification system] is long winded – we want something now."Another source at the meeting told the Guardian: "Site blocking is an interesting concept which we're open to, but there are issues on how to make it work, how to give sites a fair hearing, its governance structure and indemnity. But get a judge to tell us to do it and we'll do it."The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, hasconvened a government-led working group, that comprised ISPs and search engines, to find a "plan B" to avoid potential litigation arising from the blocking of websites accused of illegal filesharing.The Motion Picture Association (MPA), the trade body representing Hollywood studios including Paramount Pictures, 20th Century Fox and Disney, argues ISPs should block access to filesharing portals such asNewzbin2, The Pirate Bay,MovieberryandFree Movies Online 4 You.In December, the MPA filed an injunctionforcing BT, the UK's largest broadband provider, to throttle users' access to Newzbin2 using the UK Copyrights, Designs and Patents Act. Although the a voluntary set of principles is preferred to the legal route, the high court is expected rule in June on whether BT should block access to the site.
A little later than advertised, here's today's Chatterbox. You've stil got time to chat!
The online retailer Play.com is warning its customers their names and email addresses may have been stolen from a company that handles its marketing.However the company suggests in its message, sent out to everyone who has done business with the site, that credit card details held at its main site have not been affected.In an email to customers, the company said the issue "occurred outside of Play.com and no other personal customer information has been involved".Play.com is the second largest online gadget and games retailer to the UK from its Jersey base, competing with Amazon for customers. Founded in 1998, it has about 7 million registered customers.The breach could though put people at risk of "phishing" in which they receive fake emails pretending to be from Play.com which ask them to "confirm their details" and link them to a website which masquerades as the retailer's and asks for information such as passwords or credit cards. Play.com says in its warning that [in emails] "we will never ask you for information such as passwords, bank account details or credit card numbers. If you receive anything suspicious in your email, please do not click on any links and forward the email to privacy@play.com for us to investigate."One customer, Luke Taylor, warned the Guardian on Monday that he suspected a breach after receiving spam email to an address that he only provided to Play.com. "They said that they had already heard of this and anyone who contacted them would have their information passed to the IT department who were investigating, and would be contacted in due course. They repeated this statement ad nauseam when I inquired why I hadn't been proactively contacted since they store sensitive data including credit card numbers. They wouldn't let me speak to anyone else."A discussion in the forums on Moneysavingexpert.comuncovered more evidence the breach may have occurred over the weekend.Other customers complained that Play.com has not provided enough information for them to act on – such as the date on which the breach is known to have occurred. The first spams to the unique emails used by some people for the site seem to have started on Sunday, implying that the hack occurred over the weekend.A further complaint is that it is not possible to delete credit card details from Play.com's site, even on request – which means that if its payment database were breached then it could expose many thousands of people's details to criminals.However Play.com has responded to customers who have expressed concern about credit card details or passwords for transactions on the site by saying that "our database is maintained on a secure internal server that is not connected to the internet".Database breaches of online sites are a continuing problem which can be extremely costly. In Januarythe cosmetics company Lush was hacked, and credit card details for anyone who shopped there between October and January were stolen.Play.com is insistent that it is a third-party company which sends out marketing emails which has been hacked, and not its own servers.Play.com had not returned a request for comment at the time of publication.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA technical analysis on the CVE-2011-0609 Adobe Flash Player vulnerability &gt;&gt; Microsoft Malware Protection Center"We suspect this vulnerability was found using fuzzing technology from clean Flash files, because we found a file on the Internet that looks like it might have been used for the fuzzing. Through differential analysis between the original clean file and the exploit file, we could confirm the vulnerability." Fuzzing? FromWikipedia: "Fuzz testing or fuzzing is a software testing technique, often automated or semi-automated, that involves providing invalid, unexpected, or random data to the inputs of a computer program. The program is then monitored for exceptions such as crashes or failing built-in code assertions. Fuzzing is commonly used to test for security problems in software or computer systems." (Thanks to@dax1949for the link.)Apple's Jonathan Ive: How did a British polytechnic graduate become its design genius? &gt;&gt; Mail OnlineJony Ive's former employer: "I was there [in Hull] when Jony made an excellent presentation to this guy who was wearing a red nose because it was Comic Relief day. This clown then decided to throw his weight around and pulled apart Jony's design. It was ridiculous. Britain lost Jony Ive then and there."How Google Is Evolving Into a Media Company &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAn advertising company? An internet giant? A media firm? Or all three? David Carr: "The story of the last decade or so has been a huge shift in value from the media companies, which produced the content, to Silicon Valley, where companies like Google and Netflix came up with newer, more convenient and far less lucrative – at least for the media companies – ways to distribute it. Before Google gets in too deep, the company may want to compare its valuation over the past decade with that of, say, Time Warner or just about any newspaper company in the country."iPad 2: Thoughts from a first time tablet user &gt;&gt; Paul Stamatiou"I make for one bad tech pundit. I proclaimed I was content with my BlackBerry Curve and saw no need for the first iPhone. Three iPhones later, I said the same of the iPhone 4, lured by recent Android devices with impressive hardware specs. Of course, I got the iPhone 4 after cracking my 3GS. I inked my love of netbooks and ignored the first iPad. The XOOM piqued my interest in tablets with impressive hardware specs but the price and lack of apps kept me away... "I approached the iPad 2 and tablets in general as some sort of limited capability, locked-down laptop lacking a true form of data input. After getting to know the full iPad experience, my views have flipped. High caliber iPad apps exist for most things I need to do and they make them all more of a joy than a task."Radiation visualizations paint a different picture of Japan &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarNeat idea: take maps of radiation readings and figure out how anomalous the Fukushima ones are. But note: "Unless the situation significantly worsens, which admittedly is always possible, human habitation in close proximity to the plant will not be affected in the medium term. From talking to people on the ground in Japan, and by looking at the actual measurements across the country, a very different picture seems to be emerging than that reported by the Western media. Some of those media reports seems highly skewed, and heavily politicised, by comparison. "I think everyone should take a deep breath and look at the evidence, which is suggesting this is not another Chernobyl in the making. It may not even be another Three Mile Island. If the remaining functioning reactor units are decommissioned following this incident it may well have more to do with politics than the science."Charting the Human Cost of Different Types of Energy &gt;&gt; ProPublicaAs in "ok, but an oil spill is hardly going to contaminate the air and soil a continent away, is it?" This also looks at the collateral potential from a total catastrophic failure of each generation method. (Except wind.) Nuclear does not, presently, carry the greatest potential for collateral deaths. But you're unlikely to guess which does. (Try before clicking.)Security Alert: zHash, A Binary that can root Android phones, found in Chinese App Markets and Android Market &gt;&gt; Lookout Security"Earlier this week we discovered a Chinese language app available for download on alternative Chinese app markets that has the ability to root an Android device, leaving the device vulnerable to future threats. The app, which provides calling plan management capabilities, contains a binary called zHash that attempts to root a device using the exploid exploit to break out of the Android security container – one of the same exploits used by the author(s) of DroidDream. It then leaves a backdoor root shell with the file name 'Hash', in the /system/bin directory. "...Google has removed the application from the Android Market, and has exercised the remote application removal feature to delete it from users' phones." Good. But the kicker: "This [removal] only affects versions of the app downloaded through the Android market, and will not remove versions downloaded from alternative Chinese markets."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The communications regulator Ofcom is planning its largest-ever auction of mobile phone spectrum in 2012 with the aim of enabling high-speed internet connectivity around the UK while also guaranteeing competition.The rights to "fourth generation" (4G), also known as "Long-Term Evolution" (LTE), radio spectrum – which enables connections at speeds of up to 100Mbps, about 25 times faster than the average broadband connection now in use at home – will be auctioned off in five chunks. Ofcom says that to guarantee competition in the future market it will limit both the minimum and maximum amounts of spectrum that any bidder can win.That, it says, should ensure that a balance of competition is maintained between the existing four mobile networks – Vodafone, Everything Everywhere (Orange and T-Mobile), O2 and 3.The spectrum to be auctioned is being freed up by the "digital switchover" from analogue to digital TV which is being rolled out across the UK now.The UK was one of the first countries to auction off 3G spectrum in 2000, which raised £22bn. However it has since fallen behind other countries, where 4G LTE systems have been installed and used: in the US the Verizon network has this year introduced LTE connectivity, and Germany has had a successful auction of frequencies that can be used for it. In the UK the auction was delayed by mobile phone companies which objected to Ofcom proposals for the auction.Despite offering a larger amount of bandwidth – about 180MHz of spectrum split between the 800MHz, 1.8GHz and 2.6GHz frequencies – the 4G auction is not expected to raise anything close to the amount raised by the 3G auction of 100MHz of bandwidth. Mobile networks are more cautious now about spending projections, although 4G connections could enable high-speed connections almost all over the country.A key factor will be which companies gain access to low-frequency bandwidth around the 800MHz mark, which is more effective for connections over long distances such as in rural areas. The higher-frequency bandwidth will be more effective for higher-speed connections over short ranges, such as cities.Two of the mobile operators, 3 and Everything Everywhere (the combined Orange and T-Mobile) protested in January, after Ofcom allowed the two oldest networks, Vodafone and O2, to "re-farm" low-frequency spectrum that they had been allocated when the mobile networks were first set up in the 1980s for 3G connections. The other two networks, and especially 3, which gained its bandwidth at the 3G auction in 2000, say that gives the two older networks an unfair advantage in the race to offer 4G.However Ofcom does not seem to have allowed for this in its rules for the auction."Our role as the independent regulator is to award this spectrum in a way that secures the best use of the spectrum for the benefit of citizens and consumers in the UK," the Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards, said."That is why we are proposing to design the auction in a way that not only encourages investment but also promotes competition and delivers wide coverage of services."The auctions will have "floors" that will mean that auctions in which at least four companies do not win enough spectrum to provider higher-quality data services will be re-run. There will also be "caps" on the amount of low-frequency spectrum that any bidder can win, and on the total amount of spectrum any bidder can win.Ofcom is running a consultation on the terms of the auctionon its website.
This week the legality of the Digital Economy Act (DEA) will be challenged in a judicial review brought by two major internet service providers (ISPs), BT and TalkTalk. Some background may help to explain its aims and why these are controversial.Last year, lawyers for a company called MediaCAT sent outmany thousands of lettersto people claiming to have proof they had been illegally sharing films on the internet. MediaCAT located IP addresses from which they claimed the films had been shared: the point at which the computer uploading the film was connected to the internet. They then found the internet account holders and accused them of infringing.This causedgreat distressto many apparently innocent people who had never heard of the films in question but had suddenly received demands for large sums in compensation coupled with threats of legal action.MediaCAT threw spotlight on filesharing evidenceMediaCAT's campaign becameunstuck in court last month, in part because legal liability for copyright infringement rests on a person, not a computer. In order to successfully sue someone for copyright infringement, you need to find the person who did it, not just an IP address.A large proportion of domestic IP addresses will identify only an internet router within a household. Several computers operated by different household members may connect to it. Moreover, a wireless router with a typical range of a few tens of metres may be accessible to third parties surreptitiously 'piggy-backing' onto it, depending upon both the security level at the router and the technical skills of that third party.Identifying an IP address therefore does not necessarily identify the person responsible for uploading content that infringes copyright. (Similarly, a speed camera may identify a speeding vehicle, and DVLA records can then reveal the owner of the vehicle – but the person liable for a speeding offence is the driver, not the owner).The law is of course not powerless to resolve such situations. In the speeding case, a notice is sent to the vehicle owner imposing a legal obligation to assist in identifying the driver, who is then prosecuted. In a civil case, copyright owners can obtain a court order to compel ISPs to disclose the names and addresses of account holders using IP addresses from which material infringing copyright has been offered for upload.A problem of indentificationBut copyright owners have difficulty with the next necessary step, identifying the actual infringer or somebody who is liable for 'authorising' an act of infringement. Authorising somebody else to use an internet connection does not necessarily mean authorising their subsequent infringing acts, such as uploading a film.Also, failing to protect an internet connection with a password does not even mean one has authorised a piggy-backer's access to the connection, still less authorised what is surreptitiously done with it.MediaCAT's lawyers failed to distinguish between these situations and instead simply demanded compensation from IP account holders. The judge wasdamning in his criticismof their lawyer's letter writing (and revenue generating) exercise.Nonetheless, that case highlighted a real problem.If it is possible that the actual copyright infringer was an unauthorised piggy-backer, the copyright owner can find the broadband account holder but may be unable to prove that he was the copyright infringer (even if he was). Without such proof, copyright owners such as music labels and film companies are unable to pursue those illegally sharing files.The DEA would assist copyright owners. It would, if upheld, mean that the ISPs could ultimately be required to cut off a customer's IP address, suspending their broadband connection, if that IP address was being used for copyright infringement.Broadband account holders could avoid such measures if they could show that they were not copyright infringers and that they took reasonable steps to avoid its use for infringement by others. But they could not simply ignore the problem.Some hope for embattled Digital Economy ActThe DEA would oblige ISPs to take action if they received 'copyright infringement reports' from copyright owners alleging that illegal downloading appeared to have taken place at a certain IP address. Initially, the ISP would not be obliged to hand over to the copyright owner the subscriber's name and address. The ISP would, however, be required to warn the subscriber of the allegation of copyright infringement, and advise them on how to protect their IP address. There is therefore some stress on education, and initially on privacy.Moreover, ISPs would be required to keep lists of the IP addresses relating to broadband subscribers who had exceeded a certain number of alleged copyright offences, and to provide this list (initially in anonymised form) to copyright owners on request.Thus the DEA does provide a framework which overcomes some of the problems in policing, proving and preventing copyright infringement via the internet, including those identified in the MediaCAT case.The ISPs object to all this, on both cost and policy grounds. They raise privacy and confidentiality concerns. The ISPs claim that they perform a merely passive role, as a pure conduit for communications data, and should have no concern with its content.  (But industry watchers may feel these lofty claims sit uneasily with their preparedness to accept advertising revenue generated through 'deep packet inspection', e.g.through Phorm).The ISPs also raise concerns that they might be held responsible by broadband subscribers for privacy breaches, or for cutting off connections. But a positive benefit to them of the DEA is that they could respond to any criticism of their actions by explaining that they were merely complying with their legal obligations. Indeed ISPs have already been subjected to court orders (including orders obtained by MediaCAT) requiring them to disclose broadband subscribers' identities, and have duly complied.Uncertainty aheadThe question to be determined during this week's judicial review will, in essence, be whether the measures contained in the DEA are consistent with EU telecoms laws, and proportionate to the problem of net piracy.If the DEA survives judicial review, however, the greater test may yet be to come.Will its powers be invoked by copyright owners whose primary motivation is to prevent illegal downloads, or will opportunists like MediaCAT find ways to exploit them for short term financial gain and thus bring down public opprobrium onto the DEA and its objectives?Guy Burkill QCis one of the UK's leading patent barristers, with particular expertise in telecoms-related and electronics patents.
Facebook isbuying Snaptu, an Israeli startup that enables people to use smartphone-like applications on simpler "feature" phones – which form the majority of mobiles in use around the world.The acquisition, for an unstated amount, follows close cooperation between the two companies over the past six months to bring Facebook functionality to feature phones. It is Facebook's third acquisition this year, after it bought Rel8tion, a mobile advertising company, and Beluga, a group messaging company, in January and March respectively."Feature phones" offer a huge untapped market to companies such as Facebook and Twitter. Because such phones typically lack internet capabilities, they need apps written that are carefully tailored to their operating software, and low requirements for data – which is usually acquired via text messaging.But feature phones are a key market, because they make up about 80% of mobile phones – or about 4.2bn of the 5.3bn mobile phones, 77% of the world population.In January there were more than 200m active users accessing Facebook via their mobile devices – and they were twice as active as non-mobile users. That monthFacebook launched a mobile appthat brought Facebook capabilities to 2,500 different devices from Nokia – the world's most widely-used phone brand – as well as Sony Ericsson, LG and other manufacturers. That brought Facebook capabilities to feature phones in countries as diverse as Sri Lanka, Ukraine, Poland, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, Tunisia, Dominican Republic and Romania, with carriers in Canada, India, Mexico, Brazil and Bulgaria also planned.The app was built with Snaptu, a small startup created in June 2007, whose stated purpose is "to provide useful and innovative services to the 95% of mobile users that don't have access to advanced smartphones".In the post the company, led by chief executive Ran Makavy, says: "working as part of the Facebook team offered the best opportunity to keep accelerating the pace of our product development. And joining Facebook means we can make an even bigger impact on the world."Facebook's takeover is expected to be finalised before the end of April.
Generating a new military first-person shooter franchise from scratch these days is either extremely brave or very foolhardy – it's hardly as if there aren't enough of them. And the ones we already have are generally pretty amazing. Unfortunately, you wouldn't describe Homefront as an amazing game – although neither is it bad. It's based on a ludicrous premise: North Korea has invaded America (how that came about is explained, unconvincingly, before and during the game), and you join a rag-tag band of resistance fighters questing from Colorado to San Francisco with crucial fuel-tankers for the remaining US military.Homefront does have some standout aspects: the story is told without recourse to cut-scenes, but rather by conversations with your fellow resistance fighters, which can annoy, as you wait for the next dose of action, but does at least create an ambience not unlike Half-Life. Homefront works hard to vary the gameplay, with sequences involving sniping, helicopter flying, stealth-lite and fixed-gun shooting, and there's a great remote-control vehicle called the Goliath, which moves automatically but lets you control its rockets and machine-gun. Despite being written by John Milius, the characters lack any hint of personality, though, and ultimately the single-player campaign is short and disappointing.However, Homefront's multiplayer side redeems it considerably. Kaos Studios was once the New York outpost of DICE, of Battlefield fame, and Homefront's multiplayer modes successfully marry the large-scale appeal of Battlefield with the intensity of Call of Duty. A clever currency system (called Battle Points) gives you access to goodies like armed drones from the start, and the flexibility to pursue your favoured play-style is there from the off. And a clever mechanism called Battle Commander encourages ganging up on the most dangerous enemies, encouraging your team to operate in a more coherent manner, which you may find helps compensate for some of the skill deficiencies which can render multiplayer first-person shooters less fun than they ought to be.If you're a keen online player of games like Call of Duty and Battlefield, Homefront is well worth checking out. And, while its single-player element is pretty lacklustre, one hopes it will make enough of a sales impact for THQ to commission future iterations.Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Apple is under fire from gay rights activists after it approved an iPhone and iPad app targeting "homosexual strugglers".More than 80,000 people have signeda petitionagainst the so-called "gay cure" app, which Apple deemed to have "no objectionable content".Exodus International, the pro-Christian group behind the app, promotes the "ex-gay" movement, encouraging people tochange their sexuality. The app gives users "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus", according to the group.Apple had not returned a request for comment at the time of publication.Ben Summerskill, chief executive of gay rights group Stonewall, said: "At Stonewall, we've all been on this app since 8am and we can assure your readers it's having absolutely no effect."Apple might consider thinking about their customer base and the penchant many lesbian and gay people have for ethical consumerism when endorsing an offensive app like this."The technology giant is notoriously strict in deciding which apps it allows on to its popular iPhone and iPad handsets. Last year Apple withdrew a similar anti-gay iPhone app calledManhattan Declarationafter Change.org, the online activism site, handed over an 8,000-strong petition.Anew petition letteraddressed to Steve Jobs, the Apple chief executive, posted on the Change.org site last week said: "Apple doesn't allow racist or anti-Semitic apps in its app store, yet it gives the green light to an app targeting vulnerable LGBT youth with the message that their sexual orientation is a 'sin that will make your heart sick' and a 'counterfeit'."This is a double standard that has the potential for devastating consequences. Apple needs to be told, loud and clear, that this is unacceptable."
Government plans to curb illegal filesharing could be delayed for at least a year as its most contentious measures are battled out in the high court.The UK's two biggest internet service providers, BT and TalkTalk, will on Wednesdaychallengethe Digital Economy Act in a judicial review, on the basis that its proposals to tackle illicit filesharing infringe users' "basic rights and freedoms" and receivedinsufficient parliamentary scrutiny. The two companies together have 8.4 million subscribers, and have repeatedly expressed opposition to elements of the act.The high court is expected to rule on whether the challenge can go ahead on Friday. If it agrees, the process of review could take until spring 2012, delaying implementation of the act even further, while content companies assert that illicit filesharing is costing UK businesses £400m annually in lost sales.The act was due to come into force in January, but has been delayed by a series of regulatory hurdles and now by the legal challenge.The outcome of the challenge is "critical" to the future of the act, a senior television executive told the Guardian. TV companies are increasingly concerned at the volume of their content being swapped over filesharing networks.Under the act, rights holders will collect data about people believed to be downloading film and music from filesharing sites. ISPs will then match the rights holders' data against their customer database and send warning letters to those accused.Repeat copyright infringers could have their internet access slowed or even blocked under secondary measures in the act. However, this second phase is understood to be about 18 months away from being considered as part of the measures."Since the DEA passed into law there has been a considerable amount of work to do to implement the mass notification system," said a spokesman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. "Secondary legislation setting out how the system will be paid for and how it will work has to be passed by parliament. Ofcom also has to set up an appeals process."The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt,last monthpassed one of the act's most contentious measures – blocking access to websites accused of enabling filesharing – to Ofcom to review whether it is workable. The communications regulator is expected to report back in the summer.Copyright owners, largely represented by the Motion Picture Association and the British Phonographic Industry, support the act's attempt to crack down on piracy but have become discouraged at its protracted and slow progress.The act's cost-sharing arrangements also burden film and music bodies with 75% of the costs of the "mass notification system", with ISPs footing 25% of the bill.Film bodies are more interested in forcing ISPs toblock access to allegedly infringing sites, and are understood to have drawn up a blacklist of about 90 so-called "cyberlocker" sites.The high court's judicial review judgment is likely to face an appeal from whichever side loses, further delaying its implementation."The impact of online copyright infringement on the creative industries is huge," said Christine Payne, the general secretary of the creative industries trade union Equity."The DEA is the result of many years of discussion between government, industry and trade unions to try to provide a framework to legislate against online copyright infringement. We believe we had no choice to intervene to give the government support for this case."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Homefront makes the top in its first week. We'll also note the oddity that Pokémon White is outselling Pokémon Black (why?) and that the longest-charting game is not, as you might expect, Just Dance; it's Fifa 11 which has been in the charts for almost six months now.UK top 10 chart, week ending 17 March 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (26)PC (4)12 (1)Dragon Age Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (27)PC (8)23 (2)Pokemon White Version(3+)DS (100)34 (–)Shogun 2: Total War(16+)PC (100)15 (4)Pokemon Black Version(3+)DS (100)36 (3)Fight Night Champion(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)37 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)238 (8)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (29)DS (7)PSP (7)259 (7)Killzone 3(18+)PS3 (99)410 (13)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (37)PC (32)PS3 (31)17Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
The earliest iPad adopters might have been wary of putting their device into the sticky hands of a toddler, but as time has gone on, the potential of tablets and smartphones as pass-on devices for children has become powerfully evident.Withstartups springing upto cater for the kid' apps market, here's some of the trends and features that developers will be making the most of in 2011, with examples where possible of applications that are capitalising already.Remote parentingNursery Rhymes with StoryTimeNew appNursery Rhymes with StoryTimemight have themost depressing promotional videoyet seen for an app, but for parents who spend a lot of time away from home for work reasons, it will be a big hit.The app – a collaboration between ustwo and Atomic Antelope – involves animated stories based on nursery rhymes, with a connected feature that lets a parent read the story while their child plays with the app, even if they are in different cities or even countries. The StoryTime technology could be applied to creative or gaming apps too, while there may be scope to bring video chat into the mix as well.Pop-up interactivityThere is already a rash of developers and tech startups trying to bring the pop-up book metaphor to iPad and other tablets. Irish firm Ideal Binary is one with its PopIris technology – seen in itsGrimm's Rapunzelapp – while Canadian firm Loud Crow Interactive is another withPopOut! The Night Before Christmas. Mobad Games'The Penelope Rose HDis a third example.The pop-up interface is one way of making book-apps (literally) stand out from the crowd, but the wider trend here is of technology traditionally used for gaming being adapted for a different kind of playfulness. You can imagine some developers in 2011 experimenting with game engines such as Unity and Unreal Engine 3 for storytelling purposes too.Big brands dive inApple's App Store is already seeing a glut of apps by big children's brands and characters, from Toy Story and Barbie through to Peppa Pig, Dr Seuss and the recently released In the Night Garden application from the BBC. Not to mention toy brands such as Fisher-Price and Lego.Expect the latter months of 2011 to see their ranks swell even more, with apps simultaneously offering a new revenue stream for these brands, and a way to promote their physical products in the lucrative pre-Christmas period. It will be interesting to see which existing products most influence the apps too: for example, will an application based on a character take its lead from the books, the toys or the TV show? Or, of course, do something entirely new.Original IP holds its ownThe big guns may be coming in, but apps currently represent a chance for developers to create their own IP that could hold its own against those more famous characters and brands. Angry Birds has been the obvious example so far, although Outfit7 –interviewed by Apps Blogearlier this week – is a more relevant example in the kids' apps market.For many developers, the danger will be in thinking that creating engaging characters is easy – it's most certainly not – but the excitement around apps means there is no shortage of skilled animators, artists and other creatives trying their luck. A few will succeed.Microphone/Voice inputThere has been a lot of focus on touch-and-tilt interfaces for tablets and smartphones, and rather less on voice. Google has made big strides in this area with its Android applications, though, while Apple's stealthy acquisition of startup Siri last year hinted at its own ambitions in the voice-interface area.But voice is also a very intuitive input mechanism for children, whether blowing down the house in Coleco's3 Little Pigsbook-app, or recording the narration for stories in your own voice. Those Outfit7 talking animal apps have also made a key feature out of voice input, to acclaim from their young users.Cameras and ARPretty much every tablet that will be released this year will have at least one camera built in, and most will have two. They're already a standard feature in smartphones too. Up until this point, the camera has been a somewhat under-used feature in apps for children, but expect that to change.Monster MeterThere are some examples.Spelly Mobileis an entertaining spelling game that lets parents add in their own photos, whileLego Photoinvolves taking photos and then converting them into blocky Lego form.Delightfully,Monster Meteruses the iPhone's camera to 'scan' rooms for monsters, to reassure a child that there's nothing to be afraid of. That's a hint at more augmented reality apps ahead with a focus on children too – one of the most obvious business cases for AR as a technology.Digital sandboxesThe idea that apps for children can be open-ended play tools is gaining ground, alongside the more goal-oriented games and educational apps.MegaBloks Playground HDshows how a physical toy based around this can be translated to a virtual environment, while a number of 'dress-up' apps take their cues from real-world dolls.An app likePollock's Toy Theatrealso has its roots in an open-ended real plaything, in this case, a Victorian painted theatre.Story Patchis another app that aims to encourage children to make up their own stories, using a catalogue of tap'n'stick illustrations.Education and special needsEdutainment is certainly not a new idea, but it is certainly fuelling a lot of app innovation in 2011. Mindshapes'Jellytoonsis a high-quality attempt to bring the idea of brain training to an even younger audience on iPhone and iPad, for example, with its progress charts for parents. There is also no end of phonics and flash-card apps, although sorting the wheat from the plentiful chaff can be difficult.Something we're hearing about more in 2011 is apps that target special needs for children. Apple devoted a sizeable chunk of a recent iPad promotional video to the tablet's use with autistic children, for example. Something likeiCommunicate for iPadis a good example of the work being done in this area.
Google has fixed a critical Adobe Flash Player bug that is being exploited in the wild - but only for its own Chrome browser. Users of Flash Player in other browsers will have to wait for Adobe's official patch, which will require testing against around 60 platforms and configurations.Chrome is able to get the fix because it has an ongoing collaboration with Adobe which gives it early access to new builds of Flash.The"zero-day" vulnerability- meaning that it was discovered being used in the wild, rather than by security researchers hunting for bugs - embeds a malicious Flash file in an Excel document; that is then sent to people on a target list, and if opened can compromise Windows-based computers - though Microsoft says thatmachines running Office 2010 are protectedthrough a security system called data execution prevention.Older versions of Windows using Chrome will be safe only if they don't have Flash Player for Internet Explorer installed, and view Flash only through Chrome, according to an Adobe spokeswoman.Adobe says the bug is "critical" and hopes to release a fix this week.Chrome has seen little exploitation targeting it specifically. Along with Mozilla's Firefox, it escaped unscathed at therecent Pwn2Own competition in Vancouverwhile Safari and Internet Explorer 8 were hacked. However, nobody attempted to break into Chrome; the only would-be challenger did not turn up.An iPhone 4 running iOS 4.2 and a RIM BlackBerry Torch running OS6 were also both hacked; a Nexus S running Android 2.3 and a Dell Venue Pro running Windows Phone 7 remained unhacked.In theory though the exploit used to attack the BlackBerry Torch - via WebKit - was also available in Chrome, though Google moved quickly to patch it.
The latest version of Google's Android OS is 2.3 – codenamed Gingerbread – but only 1.7% of Android users have it installed on their phones, according to Google'slatest statistics. 61.3% have version 2.2 (Froyo) with another 29% on 2.1 (Eclair). The debate around Android fragmentation, it's safe to say, isn't going to recede any time soon.The pace of innovation within Google's Android division remains swift, as it pushes out new versions of its software for handset partners to use. The roadblocks come because those handset firms – and then operators separately – decide when to make those updates available to their customers. It's a far cry from the rush of iOS users to download Apple's software updates as soon as they are released, with iTunes prompting them if they don't.Is this OS fragmentation a big problem for Android developers? It's not the only factor: they have to think about screen sizes, processors and available input mechanisms too. Increasingly, developers I talk to say a more important factor is whether they think they'll make enough money on Android to justify the development costs of dealing with this fragmentation.Those planning an ad-supported app tend to say yes, while those with a business model based on sales have more mixed opinions. Fragmentation is a headache, but one worth dealing with if you're confident of being rewarded for your efforts.There's another concern for Google though, and it's this: Android fragmentation might not stop developers making apps for its platform, but will it stop most of them from pushing the boat out to use the latest OS features? Playing it safe by developing with Froyo users in mind is a sensible business strategy, but it could be a brake on the kind of 'hero' apps that showcase the latest Android handsets. It's noticeable that many of Android's hero apps have been developed by Google itself, rather than external developers.In other words, the debate around Android fragmentation should go further than 'will it stop developers from making apps?' onto 'will it stop them pushing the boat out when they do make apps?' Rapid iteration from the sharp minds within Google is one of Android's trump cards in the smartphone wars, but could Google do more to ensure developers feel comfortable keeping pace with that iteration?
Nevermind may be 20 years old, but Nirvana's classic grunge album is moving with the times. It has spawneda new iPad appfrom Universal Music Group, offering bonus video content and social networking features. Albums by Rush and the Rolling Stones are getting the same treatment.In its App Store listing, Nirvana: Classic Album Nevermind is described as "interactive, socially aware, and internet connected". What that equates to is a meaty 387.6MB download with videos preloaded rather than streamed on demand – hence the file size.Those videos include interviews with the band's surviving members and associates, live footage and even the story of the Nevermind album cover. Similar content is offered forRush's 2112and Moving Pictures (offered together as one app) and the Rolling Stones' Ladies &amp; Gentlemen: The Rolling Stones.What's not included in Nirvana and Rush's cases are the full songs, seemingly. They're billed as "the definitive authorised story of the album" apps, while the Nevermind app's tracklisting makes it clear that it features "excerpts from" the album. These apps are equivalent to DVD documentaries, rather than true digital albums. The Stones app is different, being based on a concert movie rather than a studio album.Socially aware? That would be the ability for fans to comment on any scene, video or photo to share their thoughts. The app is only available on the US App Store at the time of writing, so we haven't been able to check if these comments are pushed out to Facebook and Twitter, or kept in-app using a proprietary social tool.The music industry has taken a gung-ho approach to artist apps since the launch of Apple's App Store in 2008, but the vast majority are promotional, intended to keep fans updated with news, videos and tweets, while also building a mobile community.Few offer full songs, either preloaded or as streams. That's partly down to squaring the existing business model for labels and publishers with the famously price-sensitive app economy, but also possibly due to caution about cannibalising (chart-eligible) sales on Apple's iTunes Store.Apps as companion pieces to albums? UMG's release of these three apps is presumably an experiment to see if fans will bite, with price points of $5.99 (Nirvana), $6.99 (Rush) and $7.99 (Rolling Stones).In a more radical move, Bjork is currently working on the world's "first app album".
A burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRadiation: not a comic, but facts &gt;&gt; xkcdCementing xkcd's status as the place where you get facts as well as geek humour. Did you know that a mammogram gives you almost exactly the same radiation dose as the worst you could have received as one of the Fukushima 50 nuclear workers - and that both are below the normal yearly background dose?Fix Tumblr &gt;&gt; Red Sweater Blog"Tumblr has a problem. Since late 2010 and for all of 2011 they have been suffering enough downtime and flakiness that a growing chorus of users is lambasting the service. Without judging whether that's fair or justified, let's accept that what used to be a widely lauded service is becoming a widely criticized one.&#10;"But how big of a problem is it if, as Steven Frank suggested in his tweet, the service continues to grow its membership by leaps and bounds? My theory is Tumblr's continued success in signing up new customers is both thanks to and at the expense of their influential early adopters. .. If this keeps up, the influential "power-bloggers" will quit Tumblr and move on to more reliable services. Tumblr will be left with millions of users, who I'm sure are perfectly nice people, but who don't exert as great an influence in the web world."Or as Yogi Berra put it: "nobody goes there anymore. It's too popular."iOS 4.3 users report subpar battery performance &gt;&gt; 9 to 5 Mac"iOS 4.3 brought enhanced AirPlay, a speedier Safari, iTunes Home Sharing, and more to iOS device users, but it appears that iOS 4.3 has brought another thing, a seemingly negative one: subpar battery life. A number of readers have written in to less us know that since upgrading to iOS 4.3 their battery life has been "drastically" worse. One report to us claims random battery life drops in 15-20% increments."Comments suggest that corrupted data may be the cause, and that a complete phone reset may fix it. And some comments say "no effect".Hashable CEO Michael Yavonditte Responds to 'Hashable Is Worthless' &gt;&gt; Betabeat"Betabeat has only just launched, and already our "hash cred" is plummeting."Its cred however is soaring after it printed an annoyed email from the CEO of a FourSquarealike."A new website, Betabeat launched with the stated intention to provide a more skeptical look at the New York tech scene. Like many journalistic outlets, we run opinion pieces as well as reported stories."We like.Toronto doctors try Microsoft's Kinect in OR &gt;&gt; The Globe and Mail"Doctors at a Toronto hospital are banking on video game technology to save time and prevent contamination in the operating room.&#10;"A team at Sunnybrook Hospital has started using the Xbox Kinect, a hands-free gaming console equipped with a motion sensor, to virtually manipulate key medical images during surgery.&#10;"The doctors use hand gestures to zoom in and out of the images or freeze a particular shot without leaving the operating table."Now that is smart. Will a Kinect API make it into Windows 8?Nuclear test ban agency has valuable radiation monitoring data from Japan nuclear accident -- but can't share them &gt;&gt; Nature"An international agency set up to monitor for nuclear tests is collecting extensive data on the levels of radionuclides in the air in and around Japan and the Asia-Pacific and transmitting this daily to its member states. The data would be of enormous public interest as it would provide a far fuller picture of the extent and spread of any current or future radioactive release from the major Japanese nuclear accident now under way. But none of these data are being released to the public, Nature has learned."Porn Sites Trick Advertisers &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Dozens of big-name marketers and Internet companies have fallen victim to a scam orchestrated by a series of pornography sites."In a new type of online-advertising fraud, these porn sites are trying to generate revenue by setting up junk pages and faking Web traffic. The porn sites include names such as hqtubevideos.com and pornoxo.com. It's unclear who owns the sites or how many visitors they have."When a user visits one of these porn sites, the Web page launches dozens of pages that are hidden from the computer user. These hidden sites are filled with paid links to legitimate websites. Unbeknownst to the user, software built into the porn sites forces the user's computer to click on these links, sometimes hundreds of times, sending a flood of computer-generated traffic to legitimate websites."Sneaky, as much as anything because the sites the clicks come from don't identify as porn sites.RIM, Carriers Fight Over Digital Wallet &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. is locking horns with wireless carriers over control of mobile-payment data, in an example of the battles erupting as smartphones evolve into electronic wallets.&#10;The dispute centers on where key data related to mobile payments will reside on the next generation of smartphones, slated to come out later this year. Now, such information is stored in the magnetic strip on a credit or debit card. RIM and other handset makers are poised to make phones that will store this data, known in industry parlance as "credentials," in the devices themselves. In a transaction, the customer would wave the phone near a special electronic reader at a store's checkout."The Google Nexus S has NFC built in. It's a technology that's just on the edge of its time.Nokia S20 Filing &gt;&gt; Securities &amp; Exchange CommissionNokia is obliged to divulge this annual report setting out risks and problems. Still interesting: RIM is mentioned once in the thousands of words. (Apple: 42x. Android: 17x. Google: 11x. Microsoft: 101x. Symbian: 85x.)And hands up who knew that Nokia made mobile devices in Fleet, Hampshire?AT&amp;T aggressively moving against unauthorized tethering &gt;&gt; TUAW"AT&amp;T is ruining a lot of people's days with a customer mailshot explaining that its "records show that you use [tethering] but are not subscribed to our tethering plan." iOS, of course, will disable the built-in tethering facility if you do not have an appropriate carrier plan."This makes less than no sense. Data is data. Why does it matter which device is getting it?UK IP Review: Google, Content Owners Disagree On 'Fair Use' &gt;&gt; paidContent:UK"The search engine has told Hargreaves' review that "rigid but unclear" UK law has had a "chilling effect" on innovation. It calls for a full, US-style Fair Use copyright provision and for liberalisation of an EU list of 22 permitted re-uses of copyrighted material. But broadcasters and others are arguing against such extensions."How the iPhone, NFC and Mac App Store Will Enable Remote Computing &gt;&gt; Cult of Mac"According to a source close to the company, Apple is busy testing several prototype iPhones with near field communications (NFC). Unfortunately, the source has no knowledge of when Apple will actually introduce the technology in the iPhone. It could be the next model, due this summer, or next year's, they said."Less thrilling: log into another computer using an NFC-equipped iPhone. Dull.Confessions of an Apple Store Employee &gt;&gt; Popular Mechanics"We get a lot of drug dealers who try to buy iPhones with fake IDs. You can tell them instantly just by how shady they act, and they know you know, but you obviously can't start accusing them of being drug dealers—they are customers, after all. But when they try to check out, they'll use what are obviously fake IDs or fake credit cards, and it often turns out they're using a dead person's Social Security number or something. And when you call them out on that - then, they run."It's not quite Confessions of a Porn Store Clerk (which remains our favourite in-store diary) but then, what is?Why Fukushima Daiichi won't be another Chernobyl &gt;&gt; New Scientist"The worst nuclear accident in history was the Chernobyl explosion of 1986 in what is now Ukraine. Nuclear experts have repeatedly stated that the Japanese situation cannot get as bad as Chernobyl. New Scientist explains why."Apple must stop iPad 2 scalpers NOW &gt;&gt; BetanewsJoe Wilcox tries to figure out how you stop people buying the iPad who don't want it for themselves. However, out of the five suggestions he offers, only one (online orders and in-store pickup) might be enforceable - and even then tough.The iPad 2 is already worldwide, just not officially.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The director of the PlayStation 3 psychological thriller,Heavy Rainhas used his game'sBafta awardssuccess last week to launch a scathing attack on video game industry creativity. David Cage, who is also the co-founder ofQuantic Dream, the French studio responsible for the two-million selling title, has told The Guardian, "games always explore the same things. They're about being powerful, being the good guys against the bad guys – that's a very tiny part of what can be done. There are so many other stories to tell, so many other emotions to trigger – this is a fantastic new medium, we can do much more than we currently do with it."When asked if he thought the leftfield design of Heavy Rain reflected France's tradition of more artsy visual entertainment, he concurred, but said he knew of American developers becoming frustrated with well-worn themes and genres."In Europe, we are not as easy to satisfy; being given a gun to hold is not necessarily enough in a game. But it's not just in Europe, I hear many developers in the US saying the same thing – 'look, I'm 40, I'm fed up of writing games where you shoot at everyone. It was fun when I was twenty but now I want to do something else. I don't watch the same movies as I did when I was 20, I don't listen to the same music, but I'm still making the same games!' Developers are fed up – they want to talk about their families, politics, whatever – why not in a game? Why not?! There is no reason."Cage went on to say that winning three Baftas had been "totally unexpected" and that the Story award was particularly appreciated. "It is the one I was dreaming of. I worked so hard on the story, and it's the first I ever wrote that was based on something personal. It was not about space marines fighting aliens, it was about my relationship with my first son and how he changed my life – and also about how loving someone without expecting anything in return was something totally new.""There should be more people trying this," he continued. "Don't write about being a rookie soldier in WWII, because you don't have a clue what that's like. Talk about yourself, your life, your emotions, the people around you, what you like, what you hate – this is how the industry will make a huge step forwards. I'm fed up with space marines."Heavy Rain, which took Baftas for Story, Original Music and Technical Innovation, features desperate father Ethan Mars attempting to save his son from a serial killer. But the story starts with the accidental death of Ethan's other son, and the father's grief forms a huge part of the narrative. The action takes place through a series of choreographed set-pieces and players must also control mundane elements of the characters' lives including making food and at one point changing a baby's nappy."When we worked on Heavy Rain, it was a very strange situation," says Cage. "Apart from Sony, no one believed it. 'What? a story about emotions?! No cars, no platforms to jump on? What are you going to do in it? Is it going to be Dragon's Lair – an interactive movie?' We heard that for two years!"We struggled, we tried to stay calm, we went to all the shows – we went to E3, GDC, Gamescom – and we explained what we believed in and tried to show it. We said this is real, this is what we're doing. It has sometimes been depressing, but it has been stimulating. To receive three awards means a lot, it means we were right to make all these difficult choices, we felt like aliens in our own industry."Cage is now hopeful that, as his company starts work on its next project (reportedlyvery different to Heavy Rain), more developers will begin to experiment with new themes and dramatic story-telling methods:"I hope this will inspire people – it should! I want competition in this field. I don't want to be alone on my flagship shouting, 'Hey! Emotional storytelling!' There should be more games trying this. But very few developers have the luxury of having a great publisher trusting them. We did an indie game with the financial support of a Triple A title. "However, he is also dismissive of the game's achievement in selling over two million copies. "I don't feel pressure from that," he argues. "We have a lot to prove. I don't see Heavy Rain as an achievement, I see it as a first step. I know we can do much better, we can go further. I know there are many people out there to convince. I mean, look at how many people played Heavy Rain in comparison to Call of Duty – we want as many players as that. And even that is nothing – look at how many people watched Avatar. That is where we want to go."I don't feel pressure having sold two million copies. This is just the beginning."
Hurray, it's Monday! Don't worry – chatting about games will make you feel better.
Apple's iPad 2 will stay on top of the tablet market despite the influx of rivals because it will be able to lead the field on prices, apps and hardware specifications, according to analysis by the research company Gartner.Its analysts, led by Carolina Milanesi, say key elements such as Apple's economies of scale, keeping the price of the iPad down, and the power of the app and hardware ecosystem will help sales in the retail and the enterprise markets.The threats from Android-based tablets, and the forthcoming RIM PlayBook and HP TouchPad will not prevent the iPad from dominating because of Apple's "hardware excellent, focus on the entire user experience and go-to-market capabilities" – the ability to reach consumers.They also calculate that more than half of existing iPad owners will upgrade, either to get the cameras that are part of the new systems, or "for status"."We believe some other tablet manufacturers are making a mistake by competing on hardware specifications," says Gartner's team, in a report provided exclusively to the Guardian. "Tablets are about applications and what they empower users to do. Apple's focus on putting hardware at the service of user behaviour shows it understands this fact."Following its launch in the US on 11 March, Apple is believed to have sold around 1m iPad 2s in its first weekend, with many stores running out. Waiting times for online orders has stretched to between four and six weeks. In some cities, some of those bought seem to have gone to organised groups acquiring them for the "gray market" – to be shipped overseas to other countries. The iPad 2 is due to go on sale in the UK and other countries at the end of this week.Motorola's Xoom tablet, seen by some as the first realistic competitor to the iPad through its cutting-edge use of the Android 3.0 ("Honeycomb") operating system, does not yet have an official UK release date, though the first week of April has been suggested as a possible date, with a potential base price of perhaps £500 for the 32GB Wi-Fi model. In the US, that model is comparable on a price basis with the iPad 2, though Apple offers a 16GB Wi-Fi version that costs less.Neither RIM nor HP has so far given an official release date or price for their respective devices.Gartner advises competitors to stop adding extra features unnecessarily, and "decide which hardware enhancements deliver a richer experience for users. Many serve only to increase your bill of materials" – the raw cost of the parts needed for a device.Yet at the same time they say that the key weakness of the iPad is that it leaves out a number of elements that rivals might be able to tempt buyers with, such as direct USB and SD card support, file system access and Flash playback: those "may set you apart if executed well and at the right price," Gartner suggests to competitors.Motorola has targeted a number of those, offering Flash playback – which should be incorporated into the Xoom by the time it goes on sale in the UK, though it was not initially when it went on sale in the US. (In atweet from Motorola's accountearlier this month it said that Flash addition will be rolled out in anotherover-the-air update.)The Xoom will also offer LTE mobile connectivity (also known as "4G"), which will be useful in countries such as the US, where Verizon offers LTE, and Germany, where a number of mobile networks are beginning to offer it. Mobile networks in the UK will not have LTE for at least another year as they await a government auction of spectrum in 2012.Gartner says the "intuitive" user experience and the breadth of applications available on the iPad compared to rival tablets means it is already being used in enterprises – and the new features means "we see no reason why the iPad's momentum in the enterprise should slow".They think that the iPad's status as a premium device will keep it ahead of the dozens of other rivals. "While the omission of Flash or an SD slot might be a 'deal breaker' for certain user segments, for the majority of people it's clear they are not a good enough reason right now to look elsewhere when buying a tablet," the team notes, pointing out that the first less powerful version sold almost 15m tablets in nine months.Updated: clarified that report was provided exclusively to Guardian; correct to "over-the-air" re Xoom update.
'Just setting up my twttr",wrote Jack Dorsey, Twitter's co-founder and chairman, on 21 March 2006 at 12.50pm, Pacific Daylight Time. If you feel like lighting candles and baking cakes, that's 8.50pm GMT on Monday – marking the point at which Twitter, variously dubbed a social networking service and a microblogging service, turns five.In that time it has woven itself into tumultuous events: the news that aplane had crash-landed in the Hudson River(with picture); theelection protests in Iran; the rapid dispersal of thenews of an 7.8-magnitude earthquake in China;updates from the ground about the terrorist attacks in Mumbai.There have been less important moments – multiple billions of them, includingStephen Fry being stuck in a lift("we could be here for hours. Arse, poo and widdle"); the race in 2009 between Ashton Kutcher and CNN to be the first past 1m followers (a contest rendered irrelevant by Charlie Sheen's meteoric rise this year);Sarah Palin's coinage of "refudiate"; andClarence House announcing the engagement of Prince William and Kate Middleton.Twitter has become an endlessly flowing river of news, opinion, information, expertise, contacts, data, links, connections. You can not only find out what is happening, but connect to the people you're trying to reach more directly.It's changed the relationship between media, fans and celebrities: the latter can dismiss a story within seconds of it appearing. (Though it has also proved a tabloid godsend, which can generate endless stories from celebrities' real tweets – especially after thePCC ruled that tweets are public statements.) And links to stories broadcast on Twitter are a new source of incoming traffic for news organisations - though presently far behind Facebook or Google.The question now is: where will Twitter be in five years' time? It is still struggling to find profitability, although multiple revenue streams such as selling its tweet stream to Google and Microsoft, offering "promoted tweets" and "promoted trends" and its "Earlybird" promotions meant it generated $45m (£27.7m) of revenues last year.The most encouraging aspect is that Dick Costolo (who took over as chief executive from co-founder Evan Williams in October 2010) has a clear idea of what Twitter exists to do: "Instantly connect people everywhere to what's most meaningful to them." An aim so simple and yet world-embracing suggests Costolo has his eyes on the long term. Could Twitter be bought by another other company? Google is often reported to be sniffing around it, in the absence of any useful social product. Costolo called the suggestion "a rumour" in February. But it probably wouldn't make a difference either way; when Google went public in 2004, journalists didn't stop using it for searches – quite the opposite. A purchase would make it stronger.And Twitter is only getting bigger and more pervasive – and more important to journalism in both directions. Clicks from Twitter won't count in the New York Times's forthcoming paywall. And meanwhile, journalists can only see more sources and more news emerging. Costolo is also keenly aware that Twitter has much further to go. Presently 40% of tweets originate on a mobile device, a clue to its enormous usefulness; its text message-length 140-character format made it the first widespread web service to break free of the PC. And with 5.3 billion mobile phone users in the world, and 90% of the world's population in reach of a mobile network, Twitter has a far better chance of reaching everyone first than Google, Facebook – or Microsoft with Windows.
At aSouth By South West Interactive festivallouder, bigger and more spread out across the Texas city of Austin than ever, finding any magic and meaning about the state of our digital universe was tough.SXSWi is an exhausting, overwhelming bootcamp of BBQ-powered idea hunting, with discussions covering everything from web typography and Craig Venter on synthetic life to the role of social media in the Arab uprisings and the future of news apps. There's an intensity of insight that seems uniquely SXSW, because of its size and breadth, its enviable indie arts heritage, and its ability to consistently pull high-profile and thought-provoking headliners.The big theme was consumer web technology powering into every part of the mainstream. As a particularly resonant session showed, this advance has gone so far that it is now seeping into how we think about death, and the digital legacy we might leave behind. John Romano of the specialist news siteThe Digital Beyondtold how the family of one soldier killed in Iraq were refused access to his emails by Yahoo, how one author's entire online body of work was deleted by a family who did not like it, and how one man struggled to wrest control of his dead wife's Facebook page from abusive commenters.Taboo, combined with a lack of prioritisation, means there is much to be done in creating a standard framework for sites to deal with processing death. Facebook has a form for reporting a dead account holder that only requires a link to a news report or memorial site as proof of death, which means anyone can take control of that account. Jesse Davies, of the digital asset management toolEntrustet, explained that hidden in Google's terms and conditions are instructions on taking control of a deceased person's account by printing and posting multiple documentation. "This is the same Google," he said, "that just taught a car to drive itself."There are now 40 startups in the digital death field, and things have never look less morbid. From memorialisation to digital estate planning for all the data associated with sites on which we buy, share, live and play, digital death is a growth area. "One day we all buy the farm," said Davies. "We'll leave behind a mountain of data and mixed in with junk about stuff we've sold on eBay will be photos of our kids. We need a way to deal with this." Despite being ghettoised in a venue several blocks from the main conference, which limited the amount of "cross-pollination" from other subject areas – usually a strength of SXSW – the new journalism  sessions were often impressive. The New York Times's interactive editor, Aron Pilhofer, argued convincingly against news apps as the future of news, saying the browser is the logical central focus for content development. "Community is a place where the web is your friend and the app is not," he said. "If you consider community to be part of the answer to the future of news then going into the partially-stilted environment of the application walks away from that." The omnipresent media commentator Jeff Jarvis led a session on privacy vs publicness by reliving deeply personal details of his experience of dealing with prostate cancer. Going public defied the physical impotence, prompting advice and support from readers and encouraging others to go for checkups.Clay Shirky, discussing social media and the Middle East uprisings, was close to tears as he showed a photo of Egyptian Christians holding hands to protect Muslims praying in Tahrir Square. In one of a series of moments in the journalism sessions when the consensus around trends in the industry was questioned, Shirky seemed to backtrack on his earlier online utopianism, saying the principle that tools empower change is part of "a flattering notion that we in the west have the source code for democracy"."The history of print should make us sceptical of the theory that media is inherently political, or even that people are inherently political," he added. "Just because someone isn't talking about politics in their spare time doesn't mean they won't turn out in Tahrir Square when the serious business starts."If the real impact of social media in the Arab Spring was open to question, the significance of WikiLeaks was not. In a high-powered panel chaired by Vanity Fair's contributing editor Sarah Ellison,Carne Rossof Independent Diplomat portrayed the Guardian and the New York Times as presumptuous in mediating the content of the 250,000 diplomatic cables so they could sell newspapers."Why do they have the right to interpret for the rest of us?" Ross asked. "There are people around the world for whom this extraordinarily detailed information is particularly significant. What qualifies the New York Times to make judgments about what is good for Yemen? We should be looking for a network of experts out there to look at this data for us."That tapped an upswell of feeling among the mostly American audience who felt the paper had broken its trust with readers by, according to one, holding back stories on the US decision to go to war because it was two weeks before the US election. For Ross, established institutions, from the press to Congress to NGOs, have failed to hold power to account. "There has been an abject failure there – the old ways don't work. We cannot rely on traditional freedoms and there should be a collectively richer discussion that is promoted in an intelligent way."The influential games designer Jane McGonigal believes many of those broken "old ways" could be fixed by games. Reinforcing her argument with research-based evidence, McGonigal claimed that games increase team-building skills in children, can help boost self-esteem and have even been shown to reduce post-traumatic stress in US soldiers."Gameification" is already a passe theme for the games community, but a more detailed thread of analysis at SXSW explored gaming's mainstream potential, not least the keynote speech by Seth Priebatsch, pictured below, SCVNGR's energetic 21-year-old founder. Rather than bolting a game layer on to anything with a price on it, he argued, game mechanics should be built in from the bottom up.When SCVNGR finally manages to combine addictive game dynamics with marketing – like Nectar cards that are actually fun – it could present a serious challenge to the ecommerce darling Groupon, one of a slew of daily discount sites already valued at $15bn. "Game dynamics is too powerful to leave bottled up in games," he said. "Crack the science of loyalty at scale for local business and that becomes something that can add a huge amount of value to an important sector of our economy."This year SXSWi reached a vast scale with 13,000 geek devotees, eclipsing its more famous music sibling festival for the first time. As its subject and audience become bigger and more mainstream than ever, the challenge for SXSW will be to stay at a manageable size – and to keep its cool. To do that, the festival might need to rein in some of the $60m spent by brands on marketing, from beer can coolers and busty promotional models to brand-promoting panellists. If it fails to, there will be plenty of festivals ready to take SXSW's place on the edge of thinking about our digital era.
The Technology Newsbucket - renamed to "Boot up" (shorter, catches the mood of the morning) - is still going. But we've changed its timing to 0850. We hope in this way to reach more people via the blog itself, the Technology front page and Twitter.If this upsets your morning terribly - or alternatively, if it suits you down to the ground - please let us know in the comments. We will read them. (And if it's enormously unpopular, we can change the timing.)
Google has accused the Chinese government of interfering with its popular Gmail email system. The move follows extensive attempts by the Chinese authorities to crack down on the "jasmine revolution" – an online dissident movement inspired by events in the Middle East.According to the search giant, Chinese customers and advertisers have increasingly been complaining about their Gmail service in the past month. Attempts by users to send messages, mark messages as unread and use other services have generated problems for Gmail customers.In the wake of the catastrophic earthquake in Japan, Google set up an application to help people find relatives and friends lost in the disaster. This service too seems to have been blocked."Relating to Google there is no issue on our side. We have checked extensively. This is a government blockage carefully designed to look like the problem is with Gmail," said a Google spokesman. China's embassy in Washington was not immediately available for comment.The announcement follows a blog posting from Google on 11 March in which the firm said it had "noticed some highly targeted and apparently politically motivated attacks against our users. We believe activists may have been a specific target." The posting said the attacks were targeting a vulnerability in Microsoft's Internet Explorer web browser. The two firms have been working to address the issue. At the time, Google declined to elaborate on which activists had been targeted or where the attacks had been coming from.Last January Google said it had been the victim of highly sophisticated attacks originating from China. At first the firm thought its intellectual property was the target. The company's investigations found at least 20 other internet , financial, technology, media and chemical companies had been similarly targeted. Google said it had uncovered evidence that the primary goal of the attacks was the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists.The search firm is not commenting further on this latest attack, but technology experts said it seemed to show an increasingly high degree of sophistication. "In the wake of what is happening in the Middle East I don't think China wants to be seen making heavy-handed attacks on the internet, that would draw too much attention," said one internet executive who wished to remain anonymous. He said making it look like a fault in Google's system was extremely difficult to do and the fact that these blockages appear to come and go makes them look "semi-industrial and very, very sophisticated."In February dozens of political activists were arrested in China after an anonymous call online for people to start a jasmine revolution. The crackdown came as China's president Hu Jintao called for tighter internet controls to help prevent social unrest. Much of the unrest in the Middle East has gone unreported in China, where the internet is already heavily censored. Facebook and YouTube are blocked in China. LinkedIn was temporarily disrupted last month.Google first opened for business in China in 2005. But after announcing that it had been hacked in January last year the company said it was no longer prepared to censor its search results and moved its operations to Hong Kong."We want as many people in the world as possible to have access to our services, including users in mainland China, yet the Chinese government has been crystal clear throughout our discussions that self-censorship is a non-negotiable legal requirement," David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, said at the time.According to WikiLeaks cables, China's political elite have a love hate relationship with the internet. On the one hand the authorities want the information they can obtain via the web and on the other they are extremely concerned by the threat they perceive it presents to their authority. The cables suggest China has successfully hacked the US and other governments as well as private enterprises.The leaked cables also chronicle the pressure put on Google to comply with Chinese censorship. As well as removing references to the Dalai Lama and to 1989's Tiananmen Square massacre, Google was asked to censor images of government facilities displayed on the Google Earth mapping service.Last month the Chinese authorities launched Panguso, a search engine joint venture between Xinhua news agency and the state-owned telecoms giant China Mobile. The site appears to be even more heavily censored than Baidu, the largest search firm in China. Searches on Panguso reportedly produced no results for Nobel peace prize laureate Liu Xiaobo.• This article was amended on 21 March 2011. The original said LinkedIn was blocked in China. The service was temporarily disrupted in February. This has been corrected.
You may be the genius behind Fastlove but,George Michael, as recent weeks have demonstrated, a technophile you are not. When you first joined Twitter, the keyboards of the Twitterati started clacking excitedly in anticipation. We expected tweets of Pepsi and Shirley bitchfights, details on how you always keep your stubble at just the right length and we never did hear the whole "When Geri Halliwell went through your bin" saga from your side.Unfortunately we got this:"I'm just too last to write twitterers""Meant lazy . . ."Then some of this:"Impressive retreating people""That damn spellcheck, retweeting"And worst of all: LOTS OF THIS"iTunes cart?""Or chart even?"So on the anniversary of the very first tweet (sent five years ago today), here are some dos and don'ts of the Twitter world. YOU are George Michael. I know you could be doing better.Make friends with the @ symbolReplying seems to be a problem for you. Exhibit A – Your response to Spandau Ballet's Martin Kemp last week:"Thank you Martin . . . what's all this I hear about Shirlies turkey dinner . . ."This is terrible, George. It could be to Martin Sheen. Or my friend Martin with whom I used to work.You need to send replies TO the person you are tweeting:"@realmartinkempThank you Martin . . . what's all this I hear about Shirlies turkey dinner . . ."Also, whatisthis about Shirley's turkey dinner, George? The world needs to know.Don't be afraid to be a STARYou're totally rich and famous. Own it. A prime example of someone who isn't afraid of his celeb status is Kanye West.Tweets like"Fur pillows are hard to actually sleep on" and "I specifically ordered Persian rugs with cherub imagery!!! What do I have to do to get a simple Persian rug with cherub imagery uuuuugh" give us an insight into what it is to be Kanye. Let us know what makes George Michael tick because "My dentist cancelled, poor man has a cold!" is just not doing it at the moment.Conduct your personal life in front of thousands of&nbsp;peopleOne of the greatest thrills to be had on Twitter is watching the shenanigans ofShane Warneand Elizabeth Hurley.One minute they are flirtingoverher pet parrot, the next it's all "Remember, love is like a rollercoaster ride- sometimes it's exhilarating but sometimes u feel sick and want to get off". Get involved, George.Don't talk about the iTunes chart all dayAlthough True Faith is a fine record and everyone shouldbuy it because it's for Comic Reliefand one download could probably save eight children, etc, etc, asking what your position on the iTunes chart is over and over is not good Twitter, dude. Your record company will know that kind of stuff. Ask them instead.Embrace the hashtag(No, not that kind of hashtag, George). A hashtag is a way for people to search for tweets with a common topic. I'm talking about "Snappy Snaps", so if I end my tweet "#snappysnaps" it will be grouped with other Snappy Snaps tweets. Clever eh?Finally, people to followStart making some Twitter friends. Martin Kemp andBoy Georgeare a good start, but Toby Anstis? It's not 1993. Get with the funtimes!@tonyblackburn– the man knows good pop.@elizabethhurley– for reasons previously discussed.@heatherofficial– Heather Mills. She's developing a vegan steak. She'd be a right laugh.Go get 'em tiger.@scouserachel
A handful of surprise guests made unscheduled appearances at theObserver's TEDx sell-out event yesterday, but none had more impact than Jude Law. The actor arrived from filming abroad to introduce a talk given by Natalia Kaliada, who founded the embattled Belarus Free Theatre six years ago with her husband, Nikolai Khalezin."When you talk about artistic freedom you are talking about freedom of speech and all our fundamental freedoms," said Law, before taking to the stage at Kings Place in north London. "It could not be more central to how we live. And these freedoms that we often take for granted are celebrated not just by the struggle of the Free Theatre, but by an event like this, like TEDx, which is all about being able to discuss ideas. These are freedoms which define us."The day's theme was "Where Inspiration Meets Action" and a succession of speakers from the worlds of art, dance, music, design, sport, maths, farming, cooking, charity and technology all gave 18 minutes of testimony about how a fresh idea or a challenging perspective can be turned into something that will actually work.The Belarus Free Theatre's playThey Saw Dramawon plaudits in the West End last month, and Kaliada has organised performances in 20 countries. She told the audience that yesterday was the three-month anniversary of a "bloody crackdown in Belarus" which resulted in the arrest of 700 people. From that moment, the actress and her theatre have been without a home and she has taken her cause on the road."We do not have a place to live, or to perform," she said. "Our younger daughter has been out of school for three months and only friends take care of us." And all this happened, Kaliada reminded TEDx, a two-hour flight from London."We wanted our spectators to think. This is the most scary part for any dictatorship; when people start thinking. As a result of our artistic works, the company experienced all possible types of repression, from dismissal from their jobs to arrest of the whole group, together with all spectators."Another unexpected guest, designer Vivienne Westwood, spoke to underline how the climate problems facing the world can be solved through art and creativity. Speakers Peter Lovatt, a dancer, and DJ Goldie also shared evidence about how staging movement and making music can alter lives and offer insights into human psychology.TEDx began 22 years ago in California as an ideas summit dedicated to "Technology, Entertainment and Design". It has grown into an internet phenomenon and spawned similar conferences across the globe. Yesterday'sObserverevent concentrated on the power of individual experience to change an approach to a problem.Katie Piper, who suffered grave facial injuries in an acid attack, also offered a personal story as inspiration. She told how she went from being the sort of blonde who was whistled at in the street to being asked to leave shops. She spoke movingly of feeling "cocooned" inside her disfigured body. After her 2009 documentary made for Channel 4, she overcame her agoraphobia and launched a charity. TEDx, she told theObserver, gave her a chance to share her lessons: "I was nervous before I spoke because I was speaking to an important group of people and hope I managed to get my message across."Tales of overcoming enormous adversity also came from Martine Wright, who boarded a London Underground train on 7 July 2005. Introduced by athlete Denise Lewis, she told how Shehzad Tanweer, who detonated a bomb in his rucksack at Aldgate station, was in her carriage. She lost both legs but has since won a pilot's licence, married, had a son and is training to represent Britain in volleyball at the London Paralympics: "I didn't die that day. I had a choice and decided to walk again."Wright said the hardest thing was dealing with the memory of how she once did things. Sport gave her confidence again: "It has also given me a new dream to work towards 2012."Technology buffs Russell Davies and Cory Doctorow both spoke about the future of communication, with Doctorow, a Canadian writer, confessing he does not use FaceBook. "I think it's bloody awful," he said, explaining its addictive strength. "It is packed with powerful game-like mechanisms that reward disclosure. The more you embroider the account of your life, the more you crave the intermittent rewards of some attention from your peer group."Mariella Frostrup, theObserver's agony aunt, echoed Doctorow's scepticism about modern social networks by suggesting that communication via social networks is no substitute for normal human interaction. Cyberspace, she said, "is not the Messiah. It is just a useful tool." Most of the letters she receives at the newspaper are from people who feel lonely and long to connect with others. But Frostrup also attested to the good nature of people. She is struck, she said, "by our capacity to love and forgive".More words of optimism about human nature came from Geoff Mulgan, a former adviser to Tony Blair. His researches as director of The Young Foundation have revealed how closely our sense of happiness is allied to the happiness of others. Rather than relaxing with a bottle of wine before going to bed, he suggested his audience should write to someone they have forgotten to thank. He said this lesson about happiness was more important than all the other lessons taught at TEDx yesterday.
There is a palpable shift in the atmosphere at the South by Southwest festival each year as the annual Interactive conference gives way to the auditory orgasm of the SXSW music festival that follows it. But this year's "spring break for geeks" in Austin, Texas, did share elements with festivals such as Glastonbury, with thousands of hipsters wearing NHS specs and T-shirts bearing ironic computer-code slogans thronging the pavements for five days to watch some of the 750 sessions, often catching only the final moments before having to trek across town again.In its 18 years of existence, SXSWi has hosted everyone from Mark Zuckerberg to Malcolm Gladwell to Philip Glass, and been the launch pad for interactive success stories such as FourSquare and Twitter. So it's unsurprising that now more than 20,000 people attend the interactive festival, sniffing around for the next global phenomenon.This year's hot trend was the "game layer", a design system that makes unpleasant things fun by giving punters rewards for repeated interactions. The keynote speech was given by Seth Priebatsch, the 21-year old chief ninja of location-based game developer SCVNGR, but the geeks who'd seen game-designer Jane McGonigal's keynote in 2008 didn't seem as impressed as the first-timers.One such veteran is Ze Frank, a performance artist and comedian who creates online play spaces. In his panel session, he warned against sites and apps that slap a game layer onto a service just because it's trendy. "Game mechanics can be thought of as a system of rules, but ultimately playfulness comes from something different," he said. "There are people who are more fun to play with and people who are less fun to play with – to define what makes that element is the real challenge."Another hot topic this year is the extent to which users should be able to control their personal digital identities. At one session, representatives of the blog The Digital Beyond told a packed early-morning crowd what happens to your online data when you're dead. Dealing with the issues of digital death, it emerged, is just as relevant to dealing with individual data rights as when that person is alive.But SXSWi is also about the networking. It's the serendipitous face-to-face encounters in the currents of the Austin Convention Centre that have made this event extraordinary. Unfortunately, these joys were lost this year because the event's size and the distance between locations meant that, by the time you'd heard about a particularly interesting gathering, it had already dispersed.SxSWi is in danger of growing too big for its britches. Sure, the impact of the 2011 event will be felt as hundreds of new online products with a game layer are rushed to market, but the real innovators are already looking forward to trends that will hit SXSWi in 2013. These geeks are the ones to watch – but at this rapidly expanding event, it's all too easy to miss them.
Ever since human beings first began to organise into social groups there has been some kind of exchange market. Filthy lucre in one form or another has insisted on creeping in to dominate our social fabric. The reality is that our modern capitalist metropolises based on physical money are simply the concrete evolutions of our Cro-Magnon days, when the currency was fish, wives or finely crafted stone, with an unexpected detour through Holland during the tulip-mania economic bubble of the 1630s.Georg Simmel, the early-20th-century German sociologist, described money this way: humans have a natural tendency to create unnatural hierarchies that predicate the need for haves and have-nots because, ironically, they serve a very useful role in social cohesion. They force us to interact with one another, and give us insight into who we're dealing with and how the exchange process will play out.The tokens of our economic systems, Simmel continued, define cultural value both tangibly – with metal discs and pieces of paper – and intangibly: through the exchange of skills and information. Rocks, tulip bulbs and over-priced apartments have also served as tokens in other times. So, regardless of its physical or non-physical properties, the function of money has always been the same: to represent the ideological exchange of value and the attribution of social worth upon something someone else wants.Money is also a physical hallmark of trust: the banknote that we often incorrectly think of as cash is nothing but an IOU. The bank will "give to the bearer" the value written on the piece of paper when asked. In other words, money is already removed from the realm of the physical: it is a historical and philosophical construct that holds society together. And it has not changed in millennia.So it's unsurprising that money – as a representative of social value – remains enormously important in the web age, despite our rapid uptake of a technology that has the potential to eradicate the scarcity that defines the rates of exchange. Online, "our property can be infinitely reproduced and instantaneously distributed all over the planet without cost, without our knowledge, without its even leaving our possession," as the internet writer John Perry Barlow put it in a 1992 essay, Selling Wine Without Bottles: The Economy of Mind on the Global Net. But this plenty has not dissolved value; it has shifted it into something more intangible. Still, human nature gets in the way.We continue to impose worth online, even though we are able to operate and trade an infinite amount for free (once we have satisfied our basic offline needs, like food and shelter). Even in an environment where we don't need to satisfy basic human needs, we insist on imposing calculable value so we can make a buck.For example, in this system defined by plenty, we seek out impossible rarity and price it accordingly. In virtual communities such as online games, where our online personas have no hunger and no exhaustion, people sell character accounts, piles of virtual currency, game items that have been built up through "click-labour", and even bits of broken code that somehow slipped through the software testing phase, for real money on auction sites such as eBay. There is nothing new in this economic model except the asset that's being exchanged.But thereisa difference. The exchange economies of the web are based upon the actions and relationships that make up our online reputations. Risk is high online due to the potential number of new strangers that we can meet, and the anonymity of the web means that the heuristics we use to figure out if someone is trustworthy or not – including reports from friends, brand recognition, clothing and facial expressions – are virtually impossible to identify in this new digital wild west. Trust has become the pinnacle of virtual currency. It's what people depend upon to function online. It is the source of our reputations in the virtual space. But there is no cash to create the tangible IOU, so we create recommendations engines and ratings systems, and rely on links from friends to get worthwhile information. Trust is money online: it's what we have, and what we have not.The web really has done very little to transform our social concept of money – if anything, it's made us more aware of its true philosophical underpinnings, and has divorced it from the paper stuff in our wallets. It puts the pound sterling, the dollar and the yen into perspective if people can make a real-life living from buying and selling virtual items for digital platinum pieces. And the idea that people will ascribe worth to things in an environment that doesn't demand it suggests that Simmel's philosophy of money itself has value.The web offers an extraordinary opportunity to figure it out.
Those whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first make infatuated with their own ingenuity. Witness the heady talk about "the internet of things". The basic idea is that we are moving from an era when the network connected human beings to one where a majority of the nodes on it will be devices: printers, cameras, monitoring devices, domestic appliances – yea even unto the humble toaster.Two forces are driving this trend. The first is that sensors and actuators are increasingly being embedded in physical objects – from phones to roadways to pacemakers – which are linked via the internet. "When objects can both sense the environment and communicate," burblesa report by the McKinsey consultancy firm, "they become tools for understanding complexity and responding to it swiftly. What's revolutionary in all this is that these physical information systems are now beginning to be deployed, and some of them even work largely without human intervention."The second factor is that we now have enough internet addresses to assign a unique one to every object on the planet. Originally, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses were 32 bits long, which meant that the maximum number of unique addresses was two to the power of 32 which is just short of 4.3bn. But we are getting to the point where even that 4.3bn isn't sufficient and so a new addressing convention – calledIPv6– is being adopted which uses 128-bit addresses. This means that the maximum number of unique addresses available will be two to the power of 128, which is the kind of number that only astronomers can cope with, but which guarantees that every toaster can have its own IP address.The possibilities offered by the internet of things have induced in government and industry what can only be described as institutional slavering. One of the most glaring examples is the electricity industry. All over the industrialised world, utility companies are starting to install hundreds of millions of "smart meters" which contain an on/off switch that can be remotely actuated. The prime purpose of these devices is to enable electricity suppliers to switch delinquent customers on to pre-pay tariffs; but other uses include giving utility companies (or governments) the power to implement rolling power cuts as electricity demand outstrips generating capacity.The automobile industry is another case of networked-gadget mania. The current S-class Mercedes, for example, runs not just on petrol but on over 20m lines of computer program code; it also contains nearly as many embedded computers as theAirbus A380. And even low-end cars nowadays have 30 to 50 embedded computers – which means that most vehicles are running millions of lines of software code, controlling everything from the brakes to the air conditioning. And increasingly these computers are not only networked within the car but are also hooked up wirelessly to the internet.This emerging technological nirvana raises two disturbing problems. The first is that all computer programs have bugs, and bugginess increases with program size. The probability that your car's software has nasty surprises embedded in it is probably much higher than the industry thinks – as Toyota discovered when their Prius and Lexus saloons turned out to have minds of their own.But in a way the bigger threat comes from the Gadarene rush to network everything – because once you connect something to the internet it becomes vulnerable. For a cyberwarrior, for example, the ideal attack on a target country is to interrupt its citizens' electricity supply. As two leading computer security experts put it ina recent paper: "This is the cyber equivalent of a nuclear strike; when electricity stops, then pretty soon everything else does too. Until now, the only plausible ways to do that involved attacks on critical generation, transmission and distribution assets, which are increasingly well defended. Smart meters change the game."They sure do. And as for cars, well last week American computer scientists who have spent two years studying the security of car computer systems revealed that they couldtake control of vehicles wirelessly. They were able to control, they reported, "everything from the car's brakes to its door locks to its computerised dashboard displays by accessing the onboard computer through GM's OnStar and Ford's Sync, as well as through the Bluetooth connections intended for making hands-free phone calls". The delicious irony was that these findings were presented to the National Academies Committee on Electronic Vehicle Controls and Unintended Acceleration – which was convened partly in response to last year's scandal over supposed problems with the computerised braking systems in Toyota cars.Welcome to the internet of things. As they say in Germany, Vorsprung durch Technik (nein).
At a time when the world is far more focused on Japan's present than its distant past,Shogun 2: Total War, an epic strategy game set during the nation's turbulent Warring States period in the 15th century, might seem to have found itself in an unfortunate release window. Sega is among a number of game publishers donating revenue to disaster relief charities; so far, the company has donated $2.5m and is also giving a share of all games sales on the Apple app store this week to the relief effort. A game as lovingly, thoughtfully and intelligently constructed as this certainly does not deserve to find itself tangled up in unintended controversy.As the leader of one of the 10 competing factions vying for control of Japan in the aftermath of the Onin civil war between 1467 and 1477, the eventual goal of the game is to unite Japan under your banner. While the larger strategic campaign plays out as turn-based strategy – managing resources, technology, diplomacy and the economy on a beautiful, period-detailed map of Japan – individual battles happen in real time, giving you control over the minutest movements of your army. Thousands and thousands of individual units take part in these fastidiously detailed skirmishes, making for one of the greatest spectacles in videogames.Graphically,Shogun 2is on another level in terms of detail and scale, from the glinting samurai armour on the cavalry to the blossoms that fall from the trees in spring. If you think that sounds rather intimidating, you're not alone – the strategy genre is not known for accessibility. ButShogun 2does more than ever to make itself welcoming to new players. Battles are won with strategy, not speed. Control is simple and there aren't hundreds of different unit types, so you don't have to be furiously micromanaging all over the map.The pace, while far from sedate, is manageable. The AI's opposing generals behave so plausibly that victory is a genuine rush. There's also a personal touch: your assassins and generals have names, individual capabilities, likes and dislikes, which fosters an emotional connection with your clan that no previous Total Wargame has attempted.It's impossible to communicate the sheer depth thatShogun 2offers; even when the campaign is over, playing through with each of the 10 different clans offers a vastly different strategic experience, and there are huge numbers of multiplayer options, too. In terms of scope, visual spectacle and historical detail,Shogun 2is unequalled anywhere else in the genre.
A new internet domain especially for pornography is set to go ahead after the official name .xxx was approved by US authorities as an alternative to suffixes such as .com or .co.uk.Amid controversy over the concept of creating an "online red light district", proponents of the domain argued it would help to regulate adult entertainment content and keep it further from the eyes of youngsters.The domain, Dot Triple-X, was approved by the international Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which administers millions of internet addresses. It had been pending since 2003 and was resisted by the Bush government but progressed unopposed by Barack Obama's administration.Dot Triple-X will be managed by the online address registering company ICM Registry, which has long fought for a legitimate domain set aside for sexually explicit material on the net.More than 230,000 pornographic websites have reserved an address ending in .xxx, in anticipation of the eventual approval of the domain name.Stuart Lawley, CEO of ICM Registry, said the first .xxx websites would be going live by June or July of this year."For the first time, there will be a clearly defined web address for adult entertainment, further out of the reach of minors and as free as possible from fraud or computer viruses," he said.Use of the domain name is voluntary and is designed to shut out child porn and incorporate heightened security barriers, making it harder for children to stumble on sexual content online.
Despite marketing hype and cinematic pretensions – the latter thanks to a story from self-plagiarisingRed Dawnscreenwriter John Milius –Homefrontis a distinctly average first-person shooter.Set in a near-future United States occupied by North Korea, the game casts players as a resistance cell member fighting alongside a po-faced manly man, an Asian-American man and a woman who gets upset a lot. Other freedom fighters make fleeting appearances before betraying the cause or getting killed, cursing the injustice of the whole rotten kerfuffle as they go. North Korean antagonists are so hammy they might as well sport moustaches to twirl menacingly.Levels are relentlessly linear, weapons lack variety and gameplay consists of unforgiving slogs between checkpoints, shooting at enemies who pop up from cover like whac-a-moles and occasionally using vehicles to do the same thing with a louder gun. Pacing is rotten and players will frequently have to wait while their comrades conclude rows over who is the most patriotic before the game moves forward. A shamefully short running time leaves the impression of a rushed, unfinished product.Homefrontisn't a write-off, and its imagery is often stunning, but it pales in comparison to its rivals.
If nothing else, 2K's tennis simulation shows how far video games have come.In 1972,Pongsaw two players twiddle a dial to bat a square ball back and forth against a stark black background. Almost 40 years on and as Roger Federer slices an elegant backhand across the court, you, as rival Rafael Nadal, can return it with interest, skidding across the clay of Roland Garros before whipping a trademark topspin forehand down the line. The fist-pumping celebration that follows is unnervingly authentic.As such, it almost seems churlish to complain about the moments whereTop Spin 4lacks verisimilitude. But while baseline players will enjoy plausible rallies, net play feels sluggish and awkward. And though player likenesses are impressive from a distance, replays show they aren't quite ready for their close-up and grunts from female players are overused to inadvertent comic effect.That said, there's much to enjoy.Top Spinplays a slower, more considered game than its peers, without diluting the ferocity of its shots; a fizzing ace is a tricky but satisfying art to master. A solid career mode awaits dedicated players and the addition of past stars such as Agassi, Lendl and Sampras helps freshen up a roster dominated by contemporary champions – and Andy Murray.
Video games are starting to ask a lot of their players. Where once we could slouch, contented, stabbing at buttons, nowadays we must perform.First, there was the rise of karaoke games and then the more recent trend for dancing titles. And now we have been desensitised to playing on our feet,Yoostar 2asks one more thing of us; we must act.Under the watchful eye of the Kinect sensor, which tracks player movement and sound, players ofYoostar 2must deliver lines to classic movie moments, their likenesses superimposed live into the original film on screen.Yoostar 2is far more accessible than its relatively obscure PC predecessor and a very smart piece of entertainment, aided by the long list of classic movies included. The opportunity to see yourself in familiar scenes from the likes ofThe Godfather,CasablancaandThe Terminatoris a novelty that rarely feels tiresome, and it's hard not to beam wildly as you watch footage of yourself murdering lines in a celluloid favourite.Best played with a group of friends, it only lets itself down when slight technical imperfections become apparent. It's worth noting here that the Kinect version was tested, while the nuances of the PS3 version remain unexplored. Such problems are in no way game-crippling, but occasional shortcomings in sound recognition can be frustrating.Despite this,Yoostar 2is undeniably great fun. Its knack for filling a room with laughter is superb, and its "movie karaoke" offering near unique.
Price£17,015MPG44.1Top speed111mphAt the launch of the new Sportage, in the minimally magnificent surroundings of London's Hempel hotel, a group of journalists has gathered around Kia's head designer, Peter Schreyer. He's easy to spot as he's dressed head to toe in black (his trademark look) and is wearing a pair of directional, wraparound glasses (another trademark). The reflected light in the lenses are the only points of colour in his ensemble. To be honest, it's easy to stand out in a crowd of motoring journalists. All you have to do is shave and not wear a jumper your mum gave you.In car-design circles, Schreyer has the clout of, say, Paul Smith in the fashion world. He is a man of undisputed talent and taste. The Audi TT took shape on his drawing board, so did the A3, A4 and A6. He also drew Volkswagen's revised Beetle… And the fact he has been lured from VW to become Kia's chief designer is a mark of the South Korean car manufacturer's global ambition.Schreyer is taking questions on his new creation. Most of us can't think of anything to say. A sense of awe hangs in the air. I&nbsp;toy with asking him where he gets his glasses, but then a colleague manages to dredge up a&nbsp;half-decent question and asks, "Peter, how much are you tied by the demands of focus groups?"Schreyer looks exasperated, then says in a heavy German accent: "It's all bullshit. Total bullshit. The reason the bumper isthatshape is because I likethatshape. Not because some group has said bumpers should bethatshape. The reason the car has those headlamps is becauseIlike them..." There are no more questions.So, having freed himself of the constraints and petty bureaucracies of consumer demand, what has Mr Schreyer come up with? The revamped Sportage is rapidly becoming a leader in what is known as the crossover class. These are what some call soft-roaders, cars that look like 4x4s but with the handling and flexibility of an MPV. As the vast majority of wannabe 4x4 owners live in towns, the category makes a lot of sense. But to me the term crossover seems to hint at a defection, as if the car is not quite what it set out to be, which may be why Nissan describes its crossover, the best-selling Qashqai, as being "urban proof". It's punchier.The Sportage is short, rugged and athletic looking. Its back end is vertical and the front features what Schreyer calls his "tiger nose" – a&nbsp;powerful, wide-set signature grill with wraparound lenses, a little like the designer himself really.In terms of safety, the Sportage is the best-performing car in its class. It is smart and finished with care. The engines on offer are among the cleanest you can buy in this type of vehicle. Emissions in the 2.0-litre diesel are a modest 156g/km, while the figure for the 1.7-litre diesel is just 134g/km. And any doubts about value are soon banished by Kia's seven-year/100,000-mile warranty.Would I recommend that you buy a&nbsp;Sportage? That's easy – absolutely!And the answer to the other question? His glasses are by Philippe Starck, who else?Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one placeTELEVISION HEROESWe all have our favourite screen actors, but which cars have been the true stars? A poll byNetcars.comfound that KITT, the talking supercar from 1980s TV series Knight Rider, is the most popular TV car of all time. The black Pontiac Trans Am pipped Del Boy's yellow Robin Reliant from Only Fools and Horses, while the Batmobile came in third.It was a tight contest with a strong showing from the likes of the General Lee, from The Dukes of Hazard, and Inspector Morse's classic Jaguar also in the field.Netcars brought the finalists together last week at Trafalgar Square. Have a look at the video of the day, it was the ultimate red-carpet event for car lovers.http://www.youtube.com/user/NetcarsVideoFeeds?feature=mhum
Hello and welcome to our coverage of the Observer's TEDx event today – an attempt to bring a flavour of the famous Californian ideas-fest to Britain.TED, for the uninititated, is a gathering of "tech billionaires, neuroscientists and philanthropists, along with various people who want to change the world, cure cancer, create artificial life, solve global hunger or clean up oil spills", as my colleagueCarole Cadwalladr described it a few weeks ago.TEDx is a series of offshoot events that take place around the world, and today the Observer is holding one in London. There's a fantastic lineup of speakers, from technology writers to big thinkers. I'll be dipping into the various talks today and bringing you the highlights, adding to this blog during the day, so do check back.9.30am: The art of pretenceThe technology writer Russell Davies has a message: most of life is prentence. He shows a picture of a rather expensive but deeply fashionable timepiece and declares: "If you pay more than four quid for a watch you're an idiot." In a hastily drawn pie-chart, he shows that about 80% of the value of the watch is "pretending to be a fighter pilot" and only a tiny fraction is "telling the time".  Good point.He moves to slides from the Bourne Identity, showing the eponymous hero in various moody shots. "If you do an analysis of the content of the Bourne films, it's mostly moody commuting." Which means that anyone can pretend to be in a Bourne film.His message:  "Don't worry about pretending, do more of it, and occasionally step away from the screen."So does that mean it's ok to buy Rotary watches and expensive Aviator sunglasses after all?9.45am: How does a video go viral?MJ Delaney (left) is responsible for Newport State of Mind, aWelsh-flavoured Youtube parodyof Empire State of Mind by Jay-Z. How do you make a video go viral, asks Observer editor John Mulholland? "We didn't make it with a masterplan, we made it for our friends, and friends of friends to enjoy."Digital agencies who charge "millions" to advise brands on viral videos would have killed it, she says. "It was a happy accident." And it was retweeted by Stephen Fry.10.30am: Performance – Alice RussellAlice Russell performs at Observer TEDx in London. Photograph: Sam Friedrich11.15am: Surviving a suicide bombTime for some inspiration, and we hear from Martine Wright (left), a survivor of the July 7 bombings. Wright was a sporty, active marketing executive whose life was turned around by the 2005 attack on the London transport system. Sat four feet away from one of the Circle line bombers, she lost both her legs.Wright was so badly injured that her family initially didn't recognise her when they were asked to identify her in a London hospital.She says: "I felt like my world had ended. I couldn't believe that out the millions of people who travelled on the tube that day, I was sitting where I was sitting. I've often thought that I had more chance of winning the lottery."But in a moving talk, Wright describes how on the day she found out that 52 people were killed on July 7, she realised that she had a choice, to "feel sorry for myself for the rest of my life", or to "pull myself together".She chose the latter, and since then she has learned to ski, taken flying lessons, and learned a new sport: sitting volleyball. She now plays for the Great Britain team, and has a chance of competing in the 2012 Olympics. None of this would have been possible if she hadn't lost her legs, Wright says."I was the lucky one that day. I survived."12.45pm: Performance – Baaba MaalBaaba Maal performs at Observer TEDx in London. Photograph: Sam Friedrich1.45pm: How to fix the Facebook problemTop tech thinker Cory Doctorow (left) ponders the question of how we can persuade our kids of the value of privacy online. The trouble is, that online tools teach exactly the opposite, he argues. "Facebook lavishes you with attention the more you disclose about the people that you love."And it's not an altruistic service: Facebook's entire value-system is based upon sharing huge amounts of private data. Doctorow says: "This is not there because Facboeok thinks disclosing information is good for you. It's there in service of a business model."The trouble is, all the measures we employ to protect our kids online – spy software, keyword blocking and other parental controls – are fundametally ineffective. They block loads of potentially useful information (articles about breast cancer and, er, Scunthorpe – think about it) and in any case kids find a way around them.Instead, he argues, the answer is  to train young people to fight the firewalls, battle the snoopers and make CCTV maps of their towns so they can get around without being seen. In short: teach them the value of privacy by educating them about openness. (At least I think that's what he meant. He spoke so fast I could barely keep up.)2pm: Performance – Elizabeth Garrett Anderson school choirPupils from Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School, near the TEDx venue in Kings Cross, London, perform for the audience. The girls were inspired by a visit two years ago by the US first lady, Michelle Obama. Photograph: Sam Friedrich2.30pm: Mathematics manI don't know about you, but I can't get enough about partial differential equations. How convenient, then, that we have the world expert,  mathematician Cédric Villani (left), winner of the 2010 Fields medal and sporter of the world's biggest burgundy bow-tie. (A quick Google search reveals that he has other colours, but burgundy does appear to be his favourite.)He told of the day he discussed with his academic adviser his PhD subject, theBoltzmann equation,which describes the statistical distribution of a particle in a fluid. "When my adviser said that I would spend two years studying this equation, I said, am I really going to spend two years of my life studying this one line? 'Aren't there better things to do?' But I did it. And I loved it. In fact I spent ten years studying it.(To appreciate the humour of this moment, you have to realise that Villani speaks perfect English in a comedy French accent that veers occasionally into the falsetto.)2.45pm: Dance talkPsychgologist Peter Lovatt teaches the TEDx audience "how we communicate through dance". I had to duck out for this session, but it seems there was a practical demonstration, according to this audience member on Twitter.4pm: Act against repressionNatalia Kaliada of Belarus Free Theatre. Photograph: Sam FriedrichJude Law (below) introduces a talk given by Natalia Kaliada, founder of  Belarus Free Theatre, and who has organised performances in 20 countries. Today marks the three-month anniversary of what she described as a "bloody crackdown in Belarus", a former Soviet state stilled ruled by an autocrat, which resulted in the arrest of 700 people. Since then, Kalida and her theatre have been without a home and she has taken her cause on the road.She tells the audience: "We do not have a place to live, or to perform," she said. "Our younger daughter has been out of school for three months and only friends take care of us."The Belarus government was disturbed by the provocative nature of her group's work, she says. "We wanted our spectators to think. This is the most scary part for any dictatorship – when people start thinking. As a result of our artistic works, the company experienced all possible types of repression, from dismissal from their jobs to arrest of the whole group, together with all spectators."
Plans to establish a new internet domain specifically for pornography are to proceed after internet regulators approved the .xxx suffix for adult entertainment sites, three years on from a decision to block the move.Proposals to create a new adults-only domain date back as far as 2003 when moves to open up the number of major domain names were announced by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which administers millions of internet addresses.However, Icann blocked the plan in 2007 after long deliberations and threats in the US from the Bush government, which opposed the creation of .xxx on moral grounds and said it would override Icann if necessary.On Friday, the board of Icann said that it would allow the .xxx domain to be overseen by ICM Registry – the backer of the scheme – although a number of board members reportedly opposed the resolution.The backers of the scheme said that it will provide reassurance to those visiting pornography websites that they are protected from the risk of viruses, identity theft, credit card fraud and inadvertent exposure to child abuse images.They also claim that it will provide individuals and parents who wish to avoid adult entertainment sites the opportunity to filter out unwanted .xxx material.Anti-pornography campaigners argued that the move legitimises the sex industry, and it also drew criticism from some parts of the adult entertainment business, who said that forcing sex sites into a specific corner of the internet would inevitably increase censorship.PCmag.com reported that one Icann board member who opposed the resolution said that .xxx would encourage filtering and, ultimately, censorship."I believe that the creation of .xxx would mark the first instance of an action by this board that may directly encourage such filtering," said George Sadowsky, a US computer scientist."In my judgment, the board should not be taking actions that encourage filtering or blocking of a domain at the top level. Further, I believe that the filtering of so-called offensive material can provide a convenient excuse for political regimes interested in an intent on limiting civic rights and freedom of speech."Stuart Lawley, CEO of ICM Registry, described the decision as a "landmark moment" for the internet and said that the first .xxx websites would be going live by June or July of this year."For the first time there will be a clearly defined web address for adult entertainment, out of the reach of minors and as free as possible from fraud or malicious computer viruses," he added.Lawley said that ICM Registry will be talking with governments around the world "to ensure they fully understand the nature and self regulatory nature of .xxx".According to a statement released by ICM Registry, the new domain name will be regulated by IFFOR, which was described as an independent non-profit entity made up of a seven-person policy council, including a child protection representative, a privacy and security expert and representatives from the pornography industry.
CurbedThis busy blog is primarily concerned with high-end estate agent listings of US property, but beyond the gated communities lie plenty of voyeuristic thrills, from the palatial power pads of the world's richest people to a Google executive's interior design quirks and Mary J Blige's sales techniques. Elsewhere are famous buildings recreated in Lego; a Taiwanese love motel's interiors which feature a slightly alarming Batman-themed suite; and a recent entry with all the English country homes Stanley Kubrick used as film locations (the Manhattan townhouse in Eyes Wide Shut was Luton Hoo in Bedfordshire).Bangable Dudes In HistoryBangable Dudes In History.It may make historical scholars recoil, but TV and film's recent appetite for bodice rippers has eroticised a subject that many previously found dusty and dull. Here, under the subtitle "dead man porn for your still beating heart", blogger and Harry Potter fan Megan reassesses men and women from history – not for their impact on society but for their hotness. Each entry comes with a pie-chart to justify her particular choice – 19% of Edward VIII's fitness is attributed to marrying someone else's wife. It's brilliantly funny and absolutely no one is off limits. She speculates whether Stalin's nickname of "steel" referred to "his buns" and for "historic boner No. 15: Lewis Powell", she overlooks that he was a racist and a violent killer and focuses instead on his handsome pecs and the fact that he "cared for sick and stray animals … cuuuuute".Blog roll: ProtestGod Hates Protesters.God Hates ProtestersDown with this sort of thing: collection of the smartest and funniest placards from around the world.Life On WheelsFreedom of speech campaigner Jody McIntyre ponders imperialism and the English Defence League.Spy Blog"Watching them watching us", including the dangers of the forthcoming census.At War With The MotoristDispatches from the pot-holed frontline of two-wheeled insurgency.UK UncutCentral portal for direct action against George Osborne's public-services cuts.Freedom For TootingGeorge Formby-style rants against the far right and other musical hectoring.What we learned on the web this weekThe Real UP House. Photograph: Stewart VollandThey madethe floating Up house a realityThe Radioheadvideo that keeps on givingThe truthis less entertainingWhy Dutchmen are so tallGuinness tastesbetter in IrelandSuduko thievesare not coolEvery pictureis improved with rabbit earsThe hardsell of Soviet advertisingWhat reallyhappened to Justin Bieber on CSIWhere tofess up to your mess up
Homefront, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360As What if? scenarios go, North Korea invading America won't attract too many affirmative bets at William Hill. That doesn't put off Homefront, in which they don't just invade, but brutally subjugate America, with a steadily escalating catalogue of atrocities visible from the bus window as you're trundled off to a death camp. Naturally, within seconds you're an armed member of the resistance and what follows takes its cues from Call Of Duty, with high-octane multiple-angle firefights interspersed with frantic vehicular sections. Unfortunately its lower budget shows, with tinpot set-pieces, an uneven difficulty level and innumerable occasions when you'll have to stand about waiting for a team-mate to bumble along and open a door. Multiplayer fares better, with a neat points system to earn airstrikes, flak jackets and other perks, but this is no Modern Warfare 2.THQ, £49.99Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood – Da Vinci Edition, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood –Da Vinci Edition.Leonardo da Vinci's role in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is that of a medieval Q, supplying gadgets and prototype weaponry for use in battle with the Borgias. Naturally, when he goes missing, Ezio – the game's hero – decides to wade in. Set up via an amusing interchange with Lucrezia Borgia (Ezio's well in with the Renaissance Roman celebrity crowd) the quest to save Leo involves finding six of his paintings first. As well as fights, missions throw up a lot of the usual leaping about in the rafters and, less promisingly, several moments where stealth is required, plus a couple of slightly poorly judged chases. It's good to be back in old Rome and the three hours' worth of additional Renaissance rumpus The Da Vinci Disappearance provides are bolstered by new avatars and play modes for multiplayer.Ubisoft, £39.99-£49.99Collision Effect, iPad &amp; iPhoneCollision Effect.Too many games for iPhone rely on cod onscreen representations of a direction pad and buttons. The problem is that with no haptic feedback – you can't feel the buttons under your feverishly sliding thumbs – mistakes tend to be most frequent just when you least need them. Collision Effect is different. Built with a touchscreen in mind, you tap a zybble (standard-issue glowing blobs) to attract all others of the same colour. In puzzle mode that initially just means activating them slowly enough not to cause collisions, but later levels demand deeper experimentation with order and timing before you wheedle out a viable solution. Action mode comes with power-up zybbles and just one collision before you're reset to the title screen. It's a fleeting diversion, which at 59p is about right.Chillingo, 59p
I'm in rural Sussex, underneath the Downs, making British small talk with my B&amp;B lady. "Were&nbsp;you cut off in the snow?" I ask her, politely. "For a whole week," she says. "A&nbsp;week!" I repeat, pretending to care. "Didn't even try to get up the hill," she says, nodding at her VW&nbsp;Polo. "You'd probably have been&nbsp;OK," she adds, switching her gaze to my Kia Sportage.I'm not making this up (if I were, I'd like to think I'd have made it a bit more interesting). The point is that because she is an ignorant non-petrolhead, my B&amp;B lady has, unwittingly, put her finger on the fundamental problem not just with the Kia Sportage but with this whole "crossover" genre. She thinks I have a 4x4, and probably hates me for being a planet slayer, but I don't and I'm not. (Actually, because I'm driving a two-wheel drive 1.7-litre diesel with stop-start technology, I'm putting only 135g of&nbsp;CO2 per kilometre into the Sussex&nbsp;air.) It's&nbsp;as&nbsp;if I'm going around saying&nbsp;I&nbsp;work for HSBC when actually I work for Save the Children. A bit.If you must have a crossover, this&nbsp;isn't a bad one to get. Kia&nbsp;now&nbsp;have theman behind the Audi TTas their head of design, and the Sportage is certainly striking. With its high flanks and narrow windows, it looks chunky and futuristic with just a hint of the Tonka toy about it. Certainly it's a massive improvement on its predecessor and more interesting than its rivals (though I do have a&nbsp;soft spot for a&nbsp;Skoda Yeti). Inside,&nbsp;it's clean and&nbsp;functionary. And it is quite fun&nbsp;to drive; I'm ashamed to admit it, but I am quite&nbsp;enjoying my semi-elevated&nbsp;position.That's the point of a crossover, the car manufacturers say. It gives you the poise of an SUV in a sleeker, greener, more urban-friendly package; you get to sit high up and feel a little bit smug.The other way of looking at it is&nbsp;that it has the disadvantages of a&nbsp;4x4 – it's cumbersome and harder&nbsp;to negotiate around the supermarket car park, it doesn't handle as well as a normal low-down&nbsp;car, and strangers by the side&nbsp;of the road, albeit unfairly, give&nbsp;you the internationally recognised sign for someone who has sex on their own. But you don't get the one proper advantage – being able to venture anywhere remotely remote in it. Even in Sussex I'm feeling a bit out of my comfort zone, and it's not half as pretty now it's covered in mud. I suppose I can be thankful I didn't come a&nbsp;couple of months ago, because then&nbsp;I&nbsp;wouldn't be going anywhere, for a week.Kia Sportage 1.7 CRDi 3 Sat NavPrice£22,570Top speed107mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.9 secondsAverage consumption54.3mpgCO2 emissions135g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelTinie TempahIn a wordStreet
A British computer hacker who stole 400bn virtual gaming chips from an international gaming company has been jailed for two years.Ashley Mitchell, 29, broke into the Zynga mainframe, stole the identity of two employees and transferred chips said to be worth more than £7m to himself.Mitchell, of Paignton, Devon, sold the chips through Facebook to other gaming enthusiasts and used the money to fund his online gambling addiction.More than 50 million people a day playZynga games, including Mafia Wars, in which players run a virtual mob business, and FarmVille, which allows users to create their dream farm. Players have to buy chips for their virtual worlds. A black market in cut-price chips has grown up on the internet.Mitchell, a former council accounts clerk, made £53,612 in two months after selling about a third of the chips.But James Taghdissian, prosecuting, told Exeter crown court that Zynga put its loss at $12m (£7m). "That is what they estimate they would have lost if all the chips were successfully sold on," he said.He said the company became aware in August 2009 that large amounts of chips were vanishing and suspected the two employees whose identities Mitchell had adopted. However, investigators then realised the system had been hacked and narrowed the search to Paignton. Mitchell's neighbours had their computers seized because he was "piggy-backing" on their unsecured Wi-Fi connections. Mitchell was eventually identified because he used his own Facebook profile during one of his attempts to hack into the system.Taghdissian said: "It was clear there had been a systematic approach adopted in probing and accessing Zynga. Checks on [Mitchell's] bank account showed at this time he bought items including a Rolex watch and was also spending money on online gambling.""He made determined and repeated efforts to attack Zynga's systems. He succeeded and transferred 400bn chips and sold them to realise a substantial profit."Ben Darby, defending, said the loss to Zynga was impossible to quantify because the chips were virtual and the company could create as many as it wants.He said Mitchell had enjoyed little benefit and spent most of the proceeds on online gambling on other sites that use real money.He said: "Gambling had complete control of his life." He said his client was now an internet entrepreneur with his own Facebook poker site called Gambino, which could earn him more than £100,000 a year.Mitchell admitted computer misuse and four counts of money laundering and asked for 41 similar cases to be considered. He was also sentenced to 30 weeks for breaching a 40-week suspended sentence imposed in 2008 for hacking into the computer system of Torbay council, where he once worked.Judge Philip Wassall told him: "The dishonesty in this case was substantial and protracted. Online security is a priority for everyone these days."You deprived Zynga of income. It is quite clear you used a considerable degree of expertise and persistence to hack into the system."It is a considerable aggravating feature that someone hacks into systems in this way when so much business and personal finance is done using electronic means."From internet banking to major international transactions, people rely on the security of systems and anyone who comes before the courts who has gone through these security systems from their own ends can expect custody."The sentence has to reflect the impact on public confidence in security systems and online business when someone breaches security in this way."
Eleven years after bursting on to the scene like Civilization on steroids, Total War returns to its medieval Japanese roots. In some ways it's an odd decision, a bit like remaking A Nightmare on Elm St, something unlikely to attract enough new fans to justify disappointing the old ones. Yet in other respects, by pegging back the global scale and ambition of TW: Empire and Napoleon in favour of just a handful of different clans, it makes perfect sense. There are differences between the warlords, which can affect both turn-based and realtime events, but being armed with much the same units and weapons does offer better balanced gameplay, particularly in the game's new multiplayer modes. These include a co-op mode for the single player campaign and eight-player slugfests played out using an ambitious new clan system to determine suitable opponents.Another attraction of returning to the original formula is to see just how far technology has moved on in just a short few years. Shogun:TW's original scaling of battlefields and armies was impressive, but compared to the effortless 3D zooms and pans on display here, it looks decidedly last century. From the detailed yet stylised world map (even the fog of war looks good) where you build and equip your empire, to the majestic battlegrounds complete with new weather effects and naval battles that are streets ahead of anything the series (or indeed anyone else) has managed before. Just a couple of examples of the improvement to gameplay here is the way ranged units can now be ordered to skirmish, something that makes them slightly less prone to being outflanked, and the ability to lure enemy ships on to sand banks – although don't expect the enemy AI to be easily suckered in.Speaking of intelligence, Creative Assembly has made an effort to appeal to more cerebral gamers by placing a greater emphasis on civic and economic structures. As this is primarily a game of conquest, however, there's no avoiding the need to recruit and maintain armies, albeit supported this time by sneakier diplomatic subterfuge such as geishas, monks and ninjas – who are particularly useful during sieges. Once you get down to fighting, battles can be long and turn on a minor tactical mistake. Only rarely does the AI play its usual trick of causing your armies to lose morale and run away in the middle of a battle. Invariably, such events are the result of failing to protect your Daimyo but on occasion they can still seem annoyingly random.And of course, graphical splendour does come at a price – most notably long loading times before battles and lengthy gaps between turns. This was always a TW trait but it does seem particularly intrusive this time round, as it was for the excellent Civilization V. Nevertheless, Shogun 2 is a magnificent looking game with huge play and replay value. In terms of ambition and progression for the series, it arguably takes half a step back, but the huge leap forward in graphics and gameplay more than makes up for it.• Game reviewed on PC
Peter Molyneux has admitted to having moments of doubts about his future as a games designer. After accepting his Bafta fellowship to a standing ovation at the Bafta video game awards on Wednesday, the industry veteran told the Guardian that some disappointing reviews of Fable III had led to him questioning his abilities."The Fable III the reviews were, justifiably, not what I'd hoped for," he said. "We just weren't good enough with the craft of what we did. That always makes you reflect. And I said to myself late one night, 'Have I already created the greatest game I'm ever going to create? Is the rest just a downhill struggle?' And the next day a letter came through the post telling me I'd been nominated for a Bafta fellowship. And I just thought, 'I am going to prove that I haven't done my best.' Everything I've done up to this point is just training for what I should do."'The Fable III the reviews were, justifiably, not what I'd hoped for'Molyneux also admitted to being overwhelmed by emotion when accepting his award. "I feel unbelievably humbled. As I walked up on stage I almost fainted. There was this sea of faces, and lots of people I've worked with before, and everyone stood. I was choking up. It was an incredible feeling, and I do immediately want to go home and start proving that I'm really, truly worthy of this."The industry veteran also took the opportunity to praise games in general and spoke about an "energy in the air" right now for developers. "Tens of millions of people are choosing games as a medium of entertainment. Over my career I've gone from selling games on trestle tables at royal horticultural halls in London to a night like tonight. I remember standing in front of the press in 1991 arguing that computer games are art by any definition, they have cultural influence! But what should worry people in film and TV is we've only just started. Only now, when you see social gaming, mobile gaming and Kinect coming on, you think, Jesus, where is this all going to go? That's what's exciting."In his acceptance speech Molyneux humorously touched on his reputation of over-promising on his games, but denied it was a PR tactic. "I'm not over-promising, I'm over-believing. I always truly believe that this is going to be the greatest game of all time – I wouldn't try to do it any other way. But now I've come to realise that, you know what? It's all about the execution. You can be super-passionate, but you need to execute on it."When asked how his current game projects will be affected by the Bafta acknowledgment he said: "At Lionhead, we always have a meeting on Fridays and I think I will stand up and say, 'This award is for everyone.'But I'll also say to them, 'Let's ensure our next game is nominated next year!'"
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I've got an iPhone, and that was something that made a big difference. My life before was made up of making notes on pieces of paper, which I kept losing track of, and diaries never worked for me. There's something fantastic about having everything in one place, on a phone which also has my email and everything else I need.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It would have been the last appointment that I put in there. And I was doing a radio play on Sunday at the BBC, and when I wasn't on I was able to sit and send a load of emails which were really important.What additional features would you add if you could?I don't actually need a lot of additional features – it quite like it as it is. I'm not a big one for apps and games and those kinds of things, but I do need something that tells me when the bus is coming – a bus tracker. Something that has a satellite tracker for buses.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, there'll just be further developments on it.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When it doesn't work, because you rely on it. And when the computer slows down or freezes up – inevitably it does it when you need it the most, and have the most to do on it – you want to throw the whole thing out the window.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read some of the instructions first, and then use it. A lot of people don't take the trouble to work out how it works, and they give up. But it's only using it that makes it work for you. Once you start to do it you find your way around, and it's very easy.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely not a nerd, I'm somewhere in between.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably an investment in the first Toshiba Portege laptop I got, which would have been over £1,000.Mac or PC, and why?I actually would quite like to go to a Mac, because I think that the way it works better with the sorts of things I do. When I use a friend's Mac, you can see immediately that there's a very friendly way of working. But it kind of dictates what you can do – you don't get into its machinery in the same way you do on a PC. The trouble is that I have a lot of Word documents as well, which I quite like on PC.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do, actually, yes. I still like having a disc that you slip into a machine. I do listen to Napster and Spotify, and I load up my iPod as well – there's something terrific about being able to take a very small machine with masses of stuff on it.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Would I want a robot butler? It's a wonderful idea, but if it went wrong, would it be worth it? If it went wrong, it would be absolute havoc – you'd find that your dinner had been thrown somewhere, and the clothes had been cooked.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Something the Japanese are developing to go on to a pair of glasses so that you can call up things you've lost and see where they last were. And then when you lose something you say the name – iPhone or handbag, for instance – and then it shows you a picture of the last place that particular object was. I'm always losing stuff around the house, it would be quite nice to be able to go, "OK, where are the keys?" and it shows you a picture of the sofa.•Jenny Agutter stars inThe Minister of Chance, a new venture bringing high-quality audio drama directly to the public.
Yahoo is believed to be on the verge of selling its bookmarking service Delicious, possibly to the social "discovery engine" StumbleUpon, for a price believed to be around $1m (£619,000).Delicious has been up for sale since it was revealed as being on a so-called "sunset" list of Yahoo's properties in mid-December, as part of an overarching review by chief executive Carol Bartz to try to focus only on profitable elements of the company that fit with its vision of being a content creator and means of carrying advertising. Delicious doesn't offer any way for Yahoo to sell adverts.At the same time of the December announcement the handful of engineers who were developing the Delicious system are understood to have either been sacked or redeployed inside Yahoo, leaving only support staff.Delicious has not revealed how many users it had at the time when Yahoo put it up for sale, but at the end of 2008 it had nearly 6m users.StumbleUponoffers a similar bookmarking service to Delicious, and recently completed a $17m venture capital funding round.Other bookmarking services, such as Pinboard, have seen a rapid influx of people migrating from Delicious because they fear their bookmarks will be lost when Yahoo closes the service. However in a posting a Delicious team member suggested that the API allowing third-party access to bookmarkswill continue after any sale: "Feeds and API's are a key part of Delicious, and I would doubt that anyone would remove them from service, and we would certainly not want that to happen."In a statement last week when rumours of the sale emerged, Yahoo said: "We are actively thinking about the future of Delicious and believe there is a home outside the company that would make more sense for the service, our users and our shareholders."A report at Business Insidersuggested the sale is taking some time to complete because Delicious's systems are reliant on Yahoo's infrastructure, and that it is being migrated on to third-party machines so that a sale can be wrapped up.Yahoo acquired Delicious in December 2005 and is reckoned to have paid between $10m and $15m for it at the time. Delicious lets users bookmark web pages and share their bookmarks, including tags (such as "social" or "important" or "earthquake", or any combination of tags) for pages. That meant Delicious could generate a picture of what pages people thought had relevance to certain tags in real time. It was expected then that Yahoo would integrate the results into its search engine.But the integration never happened to any extent. Josh Schachter, the founder of Delicious in late 2003, left the company in mid-2008, expressing dissatisfaction with Yahoo's use of the service.Other properties that were on Yahoo's "sunset" list were Altavista, once one of the most popular search engines, MyBlogLog, Yahoo Bookmarks and Yahoo Picks.
That Friday feeling
Monday lunchtime at the world's largest Apple Store in London's Covent Garden and Georgina Evans, visiting from Bath for a day's shopping, is trying to score some cred points with her daughter Emily."I want to see how competent I am," she says, jabbing the screen of an&nbsp;iPhone 4."Put it down," tuts her husband, Andrew. "You're not."Across the cavernous chambers of the Grade II-listed building similar human-technology interactions are taking place. At other tables, as in any of Apple's 300-plus stores worldwide, tourists check their emails and update their Facebook pages. Like everything else Apple does, its store layouts are ruthlessly designed. Pricey laptops and desktops by the door to lure you in, then iPads, then iPhones, then iPod Touches. The only table not occupied by a small cluster of people prodding, touching and fondling the technology is right at the back, in the store's depths. It's the table with the iPods on it.The iPod Classic, as the famous scroll-wheel design is now known, hasn't been updated now since September 2009, with a modest capacity jump from 120GB to 160GB. On the Apple Online Store, shipping times have slipped from 24 hours to 1-3 days. Across the US, several major retailers have reported short supplies, leading to speculation the device may soon be discontinued. It didn't even warrant a mention at Apple's annual Developers Conference in 2010. "The iPod's essentially finished, give or take," says Dr Alice Enders, a former senior economist at the World Trade Organisation who now reports on global music markets for media consultancy Enders Analysis. "Sales have been in decline for some time. The converged media device is the way forward." In other words: the iPhone, the iPod Touch and the iPad – devices that the iPod paved the way for, devices that have helped push Apple's latest profits to a record-breaking $20bn. If the iPod now finds itself as the least-loved of the company's shiny portable devices, you get the sense Apple is probably OK with that.The iPod is 10 this year. Developed during spring 2001 and brought to market in just eight months, the circumstances surrounding its launch were hardly auspicious. For a start, it debuted days after 9/11. The press launch promised "the unveiling of a breakthrough device", the only other information on the invitations from Apple's Silicon Valley HQ was some small print along the bottom: "Hint: It's Not a Mac." The assembled media probably figured that was just as well. Apple's most recent computer, the G4 Cube, had failed to match the success of its iMac – the candy-coloured, egg-shaped machine that had transformed the desktop computer from functional grey workstation to translucent object of desire. And even its appeal was dwindling.Apple's CEO, Steve Jobs, who had recently returned to the company after being dismissed as the head of the Mac division in 1985, had failed to appreciate quite how important downloading would become to the online generation. The "i" in iMac was supposed to stand for "internet", but the first models had no slot drives – users had no way of burning their own CDs or DVDs. Given that almost 30m PCs were sold with this capability during 2000, Apple had missed a trick. Along with other companies associated with the dotcom bubble, its stock was on the slide."When I joined Apple, the company was in decline," Jonathan Ive, senior vice-president of industrial design and the man who would help revolutionise the business, has said. "It seemed to have lost what would become a very clear sense of identity and purpose."Nevertheless, the launch saw Jobs making great play of Apple's "digital hub" strategy. He envisaged the Mac as the centre of a new digital ecosystem, a place where we would soon come to plug in all manner of wonderful new devices. The first of these turned out to be something of a surprise. With no previous experience in music, Apple announced it was launching an MP3 player. "Why music?" Jobs asked. "Well, we love music, and it's always good to do something you love." He suggested music was something that touched everyone. "It's a large target market. It knows no boundaries. And there is no market leader. No one had really found the recipe yet for digital music."Apple's iPod would hold 1,000 songs, could be recharged within an hour and would cost $399. "Do you remember what it was like when you got your first Walkman?" asked the singer Seal, who alongside other musicians appeared behind Jobs on a giant video screen. "'Wow! I want to carry this wherever I go.'" Others were less convinced. Apple's MP3 player was neither the first nor the cheapest nor the largest capacity device on the market. At that point it was only compatible with Macs – the majority of people used PCs. What's more, it had a silly name. Technology bloggers soon decided iPod must stand for "Idiots Price Our Devices", "I Pretend It's An Original Device" or "I'd Prefer Owning Disks". But within five years, via its iTunes Store, Apple would go on to become the number one music provider in the world – all but taking over the music business. After the introduction of iTunes video in 2007, it would quickly become the world's most popular video store. Now, in 2011, Apple is set to become the world's most valuable company full stop, overtaking the current leader, oil multinational ExxonMobil.Apple has changed the way we think about technology and design, the way we shop, the way we consume media and the way we interact with each other. Via the iPod Touch, iPhone and iPad it has opened up doors for other methods of technology to come into our lives. None of that would have happened without the iPod. "It was the first cultural icon of the 21st century," says Dr Michael Bull, a lecturer in media and film at the University Of Sussex, where his studies on the sociology around the MP3 player have earned him the sobriquet "Professor iPod". "It was the first MP3 player that really worked. With the earlier ones you had to get down on your knees and pray to get a bit of music out of them. And it became symbolic of the way people like to move around in cities. It fitted the desire for a technological freedom, whereby you moved to your own soundscape. Roland Barthes argued that, in medieval society, cathedrals were the iconic form. Then by the 1950s it had become the car – the Citroën DS. I argue that 50 years later it was the iPod, this technology that let you fit your whole world in your pocket. It was representative of a key moment in the social world of the 21st century.""Apple got the consumer experience right from the start," says Enders. "In 2004 they started introducing smaller iPod variants [the iPod Mini, the iPod Nano] that dramatically increased its penetration." But the real key to Apple's success wasn't so much the iPod, but iTunes. Track the company's share price and it starts heading skywards in 2003, right after the introduction of the iTunes Store. "They made life as simple as possible," Enders says. "Payment issues are a major stumbling block with all ecommerce. Amazon has patented its so-called '1-click' ordering but iTunes does it so much better."It is usually assumed the iPod was dreamed up by Jobs and Ive. But this isn't quite right. Before there were any MP3 players, there were MP3s: invented in 1987 by a group of German scientists looking for a way to shrink video files so that they would be easier to use on computers. To achieve this they stripped out as much "extraneous" data as possible, supposedly the stuff we wouldn't miss. This loss of quality is at its least discernable when listening on headphones with the volume cranked up, so by 1998 the first portable digital music player had arrived: the MPMan F10, created by South Korean company SaeHan. (It wasn't a hit; SaeHan now mostly manufactures textiles.) In January 2001 Apple had added iTunes to its iMovie and iPhoto "digital hub" suite; a slick geometric window with a brushed metal effect that made something as mundane as organising music files seem like a cool thing to do. Other portable MP3 players had already joined the unfortunate MPMan F10 on the market: now Apple proposed to develop its own.Jonathan Rubinstein, head of Apple's hardware division, rang a 32-year-old engineer called Tony Fadell, who took the call on a chairlift above the ski-slopes of Vail, Colorado. Rubinstein offered him an eight-week contract but refused to tell him what the project was. Fadell accepted. He had recently quit his post as an engineer at Philips to start his own gadget company. One of the ideas he was shopping around Silicon Valley was a portable music player. Everyone – including Sony, which presumably continues to kick itself daily – had passed. So Apple stuck Fadell in its special projects division and set him to work on project P-68, codenamed "Dulcimer". Fadell began mocking up designs using foam and cardboard. Both Fadell and Rubinstein knew Jobs liked to be presented with prototypes in batches of three. Sure enough, he rejected their first two designs, but the third – a cigarette packet-sized box with a mobile phone-like screen and buttons on the base, he loved. Another Apple executive, marketing vice president Phil Schiller, came up with the idea of a scroll wheel in the middle. Jobs was adamant that every song needed to be accessible in three pushes of the button; any more and people would find it too much bother. According to one Apple insider the iPod was louder than other MP3 players because Jobs is partially deaf, so they pushed up the volume for him.Leander Kahney's book The Cult of iPod posits that it was Fadell who envisaged a company built around an MP3 player, with a Napster-style shop to support it. In other words, that Apple's future business model was his idea. "This is the project that's going to remould Apple and 10 years from now, it's going to be a music business, not a computer business," he's alleged to have said. Ive set to work on the iPod's case. It would have no battery door or on-off switch and would be a completely sealed unit. "From early on we wanted something that would seem so natural and so inevitable and so simple you almost wouldn't think of it as having been designed," Ive explained. He maintained that the shape was incidental. "It could have been shaped like a banana if we'd wanted." But white was his idea. "It's neutral, but it is a bold neutral. Just shockingly neutral." (According to Kahney, Fadell dressed each day in clothes and accessories with a different matching colour scheme, down to the rims of his glasses and his socks. Later, the iPod Minis would deploy a similar rainbow palette. "One might wonder if it's mere coincidence," he writes. Fadell left Apple in 2008, and is forbidden from talking about his time at the company.)"The thing I always admired about Jony [Ive], right from the very beginning, is his absolute commitment to getting it right," says Robert Brunner, who employed Ive at Apple, and is now partner in the San Francisco-based design consultancy Ammunition, makers of Beats By Dr Dre headphones, among other things. Ive had previously co-founded London design firm Tangerine, developers of everything from VCRs to combs. "He'll just relentlessly focus on the details. Of course the products are beautiful and well resolved. But technically they're almost impossible to copy."Bolstered by the "silhouette" ad campaign devised by New York ad agency TBWA\Chiat\Day, iPod's initial sales were good, but not great. For a new product launch, Apple's ad spend was relatively small – $25m. Instead it was able to rely on the best advertising model of all: word-of-mouth. The iPod's earphones were white as an afterthought, to match the player. The unusual colour served as a showy advert for a gadget that remained mostly hidden from view, in people's bags and pockets. Then the media did their work, falling over themselves to promote this fashionable new wonder-device: pretty soon it was asking "What's On Your iPod?" to everyone from Lenny Henry (Dizzee Rascal) to George Bush (My Sharona). An independent accessories market mushroomed around it, flogging everything from leather Chanel pouches to iPod-enabled toilet roll holders, and is now valued north of $1bn. Playlists replaced albums as the defining way we listen to music; "shuffle" decimated artists' entire recording careers. With its iTunes Store Apple had succeeded in making the one-stop digital superstore that in-fighting and anti-trust competition laws had prevented the record labels from establishing for themselves. Instead, those labels had wasted a lot of time and money trying to set up subscription models: the idea that users would pay a monthly fee to access digital music as and when they&nbsp;liked.Steve Jobs, a Bob Dylan fan who once dated the singer's ex, Joan Baez, insisted that people wanted to own their music, not rent it. They had collected vinyl, cassettes and CDs in the past and they would collect digital music in the future. One by one, Jobs managed to talk the big five major labels into signing up to his vision. "Jobs's stock went from $8bn to $80bn," recalls one music executive. "Ours went in reverse." Sony, in particular, was hamstrung. On the one hand its hardware division wanted to push a Walkman that would compete with the iPod. On the other, its record label, Sony Music, accounted for the majority of its revenues and was unwilling to push forward with something they thought would be filled with illegally downloaded music. Paralysed, Sony allowed Apple to clean up on both the digital device and the songs to play on it."As it turns out, iTunes has become much more important for Apple than simply being a music store," says Roger Ames, former chairman of Warner Music who brokered the iTunes deal with Jobs at the time. "It's been a place where their customers can very helpfully register their credit cards, and Apple can stay in touch with them. Every record label had the opportunity to come to a business model like that."On iTunes in the US Apple would take 22 cents out of every 99-cent track sold, leaving just 67 cents for the labels to split between the artists, the publishers and themselves. A rather poorer return than those labels had been used to, selling albums for $18. Apple itself wasn't going to get rich on 22 cents a song. But it was going to sell a lot of iPods off the back of it. And the record companies get nothing from iPod sales. "The iPod makes money. The iTunes Music Store doesn't," Schiller has admitted. (Despite the "Don't Steal Music" sticker attached to every new iPod, it makes little odds to Apple where the songs on its devices come from.)"The record industry was very good at providing the stick to beat file-sharers with, but it singularly failed to provide the carrot. Steve Jobs provided the carrot," says Tim Clark of ie:music, co-manager of Robbie Williams among others. "I'm sometimes asked, 'Who's the richest man in the music industry?' I always say, 'Steve Jobs'."Today, the iPhone has effectively replaced the iPod. The day it launched Apple quietly dropped "Computer" from its corporate moniker. And it's the ability to download apps, and the connectivity of the device, not music, that's now driving sales. "The US market for digital music appears to be flat," says Enders. "It has flattened well before everyone, and certainly the music industry, hoped. At this point the real issue is that more than 75% of recorded music sales are still on CD." But that's of little concern to Apple. Jobs may now be on a medical leave of absence, and Ive reportedly contemplating a return to the UK so he can educate his children over here, but the brushed steel wheels are unlikely to fall off the Apple juggernaut any time soon. Its next launch is rumoured to be the iPhone Nano. If that does what the iPod Nano did for the iPod – reducing entry point at the mid and lower end of the market, sending sales through the roof – then ExxonMobil can start counting off its remaining days as the world's most valuable company even more quickly."We were very lucky," Jobs told Rolling Stone in 2003. "We grew up in a&nbsp;generation where music was an incredibly intimate part of that generation. More intimate than it had been, and maybe more intimate than it istoday, because today there's a lot of other alternatives. We didn't have videogames to play. We didn't have personal computers. There's so many other things competing for kids' time now. But, nonetheless, music is really being reinvented in this digital age, and that is bringing it back into people's lives. It's a wonderful thing."And in our own small way," he said, "that's how we're working to make the world a better place."
