About 10 years ago I was using a Canon Starwriter for word processing. Now I'd like to see what's on some old Star writer-formatted disks, but I can't get into them when I put them into the floppy drive on my modern PC: I'm just told the disk is unformatted. Adrian ChapmanYou could tryWinConv, a "text conversion tool" from Pierre Duhem. This can read more than 20 "incompatible" floppy disk formats on a PC, and the Starwriter is listed. There is a limited trial version of the program so you can see if it works with your disks.There are also a few companies that might attempt to do the job for you. Examples includeeMag Solutions, which used to be called InterMedia, andPivar Computing Servicesin Illinois.Alternatively, you could try to find someone else with a Starwriter, or even buy one on eBay. Usually, the simplest way to rescue data from an obsolete system is to load it up and see if you can re-save it in text format, ideally on a DOS (PC format) floppy disk. Your chances of doing this fall every year, as old machines are dumped in skips, so don't put it off. The 8in, 5.25in and 720K 3.5in format disks that were once ubiquitous are now becoming museum pieces.
An email says: "Please do not take this for a junk letter. Bill Gates is sharing his fortune. If you ignore this you will repent later." Is this really true? Jo BradleyIt is true that Bill Gates is giving away his fortune, mostly to try to save the lives of children in developing countries. He is not giving anything to people who forward hoax emails, and would not, even if there was any way he could know about it. You can always check hoax emails atSnopes,Urban Legendsand many similar sites.
Some interesting game stuff in the paper today. TheE3 rounduprightly concludes that Sony had a stinker but then goes overboard in praise for the Wii. Myhands-on experiencesuggests there are accuracy and fatigue issues that everyone seems to be glossing over in their relief at having something different to play. Thereviewscontinue the Nintendo theme with DS games Tetris and Metroid getting the thumbs up. Great games are what the PSP lacks, of course, but Itake a lookat Daxter, one of the best on the system. ElsewhereAleksmunches virtual noodles at a music festival in Second Life - jester hat sniping sim sadly not included.
Google has been an astonishing success. The company is doubling revenues every year, and tripling net profits. Annual turnover was only $86 million (&pound;45m) in 2001, but by 2005 had reached $6.1 billion. Profits grew from $7m in 2001 to $1.5bn in 2005, more than Apple ($1.3bn).Google has also made dramatic changes to the technology landscape, announcing products at a spectacular rate. It is being seen as a threat not just to Yahoo and Microsoft but potentially to Amazon, eBay, Craigslist et al."We began as a technology company and have evolved into a software, technology, internet, advertising and media company all rolled into one," says Google in its latest 10-K filing (http://tinyurl.com/edumn) to the US Securities and Exchange Commission.It also admits: "Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers and Google Network members will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed."It's a brand that has been dented by entry into the Chinese market and, because it is now big and extremely rich, rather than a plucky outsider, people are less likely to cut it some slack.Venture capitalist and blogger Paul Kedrofsky has been critical of Google's "throw-it-at-the-wall approach" to product launches, but the flood continues. Last week, during its annual Press Day in California, it announced another four: Co-op, Trends, Desktop 4 and Notebook.Google Co-op is a co-operative search and tagging system, which is hard to follow, but has been described as "Google Base for web pages". Google Trends draws graphs of search queries, and you can compare up to five terms at once. Desktop 4 is a new version of the Windows software with what looks like a clone of Yahoo's Konfabulator widgets. Google describes Notebook, which shipped this week, as "a simple way for users to save and organise their thoughts when conducting research online". It sounds like Onfolio, bought by Microsoft in March.It's an oddball collection, which results partly from the way Google uses staff time. About 70% is supposed to be devoted to core search products. However, 20% can be given to peripheral programs, such as Blogger, and 10% to more personal projects, such as Google Talk.According to Elise Ackerman of the San Jose-based Mercury News, Google chief executive Eric Schmidt conceded that "the freedom of Google engineers to pursue such quixotic products had caused the company's focus to slip a bit". (http://tinyurl.com/z9j9f)I'm not the only user who wishes Google would fix shortcomings in its core business products instead of buying in or launching unrelated and often poorly integrated ancillaries.But Google is doing the right thing, if it is operating by the standard Silicon Valley approaches that Geoffrey Moore described in his business books. Technologies must cross a chasm between the early adopters and the mainstream. Once they do, sales explode, and Google's financial numbers are evidence of that.The imperative, says Moore, is to grab customers, because you can make them yours for decades. Rule one is "Just ship".Received wisdom says there's no lock-in on the web, with rival search engines just a click away. But if you develop a Google search habit, and Google has your email and address book, calendar, news feeds, bookmarks (in Notebook), back-up files (in Gdrive, soon) and other data (in Base), and if it handles your voice calls, organises your photos and so on, then you're going to find it increasingly tedious to switch. That's the idea.
I really must apologise to ... well, I've forgotten his name or who he worked for, but the guy who told me that the number of passwords people have to remember was a serious problem. "Not an issue," I said arrogantly, years ago.It is an issue.The really stupid thing is that a large part of the problem could easily be avoided. Not by issuing everyone with biometric smart cards - as vendors of such things, and Sir Humphrey Applebys, want - but by using passwords sensibly. Yes, I really do need secure passwords to protect my online bank account, my email account and my account at Amazon.com that holds credit card information and that someone could use to send themselves all sorts of toys at my expense.But I do not need a password to stop someone from reading, say, an online news site I am registered with. The site wants, of course, to track users, deliver demographics to advertisers and collect subscription revenue. But why do they need anything more than a user ID? Wake up! What are they protecting? The football scores? Lose the password.But what really makes me want to shake them until their teeth shoot out of their ears is the varied and pointless restrictions on how you form your password. Furthermore, these constraints become secret as soon as you have signed up. A hint that said, "Password has to be seven to 10 letters and contain at least one number" would be much more useful than asking me the name of a pet I never had.Yes, of course, "ni4Ty%Secu7itY" is harder to crack or guess than "password", but only if you can remember which letters you capitalised and which you replaced with numbers. I bet you can't. And if all you want to do is browse an online store, it's ridiculous."Aha!" I hear you cry. "Web browsers will remember all of our passwords for us." Yeah, right. A couple of weeks ago, I went on the road with a new hard drive in my laptop. Guess what data I forgot to transfer? That's right - the file containing all the web passwords. This is how I had to post my latest column about the net to its blog: connect remotely to my home desktop using a software utility called VNC, log into the site using its browser, and post by copy and paste from the laptop.Relying on your browser to remember your passwords is as stupid and dangerous as letting your phone do speed dialling: when your phone battery dies, you won't know anyone's number.The real solution is to put security only where it is really needed. Promulgating all these unnecessary passwords just promotes bad practice.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Games companies have put loads of attention recently into convincing so-called minority demographics to plonk out cash for interactive entertainment, but while there's been a real push towards attracting the female market and the casual gamer market, little research has gone into seeking the finances of "grey" gamers. According to the BBC's 2005State of Play survey of UK gamers, 18% of 54-65 year olds play games. While that number's dwarfed by the volume of younger folks who plug in, it's still a pretty decent proportion of the population. Still, we know very little about the gaming experiences of this age group. To address the gap in knowledge, researchers from University of London, Birkbeck College, University of London, the IT-University of Copenhagen, the London Knowledge Lab and others in the independent education research sector have launchedProject60+to examine:the role games play in the lives of people over the age of 60. The aim of the study is to develop a better understanding of how game players over 60 are using games, particularly video games.ResearcherSiobhan Thomasis one of the team. She explained the driving force behind the research to me this morning:Basically the project began because my gut instinct is that the over 55 games audience is being overlooked. The nice side affect of this work is that it will hopefully dismantle the stereotypes held about individuals over 60--and gamers!There are two ways people over 60 can contribute to this research: fill in the online survey, and email anecdotal stories about gaming - for example, what you play and how you got started.Videogames are only one aspect of the project. They're interested in hearing from people who play offline games as well.Grey gamers can seek out like-minded othershere,hereandhere.
Until now, we would have said that the DS struggles to run 3D games, but Metroid Prime: Hunters proves that is not the case. Nintendo's intergalactic bounty-hunting first-person shoot-'em-up has translated stunningly to the ugly but popular handheld, making fine use of the touch-pad: you touch areas of the bottom screen, for example, to transform Samus into her Morph ball or select rockets, and she moves with the D-Pad but looks and aims with the stylus. You can even make her jump with a mere double-tap anywhere on the screen. Metroid Prime: Hunters is surprisingly compromise-free: the levels are long and varied, the bosses as evil and freaky-looking as ever, and you still end each level in a timed race back to your ship. Best of all, you can play against random people via Wi-Fi. This is a grown-up game for the DS, and is an essential purchase.
All style and little substance, the PSP is woefully lacking in quality games. This means the release of Daxter is welcome. An old-fashioned 3D platform adventure, Daxter is great fun. The intuitive controls are a doddle to pick up, and a fairly forgiving Save structure means you rarely have to retrace steps. The basics are simple - visit each new area and squash all the bugs found. Not exactly Age of Empires, but the variety of action and environments makes for a consistently enjoyable session of pest control. Some of the later sections are tough, and the wonky camera doesn't always help. But considering the state of some 3D games on the PSP, such problems seem minor. Throw in some amusing pastiche sections and knowing dialogue, and it is an impressive package.
If you thought E3 was bizarre and incomprehensible this year, just thank your lucky stars it's not 1995. In a column for US gaming blog, Game Set Watch,Kevin Giffordhasunearthed floorplans for the South and West halls of the '95 event. It's an alien terrain, dominated by Sega and Nintendo and stuffed full of deceased giants such as BMG, Virgin Interactive, the 3DO company and Philips Interactive Media.EA, meanwhile, has a modest stall, not much larger than SNK's (oh the humanity!), while Microsoft's is a medium-sized complex next to the surely wraith-like Ocean and Gametek. Take 2 gets a laughable wooden shack hidden away in a corner next to the Entertainment Software Ratings Board - the irony of it all.There are also a few companies I don't remember like Terraglyph Interactive Studios (a bigger stand than Namco or Capcom), Randomsoft and Coconuts Japan (what?!). There are strange little stands for big-timers like Apple, IBM and Motorola, too.Wouldn't it be amazing to go back in time and visit this ancient relic? Oh the advice you could hand-out, Cassandra-like, to unlistening and worried-looking stall attendants. You could tell Sega to pull out of hardware development right there and then, you could suggest to SNK that they just, you know,have a goat 3D graphics. But what would that advice lead to? A better industry or a worse one?Let's pretend it's the former. Now, who would you visit and what would you tell them?
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Ringing up the wrong numbersDial-through fraud costs British business millions of pounds every year, but police pursuit of criminals is hampered by the telecoms companies. Tom Rowland reports.Companies House holds all the cardsMany fear that competing against a government agency in the knowledge economy means there can only be one winner, writes Michael Cross, in theFree Our Datacampaign.Office will be transformed, but are people ready for it?Getting users to pay for Microsoft Office 2007 will be a challenge, says Jack Schofield.A truly moving experienceWith a great line-up of launch games, Nintendo stole the show at last week's E3 games convention in Los Angeles. Steve Boxer reports on how Sony and Microsoft fell short while their rival blazed a new path.Small speakers hit the sweet spotThe days of heavyweight analogue cabinets appear numbered as single-unit, digitally driven models make themselves heard, writes Michael Fitzpatrick.One point of callDue to arrive in the UK this year, Enum will link up our disparate communication systems with a single contact number per person.The real Google search: find a way to lock in all the usersJack Schofield: Google has made dramatic changes to the technology landscape, announcing products at a spectacular rate. It is being seen as a threat not just to Yahoo and Microsoft but potentially to Amazon, eBay, Craigslist et al.Newly Asked Questions:Is white or black the cooler colour for my new gadget?This might get confusing. Apple has just launched the "MacBook", its successor to the all-white iBook laptop, and the top-end model is black. So black is cool, right? Not necessarily.Why can't I find .xxx on the net?According to Icann, the organisation that oversees the net, thank (or blame) notorious pornographer Larry Flynt and his somewhat unlikely bedfellow, the British government. But not the US government kowtowing to an influential right-wing Christian, oh no.Games:Tetris DS | Daxter | Metroid Prime: HuntersNintendo has revamped the bane of office lunch-breaks for the DS generation. Thankfully they've complemented rather than corrupted.Gamesblog:Virtual world is rocking to a brand new beatAleks Krotoski: Games fans may have had their eyeballs fixed on websites detailing interactive innovation in Los Angeles last week for the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, but elsewhere in the virtual world music fans were tuning into the latest platform for media distribution: a digital stage in the internet environment Second Life.Wi-Fi rabbit is just not smart enoughCharles Arthur: In the cause of seeking out the gadgets that will surely populate our homes in the future, I've recently added a rabbit to my living room. Not the fur-covered version, but an iconic plastic one with rotating ears.TechnobileWendy Grossman: Requesting passwords only on sites that really required security would save us a lot of unnecessary bother.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates - and see if you can help answer queries.NewsBytesCreative sues over iPod interface | Got the urge? | .tel approved | Calling England | Software curtain | Finger phone | Classified news | CE aheadLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Help wantedI admit to not understanding more than the basics about my PC, but I can't find a way of reducing my ignorance. I don't want to become a professional: I just want to be able to set up things like wireless networks, troubleshoot errors and glitches properly. Manuals and "how to" books don't help. Any ideas?Deirdre Janson-SmithJack Schofield replies:Some local education colleges, libraries and leisure centres still run introductory courses in computing, but that's pot luck. Another alternative is LearnDirect (www.learndirect.co.uk/), which offers online learning and also has some local centres. LearnDirect offers courses that lead to the European Computer Driving Licence (ECDL), a qualification created by the British Computer Society to promote computer literacy (http://catalogue.learndirect.co.uk/qualifications/details/547720/), However, the main thrust seems to be about improving the quality of the workforce, which isn't quite what you need. The best option would probably be one-to-one tuition in your own home. This is available from Digital Unite, which started in 1996 as Hairnet, with a focus on helping "silver surfers" (www.hairnet.org/trainers_about.php). It now specialises in "nervous first timers" but also provides ECDL training. Personal tuition costs about &pound;25 per hour, plus travel charge if necessary, negotiated in advance. You can contact DU through its website or on 0870 241 5091.Copy and corruptionI have a number of CDs written seven or eight years ago. If I copy all the files to my hard drive in Windows Explorer, a message will come up telling me that a certain file is corrupt and cannot be copied. Windows then stops copying, which makes it quite a lengthy process.Ian SmithJS:If you open a Command Prompt (looks like MS DOS), then the xcopy command will do the job. However, I suggest you try Roadkil's Unstoppable Copier (www.roadkil.net/unstopcp.html) for Windows and Linux. This can be set up to ignore damaged files, but will also, as the blurb says, "attempt to recover every readable piece of a file and put the pieces together. Using this method most types of files can be made useable even if some parts were not recoverable in the end." The program is free but Roadkil welcomes donations via PayPal.Gates hoaxAn email says: "Please do not take this for a junk letter. Bill Gates is sharing his fortune. If you ignore this you will repent later." Is this really true?Jo BradleyJS:It is true that Bill Gates is giving away his fortune, mostly to try to save the lives of children in developing countries. He is not giving anything to people who forward hoax emails, and would not, even if there was any way he could know about it. You can always check hoax emails at Snopes (www.snopes.com/inboxer/nothing/billgate.asp), Urban Legends (http://urbanlegends.about.com/library/blmsaol.htm) and many similar sites.Starwriter salvationAbout 10 years ago I was using a Canon Starwriter for word processing. Now I'd like to see what's on some old Star writer-formatted disks, but I can't get into them when I put them into the floppy drive on my modern PC: I'm just told the disk is unformatted.Adrian ChapmanJS:You could try WinConv, a "text conversion tool" from Pierre Duhem. This can read more than 20 "incompatible" floppy disk formats on a PC, and the Starwriter is listed. There is a limited trial version of the program so you can see if it works with your disks (www.duhem.com/conven.php3). There are also a few companies that might attempt to do the job for you. Examples include eMag Solutions, which used to be called InterMedia (www.intermedia.uk.com/bfloppy.htm), and Pivar Computing Services in Illinois (www.pivar.com). Alternatively, you could try to find someone else with a Starwriter, or even buy one on eBay. Usually, the simplest way to rescue data from an obsolete system is to load it up and see if you can re-save it in text format, ideally on a DOS (PC format) floppy disk. Your chances of doing this fall every year, as old machines are dumped in skips, so don't put it off. The 8in, 5.25in and 720K 3.5in format disks that were once ubiquitous are now becoming museum pieces.Solid state drivesWhen can we expect "solid state" Flash hard drives of a reasonable size and price in the computer world? I know they exist in the military world.Ken HickfordJS:People have been predicting the death of hard drives for more than a decade, but mechanical drive manufacturers have kept making astonishing advances. Samsung has launched a 32GB Flash drive, and forecast that a third of notebook PCs would use solid state hard drives by 2008. The advantages of SSDs (solid state drives) include speed, low weight, low power requirements, small size, and resilience - they tend not to break if you drop them. The problem is that, assuming Flash memory chips cost $20 per gigabyte, 32GB would still cost $640 - about &pound;340. You could get up to 700GB of conventional hard drive storage for that sort of money. However, when solid state hard drives do become commercially viable for general use, you'll see them advertised in ultra-mobile PCs, where light weight and low power requirements command premium prices.Backchat&middot;Last week, John Loader said he'd run "Dan Elwood's speed test", and I should have spotted the mistake. He ran Dan Elwell's Broadband Speed Test (www.broadbandspeedtest.net), which I've recommended here before. It also works with cable systems such as NTL and Telewest.
Creative sues over iPod interfaceCreative Technologies says Apple's iPod user interface infringes its "Zen" patent granted last August, derived from the Creative Zen player launched in 2000. It wants damages, and iPod sales halted - though the latter is unlikely even if Apple loses.Got the urge?MTV has announced Urge, a music download service that is almost seamlessly integrated (think iTunes 6) with Microsoft Windows Media Player 11, which appeared in beta form yesterday. New MP3 (and WMA) players will follow.www.urge.com.tel approvedIcann has approved the creation of .tel, a new top level domain to sit alongside .com, .net etc. It will be run by the UK-based Telnic Ltd.www.telnic.orgCalling EnglandThe England Calling site, which went live yesterday, will sell maxSIM "roaming free" mobile phone sims to travelling fans. The company plans more fan-related ventures.www.englandcalling.comSoftware curtainKaspersky, the Moscow-based anti-virus company, has upgraded its security suite and added anti-spam features plus a personal firewall.Finger phoneKorea's Pantech says it unveiled a "finger writing recognition phone", the PG-2800 GSM, at this month's SVIAZ/Expo Comm Trade Show in Moscow. It's claimed to be good for texting in Russian and Chinese characters.Classified newsOodle, a metasearch engine for local classified adverts, has opened a beta test site in the UK. It collects ads from sources such as Loot, Gumtree and Fish4cars, sorts them by area, and lets you search by price.www.oodle.co.ukCE aheadMicrosoft has released a beta test version of Windows CE, for small devices, which is now 10 years old. CE6 will form the basis of Windows Mobile 6 (code-named Crossbow) for PDAs and mobile phones.
Games fans may have had their eyeballs fixed on websites detailing interactive innovation in Los Angeles last week for the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, but elsewhere in the virtual world music fans were tuning into the latest platform for media distribution: a digital stage in the internet environment Second Life.The BBC simulcasted its Big Weekend pop festival into the online space, where approximately 6,000 virtual visitors joined the thousands of real ones at Camperdown Park in Dundee on Saturday and Sunday, dancing to live performances by top-billing chart-toppers such as Franz Ferdinand and Pink.Second Life is best described as a series of internet chat rooms represented in three dimensions across many acres of a digital space. It's often called a game because objects and people in the internet-only world are animated in 3D like most well-known contemporary entertainment titles. But the owners, a Northern California commercial company called Linden Lab, are keen to point out that Second Life doesn't follow a traditional goal-oriented game paradigm. Instead, they promote it as a digital platform for content creation. Users, called Residents, can create games if they choose, but the space is primarily the "virtual dirt" which allows distributed populations to interact and generate new things out of nothing.The technology represents a new approach for content distribution that may capture the demographic slice that's turning its back on television. The BBC's move signals recognition of the importance of access diversification, and heralds a new phase of public awareness of social virtual worlds.The BBC says it has rented a virtual island for a year, which it hopes to use to promote new bands. Homegrown talent already jostles for a place in Second Life's burgeoning events schedule, and live and pre-recorded performance has proven a crowd-pleaser at virtual dance clubs and parties. Support from an institution like the BBC could tip this space as a successor to MySpace, which is now an essential part of any aspiring music star's portfolio.How long before the next Arctic Monkeys emerge from the 3D machinations of virtual world residents? Maybe a while. The physical One Big Weekend event got mountains of publicity via radio personalities and TV spots; buzz about the virtual version had to rely on word of mouth through in-world channels. This may have been a conservative step by the corporation, to establish whether such an endeavour could work. But I imagine that the Radio 1 Big Weekend test will launch bigger and better things in the future.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sustainable alternatives to cement aboundThere is an alternative to cement for many uses in construction - lime. It was used in construction from ancient times to the early 20th century, when the use of cement became widespread. Lime is slightly more expensive but is much more environmentally friendly and sustainable.Michael TuttonLondon&middot;The crucial bit was missing. We were told how the petroleum products are cracked and how the new "cement" used what was left over, but how? Mixed with aggregate/sand as with the current portland cement?Keith GoodNorwich&middot;Assuming C-Fix is based upon the asphaltic residues from oil refining, then about 700m barrels of crude oil a day will need to be processed to replace world cement. Compared with cement mixers guzzling a lot of petrol, the oil refiners will have to work double overtime.Ed JackmanWestcliff-on-Sea, EssexTurntable's version 1.0.0Charles Arthur wants to spend a fortune so he can listen to music around the house. (Home is where the music is - wirelessly, May 11.) We just turn up the volume to 10 - works perfectly, even to the end of the garden. Our neighbours get our music free, too. We're running Turntable at 33rpm, amplifier rated 20-20KHz and twin 70W loudspeakers. They all seem to be version 1.0.0.Steven ThomsonLondonProblem recognitionLike Wendy Grossman (Technobile, May 11), I find myself subscribing by accident to the electronic version of Business Week. All she says is correct. Zinio's dreadful file format makes it impossible to search issues using the growing band of "desktop search engines" such as X1. By eschewing the industry standard PDF format, Business Week prevents me from adding its pages to my growing research database. Well, almost. To access the magazine, I have to print a massive PDF image file, then use optical character recognition to create a file I can search for. I will not renew my subscription. Fortune is a good replacement. It still believes in posting copies to the UK.Michael KenwardStaplefield, West SussexGlaser's real problemI am pushing 20,000 songs in my iTunes music library. Most came from legally purchased CDs, with the smallest percentage from iTunes purchases. The interviewer should have called him on such a statement [that much music is obtained illegitimately]. How can he know what iPod users are doing?He cannot see past the issue that Real Networks is having - the successful business model Apple has in place. He, along with some of the music industry, is stuck trying to make old business models work with new ideas and technologies. Subscription-based business models may work for movies, but songs are a different thing.Allen W. HillSt Paul, Minnesota&middot;We went through this a few months ago when Microsoft's Steve Ballmer made similar comments. Do these guys think they are going to sell more stuff by alienating customers? Why do they think that if the iPod is "opened up" so other download stores can sell music to be played on it, piracy will stop? Here's a hint - you can sell music to iPod owners now, just strip off the digital rights management and sell the music as MP3 files at a good price, and iPod owners will flock to your store.Peter KrugAtlanta, Georgia, USOpen source geodataWill Steve Coast from OpenStreetMap be the Linus Torvalds of open source geodata (A sidestep in the right direction, May 11)? A commercial model may develop around open source geospatial data. There is a place for such "small" scale data, without the high spatial resolution, rich data models and high levels of currency that characterise products such as OS MasterMap.www.edparsons.com
The next version of Microsoft Office, expected in January, represents a dramatic break with the past, at least by Office standards. The core applications have a whole new user interface and use a new file format, the first since 1997. Office 2007 also presents something of a new strategy, as Microsoft attempts to see off several major competitors - most important being Microsoft Office 2003, Office XP and Office 2000, with a few laggards still using the decade-old Office 1997.Microsoft's main problem is that Office already has more than 400 million users, and the general opinion seems to be that it is "good enough". Getting users to pay for something better is a challenge, as Steven Sinofsky, Microsoft senior vice president in charge of Office, admits. "No one ever thinks something else is done - printers, automobiles, televisions," he grumbled. And Office isn't finished either. "Productivity software is still in its infancy. There's still lots of things for us to do."Though I would like to, I must not tell you what they are. Sinofsky was speaking at one of this month's two-day Office reviewers' workshops, held - by invitation only and at Microsoft's expense - at the Marriott Hotel by Brooklyn Bridge in New York. Most of the crowd was American, but there was a handful from the UK plus other assorted Europeans from as far away as Poland. The main attraction is that you get the word directly from the decision makers - product managers and program managers such as Jensen Harris, Gray Knowlton and Brian Jones. The drawback is that you agree not to talk about stuff before it is released.Still, there were some very clear trends, one of which was summed up by one of our contributors, Simon Bisson, in a rare 15-minute break. "There's a lot of emphasis on heavy lifting," he said. Indeed therewas. If you think of Office as a small collection of personal productivity tools - mainly Word, Excel and PowerPoint - then you're seeing the tip of the iceberg. Office 2007 is being positioned as the front end to most of a company's business application needs, including content management, project management, business intelligence, all types of forms processing and workflow, all types of communication (including email, instant messaging and SMS), and collaborative working, including shared workspaces, blogs and wikis.And the central application is often one that few people have heard of - SharePoint Server 2007 - but millions will use without knowing it. Amusingly, the webbased service now being beta tested as Office Live is not an online version of Office, and you do not even need a version of Office installed on your PC; it is, in fact, SharePoint.To take a random example, as a project manager, you will probably see Microsoft Project on your PC. But behind that - if your company buys into the Microsoft strategy - is Microsoft Project Server, Microsoft Portfolio Manager, SharePoint, SQL Server and Windows Server software. You will also have Word, Excel and Power- Point, of course, plus Outlook, Office Communicator, Groove and InfoPath. (All of these are part of the Enterprise edition of Office, along with Office Publisher and OneNote.) Your IT department will probably need Visio and Visual Studio, too.The long-term strategy behind Office System 2007 is to empower people to drive the enterprise from their desktops - not that you could figure this out from Microsoft's "people-ready" US marketing campaign. It is of less interest if you do not have an enterprise. The new ease of use is also a major attraction, of course. But I would not bet on 400 million people being willing to pay for it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
According to Icann, the organisation that oversees the net, thank (or blame) notorious pornographer Larry Flynt and his somewhat unlikely bedfellow, the British government. But not the US government kowtowing to an influential right-wing Christian, oh no.While there is no shortage of triple X-rated material on the internet, plans to relocate it gradually to a designated domain space - with a ".xxx" site suffix - collapsed last week when Icann, the organisation that oversees the net, voted 9-5 against a proposal to add it to the global network.The decision was surprising, because a majority of the Icann board had expressed support for the top-level domain several times in the past year.No one was more surprised than the man behind the bid since 2004, the Florida-based businessman and West Bromwich supporter Stuart Lawley, who wanted to operate the .xxx registry. He claimed - perhaps infelicitously - that the decision left a "sour taste" in his mouth, and blamed US government interference.The spokesman for the EC Commissioner for Information Society and Media, Viviane Reding added: "It's a worrying development that the US administration has interfered in this process."That leads to Dr James Dobson, a politically influential right-wing Christian with close ties to the White House and a seven-million-listener US radio show. He had decided that .xxx would "only give pornographers more opportunity to flood our homes with despicable content". (The phrase makes us wonder if he has heard of the "power switch" found on most machines, or of a technique called "not going to dirty websites".)Ignoring a large number of technical experts who explained that the .xxx domain would actually aid control of pornography online, Dr Dobson (who believes, inter alia, that homosexuality can be "cured") roused his followers to flood the US Department of Commerce and Icann with emails and letters urging them to kill .xxx.Memos released under the Freedom of Information Act reveal that the Bush administration held several meetings with the groups, and ultimately threatened to overrule Icann if it did approve .xxx.That left Icann with the tricky task of executing a 180-degree turn while continuing to assure everyone that it was, in fact, an autonomous decision-making body.In the end, two letters sent just days before the meeting - from Larry "freedom of speech" Flynt (http://tinyurl.com/jme87), who said "only if it becomes a tool of censorship will [.xxx] achieve its goal of preventing access to adult content by minors, and if it falls short of that goal, what reasons was there for it in the first place ...?" and the UK government [http://tinyurl.com/fxeqf] - were propelled into the limelight by Icann's chief executive, Paul Twomey, to explain away the "unfounded and ignorant" claims that a small group of US fundamentalists had decided how the global internet was run. Heaven forbid.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This might get confusing. Apple has just launched the "MacBook", its successor to the all-white iBook laptop, and the top-end model is black. So black is cool, right? Not necessarily: this week Sony began shipping the white version of its PlayStation Portable (PSP) in the UK, after having only offered a black version. And of course Apple's iPod nano has, since its conception in Steve Jobs's jeans change pocket, come in either black or white.Does this get us any closer to deciding which is the cooler colour to tote, though? For after all, these days when we aren't just buying gadgets, but accessorising our lifestyles, it is so important to know how our stuff will be perceived.With the black MacBook, though, strange things seem to be afoot. The two lower-end MacBooks released this week are white; the top-end one is black. You can't choose the colour except by choosing the machine.Todd Benjamin, Apple's worldwide director of portables marketing, said this was because "we wanted to do something special for the top-line configuration; that was where the idea came from".However, the only apparent difference between the midrange (white) MacBook at &pound;899 and the top-end (black) MacBook at &pound;1029 is 20GB of disk space (60GB vs 80GB) - and the colour. Except that upping the hard drive on the midrange one to 80GB costs just &pound;40. So you're paying &pound;90 for a black paint job - plus the bragging rights of having a black computer, of course, unlike all the people owning IBM ThinkPads.Wait, though - what about the white PSP? Again, this may simply indicate that the laws of fashion come into play: whatever nobody else yet has is much more chic than what they do. Nobody outside Apple knows what the relative sales of black vs white iPod nanos is, but we're willing to bet that the tendency is towards black.Seeking an objective view, we asked Hadley Freeman, the Guardian's deputy fashion editor: black or white? "Oh, black," she told us carelessly. "White looks like the sort of thing Chantelle would have." Ouch. If the alternative is a skewering like that, then the extra &pound;90 for some black paint suddenly seems like an excellent investment.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the cause of seeking out the gadgets that will surely populate our homes in the future, I've recently added a rabbit to my living room. Not the fur-covered version, but an iconic plastic one with rotating ears. Called Nabaztag, from the French company Violet, it is intended to be an unintrusive gizmo to tell you things like the time, upcoming weather in a chosen location, whether you've got email, and a variety of other perhaps-useful things.In the, um, flesh, the Nabaztag (www.nabaztag.com, &pound;80 from Firebox.com) is a semi-opaque white plastic cone with a number of lights beneath its surface, a single button at the top and two rotatable magnetically-attached "ears" which serve as aerials for its Wi-Fi connection. Once plugged in, it tunes into your home's wireless network (your home will have a wireless network! There's a safe future assumption already) and downloads information from the Nabaztag servers to dish up to you. Different colours of lights encode different messages: a purple light at the "nose" means messages waiting, which you can play or archive by pressing the button; an interior speaker will transmit the messages, including MP3 attachments. When messages arrive, lights flash and the ears rotate strangely.It works, sure; despite needing a little tweaking to join my password-protected wireless network, it soon rotated its ears and flashed some lights to indicate readiness. On the website, I told it to tell the time on the hour, and show the weather; I was very intrigued to see how well it would cope with Britain's variety of "rain", "drizzle", "heavy mist" and so on.At three minutes past nine, its ears rotated and a chime sounded. "Ten o'clock," it announced confidently. My one-year-old was fascinated, and showed his approval by pulling the rabbit's ears off - an indignity it suffered in immobile silence, though once the ears were reattached it slowly whirled them back into place, guaranteeing the process would be repeated. (It is infant-proof, at least.)Meanwhile a pattern of three blue dots was playing on its stomach. This meant, apparently, that it was raining in London - though I wasn't really interested; I wanted to know what the weather would be like tomorrow where I live, which isn't London. (Violet is probably hindered by the lack of free weather data. Join the Free Our Data campaign!)While the Nabaztag's timekeeping improved slightly once I corrected the time zone on the site (the announcements were only a minute late), the impenetrability of its colour-coded blinking and lack of text gave it the air of an object from the anti-literate world of Farenheit 451. I'm not sure the world will ever need a Wi-Fi mood rabbit.After all, is it impossible to create an object showing weather icons for this price? Can't a small text display work? Plus, its built-in Wi-Fi system offers all sorts of promise: I'd like to hack this rabbit to do more interesting things, like read out the text from a page I send it, or announce things I choose at times I pick. "Bedtime, children!" would be good, perhaps in Darth Vader's voice. Doing this via automated email every night seems too roundabout.Being connected doesn't necessarily mean being internet-connected; it's on my home network, so why can't the computers on my network tell it directly what to do? Why do I need to go via the Nabaztag site? A few people have already tried hacking the system behind the Nabaztag (search "nabaztag hack"), but the results are limited so far - seewww.ed-vero.com/nabaztag.html.Yes, the gadgets of the future do need simplicity; you can't just glue a PC to the wall and pretend that you've created the digital home. But the Nabaztag has done us a favour by showing the other extreme, a product whose quest for simplicity actually undermines its usefulness. The search for a happy medium - with or without mood lighting - goes on.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
You may have noticed that we are heading for an increasingly compact world. Smaller homes, smaller cars and, of course, smaller electronics. For personal audio, bantamweight's the thing, while vision, too, is now flatter, lighter; freeing up more room in our increasingly cramped homes. But there is one glaring exception - the monolithic speakers that clog the living rooms of hi-fi fans.While Bose makes small speakers (but large subwoofers to go with them), you should hear the rude things that some hi-fi fans with sensitive ears say about them. The British company NXT, which some years ago developed flat-speaker technology (which it has since licensed to scores of companies worldwide), has not seen it adopted by the hi-fi set either. A newer version, called the Balanced Modal Radiator form, has, however, begun to win some attention.For a decent sound, audiophiles argue, you need big macho, expensive speakers - up to five of them, according to the prevailing wisdom. But all that may be about to change.Apart from a few upstart usurpers battling to invade with digital versions, speaker technology remains remarkably unchanged since its inception just over 100 years ago. And, like the internal combustion engine, it's an old technology that relies on refinement to increase performance. The results of the latest changes to its design - slimmer, digitised and some going hypersonic - are decidedly unproven, say hi-fi gurus, many of whom still cling to their home-made behemoths; a last stand against the feminisation and miniaturisation of our gadgets. But others see that it's time for something new, something more handy."The basic loudspeaker design has remained constant for almost 70 years. A fundamentally new approach is long overdue," says Dr Tony Hooley of 1 in Cambridge, the inventor of a new digitally driven speaker system.He's right. Loudspeakers are a cumbersome technology - basically a coil of wire in a magnetic gap connected to a cone of stiff paper in two large boxes. Surely it can't remain the favourite of the high-end users, the music lover, or sound-sensitive for much longer. Everything else is going digital; why not the paper cone too? "Conventional loudspeakers are by far the weakest link in the chain between recording live sound and sound reproduction. Analogue loudspeakers are inefficient, expensive, fragile and require costly amplification systems," says Hooley.Audiophiles are spending money - up to &pound;20,000 in some cases - on ways to reduce the inherent distortion found in conventional speakers. Hooley's idea is to replace these large analogue speaker and their hefty transducers (the magnets at the back of the cones) altogether, thereby eliminating the worst of their problems.Hooley's system uses an array of small transducers, each driven by a separate and unique digital data stream. The 23 tiny speakers handle all sound processing, too, so no amplifier is needed. What's more, Hooley claims that only one speaker is needed to create perfectly sublime surround sound.So far, Yamaha and Dolby are convinced and signed up for this new British technology. Already in production is Yamaha's &pound;600 Home theatre system, the YSP-800, which uses Hooley's technology and has impressed the audio press.Not just Yamaha, but other Japanese audio makers seem keen on this type of one-speaker system. Tokyo-based hi-fi expert Mitsuhito Miura has come up with a convincing full-bodied surround sound out of one bazooka-like tabletop speaker. Available this September from M Systems (www.mssystem.co.jp), the "Miura" speaker also looks great. True, it's a bit of a cheat: you'll find conventional loudspeakers concealed at each end of the tube. But the tube's acoustics produce the same hi-fi experience that big stereo speakers do without demanding you find the "sweet spot" - the place in a room where the signals from each speaker reach you simultaneously.As Hooley points out, that is another problem with conventional hi-fi: the need for a sweet spot is an error in itself. With two speakers, if you stand somewhere else in the room, the sound waves from the speakers will be out of phase, destroying the stereo signal that the studio engineer has worked to create.With both the new British and Japanese technologies, the sound produced anywhere in the room is "sweet" - there is none of the phase interference. At around &pound;1,000 each, you will not save much money buying just one Miura or YSP-800 speaker. But the emergence of such speakers shows the mould is finally being broken, says Steve Harris, chairman of the British Federation of Audio, an industry grouping of speaker makers.Harris points to a new product from NXT called the Balanced Modal Radiator (BMR) - a speaker, not a central heating element - which has begun to win the approval even of audiophiles, who have previously been sniffy about the range offered by NXT. "My first impressions -and that's all I've had so far - would indicate that it's very promising," he says.As with previous NXT products, the BMR system can be disguised as a framed painting, or even incorporated in to a car's inside door panel. The NXT system works like a piano soundboard: though the material is stiff, it amplifies sound fed into it. In the NXT model, that's achieved by a tiny transducer attached to the back. NEC, Fujitsu, and Toyota have already signed up to use it.
Tetris DSNintendo DS, &#163;29.99, Nintendo Europe4 starsTetris is one of the few games that, when you hear the title, the image of its famous gameplay instantly pops into your head. Now Nintendo has revamped the bane of office lunch-breaks for the DS generation. Thankfully they've complemented rather than corrupted. There are six play modes, ranging from the original standard mode, for purists, to touch mode, where you use the stylus to drag, spin and drop the falling blocks (Tetrominoes) into position. The classics theme doesn't add a whole lot unless you're a die-hard Nintendo fan. However, the addition of a "holding space" for troublesome blocks and ghost images that show where blocks will fall, are welcome additions. A strong multiplayer mode rounds it off nicely.Rhianna PratchettDaxterPlayStation Portable, &#163;29.99, Sony4 starsAll style and little substance, the PSP is woefully lacking in quality games. This means the release of Daxter is welcome. An old-fashioned 3D platform adventure, Daxter is great fun. The intuitive controls are a doddle to pick up, and a fairly forgiving Save structure means you rarely have to retrace steps. The basics are simple - visit each new area and squash all the bugs found. Not exactly Age of Empires, but the variety of action and environments makes for a consistently enjoyable session of pest control. Some of the later sections are tough, and the wonky camera doesn't always help. But considering the state of some 3D games on the PSP, such problems seem minor. Throw in some amusing pastiche sections and knowing dialogue, and it is an impressive package.Greg HowsonMetroid Prime: HuntersNintendo DS, &#163;29.99, Nintendo4 starsUntil now, we would have said that the DS struggles to run 3D games, but Metroid Prime: Hunters proves that is not the case. Nintendo's intergalactic bounty-hunting first-person shoot-'em-up has translated stunningly to the ugly but popular handheld, making fine use of the touch-pad: you touch areas of the bottom screen, for example, to transform Samus into her Morph ball or select rockets, and she moves with the D-Pad but looks and aims with the stylus. You can even make her jump with a mere double-tap anywhere on the screen. Metroid Prime: Hunters is surprisingly compromise-free: the levels are long and varied, the bosses as evil and freaky-looking as ever, and you still end each level in a timed race back to your ship. Best of all, you can play against random people via Wi-Fi. This is a grown-up game for the DS, and is an essential purchase.Steve Boxer
Companies House is one of the umpires of British capitalism. The agency, based in Cardiff, runs the official register of UK businesses and their shareholders. Its database is the first port of call for anyone checking corporate bona fides.Unlike most umpires, however, Companies House also competes in the game it supervises. As it adopts new technology, the agency is moving up the value chain in a growing market for electronic business information. Other firms fear that the state monopoly's entrepreneurial zeal, driven largely by government policy, could put them out of business.The case of Companies House illustrates some of the conflicts faced by government trading funds required to fund essential services by selling informationbased services. Guardian Technology's Free our Data campaign argues the two roles should be separated in the interests of nurturing a knowledge economy.Opaque processesAs a trading fund, Companies House is required to cover costs and make a 3.5% return to the Treasury each year by charging fees. (In the last financial year, it managed 4.5%.) The processes by which it works out these fees, however, are opaque. It was unable to provide a copy of its latest pricing review, carried out in 2004. It is not a member of the Information Fair Traders Scheme, set up by the government to ensure fair play in the trade in public-sector information.Although no one appears prepared to go on the record, commercial companies in the business information market are worried. They depend on good relations with Companies House for access to data, but fear the agency may move into their "value added" markets - providing company investigations, for example - and undercut them. (An investigation by the Office of Fair Trading in 2002 cleared Companies House of predatory pricing.)Tim Moss, director of corporate strategy, says the worries are groundless. The agency has no intention of moving into "value added" markets and its prices are controlled by statute.But potential competitors are concerned about a new electronic service, Monitor, developed as part of a set of measures to prevent fraudsters hijacking companies. Subscribers receive an email notification when new documents are filed relating to a specific business. The cost: 50p a company. "There's no way we could offer anything at that price," an executive at a leading business information firm said. Moss denies there is any conflict. "We're not doing anything with the data, we're just telling them it is there." Pricing is on a cost-recovery basis, he says.Competitors are also worried about the potential of a new IT system, Chips, to enable Companies House to get into new ways of selling data. Moss says there is no intention to use it for such purposes. "Chips is a a new core database - the same rules apply. It won't change our fundamental role, which is to make public information available." Companies House's statutory services are tightly regulated. European law forbids it charging more for registration than it needs to cover costs.However, information about Companies House pricing policy is not easy to come by. A comprehensive review of prices and costs carried out between July 2003 and July 2004 led to price cuts in February last year, as most requests for information now arrive via the web. As part of the review, the agency classified some of its new services as statutory.The argument for allowing Companies House to charge for information is that this helps reduce the cost of the mandatory part of its business, company registration. But the way Companies House works out its costs and charges is far from transparent. The agency sent us a document, Principles of Cost Allocation, which admits that producing such figures "is not a trivial exercise because the information available is not readily available".The document does not list all the product areas - one is blanked out, on the grounds that it is exempt under section 38 of the Freedom of Information Act. This exempts disclosures on the grounds that it may endanger the physical or mental health or safety of an individual.The contents of a pricing review, published internally in June 2004, are even more mysterious. It comes with a sheet explaining that "some parts of the report have been redacted" as it is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. One reason given is that information "is of a sensitive nature and could prejudice the commercial interests of Companies House". Other parts are removed because they are felt to deal with the formulation of government policy. Names have also been removed - including that of the review leader and members of the steering group.In all, out of 64 pages, 36 contain deleted items. A section on "possible future products" is held to be exempt from disclosure, under section 43 of the Freedom of Information Act, which allows public bodies to withhold commercial information if they can show that disclosure would damage their commercial interest and be against the public interest. The review's proposed fees for services have also been removed under that rule.Definition difficultiesRichard Pawlyn, chair of the trade association Locus, says the case of Companies House illustrates difficulties faced by trading funds. "How can a trading fund stop itself from letting its upstream data drive its core business? How do we decide what is the definition of base data and what is the definition of value added? Whose job is it to supervise?"One policing authority could be the Information Fair Traders Scheme, set up by the government's Office of Public Sector Information to ensure fair play. Companies House is considering joining.&#183;See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
By rights, last week's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) Show in Los Angeles should have belonged to Sony. With 100 million PlayStation 2 owners on tenterhooks for news of the PlayStation 3, the Japanese consumer electronics giant duly released detailed information about the PlayStation's launch and pricing; but a strangely flat performance from the company and an absence of compelling PS3 games left an underwhelming impression.The PS3 will launch in the UK on November 17, in two varieties - a "core" system with a 20GB hard disk, but with no built-in Wi-Fi, memory card slots or HDMI output for high-end Blu-ray DVD playback. It will cost &euro;499 (&pound;340). A full-blown version with those extras and a 60GB hard disk will cost &euro;599 (&pound;408). Two million units will be available worldwide on launch day, with 4m to follow between then and March. How may of those will come to the UK remains undisclosed.Sony also surprised attendees by unveiling the PS3's controller, which looks virtually identical to the PS2's, but has motion sensing. However, only one game on show, WarHawk, was able to use those motion-sensing abilities - hardly surprising, since even Sony UK admits that their inclusion was a surprise. The most disappointing aspect of the PS3, however, is the weakness of its likely launch games line-up, which lacks blockbusters.Favourite launch titlesThe best-looking titles were Resistance: Fall of Man, a first-person shoot-'em-up set in a 1950s Britain overrun by aliens and featuring good graphics but conventional gameplay, and Heavenly Sword, a slick, super-fast, arena-based sword-fighting effort. Phil Harrison, Sony Computer Entertainment's head of worldwide development, hinted, however, that Heavenly Sword may not be ready for November 17 by singling out Resistance and the niche-y Singstar 2 as his favourite launch titles, while adding that Sony will announce the launch line-up in September.Polyphony Digital's Kazunori Yamauchi said he would produce a new Gran Turismo game next year, but Sony will need it earlier, rather than later, along with the likes of Metal Gear Solid IV. Privately, many third-party developers complained they had still not received final PS3 development kits, although Sony said they are being sent out. Contrary to expectation, Sony did give show-goers hands-on experience of PS3 games, but the consoles were hidden away. The PS3's final form has still not been shown publicly.Microsoft, in contrast, was trying desperately not to come across as overly smug. With the Xbox 360 finally in stores in significant numbers, it had no new hardware to announce apart from an add-on HD-DVD player and Vision, an Eye Toy-style camera. Still, it was able to announce that next year's Grand Theft Auto IV will be available on Xbox 360 from the day of its release, with exclusive extra content available via Xbox Live, thus breaking Sony's previous exclusivity contract with publisher Rockstar Games. Microsoft's Gears of War - a contender for game of the show, graphically superior to anything Sony showed and (a hands-on play confirms) pleasingly innovative to play - will arrive in September. So will Ubisoft's Splinter Cell: Double Agent, another game with the capability to sell consoles.Peter Moore, Microsoft's vice president for interactive entertainment, cheekily alleged that the more expensive PlayStation 3 version would cost roughly the same as an Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii combined (the Wii is likely to be cheap) and many of the show's best games - including 2K Games' Bioshock and The Darkness, Eidos' Just Cause, Activision's Call of Duty 3, Ubisoft's Haze, Electronic Arts' Army of Two and Capcom's amusing zombie-splatterfest Dead Rising - will be available for the Xbox 360 (although generally not exclusively).Microsoft also showed an impressive roster of games developed in-house, such as Fable 2, Rare Software's Viva Pinata (aimed at a young, Nintendo-style audience), Forza Motorsport 2, the action role-playing game Too Human, and Mass Effect, Blue Dragon, and Ninety-Nine Nights, designed to appeal to the Japanese market, where the Xbox 360 has flopped embarrassingly.Neil Thompson, Microsoft Europe's senior regional director for home and entertainment division, expounded on a key aspect of Microsoft's Xbox 360 strategy: despite production problems, six million Xbox 360s have been sold, and Moore stated an intention to sell 10m before the PS3 launches: "All of a sudden, every publisher that produces a game has to consider putting that game on to Xbox 360, and it becomes a de facto standard. It becomes very expensive for our competitors if they're trying to get an exclusive."Yet while Microsoft had a good E3, the star of the show was undoubtedly Nintendo. This was surprising, considering it went into the show facing widespread criticism over the Revolution's name change to "Wii" (which smacked of the excessive Japan-centricism that used to affect Nintendo) and revelations that it is barely more powerful than the GameCube.Nintendo's charismatic executive vice president of US sales and marketing, Reggie Fils-Aime, delivered the message that the critics would understand the Wii when they got their hands on it. And he was right. The heart of the Wii is its motion-sensing controller, which resembles a TV remote, plus its "nunchuk" add-on, essentially an extra joystick that attaches to the remote by a cable; they both communicate with a stick-like receiver designed to sit on top of the TV.Together, they provide a gloriously intuitive means of playing hardcore games such as shoot-'em-ups and action-adventures, providing the control required to negotiate games such as Metroid Prime: Corruption, Zelda: Twilight Princess and Super Mario Galaxy. As the nunchuk also senses motion, it allows cute touches such as the ability to launch Samus from Metroid Prime's grapple with a flick of the wrist.On its own, the remote can be anything from a conductor's baton (as Shigeru Miyamoto, Nintendo's senior managing director, demonstrated during a conference presentation), to a drumstick or a tennis racquet. The wacky WarioWare: Smooth Moves even encourages you to do things like hold it against your hip while you gyrate, to keep a virtual hula-hoop oscillating. Probably the best Wii title to try before launch, though, is Wii Sports, which includes a tennis game in which you merely need to wield the remote as if it were a tennis racquet. With Metroid, Zelda, WarioWare, Wii Sports and possibly the outrageously surreal Super Mario Galaxy all available, the Wii will have what is indisputably the best launch games lineup of any console in history.Question marksA few question marks hover over the Wii. Nintendo has not announced a release date - it will arrive in time for Christmas - or price, although it is unlikely to be much more than &pound;200. Third-party developer and publisher support is minimal, and it remains to be seen whether developers will be able to continue coming up with new forms of gameplay after a few years, and whether it will make your arm ache after sustained use. But it provides some of the most joyous and gleeful gameplay, and will surely achieve Nintendo's stated aim of bringing non-gamers and lapsed gamers into the fold.More importantly, it shows that it's not graphics, but content, that matters. While Sony and Microsoft pour millions into their competing high-defininition formats, Miyamoto is focusing on just what it is that makes a game worth playing. It's hard not to feel there's a lesson there.
"BT has begun rolling out wireless infrastructure in six UK cities as the first phase of a wider project, the company said on Wednesday. The cities taking part so far are Birmingham, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leeds, Liverpool and Westminster. Cardiff and Westminster represent extensions of the plan, as smaller Wi-Fi networks already exist in both places. Ultimately, BT plans to deliver high-speed Wi-Fi to 12 cities," reportsCNet.BT's group director of mobility, Steve Andrews "stressed that the wireless deployment would initially be focused on areas identified by the relevant councils, rather than taking the form of blanket coverage. He also said the rollout could aid public safety, and could support applications such as portable wireless cameras to combat crime and traffic congestion."Comment: The scheme is an expansion of what has already been pioneered in Westminster, which we've reported inWireless tools under the spotlight,Partners in grimeand similar stories.
Dear Matt,At what age can babies use bike seats and could you recommend the best type/make to get? We also want to buy a tandem to use with our very tall seven-year-old daughter and wondered if you could recommend one. We are not sure about buying one specifically for a child and adult because we would probably also use it when we go out together, as two adults.Claire Fraser, via emailThe consensus is that six months is the youngest a child should be. There is plenty of choice: you are looking for the moulded plastic type with harnesses and footrests. Hamax and Rhode Gear are both good brands.Unless you're handy with a wrench, get it fitted by the shop's mechanic. Your child should have a helmet, and you need to get used to the child's weight altering the handling of the bike. Further advice is available online from organisations such as the London Cycling Campaign and Rospa.For your daughter, a better (and cheaper) solution for now might be a bike trailer hitched to either of your adult bikes. Then, when she is taller still, you can get the tandem.
Bleary-eyed, brain-hammered game journos have now recovered from E3 and most of the big news sites put their 'best of' round-ups online over the weekend. The clearly laid outBest of E3 2006from 1up.com is easily the most comprehensive, providing winners and runners-up for each platform as well as in several genres.Pocket Gamerwas similarly exhaustive within its handheld gaming remit.IGN, meanwhile, goes for a somewhat less generous opinion piece in the shape of,E3 2006: It's A Wrap, while Gamespot takes the democratic route, basing itsPeople's Choice Awardson the clicks accumulated by E3 news stories (there's a pretty even spread with three Xbox 360 titles, six from PS3 and five on Wii).Elsewhere, Games Radar picks out itstwenty favourite news storieswhileGame Prois, as far as my lunchtime browsing session suggested, the only major site to talk about its biggest E3 disappointments as well as it's 20 favourite titles. In the former category, Microsoft's Halo 3 demo came in for the most seriously mauling.From this unscientific swoop through the web's E3 reactions, a 'definitive' list of the top E3 titles has shakily and unconvincingly arisen...Image courtesy ofPocket GamerPS3Ninja Theory's martial arts adventure, Heavenly Sword, and in-house Sony flight shooter, War Hawk, seemed to grab the most attention. However, Ubisoft's promising Crusade-era stealth romp, Assassin's Creed, also caught the eye of discerning journos.WiiPredictably, the latest Mario outing, Super Mario Galaxy, and the inventive, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves, emerged most proudly from the packed Wii line-up. Those who actually managed to grasp hold of a controller and give it a go couldn't get Wii Sports out of their heads though.Xbox 360Gears of War is still hanging around, drawing in superlatives like swirling houseflies. BioWare's sci-fi RPG, Mass Effect, attracted plenty of praise, too. Others noted Bioshock from Irrational games and Keiji Inafune's shooter, Lost Planet.PCIt was all about Spore again this year. However, those less convinced by complex evolutionary life sims opted for Quake Wars or Crysis, no doubt snorting their derision as they slaughtered their foes.HandheldYoshi's Island 2 was a common choice for biggest DS title, while the entirely unrepresentative LocoRoco impressed those PSP users tired of flashy shooters and racers. There were two Final Fantasy mobile phone titles at the show, but most agreed that Gameloft's conversion of Lumines was the most interesting offering.Current gen consolesEven slimmer pickings than expected, it seems. God of War 2 and Okami delighted the PS2 boys, while Xbox fans made do with multi-format titles like Marvel: Ultimate Alliance and Lego Star Wars II.So, from what you've read, of perhaps even whatyousaw at the show, how wrong are these selections?
Remember when PSP launched and everyone marvelled at the sexy curves and sleek design? Would the PSP be the first games handheld that an adult could use on the train without embarrassment? Well, by and large, yes. The PSP is easily spotted when out and about. But what about the DS?Try a little experiment when you are next on a train, tube or bus. Take a look around and see how many adults are playing DS. Yup, not many is it. While the DS may have a pile of innovative and enjoyable games, the handheld remains a guilty secret for grown-ups. Until you get to a games convention that is. The DS was everywhere at E3 - and apparently GDC too - with attendees using the device almost as a badge of gaming honour. The reason has as much to do with snobbery as good games. Let the "mass market" play FIFA on their PSP's, goes the thinking, they wont understand or appreciate Trauma Center like we do.Of course, in Japan the DS is huge, which is why the release of Brain Training and the Lite redesign is so interesting. Will older people - which for Nintendo means over 16 - be tempted by these as they have been in Japan? Or will the DS remain strictly for kids and connoisseurs only?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Sun Microsystems is planning to release the source code of the Java programming language, chief executive Jonathan Schwartz said at the JavaOne conference in San Francisco," reportsVNUnet."It's not a question of whether we'll open source Java, the question is how, " Schwartz told delegates in his opening keynote at the tradeshow.Apparently, Sun is still trying to figure that out.But many people will wonder if it's too little, too late. AseWeek reports:Longtime open source advocate Bruce Perens of Berkeley, Calif., a former consultant to Hewlett-Packard and other companies, cast a suspicious eye on the moves."This strategy is intended to take some of the wind out of the sails of 'Free Java' efforts like GNU Classpath, the four or five open source Java VMs, and GCJ, the GNU Java compiler," Perens told eWEEK."Sun intends to provide a 'good-enough' JDK in the hopes that developers will put less effort into its fully open-source competition. But I think the developers will easily see through this. They'll continue their efforts."Jonathan Schwartz has blogged about it inJava, and Survival of the Most Adaptable.
ModelVW Passat 2.0 Sport FSIPrice&pound;20,590Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.6 secsConsumption33.2 mpg (combined)Emissions204g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelPeter DuncanThey'd rather walkSir Alan SugarOn the stereoChris Evans on Radio 2En route forHarpendenThe latest version of the VW Passat estate is a car that unarguably gets the big details right. No matter how you look at it, that is one spectacular pair of cup-holders between the front seats. It looks a conventional enough set-up at first: the usual double-barrelled bin in moulded plastic, and likely, you assume, to hold a drink, in an acceptable if approximate way - but not with the firmness of grasp that makes for proper driving confidence in an on-board coffee situation.Yet that, in a way, is the beauty of it, because once you have lowered your cup, can or bottle into the slot, you can press a button, causing the internal wall of the compartment to swivel and release an armature, intimately locking the receptacle into position, but (and this is important) without pinching it so tightly that you can't slip it out again at the next available traffic light.So mechanically sound is this device that you could probably get the car airborne and execute what fighter pilots refer to as a barrel roll and not experience anything more than a completely acceptable level of sloppage. Thus is the fortunate Passat driver freed up to accelerate and brake in the company of a hot beverage, with unalloyed commitment and a clear mind.The Passat's cup-holders take their place among today's great cup-holders - namely, the bomb-proof ones in the Land Rover Discovery and the dash-mounted, pop-out, single cup-holder on the Volvo V70 estate. A surprise success this latter one, given that, historically, any cup-holder attached to the dashboard appears to have been designed specifically to siphon the contents of your cup into the slot of your CD player, thus coating the electrics, over time, in an unhelpful amalgam of boiled milk and sugar. Yet despite all precedents, the Volvo's holder proves to have a cunningly supple and hugely reliable, non-slop grip. That's Swedish ingenuity for you.We make no apology for dwelling on the new Passat's cup-holders. For one thing, estate cars are about carrying things, and that includes drinks. (Bigger than the old model in every direction, the new Passat will also carry 513 cubic litres of other, non-drink-related stuff, which is 18 litres more than the old one did.) For another, nearly every car these days includes cup-holders, but an astonishing amount of them don't really work, so it seems only right to applaud any company that has risen to the challenge and bothered to work with this problem.In any case, in a world in which people routinely choose cars for their colour or because they quite liked the ad, to select one explicitly for something as technically and mechanically involved as the performance of its cup-holders is to risk coming across as virtually a petrol-head. Or certainly a coffee-head.Indeed, as a point of principle, we would urge anyone test-driving a new car of any kind to insist on taking a drink with them - preferably a large, full one. Watch how the drink responds to cornering and to sudden changes of direction. Keep an eye out for seepage at speed. Any untoward frothing? How is the upholstery at the end of your journey? When you may be about to spend thousands on a car, these are not negligible considerations.Neat, practical touches ripple through the Passat estate, a medium-priced car aspiring, rather successfully, to some of the allure and presence of costlier models by Audi and Mercedes, yet still having that whacking great, dustbin-lid-size VW badge on the nose, somewhat deflating its appeal to the more status-driven purchaser, much as a Marks &amp; Spencer label would, if sewn inside an Armani suit.But this is a handsome and practical car. It is stiff-bodied and relatively responsive and (in a 2.0 litre petrol version) quick, while remaining an estate car, which means that its rear seats split and fold flat, and it's just about long enough to carry rugby posts.The reason there is room to develop the cup-holders beyond the norm is that the Passat lacks a handbrake, having, instead, a button-operated electronic parking brake - a first in this price range. It is also the latest car to ditch the ignition key in favour of a chunky transmitter that you plug into a slot on the dashboard. In this way does the traditional car-key slip rapidly towards obsolescence. We will soon look on twisting a key in an ignition the way we look on oil lamps, or driving with a drink clutched between your thighs - both of them unthinkable in 2006.ModelVW Passat 2.0 Sport FSIPrice&pound;20,590Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.6 secsConsumption33.2 mpg (combined)Emissions204g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelPeter DuncanThey'd rather walkSir Alan SugarOn the stereoChris Evans on Radio 2En route forHarpenden
An online computer game based on the Columbine high school massacre in the United States has prompted outrage from relatives of those who died.The game, Super Columbine Massacre RPG, uses images of Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, the teenagers who killed 12 of their classmates and a teacher before committing suicide at the Colorado school.It was posted on a website last year, but has become increasingly popular in recent months.The game includes crime scene photographs of the killers and images of students running and crying during the April 1999 massacre. No images of the victims are used in the game.Brian Rohrbough, whose son Daniel was among those murdered, said: "We live in a culture of death, so it doesn't surprise me that this stuff has become so commonplace. It disgusts me. You trivialise the actions of two murderers and the lives of the innocent."The site's creator told theRocky Mountain Newsin an email interview that he wanted to create something that would "promote a real dialogue on the subject of school shootings".The creator, who identified himself only by the name "Columbin", said he was inspired to make the game because he was in Colorado at the time of the attack."I was a bullied kid. I didn't fit in, and I was surrounded by a culture of elitism as espoused by our school's athletes." He said that he considered the killers, at times, to be "very thoughtful, sensitive and intelligent young men".Richard Castaldo, who was paralysed from the chest downwards in the attack, played the game after reading about it on a gaming website. He said it reminded him of Gus Van Sant's film Elephant (2003), which follows students and others on the day of a school massacre without assigning reasons or blame for the bloodshed."It didn't make me mad, just kind of confused me," he said. "Parts of it were difficult to play through, but overall, I get the feeling it might even be helpful in some ways. I don't think it's bad to discuss [the shootings]."
LA Transit mapOnline maps are great, of course, but how do you compare a map you already have -- a cycle map of Seattle, say, or a town plan of Victorian Kidderminster -- with a web-based offering? You couldn't, but now you can with Microsoft Research's prototype MapCruncher. Basically you compare the two maps and use crosshairs to identify a number of common points until you have enough to synchronise the maps and create an overlay. The two maps are your map and Microsoft's Virtual Earth.And here's a killer application: you can take, for example, an architect's floor plans for a mall, and the utility supply diagrams (water, gas, electricity etc) and create a mash-up with the satellite view.According to aMicrosoft interview:"MapCruncher empowers anybody in the world to take whatever data is important to them," explains [Jeremy] Elson, the project lead, "and share it with everybody else in a format that makes all of these types of data interoperable."TheMapCruncher download pagesays:MapCruncher accepts both drawing formats (PDF, WMF, EMF) and image formats (JPG, PNG, TIFF, GIF, BMP). The MapCruncher application requires Windows Server 2003 or Windows XP. It also requires the .Net 2.0 runtime, which it will install if necessary.There's an interestinggalleryof some of the Cruncher mashups already created.Comment: This sounds like something that must have been done before, so please point me to earlier examples, if you know of any....
People don't talk much about class and cycling. It's one of those things we all notice but are far too polite to mention. But the fact is there are two types of cyclist. One is white, middle-class, educated, and probably liberal in their politics; they have good-quality, new-ish bikes, with the right accessories. The other is either poor or teenaged, often non-white, and has whatever bike comes to hand - old and ill-maintained or cheap from Halfords.This unspoken theme of class identity is often a subtext of confrontations between motorists and cyclists. Drivers are likely to be working-class; cyclists usually middle-class. Some of the simmering resentment that bubbles up when there's an incident is because motorists see us as snotty, posh and self-entitled. That's right: they're in the cars, we're on the bikes, but they're the ones with the inferiority complex. This is a huge reversal of where we were 50 or 60 years ago, when more than 10 million people still pedalled to work. But then, in the 1950s and 1960s, came postwar affluence and, as Labour politician Tony Crosland once remarked, the middle classes could not pull the ladder of prosperity up after them: what his working-class constituents wanted were cars and foreign holidays. So, in the era of universal car ownership, riding a bike has become a largely middle-class lifestyle option.None of this is said in a spirit of rancour or self-flagellation. But what got me thinking about this was a couple of pages from a new book by veteran sustainable transport campaigner Lynn Sloman, Car Sick: Solutions for our Car-addicted Culture. Her explanation of the roots of cycling's revival makes fascinating reading. We tend to think the boom is due to more bike lanes, route maps and parking stands (with London, in particular, getting a boost from Ken Livingstone's congestion charge and commitment to cycling). Wrong, says Sloman: the recovery long pre-dates the serious spending.The London borough of Hackney led the way. According to census figures, just 2.5% of residents cycled to work in 1981; by 1991, this had risen to 4%; and in 2001, it stood at an amazing, almost Danish-style 7%. Partly this was "because the alternatives were so unattractive" - poor public transport and congestion. But "part of the explanation," she writes, "might also have been that the borough had a long history of radicalism, and started to attract young people who were environmentally aware and predisposed to cycling".I know exactly who she means. The irony is delicious: the very same people - paid-up members of the progressive middle class - who were tarred with being "loony left" 20 years ago have now helped to make our cities more civilised. Thatcher's children? Ken's kids, more like.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,At what age can babies use bike seats and could you recommend the best type/make to get? We also want to buy a tandem to use with our very tall seven-year-old daughter and wondered if you could recommend one. We are not sure about buying one specifically for a child and adult because we would probably also use it when we go out together, as two adults.Claire Fraser, via emailThe consensus is that six months is the youngest a child should be. There is plenty of choice: you are looking for the moulded plastic type with harnesses and footrests. Hamax and Rhode Gear are both good brands.Unless you're handy with a wrench, get it fitted by the shop's mechanic. Your child should have a helmet, and you need to get used to the child's weight altering the handling of the bike. Further advice is available online from organisations such as the London Cycling Campaign and Rospa.For your daughter, a better (and cheaper) solution for now might be a bike trailer hitched to either of your adult bikes. Then, when she is taller still, you can get the tandem.Email your bike related queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
MMOGs developers are having to make increasingly extraordinary moves to grab the attentions of headline-writers these days, what with Real Money Transfers (RMTs) for virtual castles a seemingly everyday occurrence (which, in fact, they are). Some have used thesexy approach, others have used themarket share approachand still others have used thecontroversy approach.Project Entropiahas relied upon the "Say what?!" approach to grab column inches. Their announcements since 2004 have regularly and dramatically blurred the boundary between real and virtual money. They first became the subject of mainstream attention when it was announced that the sale of a virtual island in the online world went for overUS$26,000. Theyrepeated the featthe next year. Now their well-oiled press machine has gone into overdrive, with theannouncementthat users of the world can now withdraw cash from real-world ATM machines from stores of game-cash from in-world balances.Wowee - pulling virtual world cash out of my bank machine means I'll be raiding like a loon from now on! I'll never use my overdraft again!The reality is, I'll be ducking Entropia's press releases from now on thanks toDan HunteratTerra Novawho blows this latest scheme out of the water faster thanStefan Eriksson can drive his Ferrari off the Pacific Coast Highway.First off, it's genuinely no big deal to have a "Project Entropia Card", since almost any bank is happy to give you a card with your brand on it. At various times I've had credit cards with brands like "United Airlines", "University of Pennsylvania" and "National Geographic" on them, even though I'm confident that none of those institutions is actually a bank. This is called "co-branding" and it's extremely common. Then there is the amazing fact that you can use your "virtual" currency in the real world. But think about what this actually means: you pay US dollars (or whatever currency you use) to get PEDs at the rate of 10 PEDs per US dollar; these PEDs sit in an account that Mindark controls; and if you get a Project Entropia card you can extract the PEDs from your account as dollars. Which is another way of saying that you put dollars in, and you can get dollars out. Hey, guess what? This new frontier in virtual currency is...wait for it...a co-branded debit card.As Hunter argues, it's not the first time Entropia's people have presented a rather flimsy - but expertly worded - press release to the world's media. Indeed, he highlights the example of the $100K space station sold to John "Neverdie" Jacobs:Jacobs, various news sources reported, was an independent filmmaker and DJ who intended to run the station as a virtual nightclub and resort. What no news services (to the best of my knowledge) ever reported is that Jon "Neverdie" Jacobs worked for MindArk as their "Project Entropia, US Spokesman." He was a speaker at the Digital Hollywood conference in 2004 on internet gaming, and his (presumably self-written) biography says that his responsibilities for Project Entropia include "business development, marketing and content acquisition"... So it turns out that the "sale" of Space Station "Neverdie" was from MindArk to, um, one of their marketing and PR people.Once burned, twice shy.viaJoystiqandTerra Nova
Guitar Hero fans who find themselves with nothing to do this weekend, should head down to the fifthCybersonica Festivaltaking place in London's Science Museum. "Usually, this event is attended by musicians, DJs, audiovisualisers and creative software developers," says Leo Tan the game's UK PR chap, "but this year sees a new take on the festival's role, as Josh Randall, Creative Director of Guitar Hero developer Harmonix, gives a keynote lecture on his experiences with making games based around musical performance."Josh will chat about the development of music games such as Frequency, Amplitude, Karaoke Stage, and Guitar Hero, and about how, "new interfaces and controllers are changing the way we interact with our music and TVs".The event will also see the UK premiere of Guitar Hero II, after the sequel's E3 showing. The game features 55 new tracks including re-interpretations of such riffing classics as 'You Really Got Me' and 'War Pigs'. I'm not sure the rest of the list has been finalised yet so I'm putting in a request for 'Kennedy' by Wedding Present. Do you have a similarly unlikely and nostalgic guitar-based favourite you'd like to see in the game?
A few changes underway at Yahoo - in terms of page design and interface, at least - with redesigns of theYahoo homepage(UK version) and a new iteration of the interface/navigation over atFlickr.I can't say I ever use Yahoo, so I can't really compare it tothe old versionin usability terms, but the new design clearly places search closer to the middle of the operation, as well as using some fancy Ajax stuff to dynamise a few of the on-screen sections. It's built for wider screen sizes - a growing trend - and, perhaps as a result, I think it's clearer to navigate (even if there's still a shedload of stuff on screen).Valleywagreaders are currently saying "this will save the company from Lloyd Braun". Perhaps too hopeful.More discussion at:Techcrunch,Read/Write WebandPlasticbagOn Flickr, meanwhile, the Ajax menus make a lot of sense but I can't help feeling it's lost a teeny bit of the quirk. It's a far smaller reworking than its big daddy, but a little noteworthy for it... after all, drop-down menus are pretty standard stuff, aren't they?Read more atFlickr Blog.
Some of you may have been following the story ofBlue Security- makers of the Blue Frog anti-spam tool - which has been targeted by some of the world's biggest spammers.In a nutshell, Blue Frog has narked some spammers - particularly one they call "PharmaMaster" - into launching a huge attack on the company, its services, its users, its web hosts, the hosts of its blog and a bunch of other who were related in any way to Blue. (Bloggers may remember when service SixApart lost its service a couple of weeks back, or when Tucows bit the dust temporarily: that was part of this strike).Just last week, founder Eran Reshef wasproudly saying they'd fought off the threat, in a post on the company's site that said "the spammer's Doomsday Device failed. We're still here. We took some hits in this battle against spam, but we're winning the war..."Last night, however, the company made a sharp about-face, announcing that it was withdrawing from the anti-spam business because it just didn't have the ability to outgun the spammers.I spoke to Reshef yesterday, and wrote up the details inthis story:Reshef... said his company...was simply unable to become trapped in a war against a criminal group. "This is something that's really got to be left to governments to decide. To fight the spammers you really need to spend $100m."My initial thoughts were that he might be disingenuous: after all, why would a company - asecuritycompany - willingly throw its hands up in the air and say "we give in"? Isn't that exactly what a security firmshouldn'tdo? Was the company on its last legs? Had its controversial "vigilante" methodology got the better of it? Were the owners just looking to build profile and flog off their technology?Well, a ring around of people who knew better than me confirmed that this story seemed relatively legit. The company might not have been in rude health, but it had plenty of users. Affected service providers weren't happy, but they didn't blame Blue - they blamed the vicious spammer for the attack. What benefit does a security firm have to gain from saying "we haven't got the bottle"?Whatever the case, Blue claims the spammers have beaten it into submission... and that's not good news for anybody.So:spammers 1, security 0... where do we go from here?
Sony had a celebration in New York to mark 10 years of Vaio, and showed a forthcoming AR model with a built-in Blu-ray drive. PC Magazine's Lance Ulanoff went along. OnGearlog, he reports:On one table Sony execs proudly displayed two ARs playing early Blu-ray content: The House of Flying Daggers. They even had the Blu-ray packaging. So exciting...but WAIT! I went ahead and ejected one of the Blu-ray drives to see my first Blu-ray disc. Instead, I found a crummy, old school DVD+R, complete with the Sharpie-written, House of Flying Daggers. Apparently even Sony can't get its hands on Blu-ray content!(Charles Arthur adds: contrary to the first comment below, if you follow the link you find an update to the post: "Many readers are saying that this story was faked. Well, I'm here to tell you it's far from a lie, and I have more pictures to prove it!" We await any Sony comment.)
Apple has - as predicted every week for the past four months or so - launched its replacement for the iBook consumer laptop, and it is called, as was expected, theMacBook. (This distinguishes it from the "professional" level laptops, which are called the MacBook Pro.)Thus all of Apple's portable computers now use Intel processors, finally replacing the geriatric G4s last replaced in the iBook in... well, Todd Benjamin, Apple's director of portables in worldwide product marketing, couldn't recall.Interestingly, there are three models: low-end (with a white case), midrange (with a white case), and "best" (with a black case).The MacBook uses an Intel Core Duo processor, has a 13" screen, and the top-end model - on which more in just a moment - replaces and "obsoletes" (to verbify it) the 12-inch screen PowerBook G4 (which has now disappeared fromApple's online store). When I asked if this meant that Apple was signalling that the people to whom it had marketed the 12" model PowerBook weren't pros, Benjamin said that no; "we think people interested in, say, photography will be thrilled with the black MacBook."Ah yes, the black MacBook. At first you think: wow, pretty cool. Look, it's got a 2GHz Core Duo processor, and it's got an 80GB drive for 1029 - that's more computer than the puny midrange white one, which has a 60GB drive, and a 2GHz Core Duo, and costs 899 (inc VAT)... except.. if you do a custom configuration of the midrange MacBook, giving it an 80GB drive costs just 40. In all other aspects, the two machines areexactly the same.So, your choices: white MacBook, 2GHz, 80GB, 512MB etc etc: 939. Black MacBook, 2GHz, 80GB, 512MB, etc: 1029.During the interview, I asked Mr Benjamin if the black colour wasn't just an attempt to get people to buy the more expensive version, by playing on the psychology of exclusivity. (I hadn't done the calculations on the price at that time.)"What sort of question is that?" replied an Apple person. Well, we can see now: one that could save you 90.So now, what is it about the black paint job that costs 90? Why the difference in price? We went back asked Apple. Here is what they said."The 2.0 GHz black MacBook is our most advanced notebook ever and deserves something special, and we think it looks stunning in black."We hope that clears things up.
Stat alert!There's been a lot of talk about how expensive Sony's PlayStation 3 is going to be (on this very blog, and on our sisterGamesblog) but some clever chap spent a chunk of his free time comparing the price tag against other historical consoles."Is the $500 price tag for the crippled PlayStation 3 historically high or low? I did a bit of number crunching to try to put that number in perspective. These graphs tell the story," saidCurmudgeon Gamer.AbsoluteRelative[graphs by"jvm"](Just to clear things up, the PS3 is the black bar on the right, with Xbox 360 just before it)They certainly make very interesting browsing... but what do they show? Well, in terms of absolute prices, it's clear that the PS3 is bloody expensive. Yes, there are more expensive historical artefacts, but they are the Neo Geo and 3D0 --- both niche gamehead boxes that never did much mainstream business.On the other hand, the story is a little different in the relative price model. We see that apart from early high prices and a few spikes (often attempts by new entrants into the market). And the PS3 is still way up there, with the highest relative price since the Saturn.The only other long-term market survivor, Nintendo, has actually beendecreasingrelative prices over the years, although not necessarily getting the huge market share that you might expect from such a move (and we still don't know the cost of the Wii).Note from Jack: I've put the graphs on our server so if you click them, you will now get the monster-sized version. Yes, they are big. Shout if you think the download is too heavy and I'll reduce them....
It's only Tuesday... Get chatting!
Last week, Take Twoconfirmedthat it had closed its Rockstar Vienna studio, promising that staff would be re-located to other offices 'where possible'. This was hardly one of the company's flagship developers - previously operating as neo Software Produktions GmbH, the team was assimiltaed into the Rockstar hive mind in January 2003 and went on to produce Xbox conversions of Max Payne and GTA.Indeed, this would appear to be one of those little cost-cutting exercises that publishers are forced into once in a while, and may have quitely slipped off the radar if it hadn't been for (ex)employee Jurie Horneman who just happens to write the respected videogame blog, Intelligent Artifice. Before Rockstar/Take Two officially announced the closure, Hornemanpostedabout his experience of turning up at work and being turned away by security staff - and on the uncertainty that his co-workers now face:"Many of my coworkers - those with families and houses, those with roots in Vienna, those who invested many years of their lives in this company, those who moved here from abroad - are in difficult positions. There are few game development companies in Vienna. In the last year or so, several have let people go, merged or closed down. One hundred people will not easily find new jobs in the games business here."This is why insider blogs have become such a vital element of the videogame industry. As we saw withEA Spousethey humanise the business. Suddenly, a small story about a global corporation tripping up again turns into something else - into something that involves 100 people arriving for work and finding their way barred by security gaurds. It is far from an unusual story, and relatively speaking, it is certainly noemploymenttragedy, but it is human all the same.
This is slightly off-topic, but what the heck. For those interested in following the whole Blu-ray saga as it unfolds before our bewildered eyes, Sony hasrevealed its new Viao AR notebook, the Premium version of which comes with a Blu-ray drive.As well as playing commercial HD film releases, it also allows you to plug in a high-def camcorder and burn your home movies to Blue-ray discs in native 1080 res. Imagine the incredible visual clarity you'll be able to bring to masterworks such as 'Uncle Dave's 40th' and 'Cute kitten trying to run up curtains'.Prices start at $3,499.99 - quite a bit more expensive than PS3 then. There seems to be a theme developing in my posts today...
It wasn't that long ago that Take Two, publisher of the controversial titleGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas, had its hand and itsbank accountslapped for releasing a game with "naughty" bits. Well, they've been caught with their trousers down (or, rather, their tops off) again, and the result is anticipated to be as expensive (both economically and socially) as it was the first time around.The company, publisher ofElder Scrolls: Oblivion(Greg's latestfave game...), have had to recall the title after the US' ratings board, theESRB, re-rated it from "Teen" to "Mature" after a modification allowed gamers to play around with topless characters. From theofficial statement(via EEG):The content causing the ESRB to change the rating involves more detailed depictions of blood and gore than were considered in the original rating, as well as the presence of a locked-out art file or "skin" that, if accessed through a third-party modification to the PC version of the game, allows the user to play with topless versions of female characters.As you can imagine, this has caused all kinds of hell to break loose from commentators in the gaming community. Not surprisingly, the focus of the debate has been on the proposed "sexual nature" of the modified content.First, theofficial fodder, from developer Bethesda Software:There is no nudity in Oblivion without a third party modification. In the PC version of the game only - this doesn't apply to the Xbox 360 version - some modders have used a third party tool to hack into and modify an art archive file to make it possible to create a mesh for a partially nude (topless) female that they add into the game. Bethesda didn't create a game with nudity and does not intend that nudity appear in Oblivion. There is no nude female character in a section of the game that can be "unlocked." Bethesda can not control tampering with Oblivion by third parties. Bethesda is taking steps to ensure that modders can not continue to hack into Oblivion's art archives to create partially nude figures.With regard to violence, Bethesda advised the ESRB during the ratings process that violence and blood effects were "frequent" in the game - checking the box on the form that is the maximum warning. We further advised that the game contained occasional torture, vulgar acts, and gore. We gave accurate answers and descriptions about the type and frequency of violence that appears in the game. We submitted a 60-page document listing the explicit language, acts, and scenes in the game. Oblivion packaging already contains warnings for "Violence" and "Blood and Gore.To be fair, Bethesda may not have ever intended such "skins" to be used for the purposes of titillation. Indeed, they may have been the dreamchild of some 14 year old hacker who wrangled access to base model skins from the game's code. ExplainsRaph Koster, design guru:You pretty much have to include a nude or near-nude model in order to have a good clothing system, because anything drawn onto the base model will show through when you do certain clothing types. You could, of course,go to the extra lengths to have alternate underwear sets drawn onto alternate base models, so that there's always a base model to choose from that works with a given piece of clothing, but what an asset nightmare.Indeed, but do skin mods regularly include fully-realised nipples? Bethesda may not be as innocent as they make themselves out to be, as evidenced in theESRB's response:When we brought the topless female images to Bethesda Softworks' attention, they confirmed that the art file existed in a fully rendered form in the code on the game disc. The ESRB's investigation found that the mod allowed users to change the filename for the female character mesh in order to access the art file that was created by Bethesda. While true that a modification was required to access this file, the changes we implemented last year - expanding our disclosure rules to include locked-out content - were made to prevent these kinds of situationsModding a game is not something most people would have the first clue about, so we're talking about a very small minority of PC users who would be able to access these so-called dirty pictures (I'd love to see how the conservative right in America would respond to Page 3). The Xbox 360 version of the game is (supposedly) unalterable). So should we blame the modders for once again dragging the reputation of the games industry into the gutter in the minds of US politicians? John Romero, the man who has famously released code to most of his titles to the modding community, suggested thatmodders had better watch out:That modders are now screwing up the industry they're supposed to be helping. In 1993 we opened up all our data to the industrious and ambitious folks out there who want to see what it's like to be able to make their favorite game a little more like what they'd want.....and get a taste of being a semi-game designer in the process. The most awesome example of what this philosophy has brought is CounterStrike.Now what's going to happen? You'll probably start seeing game data files becoming encrypted and the open door on assets getting slammed shut just to keep modders from financially screwing the company they should be helping. And the day a game company's file encryption is hacked to add porn and the case goes to the ESRB for review - that's when we'll see how well game companies are protected from these antics and what the courts will rule.In response to a backlash from the hacker community, Romerore-positionedhis argument:IF THE GAME DIDN'T SHIP WITH VIEWABLE PORN THEN THE RATING SHOULD REMAIN - no matter what modders come up with and no matter what content is hidden in the game's data files already.Back to the ESRB's court.GamePoliticshas put forward its own consipiracy theory:The industry has been taking steps to polish its image of late, including redefining how provocative booth babes can be. Mainstream media attention is likely to be higher than usual, since this is the first post-Hot Coffee E3. Having Oblivion's industry-imposed re-rating as a notch on the ESRB's belt certainly can't hurt when the talking heads begin to ask the inevitable tough questions about game content.So were the nuddy bits included as a dramatic ploy, innocent inclusion or something more nefarious? You decide. But what I find fascinating is that the violence issue hasn't been debated at all. Instead, the community has focussed on the rather more, er, sexy controversy. Have we all, to paraphrase the wise words of Bart Simpson, watched the violence and become desensitised?
US videogame blog, Curmudgeon Gamer, hasrendered into chart formwhat the rest of us have been trying to work out through memory alone: how does that controversial PS3 retail price stack up against console launches of the past.Curmudgeon has produced two graphs: one showing 'absolute' console prices - i.e. the actual price tags placed on each console at the time - and one showing 'relative' prices based on inflation. In neither is PS3 the most expensive console. As far as the un-corrected price points go, Sony's machine comes in third behind 3DO and the Neo Geo. But when you look at the inflation-adjusted figures, PS3 sits at a more pocket-friendly seventh most expensive - this time coming in behind every listed console launched before 1982.Suddenly, Ken Kutaragi'sclaimthat the PS3 is 'probably too cheap' doesn't sound quite so unreasonable - history is backing him up.Still, what has history ever taught us, eh?
Way back in January, at the Consumer Electronics Show,Bill Gates's keynoteincluded a plug for a new music service,Urge, from MTV Networks. Now,according to an AP story, it's about to arrive, along with a new version 11 of Windows Media Player. It says:At launch, URGE will have more than 2 million tracks, which can be purchased individually at 99 cents or as full albums starting at around $9.95. The service also will offer unlimited downloads at a monthly rate of $9.95, or $14.95 for the ability to transfer songs to any of more than 100 compatible portable music players. Initially, URGE will also feature streaming videos, with video downloads becoming available for purchase later this year.As well as having some sort of brand following, MTV has access to unique content recorded for its TV channels.
Chen Jin, a former head of microelectronics at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, has been fired after it was said that much of his research was stolen or inaccurate.Here's theBBC report:China's Xinhua state news agency said that the Hanxin digital signal processing chips were not based on research carried out by Mr Chen.Nor could the chips carry out the functions, such as reading fingerprints or playing MP3 files, that they were supposed to, it reported.This isn't the first claim of fakery to hit sci-tech academics - after all, just a few months back we saw the truth about South Korean cloning pioneerHwang Woo-suk. But I wonder what this latest development shows us: are fakers any more prevalent today, or is it just easier to catch them?The internet and other communications technologies cut both ways: they make it easier for cheats to subvert the rules - in, say,their exams- but they also make it easier to aggregate knowledge and uncover fakers.
Welcome back to those who were at E3.
On Friday we asked you to put forward your nominations for the silliest, stupidest or plain wrongingest name in the whole of the technology world.Twenty five of you put your penneth in, with some fun results. DJ Mikey C came close with his offering - "I hate these new names like Blackberry. What's wrong with Super-Gadget-o-porto-mail or something?" - and Dan P did well to point out the stupidly monickeredWooo.co.uk.The winner, however, is Andy Holyer - who appealed to my baser instincts with his story of switch manufacturer GPT.They had terrible trouble when they opened their Paris office, since if you read out "GPT" in French, it sounds like "J'ai Pt" (which means "I have Farted").I have spoken to resident Guardian Towers Francophile Jon Henley and he confirms this as the truth - and reminded me of theToyota MR2, which had similar translation problems in France.Bravo!Andy's prize is a copy of "Get Your War On" by our cartoonistDavid Rees- send me an email, sir, (to bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk) and I'll forward it on to you.
If you bought the Guardian last thursday may have noticedmy columnon360voice, a website that allows you to enter you Xbox 360 gamertag and then view a blog 'written' by your console, based on your gaming habits.The blog is based around the XML feed broadcast by each Xbox whenever you go online and play games, and it's one of the more interesting uses of this data that I've come across - second only to theStats section of Bungie.net, which you can visit after each multiplayer Halo session to see a map of your last game, including where you scored your kills and where you got fragged yourself.Anyway, I interviewed 360voice co-creator, Trapper Markelz, about the site and could only use a fraction of his replies in the column. So here's the full discourse for those interested in the concept of games and consoles spying on their owners...Have any of your subscribers been surprised by the information their Xbox has revealed about them?Yes, we have had quite a few people say they are freaked out that this information is gathered and made available about them. I don't think they are surprised that they are playing the games... but they are surprised that given a little bit of caching to the public feed, you can get a pretty clear picture of someone's gaming habits.The funny part is that people are not clear what is in the public feed and what text we are adding in... so for awhile people were thinking the Xbox logged how you powered it on, if you listened to music or watched movies, what movies you watched, etc. I think there is still a lot of misunderstanding over what we know using the public feed and what is simply text that we are taking on to the stats. I have posted in the dev blog exactly what we are collecting... but I guess I can't expect everyone to see it there.Do you think people will start consciously changing their gaming habits if they know their friends are subscribing to their 360voice RSS?A few people have already said that they feel a greater urge (at least in the short-term) to play their consoles so they have good entries. I know that I personally have chosen to jump on to play a game or two, just so my Xbox blog isn't blank for too many days in a row. Whether that continues or not probably depends on how interesting and compelling Steve and I can continue to make the experience.If you really wanted to get scary with it, you could make the Xbox have certain judgements for what games they are playing. For instance, gather the meta rankings for all games and if they are spending time with a game that got a terrible review average, make fun of them for playing something so low quality... or maybe judge them if they play trashy games... or overly violent ones. The options are really endless... it just comes down to time... and how much data we want to cache and augment.In what ways are you looking to expand and update 360voice?The biggest thing eating up my mental bandwidth right now is internationalization. There have been lots of people asking for multiple languages and time-zone awar/date format aware entries. Right now we process everything once a day. It might make sense to split it out into different processing by time zone. We know the user's country, but to do that is a significant enhancement to our XML import jobs. They are already massive. That type of segmentation would add significant complexity to all aspects of what right now is a simple site.What is really holding us back is ownership. There is no good way to "verify" with 100% accuracy that the person who signed up the gamertag owns the gamertag. If we could do that, we would be rolling out all kinds of customization options... but we are sort of stuck until Microsoft gives us an option for that.In the near term, we are just doing whatever we think is fun. It is a side-project after all, it isn't our day job, so in the end, as long as it keeps being fun, we will keep making enhancements. One of the next big things will be additional tools for doing analysis on all the data we have captured. We want to give people a set of tools for consuming all of this great history we are getting about their profiles. This would include tools for charting, listing, sorting, ranking, etc.The examples of 'blogjects' you provide on your wikipedia entry all gather information that could provide a practical service to the user. Do you see a point at which 360voice may have practical applications?The primary reason to make 360voice.com was a practical one. I am a big advocate of RSS and one of the things I noticed is that there was no "snapshop" of the gamercard. I have the gamercards of all my friends on my desktop at work... I would come in and see that their scores went up, but it wasn't easy to see by how much and which games they actually played. If it was a single game, it was easy, but not without a little bit of clicking around.Setting out to make an RSS feed though required us to suck in all the data for everyone we wanted to gather. In order for that to have any sort of worthwhile value proposition, we needed some sort of killer idea that would entice people to participate. The blogject idea sort of brought that to the surface. Originally, the site didn't even have a blog page. It was ONLY an RSS feed... but the day after launch I added it because everyone was asking for it.So to boil it down, the practical use of 360voice.com is to be able to subscribe (via RSS) or read a daily blog that recaps what your friends did on Xbox Live.Having that subscription in my feed already serves as a conversation starter. Every morning it is fun when your buddies are coming in to work you can say "Hey I saw you got 2 achievements in Kameo last night!" You could never really do that before... it opens up a whole new ability to discuss your gaming on a regular basis.Apparently, Microsoft has shown interest in 360voice. Do you think they spy a new way to monitor the behaviour of gamers?Yes, Microsoft has sent some congrats and have offered to have us look at some new ideas they have for feeds... so that is exciting. I really don't think we are doing anything they aren't doing already. I am sure they have more data than they know what to do with about every aspect of every thing your Xbox has done while connected to Live.But hopefully, we have given them a new way of thinking about how to use some of this information. If they were to open up a few more streams of information, say your friends list for instance, we could do all kinds of crazy things like have the Xboxes leave comments on each other's blogs and such... really crazy things that tie you and your friends even closer together through auto-participation. There are lots of people on my friends list that I sort of met in a few games, but never really developed any relationship with. I would like to think that the 360voice.com blogs could serve as way of tying people together through their devices. Think of it like two strangers walking their dogs in the park... if the dogs stop and start "talking", the owners feel compelled to also communicate. There is nothing saying our Xboxes could not be like our dogs someday...You can follow the continuing development of 360Voicehere
We've writtenplentyaboutgrid computingrecently - and innovative grid services like Seti@Home and Big Bang research at Cern have helped bring the idea to the attention of academics and computer scientists.Now anyone could have the chance to get their grid on the go, with a competition being run byGrid Computing Now!(a government funded body). The idea? To come up with the most innovative and interesting grid concept. The prize? A six week paid internship with Intellect,an Xbox 360, the chance to attend a Microsoft European Research and Innovation day in brussels, a year's membership to the British Computer Society and some server gubbins.The entrant will have to develop a submission of up to 500 words describing the problem and their approach to a solution using grid computing technologies. The submissions will be reviewed by the organising committee and selected candidates will be invited to submit a more complete entry.The competition, which is being backed by a number of organisations and companies including the National e-Science Centre, Intel and Microsoft, is aimed at students and young professionals and will close to initial entries on June 30. A shortlist of 10 finalists going through to compete against each other in September - there's more information at theGrid Computing Now!site.
