The road to digital recoveryThe thinktank ITIF has published a white paper proposing government investment in the UK's digital infrastructure.Blowing bubbles in ManchesterThe Futuresonic festival (13-16 May) will include bubble-blowing games to map air flow and the urban climate.Invention for the peopleThe UK's first FabLab, where you can bring your ideas to life, will be opened in Manchester this year, says the Manufacturing Institute.Digital scribeIOGear's digital pen, which captures handwriting, has gone on sale atPlay.comfor &pound;49.99.Security on a stickSecurinet has launched a secure USB flash drive that can be remotely managed.Big button mobilesDoro has announced its PhoneEasy big-button mobiles, which will be available via the RNIB.Heads in the cloudsAmazon Web Services is offering free use of its cloud-computing platform to selected educators, researchers and students.Grassroots publishingAQA reckons that "anyone with a UK mobile phone can make money with AQA2U" by becoming a micropublisher.
Why? Why do they do it? Who do they think it is going to help? All these questions and many, many more pass through the horrified mind when watching the latest rash of YouTube videos starring people who should no more be attempting to get down wid da kidz via informal internet video clips than they should be skateboarding around the South Bank.Even everyone's favourite pocket-MP, Hazel Blears, is getting tired of it. At the weekend, she delivered a thinly veiled criticism of Gordon Brown's excruciating effort by saying, "I'm not against new media. YouTube if you want to. But it's no substitute for knocking on doors or setting up a stall in the town centre."Alas, a quick search of YouTube yields a two-year-old video of Blears "reaching out" to voters before the 3 May elections, which not only slightly undermines her thesis but also makes you wonder if all politicians are told that their footage will self-destruct as soon as everyone they want to see it has seen it. "It's foolproof, Minister!" "Brilliant, Humphrey. Takes all the risk out of it, what?"Gordon Brown0/5Oh God. Oh Godohgodohgodohgod. The awfulness of the prime minister's announcement of reforms to MP expenses is almost beyond words. The rictus grin. The desperate attempts at animation. You might as well ask a tank to try and be winsome.David Cameron1/5Dave on Webcameron. He is Blairite in his informality and approximation of folksy, blokesy charm. It is like drowning in a bath of warm sick. (He gets the one for at least not being in power when he does it.)Hazel Blears3/5Just before the 2007 elections, Blears outlines Labour's achievements to date and those to come. It's as if the offspring of a squirrel and Jane Horrocks had hopped up onto a chair and started lying to you about the future. Disconcerting.Prince Charles5/5I say, he's actually rather good - direct, engaging and far too old and posh to care whether he is addressing us through the wireless, the interweb or wax-sealed scroll. His message is clear - we must save the rainforest or die - and he introduces the symbol of his new campaign, a computer-generated frog, with the faintest of wry smiles that is, like, totally endearing. Full marks.The Pope2/5Pope Benedict does not address YouTubers directly - bits of film of him on his official duties are simply posted up there - so it's a bit of a swizz. On the other hand, the willingness of the Vatican, an institution that only recently accepted that Copernicus might have been right after all, to embrace any form of modern technology should be encouraged.Barack Obama5/5Never mind the Pope. Obama's address - this week dealing with the potential flu pandemic - is so good that it probably has the power to cure the sick and save us all.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday 12 May 2009.In the article below an interviewee was quoted below as saying that the creator of the Mini, Alec Issigonis, "twisted the engine through 180 degrees, so it was running across the car". This should have been 90 degrees.Shortly after I passed my driving test, on the way to a mock A-level exam, I wrote my mother's Hillman Imp off, skidding into the rear of a stately Humber owned by a gentleman friend of the widow of the inventor of the jet air engine (it's a long story). This hormonally challenged moment of madness had two immediate consequences. One was that I forfeited the &pound;200 my gran had left me in her will. The other was that our family acquired a Mini.It was a white Clubman Estate, and it was a dreadful car. It rusted faster than you could say British Leyland, all down the sills and across the bottom of the doors. The clutch was iffy, especially on hills. The electrics were terrible. It drank oil, and grew moss in unexpected places. Undeniably, though, it had character - and it was the car of my first independence. The car of quite a lot of firsts, come to think of it. So despite its failings, I remember it with affection (and if Anne from the lower sixth at St Mary's is reading this, some embarrassment).It was nothing like the MINI I'm in now. For starters, this MINI is in capitals, at the request of its makers, who are not Austin or Morris or British Motor Corporation (BMC)or British Leyland or Rover, but BMW. They have lent it to me for the weekend because tomorrow is the 50th anniversary of the day the first official production Mini, 621 AOK, rolled off the production line. That Mini was a bare and basic 850cc Morris Mini-Minor, boasting a top speed of 72mph. At its launch the following August, it would have set you back &pound;496 after tax.The MINI I have for the weekend is a 1.6-litre turbocharged Cooper S. It's electric blue with a white roof, an interior at once funky and plush (all retro-styled instruments, smart black trim and concealed lighting), traction control (whatever that is), a sexy Canadian lady on the satnav and a small but alarming button marked "Sport" that I don't dare touch. It has a top speed of 140mph, and does 0 to 60mph in seven seconds. It is, warns the man from BMW cheerfully, "a bit quick". And it wouldn't leave you much change from &pound;16,000.For the real aficionado, though, this MINI isn't a real Mini at all. "It's a nice car," says Jean Harper, 62, gazing at it warily. "But it's a bit big, isn't it? A bit luxurious. It's not a real Mini." A real Mini is one like the gleaming red classic Cooper S parked out in Jean and her husband Graham's garage near Stone, which the photographer and I reached after a couple of hours' flying up the M1 and along the M6, merrily bringing out the worst in every boy racer we encountered.The Harpers' spotless sitting room is about the only Mini-free zone in the house. Everywhere else is laden with Mini mementos and memorabilia; the trophy room from the couple's rallying days is a veritable shrine. Jean and Graham, 69 this year, met at a now-defunct Staffordshire BMC dealership called Barker and Shenton. He was the parts manager, she was secretary to the service manager. Their 33-year marriage, they reckon, can be counted in "probably 20" Minis.Graham remembers the rumours before the launch. "We knew this strange little car with the engine mounted sideways and tiny small wheels was coming. Then in late August we got a phone call, and 11 of us from the garage went over to the main dealership in the Potteries to drive them back in time for the big day."It took a few miles to get used to, but he knew straight away it was "a bit special. It was terribly basic - you had a speedometer, a wiper switch, the lights and the ignition, and that was about it. Sliding windows, two bits of wire to open the doors. The heater was extra - we had to fit that in the garage - and there was no radio. But I was 19 and a bit of a go-kart racer already; I gave it a bit of stick, like, and thought, 'Wow, this goes.' They handled amazingly well from the start. You could really whip them round a corner."The great British motoring public, accustomed to the staid Morris Minor and the tank-like A30s and A40s of the day, took time to warm to the idea. "The Mini struggled in the first 12 months," says Graham. "We couldn't shift 'em. People couldn't get their heads round it. And it had lots of teething problems - it leaked, for a start. They'd overlapped the inner wings on to the floor pans wrong, so water just poured into the front footwells from underneath. You could have two inches sloshing around in there when it was wet."Plus no one at BMC had thought to cover the distributor, so "as soon as you drove through a puddle, the engine stopped". And the clutch oil seals were dodgy, meaning "the clutch always went after about 500 miles". The car came out, Graham reckons, "far too soon. It was the first customers who ended up doing the development, really."The Mini was indeed a bit of a rush job. Its legendary designer, the charming, autocratic, gin-and-tonic fuelled Alec Issigonis, got the call to come up with a people's car, a British equivalent of France's 2CV, Germany's Beetle or the Italian Fiat 500, in December 1955, and the first hand-built version was being tested as early as February 1957. A few months later the plain-speaking boss of BMC, Sir Leonard Lord, was moved enough to utter a phrase beloved of Mini-owners everywhere: "Build the bloody thing."Safely down at the bottom of the M1 again (like its predecessor, the present-day MINI sticks to the road, even if the words most often heard on this little odyssey are, "Oops, we're doing 95 again") in the swanky MINI showroom on London's Park Lane, I'm at the launch of Simon Garfield's Mini: The True and Secret History of the Making of a Motorcar, one of a rash of commemorative books out this year. John Hawkins, who joined BMC in 1962, is standing beside 621 AOK (buffed to within an inch of its life), marvelling at the inspired genius of the design."Issigonis twisted the engine through 180 degrees, so it was running across the car, and he put the gearbox underneath it," he says. "He wanted 80% free for the passengers and luggage. Loads of storage in the hollow doors and under the seats. Yes, there were teething problems, but it was a brilliant concept. The proof is, it's been copied by pretty much every small car since."Peter Tothill, 82, a retired BMC production engineer, and Roy Davies, 74, a former vehicle proving engineer, also profess to a flush of parental pride. "You weren't really conscious of it at the time, because you just had your head down, working," says Tothill. "But you look at it now and you think, it was really so very different, in almost every way. Issy's attitude was just, 'I've designed it, now it's up to you to build it.' And it was all done without computers or robots or anything like that."Davies remains astonished by the car's subsequent career. "It was designed as a shopping car, a car for the district nurse. But it ended up as a car fit for a queen. Of course, it really began to take off when the rally boys got hold of it."That, everyone seems to agree, was the turning point, propelling the Mini from cheeky urban runaround to an icon of the 60s and arguably the most successful British design product ever made. The qualities Graham Harper identified on his first drive - the size, the handling, the simple fact that "there was nothing on the road in those days, absolutely nothing, that handled like a Mini" - intrigued the racing fraternity.A man called John Cooper, whose immensely successful formula one racing cars were driven throughout the 50s, was among the first to spot the Mini's potential. Tuned up, it would go like the clappers. A few alarmingly fast miles up the M40, sitting in a 16th-century farmhouse in Buckinghamshire with a spanking new Cooper S in the driveway and an exceedingly precious older one under a humidity- and temperature-controlled bubble in the garage, Paddy Hopkirk, who won the Monte Carlo rally in a Mini, recalls the first time he got his hands on one of wizard Cooper's cars."Must have been 62, I reckon," he says. "I'd joined BMC to drive the big Healeys, but someone came along with a Cooper and that was it. It was magic, a unique car. Transverse engine, front-wheel drive, small - you could corner 20mph or 30mph faster than one of the big Fords or Jaguars. They'd be faster on the straight, of course, but you could get 'em on the curves and hold them off afterwards. Bloody uncomfortable seats, though. I told Issigonis they were uncomfortable, and he said that would stop me falling asleep in them."Hopkirk's - and the Mini's - first big race success was in the automobile Tour de France in 1963. "The Mini became very chic in France very quickly after that; it was considered much smarter to pick your girlfriend up at the Eiffel Tower in a Mini than in a Jag." But it was his 1964 Monte Carlo win that really established the car in the British public's imagination."Rallying was a huge deal in those days," Hopkirk says. "You were driving for your country, and this was a British car, made in England. What's more, it was a little cheap family type of car that just about anyone could buy. So it was front-page news when we won the Monte, not just on the sports pages. I got telegrams from the Beatles, from the prime minister. Magazines came from New York to interview me."The Cooper was an ad man's dream: it transformed a housewives' shopping car into an object lots of British males would give their eyeteeth for. But there were other reasons for the Mini to catch on. In his highly readable new book, Mini: an Intimate Biography, Christy Campbell quotes the then transport minister, Ernest Marples, informing a senior civil servant: "I must set an example and be seen to be modern. I have almost decided to buy a Mini Cooper."It was, according to journalist Nicholas Tomalin writing in 1963, ideally suited to "conspicuous thrifters": the new 60s generation who lived in what Tomalin called the "scampi belt" and the gentrifying inner cities; people who liked their possessions to be simple but stylish, minimalist but hip. An early ad ran: "The in-car as different as the people in it."Pretty soon, Lord Snowdon and Sir Hugh Casson were driving around in one. Celebrities piled in: all four Beatles drove Minis. Twiggy loved hers, as did Joanna Lumley and Marianne Faithfull. Spike Milligan, Harry Corbett (of Sooty fame), Norman Wisdom ... The Mini was the car to have. On-screen sanctification came in 1969 in The Italian Job."I fell instantly in love with it," says Britt Ekland, reached in Sweden on her mobile from a lay-by, of her then-husband Peter Sellers' extravagantly modified Mini. "I bought his Wood &amp; Pickett conversion from him when we divorced in 1969, and I've owned a Mini every single day of my life since then. I have the last Mini Cooper S ever made."The car's principal attractions, Ekland says, lie in its "incredibly appealing" shape, immense practicality ("it helps if you have a sunroof, to slide the bigger suitcases through"), good fuel economy, and that "it makes you smile. You can have Rolls-Royces and Ferraris and Lincoln Continentals - Peter had a Continental you could have parked two Minis inside - but a Mini just makes you laugh. It's such fun to drive."The Mini, Ekland notes, is "just about the only survivor of the swinging 60s". The fact it's still around is tribute to the genius of Issigonis' idea; in its later years the original Mini - which went through 137 versions and 41 years of continual production, rolling off the line more than 5m times - hung on despite all that British Leyland could throw at it: charmless redesigns, unreliable engineering, rusting sills."My abiding memory of the 1973/4 model," says a friend, "was that you could open the door and even start it with an ordinary Yale house key. Or any key small enough to fit in the ignition. Amazing, really."BMW got it, though. The Bavarian carmaker's MINI, unveiled in 2000, was given a lukewarm welcome by the press and met with a volley of vitriol from tens of thousands of Mini devotees. But it has won over all but the most diehard of purists, and proved a stunning commercial success: more than a quarter of a million new MINIs are now sold every year, including an astonishing 60,000 a year in America, which never really understood the original.Up in Staffordshire, Jean Harper reckons it's in the blood. "There's just so much affection for this car," she says. "You go on the London to Brighton rally and there's dozens broken down by the side of the road and everyone's just laughing; these are Minis, people expect them to break down. You'd forgive them anything. Even now, I see a Mini and it's: Ooh look! A Mini! Even after all these years, there's still that rush of enthusiasm. It's a lovely car, really."• A British Mini Club rally to celebrate 50 years of the Mini will be held at Himley Hall, Dudley, on SundayFour wheels good: ten little facts about the Mini1Issigonis's first design sketch for the Mini was drawn on a napkin in Switzerland.2In 1961, racing driver Stirling Moss was banned for a year for speeding in a Mini, allegedly while testing it for a Sunday paper.3In 1964, BMC tested a 2.3-litre Mini with engines at both ends. It was so fast development was dropped.4Rumour has it Issigonis designed the door bins in the original Mini to hold a bottle of gin and several tonics. Or maybe it was just pints of milk.5How many people can you fit in a Mini? The record is 66, apparently.6Longest Mini convoy? 269 cars.7Joanne Westlake was the fi rst person to be born in a Mini.8Actor Kevin Spacey once paid $130,000 for the last classic Mini Cooper to be built.9Most famous death in a Mini? Marc Bolan of T Rex, who was in a crash in a 1275 GT.10The breathtaking escape through the Turin sewers by gold bar-filled Mini Coopers in The Italian Job was filmed in Coventry.(Source: Mini: An Intimate Biography)
Even the Soviets used it. Before the USSR collapsed, statues were erected in numerous Russian cities depicting a strong, proud and virtually nude woman triumphantly grasping a paddle. It's not exactly Caligula, but it can't be denied: she makes Lady Liberty look like a total prude.Sex has been used in marketing long before marketing officially existed, and videogames are not exempt. The latest - suitably Soviet-themed - example in videogames is the cover of Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3, which depicts a loyal Bolshevik girl in a boob tube and hotpants. Granted, it's intended as satire, but the cover alone undoubtedly helped shift a few copies.Well, maybe. The stereotype of the male videogame player as being puerile, sexually immature and socially awkward has persisted relatively unchallenged for some time.Take Tomb Raider: the game's success in 1996 was never seen as much of a surprise: after all, players got to spend 20 or so hours staring at a pert, leather-clad, female bottom. The resulting "Nude Raider" craze, where players Photoshopped Lara Croft into various sexual configurations, and a patch was created for the game that stripped Lara of her clothes, only added to the game's notoriety and appeal. (Eidos, Tomb Raider's publisher, distanced itself from such antics, but later followed up with equally suggestive, if not as explicit, promotional material for the sequel.)Playboy bunny flopsIn 2003, Dead or Alive: Xtreme Beach Volleyball began its reasonably successful run as a sports videogame series sold entirely on the prospect of what became known as "jiggle physics" - the realistic, 3D simulation of large breasts bouncing in bikini tops. A year later, Playboy debuted its annual "Gaming grows up" feature, wherein it demonstrated just how far videogame characters had progressed since Lara Croft's heyday ... by depicting them naked.Here's the interesting thing, though: almost all of the videogames represented in Playboy's annual spreads have sold poorly, and have been greeted with universal indifference. It was reported that certain games in the initial edition enjoyed increased sales after the Playboy pictorials were published - BloodRayne, Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude - and the feature itself has been very successful for the magazine.But Playboy hasn't bestowed similar benedictions on the games in subsequent editions. NCsoft's Tabula Rasa, Ultima Online creator Richard Garriott's latest project, was profiled in the magazine (the game's mascot, Sarah Morrison, appeared in the altogether); the MMO closed down in February this year after players disappeared in droves.Similarly, the female Templar of Hellgate: London was featured in the same issue, yet its developer, Flagship Studios filed for bankruptcy in August 2008. (Hellgate's online service shut down in January this year.)The list goes on: Yoko Retomoto stripped for Kane &amp; Lynch, a game whose lukewarm reception was infamous for its (supposed) part in the firing of much-loved GameSpot contributor Jeff Gerstmann. (For the uninitiated, Gerstmann posted an unflattering review while the game was being heavily promoted on the website. He was fired shortly thereafter, under mysterious circumstances.)The Norwegian MMO Age of Conan donated the disrobed physique of one of its main characters to Playboy; that game, too, fell far short of sales expectations, and during its troubled launch, its lead designer resigned from its developer/publisher Funcom. Alledgedly as a result of Conan's underperformance, Funcom reported losses of $23m (&pound;15m) in the fourth quarter of 2008.While it would be somewhat spurious to suggest Playboy has somehow cursed otherwise successful properties into financial ruin and critical scorn - the more realistic scenario is that most publishers approach the magazine as a last-ditch attempt to promote games they know don't stand a chance - this does say something encouraging about gamers.Improved figuresFar from the porn-crazed sex ghouls they're frequently portrayed as, male videogame players appear to be developing quite a potent resistance to exploitative, sex-based marketing practices. Indeed, even Lara Croft has given into this progressive zeitgeist: her breasts and lips have shrunk in recent years, and the rest of her body has been reduced to more anatomically feasible proportions. On cue, her critical stock has risen, and while the first two games in the post-2006 Tomb Raider revamp (Legend and Anniversary) sold unfavourably compared with past instalments, the latest, Underworld, is selling healthily after a lacklustre launch.Perhaps this is also related to the influx of women into videogames, both at the consumer and business ends. According to the Entertainment Software Association, about 40% of videogame players are women. The percentage of female videogame industry workers has risen from 16% in 2002 to 20%, and while they're still a minority, this is significant progress in what was once regarded almost exclusively as a man's business.The past several years, too, have seen an increase in the number of well-written, multi-dimensional female videogame characters: the Half-Life series's Alyx Vance, BioShock's Dr Bridgette Tenenbaum, and Fable II's Hammer are effective counterpoints to the "Gaming grows up" girls. Most of them still play second fiddle to the male main characters, admittedly, but there are exceptions: Beyond Good &amp; Evil (and its recently announced sequel) and Mirror's Edge, to name but two.There is clearly much to do within the games business and game design before it could be said videogames hold equal appeal to both men and women, but things are changing, and gaming is truly growing up. So maybe Playboy was right, after all. The Soviets, less so.
If you want a netbook with the power of a notebook, then Acer's new Timeline series could be the answer. In fact, I think this groundbreaking range could be the start of a new category of PC, although it doesn't yet have a name. The best we have at the moment is Intel's CULV, which stands for consumer ultra-low voltage. However, at last week's press conference in London, Acer staff didn't recognise the term, and certainly weren't using it.I am, of course, a netbook enthusiast, and started writing about them even before I went to the launch of the Asus Eee PC to UK schools in October 2007. But while netbooks are terrific value for money, they do have limitations. In particular, many adults find the screens and keyboards too cramped for comfort, and the standard Intel Atom chip has very limited processing power.Netbook screen sizes have increased from the original seven-inch Eee PC to 10 inches today, and Acer is about to ship me a new slimmer Acer Aspire One with an 11.6-inch screen. It seems Microsoft has quietly extended the limit on screen sizes required to qualify for the ultra-cheap version of Windows XP.The Timeline range keeps or even extends the netbook's long battery life (an impressive eight hours from a six-cell pack) and relatively light weight (from 1.6kg) while adding Intel Core 2 Solo or Duo processing power, a bigger screen, and extra features such as Wimax networking. The Timeline also gives you a choice of larger 13.3-, 14- and 15.6-inch screens, all at the same starting price: &pound;549.This is more expensive than a decent netbook, which you can get for less than &pound;300. However, it's much less than we're used to paying for PCs from the "thin and light" category, such as the Apple MacBook Air (&pound;1,271) and Lenovo ThinkPad X301 (around &pound;1,500).The reason for the change is that Intel has introduced a new platform, codenamed Montevina Plus. This will enable PC manufacturers to produce ULV-based machines for less than $1,500 (&pound;1,000), and possibly as little as $399. ULV chips used to be premium products, but they should soon be on sale at prices ordinary consumers are willing to pay.It's not Intel being altruistic. The Core 2 Solo SU3500, Core 2 Duo SU9600 and other Montevino Plus chips are, I think, intended to stop the low-cost Intel Atom from eating too far into the low end of the notebook PC market. They are also a response to AMD's Athlon Neo, which is aimed at the same market.I think other PC manufacturers will also be keen to compete in the Timeline market because CULV machines provide a chance to latch on to the netbook boom and persuade people to spend a bit more for the better features - more powerful processor, bigger screen, full-size keyboard, all-day battery life. For while netbooks have been a welcome bright spot in a depressed PC market, they're tending to reduce both average selling prices and profits.My view is that PC manufacturers should separate the CULV and netbook markets even further, by offering them with 64-bit Windows and 4-8GB of memory. Netbooks are 32-bit and come with 1-2GB.But somebody needs to come up with  a snappy name for CULV notebooks, to help consumers identify them. Many people already know about netbooks, convertibles, ultraportables, desktop replacements, gaming notebooks and so on, but those terms loosely describe functional niches. CULV doesn't work because it describes the technology instead.I don't think most buyers care about the technology nowadays. They'll only buy a new portable for what it does.
1Issigonis's first design sketch for the Mini was drawn on a napkin in Switzerland.2In 1961, racing driver Stirling Moss was banned for a year for speeding in a Mini, allegedly while testing it for a Sunday paper.3In 1964, BMC tested a 2.3-litre Mini with engines at both ends. It was so fast development was dropped.4Rumour has it Issigonis designed the door bins in the original Mini to hold a bottle of gin and several tonics. Or maybe it was just pints of milk.5How many people can you fit in a Mini? The record is 66, apparently.6Longest Mini convoy? 269 cars.7Joanne Westlake was the fi rst person to be born in a Mini.8Actor Kevin Spacey once paid $130,000 for the last classic Mini Cooper to be built.9Most famous death in a Mini? Marc Bolan of T Rex, who was in a crash in a 1275 GT.10The breathtaking escape through the Turin sewers by gold bar-filled Mini Coopers in The Italian Job was filmed in Coventry.(Source: Mini: An Intimate Biography)
You've no doubt read today that Sony has secured the rights to publish the Ghostbusters videogame in Europe and other pal territories. The PS3 and PS2 versions will be released on June 19, thereby coinciding with the Blu-ray release of the original movie. The PSP iteration will follow in the autumn, with Xbox 360, DS and Wii versions arriving courtesy of Atari, 'later in the year'."We're committed to bringing the PlayStation family the biggest and best gaming experiences first," explained Mark Hardy, Sony's European Product Marketing Director, "and it doesn't get any bigger and better than this blockbuster title. This summer, PlayStation owners will be the first to grab their proton packs and fight the spirit world. We'd like to wish them the best of luck in their ghostbusting endeavours and, of course, to remind them not to cross the streams!"I wonder how long it took him to prize in that gratuitous movie reference. Anyway, Sony is now the third publisher to become involved with this game: Vivendi originally secured the conversion rights, but when the company merged with Activision the project was sold on to Atari.The question is, what does Sony hope to get out of this latest 'timed-exclusive' in the current generation of hardware wars. Well, okay, that's obvious - it's not just about gaining revenue from software sales, it's about attracting new customers to the platform. The theory is, customers desperate for a title will buy the relevant console rather than be inconvenienced by a wait of several months for the exclusivity period to end on a different machine. This is an interesting case in that Sony is jumping in to the role as publisher rather than merely working out an exclusivity deal with another company. Clearly, there's a desire for more control over this tie-in, perhaps due to its sister company's ownership of the movie 'brand'. But is Ghostbusters going to be a big enough game to justify the move?Certainly, the timed-exclusive has been an erratically deployed 'advantage' in the past. Microsoft managed to capture the Rock Band and Lost Planet titles for Xbox 360, gaining a short advantage over PS3, while Last Remnant was released on the 360 last November, but is still not available on Sony's machine. In reply, Sony had Virtua Fighter 5 and, well, Ghostbusters.And of course, not all of these phased releases are the results of nefarious deals between publisher and console manufacturer - sometimes it just happens, perhaps because the development team - or teams - are having trouble with a certain platform. Unreal Tournament 3 was exclusive to PS3 over the Christmas of 2007, but mostly (according to Mark Rein) because Epic Games were unable to provide modified content support on the Xbox 360 in time. Elsewhere, the racing game Fatal Inertia started out as a PS3 exclusive before becoming an Xbox 360timed-exclusive,apparentlybecause of Koei's difficulties with the former machine.Temporary exclusivity deals are not always popular with gamers. Owners of non-exclusive machines feel as though they're being ostracised by the game publisher, while those with the favoured platform may worry that they'll get an inferior version, effectively acting as beta-testers for the other platforms. With VF5, for example, the later Xbox 360 version added online gaming.Given these ambiguities, exclusive DLC has emerged as an alternative to the concept of the timed release. GTA IV is the most famous example, but Xbox 360 has also received Fallout 3 and Tomb Raider Underworld packages, while PS3 snagged Mirror's Edge and Bioshock. But it's still not hugely popular and the jury is out on whether sales are affected.So back to Ghostbusters. Sure it's a promising title with masses of nostalgia value, but will it be an enormous hit - especially during the traditionally quiet summer months? Or will this be another curious blip in this most unpredictable of promotional arenas?
Amazon today unveiled a new, larger version of its Kindle ebook reader, which is aimed at students – and heralded as a potential saviour by some parts of the newspaper industry.The Kindle DX, which will go on sale in the US this summer for $489 (£325), has a bigger, 9.7in, screen, which can be used to display larger pages from academic textbooks and newsprint titles.It will supplement the existing ­paperback-size Kindle, which has sold an estimated 500,000 units since its first version came out 18 months ago. The DX offers more than twice as much screen space as the smaller model, and has enough memory to hold about 3,500 books. It will also be able to display a range of computer documents and files.As a result, the American newspaper industry is also eyeing the Kindle as a serious new outlet. At a launch event in New York, Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, said the new gadget would provide relief for readers and publishers who had prepared for a hi-tech future only to find that the "paperless society never came".Bezos said that the company has made an agreement with three leading publishers of academic textbooks – Pearson, Wiley and Cengage – which will give Kindle owners access to about 60% of the textbooks used in higher education – an industry worth around $8bn annually. For students, he said, having access to hundreds of these titles in one device could be a life-changing experience."This is a dream to have textbooks on a device this small. Students with smaller backpacks, less load, easier access," he said.At its launch, Amazon will offer a discount to those who take long-term subscriptions with the New York Times, Washington Post and Boston Globe –a title that is currently under threat of closure– with other newspapers expected to come on board in the deal."We've known for a decade that one day an e-reader product would offer the same satisfying experience as the reading of a printed newspaper," said Arthur Sulzberger Jr, the publisher of the New York Times, who made an appearance at the event.However, it is not clear whether downloading your daily newspaper to an ebook rather than buying it in print will be a panacea for the newsprint industry, which is struggling with the cost of distributing paper products as well as seeing circulations and advertising revenue plummet in the face of competition from the internet.Experts suggested that the launch – which comes just three months after Amazon unveiled the second generation of the smaller Kindle model – is an attempt to ward off competitors as consumers begin to warm to the idea of electronic books."Amazon is rushing to get this out to shore up its position as a market leader," said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research. "In the next year there will be multiple devices like this that will also have bigger screens and will be able to support newspapers."Paul Miller, of technology blog Engadget, said he did not think that the new model was different enough to entice consumers."$489 is a lot of money for a device like this," he said. "Amazon is really going to have to show some considerable cuts on pricing for their deals with the NYT/schools to make this attractive to end users."Despite the high-profile launch today, Amazon appears to be no closer to releasing the device in the UK.The company has been locked in negotiations with mobile phone networks around Europe to try to agree a deal that would allow the Kindle's Whispernet feature – which allows the device to update automatically using mobile phone technology – to work across the continent.
Hello from San Francisco. More specifically, hello from Starbucks™ on Geary Street, just across from the Clift™ hotel. It's a nice day today so, rather than slaving over a hot MacBook™, I've decided to come down here, order a refreshing VitaminWater™, take the weight off my Converse Chuck Taylors™ and write my column longhand in my Moleskine™ notebook.This week's subject: how product placement is going to destroy the world.A few days ago, YouTube sent a friendly email to the producers of some of its most highly trafficked videosreminding themthat its terms of service ban videos containing unauthorised commercial messages. A reminder was necessary because an increasing number of popular shows have signed product placement deals with brands keen to capitalise on their huge audiences.This kind of advertising provides a decent-but-modest stream of revenue for the low-budget shows, but it irritates the hell out of YouTube – which provides the platform and the bandwidth but sees none of the commercial rewards. It is, after all, estimated to lose $470.6m (£313m) this year, on revenues of $200m.But while enforcing the "no commercials" clause makes sense in theory, it's a slightly flawed policy in practice – in so far as there's no imaginable universe in which it can possibly be enforced. At least not without the company pulling out a shotgun and shooting itself in the foot at the same time.For a start, how can it possibly detect what's paid placement and what isn't on every clip uploaded by its tens of millions of members? If I appear in a video drinking a Diet Coke am I a whore, or just thirsty? That's why YouTube is targeting the super-producers – it's worthwhile to contact such a small but influential group directly and ask them to cease and desist, or to clarify that they're not taking money for airtime. But equally that's where the foot-shooting comes in – these producers generate a huge chunk of the traffic YouTube needs in order to sell its own ads. If the company gets too heavy-handed, those producers will simply move their work to another platform, where there's nothing to stop a dedicated fan from simply reposting it back to YouTube. Lose-lose.Now, frankly I don't give a toss if YouTube never breaks even – I don't own stock in it and it's not like the founders haven't made a boatload of money selling out to Google. Equally, I couldn't care less if micro-producers such asLauren Lukespend their entire shows munching on Cheetos or sipping Cristal, or if the kittens on treadmills suddenly start shilling for Virgin Active. It's not like they were producing high art before.But all of this assumes that YouTube is just a platform for amateurs to showcase low-budget shows. Which, as it turns out, it really isn't. Last week, Robin Wauters of Techcrunchtook a critical lookat a list of the web's 18most popular videos– clips from across all the major video sharing sites that had received more than 100,000,000 (that's one hundred million) views. What he discovered may surprise you, unless you'reAndrew Keen, in which case it'll make you even moreunbearably smugthan you already are.Of the 18 most popular videos, Wauters noted, eight were music videos, four were movie trailers, two were TV show clips, two were professional performances that just happen to have been uploaded by amateurs and one was a woman talking about a TV show – The L Word. In fact, only one of the web's most popular videos was entirely user-generated. It'sthis oneand it involves two toddlers, being cute. Go figure. Next time, their mum should stick them on a treadmill – she'll double her traffic.Wauters' point is that user-generated content may be fun for a few thousand people but, by and large, what gets the real traffic is professional content. Which, as someone who writes for a living, should delight me. And yet it doesn't. It terrifies me.You see, when it comes to product placement, the professional film and television industry makes producers of user-generated content look like a bunch of, well, amateurs. As far back as the 1920s, the makers of the Oscar-winning movie Wingstook a shiny nickel(or whatever the going rate was then) to gratuitously plug Hershey bars. By 2010, the product placement industry in the US ispredictedto be worth $5.6bn, while in the UK – even with it's far smaller TV and film industries – it's still set to pull in over £25m. We're talking about a truly gigantic money-making machine – but until recently it was still just a supplementary revenue stream, something that would boost the bottom line of films and TV shows so long as it didn't affect the viewing experience too much. Now, though, things are starting to change.In the YouTube/Pirate Bay age, product placement has gone from being a bonus to an essential. Even the dumbest studio executive knows that in the not-too-distant future, DVD sales of TV shows and movies are going to be decimated by illegal downloads, leaving cinema tickets the only other (semi-)reliable way to get people to pay for filmed entertainment. That exec also knows that, as audience attention spans continue to drop, the idea of anyone sitting down for half an hour to watch a whole TV show, with ads every few minutes, will become increasingly ridiculous. Instead, viewers will seek out short clips from those shows; clips they can inhale and move on, clips they can swap with friends to gain kudos; clips they can post on their blogs, tweet and retweet. It's already happening: 100m views for a TV clip – how many shows have ever had an audience like that?If the future really is just one giant clip show, with ad spots able to just be cut out and thrown away, there's only one thing studios can do: ensure that the shows themselves are the ads, so chock-full of placed products that to remove them all would leave nothing left worth posting to YouTube. Which means a placed product every 30 seconds – at least.And when that happens, it will be the end of the world for anyone who gives a damn about what's on the big or small screen. Last year, the Writers Guild of America complained that its members were increasingly being forced to wedge brands into their scripts – a scene involving a Subway sandwichhere, a dystopian visit to the Gapthere. Very quickly, like the good little Pavlov's dogs they are, professional writers are going to realise that their only shot of getting something greenlit is to ensure it has enough product-driven scenes to satisfy the studio. They'll learn to simply stop writing or pitching anything else. Sure, those that refuse to comply can still film their vision themselves – and go broke in the process – but everyone with a mortgage or a family to support will have to overcome their gag reflex, open wide and deep-throat the footlong Subway Meatball Marinara.We'll start to see entire genres vanishing from the screen. Feel-good contemporary drama will be fine – it's easy towedge a Priusinto an episode of The West Wing – and so will futuristic bullshit ("oh look, they still have the Gap in the future!"). But what about historical movies such as Saving Private Ryan or Schindler's List? Will the producers be confident enough to bank on cinema receipts alone, or will they simply stop commissioning this kind of drama because they can't put a Starbucks safety net under it?And as for anything gritty - forget it. The producers of Slumdog Millionaire were actually forced todigitally removeMercedes-Benz branding from the movie as, according to director Danny Boyle, the car companywas worried it would damage them to be seen near poor people. According toWikipedia, this is called "product displacement". According to me, it's called go fuck yourself Mercedes-Benz.So what can those of us who care about quality drama do to arrest this hideous escalation? Well, there's the rub – there nothing anyone can do. Judgment day for professional filmed entertainment is close, if it isn't here already. And, as in all good Armageddons, we're going to see two polarised groups form: on one side writers who would rather pay the bills than struggle with "art", and on the other those who steadfastly refuse to suckle at Satan™'s teat, whatever the professional cost. The former can look forward to a bright future where their work enjoys hundreds of millions of views and product placement buys them yet another beach house. The latter, though – the ones who have brought some of the most risky, creative and beautiful stories to the world, without so much as a Starbucks cup to spoil the view – should prepare for their journey down the fireman's pole to a fiery hell of obscurity. A pole greased by the likes of YouTube, which is more than happy for product-placed professional clips to take over the world, as long as it gets its cut of the proceeds. Either way, the audience loses.Fortunately, as someone with ambitions to one day write a wildly successful TV show or a commercially lucrative screenplay, I've already made my choice. I'm no fool – hell, I'd love a beach house or three. So bring on the Happy Meals and the Rolex watches and – to hell with it – bring on the Marlboros and the high fructose corn syrup. I've started work on a new series which I think is going to be a real hit after the apocalypse. It's calledThe Adventures of Cokey The Awesome Diet Coke Bottle, and it follows the adventures of a bottle of Diet Coke as he hangs around in front of a camera, being awesome. I admit the first episode isn't great – there's no plot, for a start – but just wait til you meet Cokey's awesome little friends, Henry the Humvee and Ulrich the Union Carbide Centipede. I think once you've watched an episode or 12 (it's not like there'll be anything better on) you'll agree that, for whorish product placement, the only way is up. Or, to put it in the terms of the contract I've just signed: the future's bright, the future's......well, you know.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Gaming news hand-picked from around the web:• Apple Signals Gaming Ambitions (EA is the apple of their eyes) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Confirmed: Empire goes into administration (last of the British publishers goes down) &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• EA posts $1 billion annual loss &gt;&gt;uk.gamespot.com• Katamari Forever confirmed for Europe &gt;&gt;casualgaming.biz• Can game-design promote human rights? (Cory Doctorow on the recent Human Rights for Online Game Players document) &gt;&gt;boingboing.net• UK Developers Feel Government Policy Unfavourable To Industry (but developers are still optimistic about the future) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• The Social Network Game Boom (love them or loathe them, games on social networking sites are big money) &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• The Making Of: Spacewar! (The very first video game) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Sam and Dan Houser - The 2009 TIME 100 (Rockstar bros are influential) &gt;&gt;time.com• Nearly 1 In 10 Youth Gamers Addicted To Video Games According To National Study (oft quoted, hotly debated study from Iowa State University) &gt;&gt;medicalnewstoday.com• Funding for games plummets 60% (the recession hits the entertainment industry) &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Korea's Dog-Sledding MMORPG: Husky Express &gt;&gt;gamesetwatch.com• Sony to Reveal New PSP at E3 &gt;&gt;dmwmedia.com• Boom or Blurst: A New Business Model for Videogames? &gt;&gt;online.wsj.com• Quality Quality Assurance: A Methodology for Wide-Spectrum Game Testing &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• 12 Games That Can Help You Survive a Breakup &gt;&gt;crispygamer.comFollow us ondelicious!
Western European PC sales grew by just 0.7% in the first quarter of 2009, according toGartner's preliminary numbers. The UK was the weakest of the major markets, while France and Germany saw low single-digit growth. "If it had not been for the mini notebooks, all of Western Europe would have seen a bigger decline in shipments," said Ranjit Atwal, principal analyst at Gartner, in a press release.Sales of mini notebooks -- netbooks -- powered Acer's success. It grew unit shipments by 31.6% in Western Europe, increasing its lead over Dell (down 22.1%) and almost catching Hewlett-Packard (up just 1.2%).Gartner's table for Western Europe shows HP with 3.5m shipments for a market share of 22.8%, with Acer on 3.4m shipments and 22.1%. The top two are followed by Dell (10.6% market share), Toshiba (6.8%) and Asus (4.8%). However, two firms are noticeably absent from the table: Lenovo, which took over IBM's PC business, and Fujitsu Siemens.Looking at the UK market, Gartner says:PC shipments in the UK totalled 3 million units in the first quarter of 2009, a decline of 5.1% compared with the same period in 2008. As expected, the PC market showed negative growth with the professional market declining rapidly. Dell saw its market share decline due to a rapid slowdown in the desktop professional market. Acer's shipments increased 40.6% due to its strong performance with mini notebooks. Apple made its debut in the top five replacing Fujitsu Siemens, with market share of nearly 5%.The UK Top 5 was: HP (22.2%), Dell (20.3%), Acer (16.8%), Toshiba (9.1%) and Apple (4.8%), with other firms taking the remaining 26.9%.In France, the market grew by 3.2% to 2.5m units, with Acer holding on to its top spot. The top 5 firms were Acer (26.5%), HP (22.9%), Dell (10%), Toshiba (7%) and Lenovo (4.8%).In Germany, the market grew by 4.5% to 3m units, with consumer sales up 18%. The popularity of netbooks enabled Acer to grow shipments by 71% to overtake both Fujitsu Siemens, the former market leader, and HP. According to Gartner, the top five comprised Acer (18.5%), HP (12.5%), Medion (9.0%), Fujitsu Siemens (8.6%), and Dell (7.7%), with "others" taking a massive 43.7%.Desktop shipments fell by 12% in Germany despite the arrival of low-cost all-in-one PCs based on notebook or netbook technology:"Increased competition in the All-In-One space is expected in 2009," said [principal analyst Meike] Escherich. "Many PC vendors are launching their All-in-One low cost models, and these products could be attractive in this recession. They could help the declining desktop consumer market return to growth."Sales in the whole of the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) PC market fell by 9.5%, says Gartner, so the industry is having a tough time. It may get worse before it gets better: the next quarter's figures will show that. Whether Windows 7 will help is an open question. Ms Escherich says: "we do not believe its launch will be a catalyst for PCs. Unlike Vista, Windows 7 does not appear to require any additional computing power."Since most people move to a new version of Windows by buying a new PC, not by upgrading an old one, I think Windows 7 will boost sales, if only slightly.
American bloggers have reacted angrily to proposals for a new law that could potentially make it illegal to criticise or make fun of somebody online.Linda Sanchez, a Democratic congresswoman for California, is leading a bill intended to combat cyberbullying – but opponents say the law's limits are vague and threaten freedom of speech.The bill, which is being submitted to Congress for the second time, proposes that any electronic communication intended to "coerce, intimidate, harass or cause substantial emotional distress" could be punished with a fine or a prison sentence of up to two years.According the proposals, the new rules would cover email, blogs, instant messaging and texts.Opponents are concerned that it could violate the US constitution's first amendment – which guarantees freedom of expression – and threatens valid online criticism, despite Sanchez's assertion that "ranting" would not become illegal.But Eugene Volokh, a professor at the UCLA school of law and one of the most high-profile political bloggers in the US,has attacked the proposalsas "overbroad" and "constitutionally vague".Although serious cyberbullying is clearly an unwanted problem, Volokh says the definition of "severe" could easily lead to the censorship of campaigning blogs, political arguments or even consumer boycotts."This cannot possibly be constitutionally permissible, it cannot possibly be a good idea, it cannot possibly be what the drafters intended, and yet that is what they wrote," he said. "If it is passed through Congress, I see it being struck down in courts."The bill is named after Megan Meier, a Missouri teenager who killed herself after being bullied on MySpace by an adult neighbour, 49-year-old Lori Drew.Although Drew was not prosecuted by local authorities, a federal case was brought in California, where MySpace is based.Drew was eventually found guilty of three lesser misdemeanoursfor using a computer without authorisation.In Britain, authorities are equally concerned about the prospect of cyberbullying. Ed Balls, the secretary of state for children, schools and families,has previously called it "insidious"– and although there are potential legal safeguards in the Protection from Harassment Act and Suicide Act, no cases have yet reached court to form a precedent over online behaviour.• This article was amended on Wednesday 6 May 2009. We misstated the party affiliation of Linda Sanchez. She is a Democratic congresswoman for California. This has been corrected.
It's less than a month until theE3 convention, where Nintendo, Sony, Microsoft and others will unveil their latest attempts to show off gaming goodies that will part us from our cash.Rumours are starting to fire up all over the web, but one of the most interesting came recently when Engadget breathlessly reported the "wild" possibility that Microsoft could unveila motion-sensing peripheral. Clearly the Wii has opened the door to innovative control methods for the mass market, but, said Engadget this could go even further:Instead of detecting the waggles of Wiimote-like controllers, it detects full body movement and sound, sans controllers...[capabilities include]* Full body and hand gesture control of games / characters.* In fighting games you kick, punch, duck, dive, jump and so forth with your body.* It also picks up small hand gestures like pinching, grabbing and scrolling.My first thought was that I'd seen this before: with a system from Israeli company 3DV, who created the Z-cam - a three-dimensional camera system that Iwrote about last year(I'm not the only one to have made this observation... many others, including Ben Kuchera over at Ars Technica alsothought of the same thing).The Z-cam works using radar-like systems originally developed for use on cruise missiles, and is able to detect depth and movement by bouncing infra-red light around your room. The company's been developing the system for several years and has the backing of several Silicon Valley investors, including the legendary Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (whose track record includes AOL, Amazon, Google and EA)."The Wii has shown us the way, but we can take things so much further," said Zvi Klier, the chief executive of 3DV told me at the time. "We think this is the next step."You can get an idea of how it works in this video we made at CES in January 2008 (the relevant bit starts at around 1:17).So, the technology is definitely out there. More interestingly, Microsoft wasreported to be in discussions with 3DVearlier this year - although no deal emerged at the time.So: is the Z-Cam Microsoft's secret weapon? We won't know until June... but it would certainly be well inside the bounds of possibility.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The Home Office has detailed the spiralling costs of its controversial ID card scheme in areport to parliament today. It's up more than £200m on previous estimates to well over £5bn (and that's for the back-office systems, not the technology to actually read ID cards). Home secretary Jacqui Smith argues that there will be £6bn in benefits, but the eagle-eyed Tony Collins at Computer Weeklypoints outthat it's estimated over 30 years - way beyond even the usual incredulous timespans the government uses to justify heavy IT spending.&bull; The first release candidate for Windows 7 has hit the net - that means it's viable code that could potentially be the version Microsoft sells to everyone. Ed Bott at ZDNet has anincredibly detailed run through.&bull; Here's amesmerising videothat documents building a virtual city. The city was generated programatically by Shamus Young, whodetails the process on his blog.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Craigslist is trying to head off a growing revolt across America by meeting with senior officials concerned about the site's relationship with the sex industry.Jim Buckmaster, the chief executive of the classified ads website, met today with attorneys general from several US states including Connecticut, Illinois and Missouri. The talks come after officials fromChicagoand more recentlySouth Carolinaattacked the website for taking money for "erotic services".The meeting - which Craiglist described as "cordial and productive" - was intended to broker a new deal between the website and officials around the country over the way it operates.Currently Craigslist demands payment for each advert in its erotic services category, but also requests credit card details and telephone contact details - which have often proved helpful to law enforcement.However, that level of scrutiny has not satisfied some officials: one police official in Chicago said that the site is the country's "single largest source of prostitution", while the South Carolina attorney general gave Craiglist 10 days to remove sex-related posts from its sites aimed at users in the state.The situation has been exacerbated by the case of Boston's so-called "Craigslist Killer" - who met with a string of sex workers through the website, assaulting one and murdering another. Twenty-three year old medical studentPhilip Markoff has been charged with the crimes.In a statement on the Craigslist website, Buckmaster said that he hoped for a positive outcome:We share the AG's interest in minimizing misuse of craigslist. We're optimistic this goal can be reached while preserving all beneficial aspects of a site relied upon by tens of millions of Americans, and without compromising the quintessentially American values of free speech embodied in our Constitution.
I've been asked a reasonable question: "How big a screen means you're not a netbook any more?" The answer, of course, is that it depends how you define a netbook. And there are at least three key definitions.First, a netbook is a cheap portable computer that fits the definition of an ULCPC (ultra-low cost personal computer), under which Microsoft provides a cheap version called Windows XP Home Edition ULCPC, optimised for small machines. Since we're not Microsoft customers, we don't know exactly what this definition entails. However, looking at netbooks on the market, it clearly allows for an Intel Atom processor (there are alternatives), 1GB of memory, a 160GB hard drive and a 12-inch screen.This definition has changed since it first appeared. It used to allow an 80GB hard drive and screen sizes up to 10 inches.If Microsoft decided to change the definition again – under pressure from its PC partners, perhaps -- it could allow screen sizes up to 13.3 inches. If it did, there would be a flood of 13.3in netbooks. But this is unlikely, because most PC manufacturers charge less for netbooks than they do for notebooks, and they make less money on them. Allowing 13.3in screens would hit most PC manufacturers' profits, not just Microsoft's.Of course, PC manufacturers can make any type of portable PC they like, with whatever specification they want. They can load it with any operating system they choose, if it's legally available. However, if they want to load it with XP Home ULCPC at about a third of the price of Vista, they have to meet the ULCPC spec, just as they would for Tablet PC Edition or whatever. Their choice.The second definitionof a netbook is a functional one. A netbook is a cheap portable computer that is suitable for using net-based applications such as Gmail and Zoho. It is not designed to run large desktop applications, and certainly not for multi-tasking them. It is optimised for long battery life, not for performance.Under this definition, it doesn't matter what the screen size is. The problem is that a big screen will use more power (shortening battery life) and be much less portable than a small screen, so netbooks will tend to have smaller screens than notebooks.The Intel Atom chip is suitable for netbooks because it is small, cheap and very efficient (long battery life) but not very powerful. If you want to run large applications, or multi-task, then you're much better off with a 64-bit Core 2 Duo (410 million transistors, 3MB L2 cache) than a 32-bit Atom (47m transistors, 512K L2 cache). Another major drawback with the Atom is that it can't handle out-of-order instructions. The Atom wins in power consumption (4W instead of 65W).Most ordinary people don't run demanding desktop applications, unless they're into video processing or gaming, and they don't actually do much multi-tasking so an Atom is often good enough. (Indeed, much more powerful Atom chips are on the way, though it remains to be seen just how far Intel will push the design.)The Atom's limitations make sense because it was designed for use in what Intel calls MIDs, for Mobile Internet Devices. It was targeted at delivering all-day use with systems that have 4-6 inch screens -- just a bit below Intel's UMPC (Ultra Mobile PC), aka Microsoft's Origami, which targeted 5-7 inch screens. It just happened to arrive when PC manufacturers were looking for small cheap chips for netbooks.The third definitionactually trumps the other two: a netbook is anything the manufacturer decides to call a netbook. The Sony P Series, for example, is not a netbook because Sony says so. It's right: it doesn't have an Atom processor or a ULCPC copy of Windows XP. The Asus N10 isn't a netbook either; it's a portable PC, even though it does have an Atom processor. It's made by Asus's laptop division, not its Eee PC division.In the end, you just have to accept that life is fuzzy: there is no hard and fast definition of a netbook. But as a matter of fact, most netbooks fit all three of the definitions above.The situation is about to get a little more complicated with the arrival of CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) systems such as the Acer Timeline range. These fit the space between netbooks and traditional notebooks. They have super-efficient chipsets and hardware designs to provide long battery life, but they use Core 2 Solo or Duo chips, run Vista or Windows 7, and can have screens as big as you like.I've written about CULV systems in this week's column, which will be in the Technology section on Thursday.CULV designs are pretty much what used to be sold as ultraportables for travelling business executives to use on planes. The main models included IBM's X series and Toshiba's Protégés, with Apple's MacBook Air being a late arrival on the scene. The difference is that they used to cost $2,000 to $3,000, whereas CULV systems should cost around $750-$1,000, or less.Six Taiwanese notebook makers are now preparing to launch CULV-based ultra-thin notebooks for the white-box market, according toDigiTimesin Taiwan. These are Pegatron Technology (part of Asus Group), Clevo, Micro-Star International (MSI), Compal Electronics, Elitegroup (ECS) and Mitac. If you want to badge-engineer a CULV notebook, now's your chance.Another interesting thing is that CULV designs provide an opportunity for Apple to provide a "netbook" that's lighter and has much better battery life than a MacBook Air for much less than half the price. And although parts are in somewhat variable supply, it could do it in July.Whether Apple actually wants to compete with Acer and Asus is another matter. It could just use the more modern CULV technology to redo the kludge that is the MacBook Air.
Industry soothsayer Michael Pachter has been staring into his crystal ball again. Late last week, theWedbush Morgananalyst predicted that there may never be another generation of dedicated games hardware. Apart from the rumoured HD Wii. Oh and 'never' might mean, 'not for another four years'. Here's a quote:"We do not expect the 'next' generation to begin before 2013, if at all. We remain convinced that the publishers will resist the introduction of any video game hardware technology that requires a refresh of software, as the publishers have as yet to capitalize on the immense investments made in being competitive in the current cycle."It's true that publishers are not exactly pining for next-gen hardware announcements. Game development budgets are now hitting the $20-30m mark, a figure bloated by the need to research the complex multi-core innards of the Xbox 360 and PS3, and to build and maintain appropriate development tools. After making that investment, no-one wants to have to get to grips with an exponentially more complex set of specifications within the next couple of years.Also, games are taking longer to create these days, so dev studios are not reaching that crucial third generation of projects (the point at which manyreallystart mastering the hardware) until much later than on, say, the original PlayStation or Xbox. Everyone needs more time.So yes, that all makes sense, but it's not exactly an epoch-shattering revelation from Pachter. More interesting is the veiled prognosis that we may actuallyneversee another generation in which competing machines do bloody battle for five years.History, of course, has seen several attempts to throw a spanner in the industry cycle. Both the MSX and 3DO looked to provide a standardised platform, like the VHS video recorder, which lots of different manufacturers could license. This wouldn't have provided an answer to technical obsolescence - eventually consumers would demand an upgrade - but, if either had been completely successful, they could have created a more stable monopoly, emancipated from the need to constantly innovate beyond rival hardware.The desire for an open platform remains. Two years ago EA's Gerhard Florintold the BBCthat, although he expected the business to go on as it is for another 15 years, he expected some kind of set-top box platform to replace competing consoles one day. More recently, Californian tech companyOnLiveannounced its eponymous cloud gaming service, which lets you play the latest titles on any PC or Mac, via a videolink - the game exists on the company's server, you just stream the footage to your screen, then send back key inputs from your joypad. It's due to launch this winter.The thing is, this model of the games industry ignores all the positive elements of hardware rivalry; competition driving innovation, that sort of thing. Even with PC gaming, the ATI vs NVIDIA showdown has surely benefited the evolution of graphics. How could a single platform compete? And why should it? Also, would a homogenised hardware business suit the tribal nature of the games business? What would happen to system-favouring fanboys? Actually, come to think of it, that's a definite plus point for the new world order...
With the Bank Holiday behind us, it's time to return to the week before, when a glorious three-day weekend was still winking at us from the horizon. OfficePest is on re-cap duties, dredging the river bed of chat for sunken treasure. He surfaces with Street Fighter IV vs chess (fight!), Total Recall and the problem with difficult games. Should we send him back down?No-one sent in any photos this week, so here's a screenshot from Demon's Souls, the grammatically questionable RPG discussed herein...Part one: Monday – welcome newbiesThe week got off to a wet and gloomy start weather-wise, and the Chatterbox itself was fairly sedate. Newcomer Underspace turned up for a chat and Crispycrumb posed the standard questions fired at all new posters: a) your weapon of choice for the zombie apocalypse, and b) PS3 or Xbox 360?Underspaceresponded to the undead quandary first: "Remington pump action shotgun &amp; brace of Molotovs... light 'em then fight 'em! I'm actually coming back into the fold of serious gaming again after a bit of a hiatus: got a decent PC rig with dual graphics cards and I am thinking about the Xbox/PS3 conundrum. A lot to recommend both consoles, really.  At heart I'm a FPS twitcher, but have recently got into action RPG (just finished Mass Effect for 2nd time) and "cover and shoot" style of games. Think it's gotta be the Xbox then...."Crispycrumbadded his two cents to the 360/PS3 conundrum: "I'm not one of them but there's a bunch of PC types here. Have a look on the wiki for Steam IDs etc. Don't buy an Xbox, you'll be shunned - we're all massive Sony fanboys here. Well, Chubster is anyway..."Killerbeegave +1 for PS3: "There's been quite a strong PS3 bias on the blog since Killzone 2 came along and whilst that may not last forever, I think there's a decent chance that many of us will stick to the PS3 for Modern Warfare 2 (I know I will).If you've got a good gaming PC (and it seems you do), you're already sorted for Left4Dead, Mass Effect 2 and most other 360 console-exclusives. Personally, I think the PS3 complements a good PC better than the 360 - plus if you've got a HD TV and not yet picked up a Blu-ray player, it's well worth it."Thankfully for our newcomer, our resident Dwarf LordBeardOfBeeswas around to clear up all confusion: "Welcome to the gamesblog. I'm one of the few 360-only folk around now, it seems, but we do exist. I'm not sure how it happened as at one point everyone seemed to have 360s. I think when they red-ringed a lot of people sold the replacement and bought PS3s instead. Certainly if I was buying now, I'd think hard about the PS3 as it's much more of a contender than it used to be when I went shopping (mostly due to price).MS are still stitching people up with exclusivity deals on DLC etc - XBL seems to get things a hell of a lot quicker than PS3 - but this is really a fringe benefit at best. The online is still better in my opinion on the 360 and voice chat works like a dream. The pad is miles better. But the PS3 has Blu-ray, reliability (!) some excellent games like KZ2, Wipeout, Warhawk, and some top PSN games that I'd like to try.In summary, I'm f*cked if I know what you should pick."A typically conclusive debate then.Part two: Tuesday – Is Street Fighter the new chess?Day two and there was much talk of TonyHayers' debauchery, followed up by a discussion of Street Fighter IV.BeardOfBeesis still playing (albeit drunkenly): "…I am also very rusty and need to remind myself how to play this. Anyone else having a go at the DLC and can explain it to me better? And any 360ers still playing and fancy a game sometime?"TonyHayerswas put off by the age of the series: "SF4. Don't you find this gets old pretty quick, and that you played it 15 years ago?"In response (and defence) wasChubster2010: "Has chess 'got old'? Or, is it a timeless game that people will still be playing in 100/1000 years time? I'm not saying people will still be playing SFIV in 1000 years time... but SF certainly has a timeless quality, and SFIV is the best version of the game to date."BeardOfBeesjumped back in: "Street fighter 4 is pretty retro, agreed, but it worked 15 years ago so it works now. It's as varied as the opponents you play and your will to learn. Personally I haven't picked it up in a while but I know I won't be trading it any time soon as there's always some fun to be had with it."More surprising coherence fromTonyHayers: "SF4. Best version. Yes. But I still feel like I've played it before, a lot. Thought they might have made it better. Changed it. Brought it on.  Doesn't compare well to Fight Night 3 in a lot of respects, for me!"Talk went onto the Uncharted 2 multiplayer aspect (see link below for video), on which opinions are divided.CunningStunt made a splendid suggestion that Team Ico do a multiplayer Ico or SotC game. BeardOfBees asked for people's top five albums of all time.  Everyone took it very seriously. This seemed like a fairly harmless diversionary topic, but actually caused more arguments. Common favourites were Coldplay's X&amp;Y, David Gray's White Ladder and Desiree's Supernatural.  Nah, I'm only joking! Apart from the Desiree album vote from PhilosopherKing. Apparently he particularly likes the ghost/toast song.Part three: Wednesday – National Arnie DayOn WednesdayShrewroggot us talking about an utter classic film – Total Recall. "I remember going to see this in the local cinema, don't think I was old enough, can't remember. What a film, bet it looks rubbish now though."Henrypootlecouldn't make his mind up whether it's good or bad: "I watched this again a couple of years ago. It does look rubbish, but in a good way..."It is clearly one ofTonyHayers' faves: "To the idiots disrespecting the superb Total Recall. I bet you're the sort of people that want to see films like Robocop and the such remade."Cameroon95is still in therapy: "I like that bit in Total Recall when Arnie totally spazzes out when he's discovered under his disguise as a women. Quite freaked me out a bit as a kid but its brilliant now."BeardOfBeesadded his two cents: "Total Recall stands up well, some films never age. Good ideas for the future like the secretary painting her nails with a computer pen thing, the hologram device Arnie uses. All good.  And getting someone with a big drill whilst shouting "SCROOOO YOOOOOO!" is worthy of the cinema hall of fame."PhilosopherKingfelt the icy hand of terror: "Dear god, I agree with Tony! Total Recall is a great film, and definitely does not need a remake."As you can imagine, this conversational piece led to favourite Arnie quotes.CBPodgevoted for "If it bleeeds, we can kill it" and "You're fired" (as he shoots a missile with a bloke attached to it).  Pepperino remembered Eraser in which Arnie kills a crocodile and says "you're luggage!"  In his words:"It's not even a play on words, it doesn't make any sense. Brilliant."Limniwent for the obvious "Stick around" and "I'll be back".BeardOfBeescame up with a few – "You're a funny guy – I'll kill you last" and then later "You remember I said I'd kill you last? I lied."  He also quoted my favourite – "GET TO DA CHOPPAAA!"Other suggestions were:"See you at the party, Richter!""Being on stage is like I'm cumming, it's like I'm cumming on stage"."Let off some steam, Bennett!""I let him go." (…after dropping someone off a cliff)"He had to split." (…after chopping a guy in half with his own chainsaw)"What a hot head." (…after blowing a guy up with his own flamethrower fuel)"He was a pain in the neck." (…after strangling a guy with some barbed wire)["Consider dat a divorce" and the least effective chat-up line ever, "Your clothes, give them to me" - Keef]Somebody mentioned that there are a number of Arnie prank calls on the interwebz, such asthis one.Warning – don't watch this while in the office.  You may get some funny looks when you have tea streaming from your nose.Part four: Thursday – meat-tasticIn a scattergun morning, talk whipped between what meat we had eaten the night before, what we'd had for breakfast that morning, hangover cures and some major confusion over the PS3 Worms league (all my fault – sorry).  Eventually something interesting about games came up.Dizzyisaneggmentioned that he was going to import Demon's Souls, which is apparently a bit of a beast – reviewhere.CBPodgechirped in: "Make sure you let me know just how utterly bitchslapped you get by Demon's Souls. Read another great quote about it – the first boss kills 99% of players. In one hit. That sounds almost like a Chuck Norris joke. Is he the final boss?"Spencerreidconfirmed Podge's suspicion: "Chuck Norris beat Demon's Souls without picking up his Dualshock. He stared at his PS3 and all the creatures in the game died."Dizzyisaneggsomehow found a link between Demon's Souls and Countdown: "In a kind of related note I watched an episode of Countdown from last week. There was a guy from Glasgow on who went for 'respawn' as his first word. Not in the dictionary yet. Surely this has been used on enough game sites etc., to get an entry? Maybe it doesn't have enough application outside of the online shooter."Cameroon95fired up: "I sometimes think some developers love the whole 'our game is so hard, not easy, etc…' as it often makes the game become a cult hit."Dizzyisaneggthen started to make more sense: "I suppose in ye olden days games were usually difficult or very difficult. At least they'd have a section that was really punishing, around about an hour and a half in, where you'd lose all your lives and get a game over (I'm thinking 16bit consoles here). Now games seem more accessible and the rise of casual gaming has sidelined difficult games."CBPodgelet rip: "I'm a bit wary of Demon's Souls - if it's hard, that's fine. But is it hard, enjoyable and fair? If I'm playing a game and die basically because the enemy did better than me, I'm cool with that, and I can learn from it and do better next time (like the last boss bit on Killzone, that utter orgy of b*stardism). But if it's hard, unenjoyable and unfair then I can't be f****d with it - games are supposed to be fun. If a game is too easy it isn't (generally speaking) fun. If it's hard it can be really, really fun, as long as it feels fair. I think I'd rather be challenged by a game than just waltz through its main campaign. But I'd rather waltz through it than feel like the game is hard not because I suck but because it's just being a b*stard. This is all far too serious. I can't even remember whether I agreed with you or not."The afternoon was IceCreamBlog.Sheep2remembered when 99s cost 25p andMollocatecriticised static ice cream vans: "There is something not right about static ice cream vans. Just sitting there waiting like deaf mutes, slabbering out cones with no chance of ever feeling the excitement of hearing them arrive or the disappointment felt running after one that is finishing up, the dream flavour of cheese and onion crisps dipped in ice cream gone for the night."Maybe he's had too many sweet treats already.Part five: retro FridayPredictably, there was much hilarity over the two 'lovers' on the Queen's lawn. There was also plenty of games chat about the latest NaN Clan Killzone success – well done soldiers. As it was Friday, we got talking about old skool games.BeardOfBeeswas thinking Carrier Command and, "other games you loved and didn't have a clue how to play. How about Escape from the Planet of the Robot Monsters? Had completely forgotten about that until I saw it just now. Spent hours playing that."Be4chremembered another: "When me and my brother get together we end up reminiscing about the Spectrum we had as kids and we always get a little glassy eyed over Alien Highway. We loved that game but it was rock!"[Keef - I'd add Alien and Zoids to the list. Great but unfathomable C64 classics. Also I was never entirely sure what I was supposed to be doing in Ant Attack or Rescue on Fractalus.]OfficePest dug upthis clipof Atari game Hunter:Apart from talk about the bikini waxing blog, that about wrapped it up for the week.Quotes of the week"I have a Fighting Fantasy Bestiary: Out of the Pit. Fantastic collection of all of the creatures from the books and their relevant stats. There was a time when I always had it in school and was very popular as a result. I got it out of a box in the shed the other day and tried to flick through it but most of the pages were stuck together. Something has obviously happened to it while it's been in the shed."Are we really going to believe Shrewrog2's 'popular' or 'shed' claims?"Christ.  I wrote a whole page full of info that was eaten!!  Summary: Worms league last night – cheers Barry."That took Cameroon95 a whole page?"Pig is easily the best eating animal, top to bottom."Uncle3en on the joys of eating pig's bottom. Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall would be proud."Fois gras tastes of murder. Tasty tasty murder."Goody84 posts one for the vegans."I have been stamping on bodies in Dead Space until they fall to bits, to make sure they can't resurrect. Most of them are human and haven't turned. I am vaguely concerned that I shouldn't really be corpse stamping."Sheep2 experiences DeadSpaceRage."Gave Barney a good brushing last night. He really is a fluff-ball. Most unkempt. I still don't think that I have ever seen a cat with a bigger bush than him. Like a Snow Leopard."CraggyIsland is the new Mrs Slocombe."I moved to Rutherglen and the number of scarred people there is really scary. I've seen a couple of fresh ones too on my street (which is the main street, so you get all types). Never had any grief myself though. Been jumped a few times in Hamilton when I was younger it's quite nice..."Fish curry enthusiast Umboros23 puts his foot in it again.Links of the week:Uncharted 2 multiplayer video!Zombie Apocalypse is nigh! Dead Rising 2 trailer.New PSP Go!Also discussed:The Worms league, Swine Flu, Hayers' love life, the 'garden' thread, dirty business on the Queen's gardenGames:Worms, Killzone 2, Demon's Souls, Ninja GaidenFilms &amp; TV:Cannibal women in the Avocado Jungle of Death, Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur Hell, lots of Arnie films
A correction to the interview above is to be broadcast, saying: "In last week's programme we heard an interview with Kane Kramer, the man who invented the digital audio player. At the start of the programme we mentioned that Kane had in the past called himself "the world's biggest failure". He has asked us to explain that he didn't say that, and what he had said in the past was that 'it is one of the UK's biggest failures - I suppose in a way the world's biggest failure', and that he was talking about difficulties for inventors to get support."This week's programme is an extended interview with the man who has in the past called himself "the world's biggest failure".Kane Kramer devised the idea for the digital audio player back in 1979.  It was the forerunner of the MP3 player today, but after problems with his company, Kramer's patents lapsed, and he has made little money from his invention.Charles spoke to him at last week's Radio Reborn conference, and discusses his idea, but Kramer also explains how he is positive for the future of inventing (he is also the chairman of theBritish Inventors Society.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Microsoft is to cut 5% of its UK workforce, about 150 jobs, in the latest stage of the technology giant's plan to slash 5,000 posts worldwide in the first radical cutbacks in the company's 34-year history.Microsoft revealed in January thatabout 5% of its global workforce, 5,000 jobs, would be cut this year.At the time of the first round of cuts, which saw the departure ofapproximately 1,400 workers, it was estimated that about 60 jobs would go in the UK.Microsoft has said today that a further 5% of the UK's 2,880 staff – almost 150 positions – will go in the next stage of the restructuring. A spokesman said that the second phase of the cutback programme does not add to the overall number of jobs affected in the UK or worldwide."As part of the plan we announced in January to reduce costs and increase efficiencies, today Microsoft is commencing consultation to remove additional positions across several areas of the company," said a spokesman for Microsoft UK. "A number of UK positions are affected, representing about 5% of the 2,880 people currently based in the UK."The company spokesman said that there was a need to "rebalance resources against our priorities in the current climate"."We will continue to evaluate our business to ensure that our investments are aligned to current and future revenue opportunities," he said. "We believe in the strength of the company, our ability to continue delivering value to customers and our approach to long-term growth."The Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, has called the downturn forced the historically resilient technology company to make drastic cuts a "once-in-a-lifetime set of economic conditions".
If you have been trawling the web in the hopeless search for some piece of news that's completely stunning, how about the "rumour" being repeated (suspiciously similarly) by TechCrunch's Michael Arrington and Valleywag that Apple is in "late-stage" talks to buy Twitter - yes, that Twitter - for $700m, to be announced at WWDC in June?But before we deconstruct, we must construct. Here's theTechCrunch post; here'sValleywag.The TechCrunch post rather weirdly has "Google got shut down" in its headline - perhaps meaning that Google got frozen out if/when it approached Twitter with an offer (don't take the idea that Google made any approach as gospel) and then launches into it:"Apple is in late stage negotiations to buy Twitter and is hoping to announce it at WWDC in June," said a normally reliable source this evening, adding that the purchase price would be $700 million in cash.However Arrington then expresses his own doubts:The trouble is we've checked with other sources who claim to know nothing about any Apple negotiations. If these discussions are happening, Twitter is keeping them very quiet indeed. We would have passed on reporting this rumor at all, but other press is now picking it up.Oh, well, if "other press" (read: blogs) are "picking it up" (read: repeating it) then itmustbe true, eh?And now over to Valleywag:"A source who's plugged into the Valley's deal scene and has been recruited by Apple for a senior position says Apple and Twitter are in serious negotiations, with the goal of unveiling a deal by June 8, when Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference launches in San Jose."Though some doubts do intrude, even at Valleywag - basically, you can see the writer (wave to Owen Thomas) thinking "what the hell is this tieup even about if it happens":What does Twitter, an adorable but unprofitable startup, have to do with a hardware company like Apple? The iPhone is the obvious driver of the deal: The many iPhone apps like Tweetie that people use to post Twitter messages are hot sellers for Apple. But Apple gets the benefit of Twitter-addicted iPhone users whether or not it owns Twitter. And it seems like an odd cultural fit, since Apple's hardly known for its Web prowess.Yeah, well, that's saying. Here's the reality: Twitter is a messaging service. Apple is a hardware company. When Apple buys companies, that's because they fit into its corporate mission, which is to sell hardware at a profit. They might be companies thatspecialise in touchscreen technologies, ormusic software companies, but if you have a look at thelist of (known) Apple corporate purchases, you won't find anything that gels with "platform-agnostic messaging service".Apple isn't buying Twitter. There's no corporate fit. It's not going to be announced at WWDC. It's not going to be bought for $700m.As Kara Swisher of AllthingsD points out, "even the wording [of the Techcrunch and Valleywag posts] is identical". (Let's hope nobody is copying anybody else here. That would be awful.)So sheneatly rips apart the rumour: Biz Stone and Evan Williams are both in New York, which isn't where Apple is, to pick up an award, which isn't the way to close a serious deal.Quoth Swisher:Oh, the very notion of Apple and Twitter is a Techmeme dream-ticket, sure to be chewed over for days on end. (I once considered doing a post that just said "AppleTwitterAppleTwitterAppleTwitter…." for 1,000 words to see how much idiotic traffic I would get.)More to the point, as she notes, if Twitter were being negotiated over, then there would be epic tussles to buy it - which would include Google and Microsoft (and maybe even Yahoo? No, perhaps not these days) because it would fit so much better into what search engine companies do than what a hardware maker does. Remember all the back and forth over Facebook when it was selling a bit of itself to Microsoft - no, Google - no, Yahoo - no, it'sMicrosoft at the wireat the end of 2007? The owners of plush hotels with conference rooms in Silicon Valley hardly knew how to keep the teams of negotiators apart and served with coffee. This time? Nothing of the sort. Tumbleweed. No negotiations.So if anyone suggests to you that Apple is about to buy Twitter, tell them "no, they aren't. I read that in the Guardian."Come back and lash me if I'm wrong, obviously. But I think here the odds are astronomical.
European officials are lobbying to prise control of the internet away from the United States, in what one senior official has called a "moment of truth" for the online world.The job of overseeing the internet's day-to-day operations currently falls to ICANN, a non-profit organisation founded in 1998 that works under the auspices of the US government.However, the organisation's agreement with Washington is due to expire later this year – leading the European Union's information society commissioner, Viviane Reding, to urge Barack Obama to create "a new, more accountable, more transparent, more democratic and more multilateral form of internet governance".In a statement issued yesterday, Reding said that it no longer made sense for an international communications network to be controlled by a single nation."This opens the door to the full privatisation of ICANN and it also raises the question of to whom ICANN should be accountable," she said."In the long run, it is not defendable that the government department of only one country has oversight of an internet function which is used by hundreds of millions of people in countries all over the world."However, Paul Twomey, the chief executive of ICANN, told the Guardian that the organisation was fiercely independent, and that any reforms should be made through the proper channels."We have a governmental advisory committee that is made up of 120 governments, including the European Union," he said. "ICANN's bylaws and structures are carefully constructed so that one stakeholder's interests cannot be put ahead of another's. It's all very carefully balanced."The internet was created with US government funding as a tool for military and academic use, but concerns over the way it is run have gathered pace as the system has become more deeply embedded in modern life.With the net now responsible for communications, and commerce, Reding's comments echo a growing belief among world governments that the United States should no longer have a monopoly on decisions that could affect billions of people.However, although Twomey admitted that the organisation's structure meant decisions often involved a "noisy, bottom-up process", he added that the loose operating agreement with officials in Washington is part of what has helped create a strong, uncensored internet."I recognise that there are concerns, especially outside the US ... but the model's been successful," he said."Some of the challenge now is whether you want this model, or do you want a government-controlled, government-licensed approach to the internet? That's a very different internet to the one we have today. It's really a moment of truth."In the past, experts have warned about the possibility for anti-American governments or authoritarian regimes to create their own internets to avoid reliance on US-based organisations.The potential fragmentation led the inventor of the web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, to say last year that the online world had a "duty" to protect its future in the face of pressure from repressive governments or corporations."We designed the web, and we can change it: we have a duty to," he said inan interview with the Guardian. "Here is this system a lot of our society depends on – democracy depends on it, commerce depends on it. We should probably watch it to make sure it's stable."
As someone who produces copyrighted content, I suppose I should be cheering atthe Pirate Bay verdict. Or perhaps, as someone who wants to get the latest episodes of my favourite show quickly, I should be angry about it. That's the trouble with the current system of distribution and copyright enforcement: it sets content producers and fans against each other.There was a time when the system worked. From the earliest days of cinema, a system of staggered worldwide releases of Hollywood movies developed. It made sense: there were only a certain number of prints and it took time to ship them across the world. Nick James, editor of theBritish Film Institute's magazine Sight and Sound, told me that in the 1970s you could sometimes wait two years to see a Hollywood film in the UK.And 30 years ago that was alright. The markets really were separate. How would the average person in the UK even hear about the latest movies or TV shows on the US? You could run a five-year-old US TV show, call it brand new and very few people would be any the wiser. It felt natural for the same system to extend to videos and DVDs.But it's not alright anymore. Here's why: the markets for legitimate purchase are still separate, but the marketing is not. The web is, as the name suggests, worldwide, and if you're advertising your great new movie or TV show on the New York Times website, or Salon magazine or in Gmail banner ads, you're advertising it to the world.Advertisers are very good at their jobs. They know how to tease and persuade, to push the buttons that get us to buy things; even things that we know are bad for us. It's not that we're entirely helpless in the face of advertising. Of course it's possible to see an ad for something you really want and still not buy it. But we find it difficult; that's the whole point of advertising.And if you're advertising a movie or a TV show, but not giving people the opportunity to buy it legally, what do you think is going to happen? You're working against yourself: with one breath saying "look at this wonderful product, don't you want it?" and with the next saying "you can't have it at any price".People who download illegally aren't people who hate the product. They're fans. Of course there are some people who would never pay a penny for it, no matter how cheaply or easily available it was. But there are many who, like me, just want to enjoy a TV show they've seen advertised.It's time for staggered releases to end. Every day they continue, more people, tired of seeing adverts and reviews of shows and movies they won't be able to buy legitimately for months or years, call up a techie friend and say "that torrenting thing, how do you do that?"Every day these shows and movies aren't available to buy, worldwide, on the same day, for a reasonably equivalent price, more people are finding out how to get them for nothing. And once they're used to doing it that way, it's going to be harder than ever to get them back.
Huge in Japan, the Dynasty Warriors games have always had a cult following in the west. After all, what could be more fun than hacking through reams of ancient armies while attempting to follow a nonsensical plot? How about hacking through stacks of giant robots?Following on from the original game, Dynasty Warriors: Gundam 2 adds more robots, more characters and generally more of everything. The combat is intense and the strategy elements require a little more brainpower. The story also tries to add greater depth to the characters. But essentially this is all about the cathartic hack-and-slash experience that the series has always provided. Despite the relentless button-bashing, this isn't a game for everyone.An obtuse menu, assumption of prior knowledge and relentlessly inane dialogue make this game almost retro in its design. Casual gamers probably shouldn't apply. But with hours of content and enough new features to justify purchase, the fans will lap this up.
Games of films suffer from a reputation for being shoddy, derivative and flung together in an unrealistically short amount of time, in order to make the most of merchandising launch windows. X-Men Origins: Wolverine manages to transcend the dire norm, but that doesn't mean it's entirely meritorious – although it does have some interesting ideas.Essentially a hack-and-slash with adventure game-style climbing and puzzle-solving interludes, it's crisp-looking (there's no mistaking Wolverine for anyone other than Hugh Jackman), the combat system is responsive and innovative, adding features as you level up and, thanks to Wolverine's feral sense, you're never likely to get stuck. The clawed one's lunge move, in which he pounces on enemies in the middle-distance, is great, and it all feels true to both comic book and film.But after the initial period, it becomes somewhat samey, and the PS3 version, at least, contains too many (admittedly non-critical) bugs. It will please die-hard Wolverine fans, but avid gamers won't be impressed.
Sony's troubled handheld needs all the help it can get these days, and this is a surprisingly solid effort. Very much like the DS's Advance Wars with mechs, Mytran Wars boasts a pleasing anime style and well-balanced units.Obviously the fun comes from beefing up your mechs with strap-on weapons and upgrades before swarming across the landscape and out-manoeuvring your enemy. Plotwise it's full of twists and turns and, despite some terrible voice acting, it's hard not to get sucked into the story, which comes jam-packed with missions and well animated battles. It's a lot more inventive and action-packed than you might expect, and well worth a look for game-starved PSP'ers.
Tuesday's back to work edition of Chatterbox
So how was your Bank Holiday gaming? I spent a bit of time with the new X-Men game and wished I hadn't. I wasn't expecting a classic but this is as tedious a gaming experience as I've had this year. The action is derivative – think hack n' slash complete with Devil May Cry-style orb collection – and even in my sleep-addled can't-be-bothered-playing-anything-that-involves-thought mood, this was too brain-numbing. The only glimmer was the levelling-up mechanic. I'm a sucker for any game that dangles new skills in front of me but after a couple of hours of X-Men I couldn't care if the next power involved lottery number predictions – there was no way I was ploughing through yet another set of dumb assailants.  The game does seem to havereviewed okthough so maybe you have to be a fan of the films/comic to really enjoy. Clearly I don't appreciate the finer points of Wolverine. Anyone else played this game yet?I also spent some time ploughing through the latest Xbox Live Arcade games.Banjo Tooiehas been downloaded – more thoughts soon – but with so much new, and potentially exciting, stuff on the service it is hard to get excited bythis week's releases.  Arkanoid and Space Invaders? Hey I love a bit of retro gaming but surely Space Invaders should be retired now, right? Forget these two then, what have you enjoyed most on Xbox Live Arcade recently?
&bull; American regulators are examining the close links between Apple and Google, reports theNew York Times. It's no secret that Apple and Google share two board members: Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, and Arthur Levinson (formerly of Genentech), but theruleson whether such ties promote anti-competitive behaviour arenow being looked into. (The news comes hot on the heels of last week'sconcerns about Google's book deal).&bull; A developer war between two Firefox add-ons could lead to a change in the way that the browser works,reports Ars Technica. Given that third-party extensions have been a very useful tool in helping Firefox spread, I wonder what the long-term impact might be.&bull;Here's a video demoof a brilliant little app calledTabledrums, that can help you turn your computer into a virtual drum machine, with the help of a Mac, a webcam and three black pieces of paper. Phil Collinsgorilla drummingahoy!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The relationship between Apple and Google is under scrutiny again after the revelation that US regulators are investigating whether the close ties between the two companies violate competition law.According to areport in the New York Times, the US Federal Trade Commission is looking into the fact that the Silicon Valley rivals share two directors - a situation that could contravene American rules.The two individuals in question are Google chief executive Eric Schmidt, who joined Apple's board in 2006, and Arthur Levinson - the chairman of biotechnology company Genentech - who has served on Apple's board since 2000 and joined Google's four years later.The early stage investigation is believed to focus on whether the "interlocking" directorates allow the two companies to collude against other rivals, or whether the relationship results in customers and shareholders being treated unfairly.While it is not illegal for two companies to share board members, rules regarding the practice dictate that either the companies themselves or the competing products should be small enough so that the link does not affect the market. Both Apple and Google have made substantial investments in a number of competing areas, most notably mobile phone technology and web browser software.Neither of the companies, nor the FTC, returned a request for comment.According to section 8 of the1914 Clayton Act, companies are only allowed safe harbour from the rules if they make less than $20m each year or the competing products make up a small percentage of their overall income.With more than 3.7 million iPhones sold in the past three months alone, Apple's high-end mobile handset is responsible for a significant proportion of the company's revenues. And while Google's Android operating system has yet to be widely available enough to generate significant cash, it is clearly an important part of future plans.Both companies give away their browser software for free, although they derive income from web searches conducted inside the programs.In the past, Schmidt has pointed out that he recuses himself from discussions over mobile phone technology, but that may not be enough to prevent the FTC taking action: in past cases, directors have often resigned one or more of their positions to avoid any question of impropriety.The latest news comes just days after it emerged that the Department of Justicewas investigating Googleover the terms of a deal it made with authors to scan in thousands of books and make them searchable online.One antitrust expert told the Guardian that the investigations were merely a result of Google's growing economic power, rather than being part of a course of action specifically directed at Google."If you have a player with as much market power in an important sector of the economy, it's more likely to attract attention by its actions," said David Turetsky, a partner at Washington law firm Dewey &amp; LeBeouf and an antitrust lawyer at the Department of Justice under Bill Clinton.He said that the Obama administration would be "far more active than its predecessors" in investigating potential anti-competitive behaviour "not because it's a wild-eyed group, but because the Department of Justice in the Bush administration took some unconventional views that led to under-enforcement".Indeed, the investigations run contrary to the opinions of those who expected the Obama administration to go easy on Google thanks to Schmidt's connection to the White House. The Google boss was an adviser to the Obama campaign during the election and has subsequently been appointed as a Presidential committee on science and technology.At the moment, however, both incidents are merely under early stage examination, rather than being full investigations or actual cases - and could eventually result in no further action being taken."These are still just investigations," said Turetsky. "There's nothing inappropriate about them - and where they will lead remains to be seen."
Acer is about to start shipping Aspire One netbooks with 11.6 inch screens -- I'm expecting a short term loaner this week -- and Asus will have a model later this month, according toDigiTimes in Taiwan.Both systems run the ultra-cheap version of Windows XP, which has only been available for use on netbooks with up to 10 inch screens. Apparently Microsoft has been persuaded to move the goalposts in the light of what both Acer and Asus tell me is a consumer demand for bigger screens. "The real limitation now is that it cannot be more than 12 inches," says Massimo D'Angelo, the Acer vice president in charge of Europe.Dell, of course, may have been instrumental in this: it is offering the DellInspiron Mini 12with a 12.1-inch screen. Asus has also shown me a system with a "12 inch screen". I won't be shocked if all these screens turn out to be the same size when I get chance to measure them.Acer showed 11.6 inch Aspire One 751 at itspress conference in Londonlast week. It looks like earlier models, but it's a little thinner (about an inch or less) and has a full-size keyboard. It also has an Intel Atom processor (Z530 or Z520), 1GB of memory, a 160GB hard drive, a webcam, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, three USB Ports and a multi-touch keypad. It can take an embedded SIM for mobile 3G communications. The external casing comes in several colours.Acer reckons you'll get around 8 hours of battery life, so if you carry a spare (which I do) then you'll get all-day computing without ever having to worry about running out of power.As always, I asked Massimo about Linux, since Acer had been gung-ho about it when the Aspire One was launched. Of course, netbook manufacturers never actually tell you, because it's regarded as competitive information. Still, I asked: "What proportion of your netbooks now ship with Linux?""Now? It's very very minimal," he said."Less than 10%?""Very very minimal…""Less than 5%?""Very very minimal…""Less than…" I was going to say 2% but at that point he decided to do something more interesting. But he was nodding as he left.Among the problems: too many versions of Linux, too many driver and driver installation problems for too many types of mobile dongle, qualifying all of them for 24 of the world's top 25 telcos, and the telcos' general unwillingness to support Linux.From this, you can deduce that the telcos are the key to profitable volume sales in the netbook market, at least for Acer.
Amazon is preparing to launch a new, big-screen version of its Kindle e-book reader - just three months after it for releasing the second generation of the gadget.The new Kindle, which is due to be introduced at a press conference in New York on Wednesday, is set to supplement the existing model by providing a larger screen that can more easily display newspaper and magazine pages... potentially giving the struggling print industry a chance to find some light at the end of the tunnel.Rumours of a larger model have been doing the rounds for about a year, but the New York Timesreportsthat not only is it imminent, but that a number of print operations are hooking up with Amazon for the announcement, including (surprise) the New York Times:Unlike tiny mobile phones and devices like the Kindle that are made to display text from books, these new gadgets, with screens roughly the size of a standard sheet of paper, could present much of the editorial and advertising content of traditional periodicals in generally the same format as they appear in print. And they might be a way to get readers to pay for those periodicals — something they have been reluctant to do on the Web.The existing Kindle already offers users the chance to buy some newspaper subscriptions, so that their paper is delivered to their e-book each morning. But it's no secret that newspaper organisations have been looking for a device that they feel can do the printed form justice and help them shift to a more hi-tech delivery system (I know plenty of titles have had exploratory meetings with hardware manufacturers over the years).For all the talk of newsprint, however, Larry Dignan at ZDNet says the move isreally about textbooks: allowing students, a natural constituency given their propensity to lug huge piles of books around, to use larger format titles without losing anything. That's certainly a big potential market, even if the Kindle 2 has beenselling well.The new device is expected to have a screen that's approximately the size of an A4 piece of paper, as opposed to the current paperback-sized 6-inch display. But reaction so far has been muted -Peter Kafka at MediaMemosays "It doesn't matter how you deliver the information if you can't afford to generate it in the first place", whileMG Siegler at Techcrunchsays it's a Hail Mary pass.I can't help but agree; it's a strange little manoeuvre from Amazon. No surprise that the egotistical news industry thinks it's all about them - but whether or not this is a play for the educational market, perhaps the opportunity to bring newspapers and magazines under their wing was too good to pass up.
Want Google Chrome for Mac? You can have it - though note that there's plenty that's not actually, um,workingjust at the moment. It's odd how many months it's taking Google to do this port (and how the shine seems to have come off Chrome, which arrived in such ablaze of lightback in September).Manu J, an independent Ruby on Rails developer, has a page where you can get theupdated Google Chrome downloads for Mac(Intel processor, OSX 10.5/Leopard only).Why his page? Because theofficial Google Chrome for Macpage is just a signup for an email. Huh.One has to say that it's hard to feel enthused by the list of "what does work" and "what doesn't work" in this one (which is officially version 0.1, build 15170 from May 1st:What WorksBasic Websites (Gmail works sometimes)Bookmark pagesMost visited sitesOpen link in new tabOpen new tabsOmniboxBack, Forward, ReloadFull Screen Browsing!!Open link in new windowDrag a tab to make a windowLaunch new tabCut, Copy, PasteKeyboard shortcutsabout:version, about:dns, about:crash, about:histogramsWhat Doesn't WorkOpen link in new tabfixed in Rev 13759Plugins (No Flash -&gt; No YouTube)History (You can view it through this link chrome-ui://history/  You will also be able to do a full text search there)Omniboxfixed in Rev 13759Bookmarks BarFindPrintabout:network, about:memoryWeb InspectorInput methods such as Kotoeri (Japanese)PreferencesBut even so, we suspect we're going to give it a try from time to time, and bookmark the page. Can you ever have too many browsers? We may find out. So far, though, Chrome on the Mac seems.. OK; though this version doesn't have the tab-by-tab viewing of how much processing is being  sucked up. (Ah, just got my first spinning pizza of death, trying to scroll up in a window.) Onwards and upwards!Update:interestingly, Chrome on the Mac does indeed give you per-tab process control. You have to view it in the Activity Monitor program, which is like Process Manager on Windows. So far the problem is that it seems to think that every tab is "not responding" (ie stuck), but it's nice - initially - to be able to choose per tab which one you want to kill. See the picture below.However, given my own tendency to have literally 100 tabs open across dozens of windows, I think that the processes might need slightly more useful names - or a tab for viewing them inside Chrome itself. At present, choosing which one to kill would be a lottery.
Admission time: I have never playedMyst. Yes, I know, today of all days (it's Star Wars day: May the fourth be with you!) that's something of a surprising admission. Didn'teveryoneplay Myst at some time in the 1990s? Well, I guess I was busy.. doing something. PlayingStarship Titanic, perhaps - which I understand is sort of like Myst with a sardonic, Douglas Adams-style twist.But now people like me, and people who never quite got over the fun of .. whatever else it was we were doing can now get Myst - because it has been brought back, completely, faithfully, to the iPhone and iPod Touch. Operated by fingers rather than a mouse, obviously.Here's what I find interesting about it, though: the price.The original Myst cost $600,000 and took two years to produce;it  appeared on CD-Rom, and helped drive adoption of the format; CD-Rom, because it was so blooming big - hundreds of megabytes, because the designers took so much trouble about including textures and detailed visual information to make the experience as close to natural as possible through screens that were, at the very best, 1024x768 (but much more likely 16-bit, 800x600). And the original game was only in 8-bit colour anyway.Be that as it may, Myst in its CD-Rom form cost around $30 - which would be quite a bit more in today's money (what with inflation over the past 16 years).The price now? $5.49, or in the UK, £3.49. And it's 729MB of downloading: if you're on a broadband supplier with one of those download caps, you might want to think about other places you could download it directly.Even so, that's a dramatic shift. In 16 years we've gone from a game that required an external, expensive piece of hardware, and external storage, which pushed the limits of systems, to something that can be done in the palm of your hand. There's Moore's Law for you - though the bandwidth limit question shows how we haven't quite got around it all. (Then again, if you'd wanted to download it in 1993, you would have been doing it, at best, at 9600baud - that's 9.6kbps.)There's more about thebackground of Myst at Wired. And all over the web, in fact. Including the question I'd not thought of:is Myst playable if you're deaf?Oh, and when is someone going to port Starship Titanic to the iPhone/iPod Touch, eh?There is avideo for Myst on the iPhone. I tried many times to include it here but - in a video game entirely of its own making for a bank holiday - the system wanted to show you a rerun of the Kentucky Derby. Now if only they'd thought of doingthatin Myst...Actually, there's a question: what do you think, if they - or you - were writing Myst now, would you include? Internet connectivity to YouTube? To Wikipedia? Be creative..
For all the discussion and debate about Google's controversial (andpotentially anti-competitive) plan to digitise millions of books, little has been known about how the company is actually doing it.The audacious plan involves scanning many millions of books, through a system that Google has said is light years ahead of the flatbed scanners we're all used to - systems that inevitably proved unreliable or destroyed the books they were intended to preserve. But Google's never been keen to share the details of how it manages this feat: even when Ivisited Oxford's Bodleian Library a couple of years agoto find out more, I wasn't allowed to see the scanning room because the machines were considered trade secrets.Now, though, NPR has managed to uncover the details behind the company'spatented book scanning system- and found that the secret is 3D infra-red cameras:Google created some seriously nifty infrared camera technology that detects the three-dimensional shape and angle of book pages when the book is placed in the scanner. This information is transmitted to the OCR software, which adjusts for the distortions and allows the OCR software to read text more accurately. No more broken bindings, no more inefficient glass plates.Cunning.
Britain may be enjoying the darling buds of May, but the news? It never sleeps.&bull; Last week there was plenty of hoo-ha about the government's decision toback downon creating a super database of all its data on our emails and phone calls (instead sticking with a whole bunch of different databases that it can access at will). But according to the Sunday Timesthat may have been premature, as a project at intelligence centre GCHQ called "Mastering the Internet" may make this database talk redundant. The Telegraph says that spooksdeny the claims.&bull; Is something rotten in the state of California? The BBC reports that software superman Tom Siebel thinksSilicon Valley's time may be up, while CNet reports comments  by former Intel boss Andy Grove -who says the patent system is being abusedby Valley companies.&bull; A selection of weekend reads to enjoy over the Bank Holiday: Newsweek has a piece onFacebook's porn corps, who patrol the site getting rid of unmentionables; while the LA Times talks aboutwhy text messages are so short.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Italian officials have said they will continue their investigation into the activities of the Pirate Bay website, just two weeks after four men linked to the service were sentenced to prison by a Swedish court.The Pirate Bay is currently being investigated by prosecutors in Bergamo over accusations that the four men connected to it assisted copyright infringement by hosting a service that searches and tracks pieces of music, movie and TV files on the internet.Those same charges resulted in aguilty verdict from a court in Stockholm, with the four men sentenced to a year each in jail and fines totalling £2.4m. The men are now appealing the verdict, amid claims that thejudge in the case was biased.However, one music industry official said that the Swedish verdict would push the Italian forward."An acquittal in Sweden could have created difficulties for the Italian prosecution. The guilty verdict will strengthen the hand of the prosecutor in Italy," Enzo Mazza, president of the Italian Music Industry Federation (FIMI),told IDG.Although it is highly unlikely that the four would face jail if tried in Italy, they could face substantial fines over and above the ones already brought in Sweden.However, lawyers for one of the defendants toldTorrentFreakthat the question of jurisdiction was still up in the air."The Italian case has many different peculiarities, starting with jurisdiction issues, which make the Swedish decision much less relevant than it could seem at first glance."Three of the men - Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, Fredrick Neij, and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg - were involved in creating or running the site on a day-to-day basis. The fourth, Carl Lundstrom, bankrolled proceedings. Lundstrom is the scion of a food dynasty and telecoms entrepreneur who is better known today for being a far-right agitator who has campaigned against immigration.The Pirate Bay's operation runs largely from southern Sweden, while its internet servers are believed to be located in the Netherlands. Kolmisoppi, who holds joint Norwegian and Finnish nationality, is the only member of the group who still lives in Sweden: Neij, Svartholm and Lundstrom are now thought to reside in Switzerland.
This week, a huge Ferrari store opens on London's Regent Street. But it is not a car showroom. You cannot buy a beautiful, feral-sounding &pound;180,000 Ferrari 599 GTB in trademark rosso corsa, the colour of blood and desire. Nor can you buy a new crankshaft for your classic Ferrari Daytona. Want some washer fluid or a fan belt? Look elsewhere.Instead, what's likely to be on offer is a set of 2009 Ferrari Team sunglasses. Or, if you prefer, a Ferrari skateboard. Flash watch, natch. T-shirts! Gifts! Housewares! In this last category, other Ferrari merchandise already available online includes a high-performance aluminium ruler priced at &pound;41. What need there ever might be for a Ferrari-branded, premium-priced, straight-edged strip used for guiding pens along straight lines is a question for fastidious aesthetes alone. Concepts of redundancy are irrelevant here. The Ferrari shop is not rational retailing, it is religion. And the religion is branding, a form of voodoo. Or at least, packets of fairy dust.When I was a boy, I was inseparable from my copy of The Observer's Book of Cars with its melancholy, photogravure illustrations of Sunbeams, Hillmans and Triumphs. I think there was a solitary Ferrari. In those days, we called them "makes", now replaced by the more highly evolved concept of "brands".  The idea of a "make" is located in the grubby old world of manufacturing while "brands" are a part of our more intangible value system."Brand" is a virtual property. It is that mixture of favourable associations and expectations which all successful products possess. It is the difference between what something is worth and what someone will pay for it. Which, in the case of a Ferrari ruler, is a lot. Thus it is commercially irresistible to extend its brand beyond expensive sports cars and Formula One. You can imagine the management gobbledegook supporting the decision to go into rulers: we will monetise our image, increase the return on capital invested, incubate consumers.But at what cost to the essence that made Ferrari worthwhile in the first place? "Ferrari" is an idea unique not just in the history of the car, but in the history of all manufacturing. The company was founded by a wilful, tyrannical, cunning, cruel, manipulative peasant-mechanic-genius called Enzo Ferrari. He had a messianic commitment to motor-racing and only reluctantly decided to make road cars as a way of funding the sport. Ferrari cared diddly squat about the public, but when he made consumer products it was in a pact with Pininfarina and the result these past 60 years has been the ultimate catalogue of mechanical beauty. Ferrari is metal bella figura, that Italian conception uniting grace with sensuality in a profession that appearances really do matter.The Ferrari brand evolved after decades of consistent commitment to racing, to beauty, exclusivity and mechanical (possibly even moral) extremity. So how will it be affected by Ferrari anoraks? A precious heritage goes the way of tyre smoke and exhaust fumes? Dany Bahar, Ferrari's vice-president direzione commerciale e brand, says the stores allow "fans" access to the "family". We might wonder if fans are clueless rubes easily suckered or, perhaps, sophisticated adepts knowledgeably consuming semiotic value even as they destroy it."Tragedy or farce?" I asked on discovering my first Ferrari shop at an Italian airport some years ago. Memory plays tricks, but I am certain there was an inflatable F1 pool toy and a hideous lifesize cut-out of a beaming Michael Schumacher. Ferrari would not have liked the idea, but then he was an old-world recluse.So where else do you find Ferrari shops? Beijing, Hangzhou, Shenyang, Al Khobar, Macau and Las Vegas. Here are cities with no alignment to the ideas of beauty or craft that Ferrari represents. But they do have populations who want a pair of Ferrari Team 2009 sunglasses. Some say the new Ferrari store is not about the triumph of Italian design but the meaningless of it all: bella figura has its opposite in brutta figura. Brand value, they say, is acquired in exquisite, small drops and peeled away in nasty big strips. Bahar is aware of this and promises soon to re-evaluate the merchandise. Good. I may not want a Ferrari cap, but I still dream about a 1959 250 Gran Turismo.
The origin of swine fluBumptious YouTube punter Philip De Franco weighs in with the topic du jour with some words of warning. It's all down to children licking pigs.Obama's Facebook FeedSlate presents Obama's first 100 days in office via the finest barometer of lives both mortal and presidential, the Facebook news feed. The puppy, the Queen's iPod and all are captured here.Subtitled Chanel film trailerIn an impudent sleight of translation, the divine Audrey Tautou as Coco Chanel appears to be speaking not French but the online language lolcat: "I has the impression to wear your curtains" etc.TracksHot Chip - Take it iniTunes,79pThis new track from their Bugged Out remix album delivers a trademark mix of energy and melancholy synthpop.Fanfarlo - Drowning MeniTunes, 79pThe London six piece combine emotive vocals with pounding bass and piano.Esser - Headlockmyspace.com/esserhq, free streamClever lyrics and pop sounds reminiscent of early Blur from the 23-year-old, mega-quiffed pop troubadour from Chelmsford.
Playing the leaf trombone involves tapping or dragging a long green leaf until it lines up with a set of on-screen lines representing notes on a scale. About halfway between notes gives you a semi-tone and you can skip an octave up or down by holding the plus or minus button. Naturally this means you can use your iPhone as a miniature, slightly reedy trombone and also gives you the opportunity to test your talent in front of randomly selected groups of judges from around the world, who'll rate each performance. Coming with a range of copyright-free music that encompasses a lot of national anthems and traditional songs, you can also encode your own tunes for use with its occasionally fairly hectic rhythm action mechanics. As an entirely new kind of massively multi-player online game and one that demands very little of your day at its entry level, this is a pleasing diversion.• Smule, 59p
The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay was that all-too-rare specimen: a game based on a film that, instead of being a desperate, hollow attempt to cash in on publicity generated by the movie, was a thoroughly excellent stealth and shoot 'em-up. In an unfortunate twist, the same couldn't be said for the film, which has since slipped into obscurity. Not to be put off, the sequel has now appeared as a game only, with Assault On Dark Athena telling us what Riddick did next. With expressive character models and believable voice acting, your tours of the space hulk Athena and a nearby planet see you again busy keeping Riddick out of direct sunlight and stalking a set of heavily armed enemies. While still satisfying, very little has changed since 2004's Butcher Bay, bringing the franchise more in line with its less inventive peers, even if they don't boast Vin Diesel croaking out mock-profundities at an approximately Matrix-ish level of cod philosophy.• Atari, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
It's beginning to get very difficult to crash a car. People still do it, of course, and in large numbers, but the manufacturers are not making it easy. Just to dent one of the current crop of safety-conscious cars would require a destructive imagination or strong alcohol and sleep deprivation.And if you wanted to total the thing, you'd probably have to redefine the concept of recklessness and do something like compose text messages while driving in the dark on the M1. But what kind of fool would try that?Even rolling a car over demands far more effort from the contemporary driver. A mass of tests and trials, computer simulations, technological advances and competitive adaptations mean that modern cars enjoy a more adhesive relationship to the road than their more airborne predecessors, so that it's often not enough simply to drive fast and turn the steering wheel in the old-fashioned way.Nor is standard incompetence or failure of hand-eye coordination any more likely to cause serious damage. Todays stubbornly earth-bound vehicles also come fitted with a battery of sensors to guide the hapless driver away from annoying obstacles such as other vehicles, bollards and the like. Nowadays, a myopic chimp could park a car fitted with parking assist. And, although it's not impossible to reverse into pedestrians while driving a car with a rear-view camera, it involves levels of negligence that even a serial texter would struggle to achieve.However, car safety has a blind spot. And that blind spot is the blind spot, the dangerous visual gap between the fields of vision offered by the rear- and side-view mirrors.You know how it is. A series of alerts enables you to negotiate your way out of a parking space, a vocal satnav directs you unscathed on to the motorway where cruise control maintains a sensible speed. Then you pull out to overtake and suddenly you've landed a starring role in a JG Ballard novel: Crash.But not if you're driving the Mazda6 TS2. For its Rear Vehicle Monitoring System detects that 90mph Land Cruiser sneaking up in the driver's blind spot and flashes and beeps and generally discourages the whole messy business of high-speed collision.Which is just as well. Because the new Mazda6 is an attractive machine that would in no way benefit from an impromptu rearrangement of its sleek, sloping profile. A sort of executive hatchback (there are also saloon and estate versions), it looks a shade more interesting than many of the cars that crowd the mid-range market, it handles well, and it's a restrained drinker at the pump.If what you want from a car adds up to a Mondeo, but you dont want to own a Mondeo, then the Mazda6 is an excellent alternative. Even a ram raider would think twice before crashing it.
JG Ballard, who passed away a fortnight ago, was more than a great author. He was - and remains - a state of mind. If you're new or old to Ballard's work, as well as the many, many obituaries, there's plenty to entertain with pages on each of his novels and short story collections, alongside links and essays that stretch his vision, such as a study of the marketing, advertising and psychopathology in his last book Kingdom Come. Indeed the site's creator, Simon Sellars, doesn't really view Ballard so much as an author as a philosopher and with many of his thoughts on surveillance culture, consumerism and middle class unrest already a reality what he calls the "Ballardosphere" will continue to grow.
Ray Kurzweil has a surrealist's eye for disorientation. The lobby of his offices outside Boston have the quality of a Dadaist art gallery: nothing is quite what it seems. Immediately inside the door is an old metal box that turns out to be a dictation machine built by Thomas Edison. An old man is sitting next to it, with a badge on his lapel that reads: "I'm an inventor". He is George, the receptionist tells me, and he is made of wax. A cabinet along the hall is covered entirely in boxes of vitamin pills, hundreds of them, from acai berry, red yeast rice and milk thistle to a very large jar marked "Anti-ageing multi-pack".The sensation of strangeness intensifies inside Kurzweil's personal office. Several handwritten placards are stacked against the wall. "NO RIGHTS FOR BOTS!" says one. An oil painting of a white rabbit and a drawing of Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead are propped up against the desk, which is lined with dozens of volumes of the Tom Swift children's adventure series.Then Kurzweil himself flurries into the room, half an hour late, looking flustered. He starts an instant banter with the photographer, informing him that the white rabbit is a representation of virtual reality and an allusion to the psychedelic song by Jefferson Airplane. The Tom Swift books, he adds, were his favourite reading when he was seven. It's all getting a little too weird, and the interview hasn't even begun yet.Let's begin with the uncontested facts. Ray Kurzweil is an inventor of considerable repute, an expert on the information technology revolution and the future of artificial intelligence. As a young man he put together some of the earliest electronic keyboards and created a machine that can scan and read printed literature to blind people - the first customer was Stevie Wonder, who has become a lifelong friend. He boasts countless awards, is in the US inventors hall of fame, has written several New York Times bestsellers, and sits on the board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is the subject of a documentary, Transcendent Man, that will be released this year and is completing his own film, The Singularity is Near. And lest any doubt about his standing remains, Bill Gates regards him as the "best person I know at predicting the future of artificial intelligence".To cap all that, a new university opening next month will be named after one of his key theories. Sponsored by Google, the Singularity University will be housed on the Silicon Valley campus of Nasa. It will bring together some of the biggest names in frontier disciplines such as bio- and nano-technology, neuroscience and artificial intelligence. The university will open its doors in July to 40 students paying $25,000 (&pound;17,000) each for a nine-week course. Their challenge will be to come up with new ideas addressing some of the world's most pressing problems. On the agenda: climate change, world poverty and hunger.Were the story of Ray Kurzweil to end at this point, we would be left with an impressive though not wildly out of the ordinary technology pioneer. But Kurzweil is anything but ordinary. Take what he tells me about the prospects for medical intervention.With the completion of the human genome, he says, health and medicine have become a branch of information technology. "We have now the software of life - the code that underlines it. We have tools now to change the software. How often do you go without updating the software on your cellphone? Probably not more than a couple of weeks as it updates automatically. When was the last time you updated the software running in your body? It is out of date."In the land of Kurzweil, the possibility of reprogramming the body is not a dry academic theory, it is a blueprint for how to lead your life.That's why he has a cabinet covered in vitamin boxes, including those anti-ageing packs. He has turned himself into a living medical experiment with the hope - more than that, the expectation - that it will allow him to live far into the distant future and perhaps forever. Every day he takes about 150 supplements with the aim of reprogramming his biochemistry. Once a week he spends a day at a health clinic having particular compounds fed into him intravenously.What on earth does he do that for? The answer is that though he turned 61 on Thursday, he believes that physically he is preserving himself to be much younger. "How old am I really? I've stayed around 40. I was 38 biologically when I was 40, and I'm 40 or 41 today. There is a biological ageing test and that's what it registers for me."White rabbits, Grateful Dead, 61-year-olds with the biology of someone two decades their junior. Is now the time to terminate the interview and run screaming out of the office? He calmly insists that his pursuit of youth is quite logical."People ask me whether I think taking all these supplements will allow me to live hundreds of years. No. The point is only to stay in good shape another 15 years or so before we have developed the ability to reprogram our biology through nanotechnology using nanobots - blood-cell sized devices in our bloodstream that will keep us healthy."Does he really want to live forever? Wouldn't the thrill of life start to fade after a few thousand years or so?"If the future remained the same and no new ideas or experiences happened then ultimately we'd grow weary. But that is not the case. The future is going to be a very exciting place, and that's why I'd like to stick around to see it."The burning sense of the future's potential has been with him since a very early age. He decided to be an inventor when he was five, he says. "My parents provided me with all these erector sets and construction toys, and I had the idea that if you put these parts together you could create transcendent effects. I didn't have that vocabulary, but I did have the feeling that you could do magical things and solve problems."From the age of seven he began reading those Tom Swift books, devouring one after another. Each book, with titles like Tom Swift and His Airship and Tom Swift and His Wireless Message, has an identical plot: the world is faced with an existential crisis; Tom goes into the basement of his house and tinkers with some gadgets; Tom emerges with an invention that will save the day.For Tom Swift read Ray Kurzweil. By the age of 13 he was designing software. While still a teenager he was setting up companies to exploit his ideas, and selling them for large sums. His urge to invent was insatiable, and it led him to an obsession with futurology.It began mundanely. To maximise the profit from his inventions he started to study technology trends in an attempt to divine the best moment to launch any new product. In the process, he made what he considers an extraordinary discovery: that the trajectory of new technologies was astonishingly predictable.More importantly, the graph they followed was not linear, as most people thought, but exponential. "Most people's expectation of the future is that the current pace will continue, despite the fact that the power of technology is doubling every year."This was his eureka moment, and in his view it revolutionises everything. He uses the example of a person walking a certain distance. If the person takes 30 linear steps - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 - they travel 30 units. But if those steps are exponential - 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 - they reach 1 billion.So it is with technology. "When I was an undergraduate at MIT we shared one computer that took up a whole building. The cellphone in your pocket is a million times cheaper and a thousand times more powerful. That's a billion times the sales performance - and we'll do it again in the next 25 years."This identification of the exponential growth in technological firepower, coupled with a fervent belief that there is no problem that cannot be solved through its application, is the key to Kurzweil. It unlocked his predictions of the coming of the internet, the fall of the Soviet Union partly as a result of the spread of communications, and the defeat of the world chess champion by a computer (he was a year out - in the 1980s he predicted 1998; Garry Kasparov lost to Deep Blue in 1997).Exponential growth also lies at the heart of his aspirations for the new Singularity University. Through it he wants to pursue solar energy as a solution to climate change. "Right now about half a percent of the world's energy needs are from solar, so people say 'Oh, that's not a big deal'. But solar has doubled every two years - and it's only eight doublings away from 100%. In 20 years it could meet all the world's energy needs."Similarly, Kurzweil detects in the explosion of cellphone use across Africa the opportunity to combat illness and hunger. He wants to design software that could be downloaded on to all African cellphones that would easily diagnose and provide remedial directions for leading local diseases.Listening to Kurzweil's high-velocity monologue, it's almost shocking how optimistic he is. After the 20th century's disasters with centralised planning, and this century's disasters involving terrorism and the black hole of the financial system, it's not fashionable to talk about the inevitable march of progress.But Kurzweil is unwavering. "People very often don't realise how far we've come. Think of the improvements that we've seen: human life expectancy was 37 in 1800, 48 in 1900 ..." And in 2035?His prediction in that regard is that by 2029 computers will be able to pass the Turing test - that is, pass themselves off as human in conversation. Soon after that the "singularity" will have been reached, the point at which artificial intelligence will so far exceed the human brain that ordinary mortals will no longer be able to keep up.By 2035 the human brain and computers will begin to merge - literally. Those nanobots will be used to vastly extend the reach of human intelligence. They will allow us to control all our senses by computer and enter a full virtual reality in which we could become other people. (Ray tells me that since the age of eight his fantasy has been to become a female rock singer called Ramona.)Kurzweil predicts looming human protests against the granting of legal rights to human-computer mergers, which explains the "NO RIGHTS FOR BOTS!" placard in his office: it was a prop used in his forthcoming film.The problem with the more outlandish side of his thinking is that it has earned him a reputation for crankiness that in turn casts a shadow over his genuinely important work. As one critic put it: "It's as if you took a lot of very good food and some dog excrement and blended it all up so that you can't possibly figure out what's good or bad."Surely he resents such comments, and the damage to his overall standing?"I'm not uncomfortable with the controversy," he replies. "It's part of the process new ideas have to go through."I leave Kurzweil's cluttered office carrying enough food for thought to last me, oh, at least a couple of hundred years. Is it time to start popping those pills?On the plane back to New York I open one of his books and read the inscription he has written inside. "To Ed, to a (very) long and healthy life. Ray."The eureka moments1963Aged 15, Kurzweil wrote his first computer program to help alleviate boredom. It was picked up by IBM1965Developed a program that wrote music in the style of famous composers1974-6Designed the first computer program that could understand letter shapes in any font, wrote a program that converted scanned text into synthesised speech, and then combined the two inventions to create the Kurzweil reading machine. This "read" printed text aloud through a voice synthesiser, for the use of blind people. First customer: Stevie Wonder. The machine was as big as a table; now it fits in the pocket1984Perfected the electronic keyboard. Used sampling of the sounds of instruments to produce rich authentic reproductions of the entire orchestra. His Kurzweil K250 is used by Keith Emerson, Herbie Hancock, Eric Clapton and others1987Invented a program that does the reverse of his reading machine - converting a person's spoken voice into type
WOW on iPhoneThe obsessive qualities inspired by the tanking juggernaut that isWorld Of Warcrafthave been well explored, but up to this point we have only been able to indulge that compulsion from the comfort of a PC. The downside of this is that if you leave your house there are moments in the day when you are literally unable to play, a situation massively unappealing to those who have succumbed to its maddeningly addictive strategems. Demonstrating a new applications platform that lets your 3G phone handle persistent online worlds, there's now a video doing the rounds on YouTube showing someone living the dream, with World Of Warcraft apparently running live on an iPhone. While it's still some way from mass-availability, or indeed reality, this points at a near-future where the sofa becomes an optional element in the couch potato lifestyle and where massively multi-player gaming may soon be free to run amok in the real world.
Birds seemto favour letters with holes in themWhat reallykilled Maxim magazineHow muchyour MP claimed in expensesThe Slitheenare definitely not a cricket teamPeople in moviesare always losing their shoesDon't bin it,fix itMartin Luther King hasbeen auto-tunedOne wayto pretend that you live somewhere really, really hotA new, fluffy usefor record turntablesSeventeen brilliantmagnet tricks
Cheap TentsInterview with adventure travel legend Dixie Dansercoer, a guide to bouldering in Ireland and the charms of Chesterfield.Google SightseeingTravel the world from the comfort of your laptop via Google Earth and Google Street View.Made In EnglandTwo chaps from London town walk the Continental Divide Trail from Mexico to Canada.Notes From The RoadThe messy truth of travel as told by a regular guy including stunning photography and sketches.TravelliousSix good habits for saving money when you travel, plus flashpacking and hotel tricks.Without BaggageTV producer Hank Leukart's treks, from witnessing a zebra birth in Botswana to discovering the truth about Area 51.
With its origins in the pages of comic books Comic Sans has become the Japanese Knotweed of the font world and as annoying to type snobs as the Microsoft paperclip or adverts featuring the voice of Jane Horrocks. It's easy to see its appeal, though: write the word "banana" normally and it's just a banana, use Comic Sans and it's the silliest, funnest banana ever, which is perhaps why it's used so often in passive aggressive notes in workplace kitchens. It is not just the proliferation of this font that so brilliantly angers the authors of this site, it's the fact that, well, it isn't really a font at all and, worse still, "threatens to erode the very foundations upon which centuries of typographic history are built". Heavy. Well, heavy bold. As well as a short documentary you can browse Flickr groups of font abuses and join a petition to stop its use.
Making quantum cryptography practical has been a holy grail for some physicists - but it's proved elusive. Now a British team of researchers think they have discovered a way to make it accessible to anybody.Unlike traditional cryptography (where the data itself is encrypted using complicated mathematical functions) in quantum encrypted communications a key is sent by beaming a string of photons, representing a code, from the source to the target. If it gets to the other end and matches what the target expects, then the data gets unencrypted. If anyone tries to intercept or break it? Well, thanks to thelaws of quantum physics, the mere act of observing the stream of photons changes it - and so it fails. That means that with enough photons in play, data can be made essentially hacker-proof.All very good - and known for some time. But the problem so far has been trying to transmit the data over the sort of distances we're used to seeing in communications - over tens of miles down telephone lines, for example. With quantum encryption you can get great transfer rates over very short distances, but it degrades as you try and transmit the data further: meaning that scientists have so far been playing with data rates of around 10 kilobits per second over a distance of 20km.Now a team consisting ofToshiba's Cambridge Research Laband Cambridge academics have come up with a new system that can achieve much greater speeds at a lower cost.In a paper published in theNew Journal of Physics, the team explain how they've improved the efficacy of quantum communications a hundredfold - so that they can now achieve speeds of 10Mbps to a target 20km away. That's much more like a useable speed - and, crucially, it was achieved using lower cost components.One of the researchers, James Dynes, told me that the development "now opens the door to potentially new high speed secure applications" - even allowing to become commonplace. That's good news for all sorts of people who want to conduct totally secure communications over the network - particularly banks, for example."In particular, the high bit rate could support a multi-user network," said Dynes. "In the past, quantum cryptographic bit rates have been too low to allow this, as the bit rate has to be shared between many pairs of users. Now with Mbit/s key rates, many users over a network can securely communicate with each other."And how much would a system like this cost?"If mass manufactured, the system would have a cost comparable to a high-end firewall," he said. "The most expensive components are typically the very sensitive single photon detection devices. Our system uses cheap semiconductor devices, which gives it a considerable cost advantage."
