USA Todayreports that "Wall Street is going gaga over Google, prompting some to think the frenzy over the expected — but unscheduled — initial public offering is reaching unhealthy levels that could set up many investors for disappointment. Rumors, misinformation and hopes for fast riches are swirling about the online search engine, creating an eerie flashback to the Internet IPO bubble in the late 1990s. Any more fervor could threaten the broad IPO recovery by burning investors who end up overpaying. "In the 13 years we've been researching IPOs, we've never seen a more hyped IPO," says Kathy Smith at Renaissance Capital."Of the 10 IPOs with the biggest first-day pops since 1975, not one ever returned to the price it reached its first day, according to an analysis of data from Jay Ritter, professor of finance at the University of Florida."
The number of seven to 10-year-olds owning a mobile phone has almost doubled over the past three years, according to a survey published today.In 2001, 13% of primary school children had a phone but that number had increased to 25% by the start of this year.The findings come from a survey of 2,000 seven to 10-year-olds, carried out by market analysts Mintel.Jenny Catlin, consumer analyst at Mintel, said: "Many parents find it reassuring to be able to get in touch with their children at any time, and some consider mobile phones important for their children's safety."Children in one-parent households are more likely to have their own phone. This may be because these children have more complex lifestyles, especially if they are in regular touch with their non-resident parent."They may need a phone more to help with the logistics of moving between two households."The poll, which was conducted at the start of the year through questionnaires sent via parents, also revealed that many children's lives were stressful.More than one-third of the seven to 10-year-olds said they were "very worried" about schoolwork, with 48% concerned about bullying. As a result, only 46% said they enjoyed school."It is surprising that this many young children are so concerned about their schoolwork, but this does go hand in hand with the growing emphasis on school testing," Ms Catlin said."This, combined with their anxiety about bullying, suggests that life can be quite stressful, even at this young age."
BT yesterday revealed plans to make fast, "always-on" internet access available to almost every home and business by next summer - which, if they come to fruition, would give Britain one of the most extensive broadband networks among the G7 industrial nations.But rival Wanadoo warned that unless BT's competitors are allowed access to its local phone lines at an affordable price, services such as video on demand, television on the web and internet voice calls will never get off the ground.BT, which already has more than two million customers using its lines to access broadband through a variety of internet service providers, hopes to have fast access available to 95% of the population by the end of this year and 99.6% by summer 2005.To speed up the roll-out of broadband, it is scrapping the trigger system introduced in July 2002 matching the installation of broadband equipment with local demand; instead it will carry out a phased introduction across the country.BT has already enabled 2,500 of its exchanges and 1,500 more will be switched on as soon as possible. A further 1,128 exchanges, which were part of the trigger system, will come on line over the next year as part of a new phased roll-out of broadband.Alison Ritchie, BT's chief broadband officer, said: "As we move into more and more rural areas and we have a clearer picture of growing demand - there are real benefits to be gained through a planned roll-out."But that plan still leaves 570 smaller exchanges - together serving fewer than 100,000 customers - without broadband. BT intends to work with local government and regional development agencies to bring broadband to these areas, which are mostly in Scotland.BT's decision to speed up the introduction of fast internet access will make the UK one of the most extensive broadband markets in the G7 by the middle of next year, meeting one of the two targets set by the government after the last election.In Japan, penetration of broadband via phone lines - a technology known as digital subscriber line or DSL - is expected to reach 90% by the end of the year. Broadband in France will not be available to 95% of the population until the end of next year.As well as making the UK the most extensive broadband market by the end of next year, the government also wants one of the most competitive broadband markets in the G7.Yesterday Eric Abensur, the chief executive of Wanadoo in the UK, warned that BT's stranglehold on local lines is holding back innovation.Launching a loss-leading broadband package at &#163;17.99 a month, or &#163;10 less than many rivals, as part of the rebranding of Freeserve as Wanadoo, he added: "If we really want to meet the target the government has set for 2005, we need to change the way broadband is done in this country."He is looking for the regulator Ofcom to initiate "local loop unbundling", the process that allows other operators to move into BT's local exchanges and connect directly with consumer lines.In France such a move has enabled companies to offer TV, video on demand, free phone calls and broadband at four times the speed of BT's basic service for &euro;30 (&#163;20) a month.While Wanadoo is looking to launch voice calls over the internet by the end of the year, Mr Abensur admitted plans to launch broadband TV in the second half of 2005 will not happen unless Ofcom forces BT to reduce the price it charges for access to its lines. The regulator is due to announce its initial view on local loop unbundling next month.
"Handheld device vendors shipped 2.2 million units in the first quarter, down 11.7% from the first quarter of 2003, and 33.1 percent off the fourth quarter of 2003, said David Linsalata, an analyst with IDC in Framingham," reportsIDG News Service."PalmOne's Treo 600 smart phone has been its fastest growing product, with shipments increasing 37% from PalmOne's second quarter to its third quarter, which ended in February, according to PalmOne's third-quarter results. However, shipments of PalmOne's core handheld products slipped 38.7% from the calendar fourth quarter of 2003 to the first quarter of 2004, IDC said."HP posted the strongest quarter of any of the major vendors. Its shipments grew 24.8% in the first quarter of 2004 compared to last year's first quarter, although it was not immune to the sequential drop that plagued the rest of the industry as it came off the fourth quarter."Comment:[links updated]the IDC statement with a table of unit shipments ishere.The 2003 Q4 numbers for the year arehere.
"A surprising breach appeared to open between leading Unix and Linux companies on Monday as Sun Microsystems' chief executive called Red Hat 'a proprietary Linux distribution.' The catcall was sounded in an eWEEK.com interview with Sun Microsystems Inc President and Chief Operating Officer Jonathan Schwartz. Besides challenging Red Hat Inc's contention that it is the premiere Linux company, the remark casts the relationship of the companies into a more adversarial light," reports eWeek."Schwartz went on to say that Red Hat's price increases and proprietary extensions have lead to 'CIOs figuring out that open source does not equal open standards. Open standards, which Sun has always supported, are better. Proprietary open source [like RHEL] can come back and bite you.'"Informed of the comments, Red Hat spokesman Leigh Day offered that 'Red Hat Enterprise Linux is licensed under the GPL, and we're totally open source'. "
Britain's ill-fated e-university is expected to be broken up by June, but discussions are continuing on how to save parts of the £62m venture.The board of the funding council Hefce has announced that the plan to scale down and transfer activities from UKeU, the company set up to market online degrees worldwide, would continue.No decision has yet been reached on what to do with the £13m e-learning "platform" developed by Sun Microsystems for UKeU - whether it is worth the cost of further development work or not. Today UKeU declined to comment.The e-China initiative, under which the two countries are sharing experience in the use of information and communication technologies, particularly the internet, is to be transferred to a university or group of universities. Similarly, a proposed e-learning research centre is to be taken over by a UK university.A Hefce spokesman said the board was not yet in a position to name the universities that will take over these two programmes, but the whole process was expected to be wrapped up by the time the board meets in June. A statement from the board  said it had agreed to continue with the plan of scaling down and transferring activities while "actively keeping the position under review".Hefce intervened when it became clear that the e-university had recruited only 900 students worldwide for the courses from British universities that it was marketing - well below its target.The concept of an e-university as a 21st century successor to the Open University was launched by David Blunkett, then education secretary, at the height of the dotcom boom in 2000, but failed to attract private funding or make an impact abroad. The company was criticised by some in the sector for spending so much money and effort on trying to develop the technology of its platform. Universities complained they were being charged too much to have their courses marketed abroad.UKeU has spent £35m of the original £62m allocation - £13m on a platform for online students to access course materials, £7.7m on course development (mostly loans and payments to universities writing the courses); £4.2m on marketing and £10.1m on company operating costs.Hefce decided that in future its funding should support the development of e-learning in universities and colleges, placing emphasis on public good objectives.One potential success the board wants to see carried on by a university is the e-China programme, which supports English higher education institutions working with Chinese counterparts to develop joint e-learning programmes. The first round includes support for teacher training. Hefce has set aside £3m for the programme, which runs over three years.
High speed internet access will be available in the most remote areas of Britain from the Scottish Highlands to Dartmoor in Devon under plans unveiled by BT today."Broadband Britain" moved a step closer to reality today as BT unveiled a new strategy to accelerate its plans to make high speed internet access available to everyone, including those in most rural areas.The telecoms giant said that 99.6% of British homes and businesses would have access to high speed internet services by summer 2005.The company, which is banking on broadband to compensate for falling fixed line revenues in the face of increased competition from mobile phone operators and new carrier pre-selection services from rivals such as Carphone Warehouse, has responded to campaigning from local councils and businesses to accelerate its broadband roll-out plans.It had previously insisted that a minimum number of customers register on a special website before it would convert telephone exchanges in rural areas to cope with broadband connections.The so-called "trigger" scheme, launched in July 2002, will be replaced by a systematic roll out of new exchanges.The news, together with the increased price competition signalled by yesterday's price cuts from cable providers, will be welcomed by government ministers.Prime minister Tony Blair announced in 2002 that the government was pledging £6bn of public money to provide every school and doctor's surgery with broadband by 2006 in an effort to deliver public services via the technology.After a sluggish start, during which BT was blamed for not cutting wholesale prices quickly enough, there are now more than 3.6 million broadband subscribers in the UK.Ben Verwaayen, the chief executive of BT, has promised the City that the company will have at least 5 million subscribers over its lines by 2006. It currently has just over two million, with the remainder through cable providers NTL and Telewest.BT chief broadband officer, Alison Ritchie, said that today's move was a response to the high demand for broadband in rural areas, where remote households and businesses can often benefit more than city dwellers from increased connectivity."The broadband registration scheme has been a powerful tool for us to match investment to demand and its fantastic success, with the support of local campaigners, has set the way for other countries to follow," she said."Now, as we move into more and more rural areas and we have a clearer picture of growing demand, there are real benefits to be gained through a planned roll-out. This means we can deliver broadband to far more people in a shorter time frame," added Ms Ritchie.Today's announcement means that every telephone exchange in Britain will be made ready for broadband, with the exception of the very smallest - accounting for less than 100,000 premises. BT said it would continue to look for ways of delivering high speed access to these very remote areas, including wireless and satellite solutions.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Britons' love affair with text messaging continues, with latest figures showing  it is not just David Beckham who is addicted to the medium, as mobile phone users sent a record 2.1bn messages during March.The figures from the Mobile Data Association, which tracks SMS activity, confound expectations that the number of text messages sent would begin to level off as mobile phone ownership reached saturation point.Today's figures show that a total of 2.13bn texts were sent during March, an increase of almost 25% on the number sent during the same period last year.And that total only includes text messages sent between individuals, and not the increasing number sent by marketing companies and to broadcasters and radio stations.The total crashed through the 2 billion barrier last month, when the MDA started including figures from Virgin Mobile as well as the other four network operators.What began over a decade ago as an afterthought by mobile phone engineers to enable them to communicate with one another has grown into a new communications medium with its own attendant language.The networks are determined to come up with new ways of encouraging customers to use text messaging, as well as more advanced forms of the technology such as picture messaging, in order to increase the amount of money they make from each subscriber.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The chairman of London Bridge Software is poised to walk away from the company he founded 17 years ago with over &#163;76m after agreeing to sell the business to a US rival.Gordon Crawford's 46% stake in the firm he set up in 1987 after quitting his job as a planning officer with Haringey council was worth upwards of &#163;1.3bn - or over &#163;15 a share - during the dotcom boom, making him one of Britain's richest men.But the bubble burst and London Bridge Software's shares sank as it suffered a slowdown in business, warning on profits and axing staff in 2002. Yesterday Mr Crawford, who bought himself a Scottish estate after bringing the company to market in 1997, decided to vote in favour of a takeover by California rival Fair Isaac which values the business at 95p a share.The all-cash deal values the whole of the company at &#163;166m and is the latest takeover in the UK-listed software industry. Buyers, especially from the US, are attracted by the low ratings being given to software companies on the London stock market.In early March, Merant agreed a &#163;206m takeover by California's Serena Software, creating the world's second largest maker of software used   by corporations to manage the deployment of new business applications.Then last week the board of another business software developer, Maidenhead-based Staffware, recommended a &#163;123m takeover by US rival and former Reuters unit Tibco.London Bridge supplies credit management and debt collection systems to customers ranging from banks and utilities to government agencies. Like many other technology companies, it suffered from the slowdown in spending on IT which came after the dotcom crash.While the company has spent the past year putting its house in order and the market has since shown signs of improvement, finance director Gordon Stuart explained that the Fair Isaac deal is worth more than twice the current share price and offers certainty for shareholders."Our role as a board is to make sure we look after our shareholders and 54% is a reasonably hefty premium. The markets are recovering, allegedly, and we are seeing positive signs but there is no certainty in that," he said.He does not expect any redundancies among London Bridge's 730 employees as there is little geographic overlap with Fair Isaac. In fact the only person definitely leaving is Mr Crawford who will be available as a consultant.
Internet search engine Google has chosen Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston to lead its widely-anticipated Wall Street flotation, it was reported today.The initial public offering (IPO) is expected to value the six-year-old firm at up to $25bn (£13.5bn), in a listing surrounded by the kind of excitement seen at the height of the internet boom.Investment banks have been falling over themselves in order to win a share of the $100m in fees that Google's flotation is expected to generate. The Wall Street Journal reported that CSFB and Morgan Stanley will be the lead investment banks for Google's IPO.Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, both of which were vying for the top spot, are still expected to play a large role, while JP Morgan Chase and Lehman Brothers will also be involved, the Journal said.The brainchild of Sergey Brin and Larry Page, two Stanford University graduate students who together hold 30% or more of the company, Google revolutionised web searching in 1998, offering a simple and powerful way to find information based on the number of links to a page.The two are believed to own at least one third of the company. Other investors include venture firms Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers and Sequoia Capital. Yahoo, a Google rival, and Time Warner's America Online unit, also have stakes in Google, or warrants to acquire shares, obtained through partnerships in the firm.Unlike many of the internet companies that floated during the technology boom of the late 1990s, Google makes a profit.For years, it has been making money by licensing its search technology to other websites, and also rakes in revenue from targeted ads placed beside search results. Analysts estimate Google's annual profit to be between $150m and $350m on sales as high as $1bn.By December last year, Google accounted for more than 50% of all internet searches, handling more than 200 million searches a day.Evidence of the threat that Google now poses was provided when Yahoo recently stopped using it for searches. Yahoo is now using its own technology following the acquisition of Inktomi, Overture and Altavista.Google turned up the heat further on Yahoo and Microsoft by announcing plans to launch a free email service. The service, called Gmail, will provide far greater capacity than the existing services from Yahoo and Microsoft's MSN Hotmail, as well as additional features.However, both Yahoo and Microsoft are stepping up competition to Google, developing search technologies to lure away Google's users and advertisers.Google is going public because federal rules require companies with more than 500 shareholders and $10m in assets to publicly disclose more information about their business. These regulations often push companies into going public.The company, which has more than 1,000 employees, most of whom hold stock options, is expected to announce plans for its IPO this week.
More than £120m of government grants for voluntary and community organisations will be available online from tomorrow.The government is a huge source of funding for the voluntary sector, accounting for 37% of its income through grants and contracts for delivering public services.Now a new-look website,www.governmentfunding.org.uk, has been launched to cut the red tape and make finding and applying for appropriate grants quicker and easier, especially for smaller organisations that do not have dedicated fundraisers.The first phase of the website, set up by the Directory of Social Change (DSC) and funded by the Home Office, went live in late 2003 to provide information on the grants available from six major government departments. Tomorrow's launch will see the portal become fully interactive.Community and charity groups will be able to register to receive information on relevant new grants, store current and past applications, apply for grants online and track the progress of bids.The charities minister, Fiona Mactaggart, who will officially launch the site at the Charityfair 2004 event in London tomorrow, said: "The improved features on the website will make applying for grants less complicated for voluntary organisations."Saving time by applying online leaves more to spend on making a difference to people's lives. The website will also provide valuable advice on applying for government funding."She added: "I hope that the improvements will encourage more medium sized and small voluntary organisations to apply for government grants. It is crucial that every voluntary organisation develops a range of different sources of funding to help protect their long term financial security and thus their independence."Ben Wittenberg, DSC's head of fundraising and research, said: "Research shows that the community sector is increasingly reliant on government funding but finding out about grants has not always been easy. Many, especially smaller organisations, simply lack the resources to find out about all the funding that is available.  The website will cut red tape and increase the efficiency of fundraising departments."Simone Enefer, fundraising director for the e-Learning Foundation, said: "Because of our size, we don't always have the resources to find out about  all of the grants available. This website is going to be a godsend because  we will be able to find grant information and then apply in one place. The website will give smaller organisations with limited resources a better chance of finding the money they need to fund their work."Since the first phase of the site was launched at the end of 2003, it has  received more than 2m hits and 6,800 users have registered.
Once again, Britain's two cable companies act as one.NTL Broadbandhas just announced a raft of changes similar to those unveiled by Telewest earlier today (below), although the fact NTL's website hasn't been updated, at the time of writing, suggests this was a hurried move. NTL's 150Kb product will now run at 300Kb, for £17.99 a month. Its 600Kb service will move up to 750Kb for £24.99, and the top-end 1Mb service will go at 1.5Mb, for £37.99. The company also says it has completed trials of a "turbo button" function - essentially, the ability to up your bandwidth for a specific (short) amount of time for an added fee. There's no news on when it'll be released into the wild.
Good news if you live in a Telewest area - the cable company isupgradingthree of its four broadband products for nothing. The 512Kb product will now run at 750Kb, but still cost from £25 per month. The 1Mb service moves to 1.5Mb, for the current price of £35 per month, while the 2Mb service becomes what the company is claiming is "the UK's first residential 3Mb service" from £50 a month. [Update:Reader Nick Miners makes the very good point, in the comments below, that Bulldog has faster broadband services already available - just not at 3Mb.] The "entry-level" 256Kb service, costing £17.99, remains unchanged, making it look even worse value for money than before.It's an interesting move from Telewest which - like fellow cable company NTL - needs to keep its revenues up. By increasing speeds, rather than lowering prices, it keeps everyone paying the same while sidestepping direct comparison with many of its ADSL-based rivals. That's likely why they've not improved the 256Kb service - for fear that too many customers, thinking they were previously quite happy at the 512Kb, might take the opportunity to save a few quid each month by "downgrading" to the product they were previously on.
"Tiger Woods has his small stake. So do Shaquille O'Neal, Henry A. Kissinger and Arnold Schwarzenegger. All can be counted among that small club of people lucky enough to own a sliver of Google, one of the hottest companies in Silicon Valley and what could be the hottest deal on Wall Street this year," according toThe New York Times."A list of the others who stand to be enriched should Google go public seems to prove that the rich get richer. It reads like a Who's Who of Silicon Valley insiders, including Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker now on trial in Manhattan on charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering. It includes some of Silicon Valley's greatest entrepreneurial successes, including Marc Andreessen, the founder of Netscape; Pierre M. Omidyar, a founder of eBay; Shawn Fanning, the creator of Napster; and Bill Joy, the software innovator who recently left Sun Microsystems.Stanford University will also make a bit. "The university owns the technology," said Katharine Ku, the director of Stanford's Office of Technology Licensing. "We license it to Google, which back then was just these two kids. They pay Stanford royalties annually. We also took a bit of stock in the deal."
"US and international law enforcement authorities on Wednesday conducted a series of raids against Web site operators suspected of distributing more than $50 million worth of pirated music, movies and software, a move the U.S. Justice Department described as the largest-ever crackdown on online piracy," reports theWashington Post."The Justice Department coordinated more than 120 searches in 10 countries and 27 US states. Operation Fastlink targeted 'warez' sites operated by sophisticated electronic pirates who specialize in securing and disseminating illegal copies of movies, music and computer programs."
One of the most interesting sites  I have come across in the past week is the Mac Observer'sDeath Knell Counter. It is a log of all the  times that journalists have penned stories predicting Apple's demise. It is a  lengthy list too, with 39 entries going back to 1995. Writing off Apple is  clearly not a clever thing to do.While I am not certainly not  intent on joining that list, I think it is worth highlighting a sense  of unease among some analysts over Apple's financial results, which were posted last  week.They certainly made for interesting  reading. After decades of building a business around elegant and innovative  computers, Apple has now arrived as a true consumer electronics brand, selling more iPods than PCs in the last year. In the months up to the end of March  it shipped 749,000 computers compared with 807,000 music players. Sales of iBook  notebook computers climbed 48%, while Power Mac computers increased 19%. Overall it achieved revenue growth of 29% year-on-year. It all sounds very impressive  until you delve behind the sales figures to uncover that Apple now only has 1.7% of a booming US computer market - leaving it way behind rivals Dell and Gateway.So maybe Apple's future lies in  consumer electronics? The short-term future for Apple in the market looks very  bright indeed: " iPod" has  replaced "Walkman" as the shorthand  for a personal audio player, and the iPod mini looks set to extend the reach of  digital music players into new territories, for if the US press is to be  believed, the mini was snapped up by almost as many  women as men when it launched in February.The big question is how  long Apple can maintain this remarkable growth in this sphere. Some analysts subscribe to the  view that Sony should have cleaned up in the hard disk audio personal market, but instead  gifted the market to Apple. The Japanese company  was apparently prevented from launching  a rival hard disk-based player by its music software division; it also didn't  want to launch a product that would rival its own MiniDisc and MemoryStick  storage formats.That's in the past, though.  Dismissing Apple as "a one trick pony", Sony Electronics' CEO recently announced  the company's intention to launch a rival hard disk based player to complement  its music download service Connect (a rival to Apple iTunes), which will debut in  the UK in the summer.Apple also has competition in the  hard disk audio player market from consumer electronics big hitters Philips and Samsung, while  Microsoft is readying its Portable Media Center products, which include a three to four-inch screen video playback facilities.There are questions too about how  long the hard disk music/video player market will last for.Surely when flash memory cards  become inexpensive and capable of holding many gigabytes of data, hard disk  players will disappear. From a European perspective, I admit the Americans have  a different take on this, it is hard not to imagine that within a decade most  people will be listening to music on the move via a player on their mobile  phone. Why carry more than one gadget?Not everyone is prepared to write  off the hard disk so quickly.Rob Pait, Director Global  Consumer Electronics Marketing at hard disk maker Seagate, believes  that "it is a matter of conjecture as to whether flash memory will serve as the  basis for current segments dominated by hard disks", citing "higher bitrates for  better fidelity and shrinking form factors" as the hard disk's trump  cards.Of course, having ventured once  into the world of consumer electronics, Apple could well do it again. There were rumours that a video  version of the iPod was shown to analysts back in January 2003 but pulled, as  Apple didn't feel that there was a large enough market for it. If Microsoft is  successful with its Portable Media Centers, Apple may resurrect the player.We shouldn't rule out an  appearance of an iPhone either. This would be tricky for Apple, though, as it could not realistically launch a worldwide model due to differing network standards. It would  also be entering an already-saturated market where, as recent Nokia financial  results havehighlighted, the returns aren't as great as they once were.Whatever Apple does, it is  essential that it maintains its position as a PC manufacturer. In the long run, Apple  needs to not just maintain its market share of computers, but also deliver  products, such as the original iMac, that attract Windows users. No matter where it  goes in consumer electronics, a high installed base of computers running its  proprietary operating system is essential to keep punters hooked to its  brand and its products.Not everyone believes Apple can  pull this off this off. US analyst Andrew Neff suggests the company has an  "inability to capture a wider customer base and grow market share with a more  compelling product offering to attract new users and penetrate the Wintel  world".Conversely there are analysts  such as Federico Bolza from Capgemini, who believes that "Apple has everything to  gain from owning less than five percent of the PC market. The Windows-compatible  iPod is opening the eyes of many Windows users and Apple can make a strong case  for converting those that have been seduced by the iPod's sleek charms."So is history on Apple's side? The company has continually amazed the business world by delivering  stunning products that have rejuvenated both the brand and its fortunes. Only a fool would bet against Apple boss Steve Jobs hiding something special up  his sleeve.
"Dr Alan Kay will receive the 'Nobel Prize of Computing' in a ceremony in June, as well as $100,000, for his pioneering work on Smalltalk, the first complete dynamic object-oriented programming (OOP) language," reportsInternetnews.com.Kay was one of the pioneers of graphical networked computing at Xerox PARC in the 1970s.
The Chinese government has delayed the introduction of its own wireless security standard, which is not part of the Wi-Fi standard, and which was due on June 1. "Chinese officials declined to provide details of the concession. But a researcher at the government agency that oversees the telecommunications business said Thursday that Beijing had no intention of giving up its plan to eventually set its own standards for wireless encryption, as well as other technologies," reportsAP. For the background, seebelow.
US internet giant Amazon said today sales outside the US, including those in the UK, accounted for more than half of its business for the first time as it posted its third straight quarterly profit.The company, which now sells everything from books and CDs to gardens sheds and jewellery and recently launched its own search engine, is also considering a move into the highly competitive digital music download market.The online retailer, which made its name selling books but has diversified into a wide range of product categories, last night announced earnings of £62.6m in the first quarter, compared with a net loss of £5.6m a year ago.The company, one of only handful of internet retail brands to emerge from the dotcom boom and bust with a profitable business, said international sales had soared by 80% in the past year to outstrip the US and Canada for the first time.The Amazon UK managing director, Robin Tyrell, said that expansion into new categories such as consumer electronics, homeware and garden furniture had helped boost growth in the UK.Favourable exchange rates lifted this figure and the group also benefited from shipping offers at its overseas sites in the UK, France, Germany and Japan.Amazon has also maintained its free shipping offer for orders over £30 and reduced the threshold at which its 30% book discount kicks in from £15 to £10."As people become more comfortable shopping for smaller items online, they begin to look at doing more and more of their shopping online for bigger items," Mr Tyrell said.He added the company would be looking to expand into even more new areas in the rest of the year and become "the place where you can buy anything online".He predicted that growth would continue throughout the year with the release of the original Star Wars trilogy on DVD in the autumn expected to overtake the last Harry Potter book as its biggest ever earner.Amazon.com posted its first profit last year, confounding analysts who said the online retailer would find it hard to increase profits on low margin goods when it was also offering free postage and packing.The company has also benefited from the huge boom in iPod sales and Mr Tyrell said the UK website was able to offer the sought after 20Gb version at a discount when other retailers were finding it hard to keep up with demand.He also hinted Amazon was set to enter the burgeoning digital music download market, pitting it against the likes of Apple's iTunes, the recently reborn Napster, Sony and Coca-Cola."We have a long standing policy of not pre-announcing things but we will continue to look at that area. It's clear that it is something that is becoming more and more popular."Until iTunes came along no one had been doing it very well. It's still very early and we will wait until we can offer something that meets our standards of quality and customer service," he said.Although it is a competitive area Amazon's sophisticated technology, which recommends products based on others customers have bought or expressed an interest in, could give it a head start on other download services.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
&gt;connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:Tony Blair has given the go-ahead for a referendum on a new European constitution. Is this democracy at work, or a desperate concession to the anti-European Murdoch press? What do you think?Pashmina:u not working then broncBronco:day off uPashmina:dont be mad im working right now!!!CAPSLOCK:WE SHOULD PULL OUT OF EUROPE COMPLETELYBronco:were is ladeezmancapitalistpiglet:we can't pull out of Europe; it would be a disasterPashmina:dunnoCAPSLOCK:AN EU CONSTITUTION WOULD BE A DISASTERBronco:whos cap slock thenPashmina:its nameless w a new nameCAPSLOCK:I AM NOT NAMELESS, I AM CAPSLOCKcapitalistpiglet:they certainly have similar viewsPashmina:nameless by any other name woud still be namelessBronco:and stupidCAPSLOCK:PERSONAL ABUSEPashmina:so u admit its uHost_Chris2:Pashmina, do you think the referendum is a good idea? How will you vote?Pashmina:noHost_Chris2:you mean no you don't think it's good idea, or that you would vote no in a referendum?Pashmina:I mean no dont u even TRY to make me talk abt thatBronco:I'd vote noHost_Chris2:I take it your not a europhile, BroncoBronco:wots that meanPashmina:it means u like to be weed onBronco:I do notHost_Chris2:it's the opposite of europhobePashmina:afraid of weeBronco:how u know so much abt itPashmina:I get a lot of wierd spamLadeezMan has entered the NewsRoomBronco:LadeezMan were r uLadeezMan:in a internet cafe. fell asleep on train &amp; woke up in portugal!!!CAPSLOCK:THAT IS IMPOSSIBLELadeezMan:whats with the new name namelessPashmina:portugal how nice!!!!LadeezMan:no its raininCAPSLOCK:I AM NOT NAMELESSHost_Chris2:THIS IS NOT THE TOPICcapitalistpiglet:are you sure you're in portugal?LadeezMan:yes - everyone is small &amp; grumpy &amp; the signs r all in portugeese!!Pashmina:my superviser is starin at meBronco:nice to get away, even by mistakeLadeezMan:it might be wales actuallyconnection to server has been terminated ...
"Microsoft reported on Thursday fiscal third-quarter revenue above expectations but saw its earnings dented by the cost of a fine by the European Union and its settlement with Sun Microsystems," reports CNet.Quarterly revenues grew by 17% from $7.84 billion to $9.18 billion, while profits fell by 38% from $2.14 billion to $1.32 billion after deducting $748 million for "stock-based compensation expenses" and $2.53 billion in legal expences. "Excluding those items, Microsoft would have had earnings of 34 cents per share, ahead of the 29 cent First Call estimate and the company's own predictions.""Microsoft said its cash and short term investment balance rose to $56.4 billion, up from nearly $53 billion in December and $49 billion a year earlier."
Sony's Yoshitaka Ukita is passionate about his work and, as general manager of the electronics giant's ebook      business department in Japan, he has every reason to be a fervent believer in the brave new world he's      planning to bring to the Japanese public. The latest development in Ukita's division is arguably the first      successful attempt at a proper electronic book with a display that approximates the look of traditional      paper. The ebook reader (the Librie  EBR-1000EP) launches in Japan on Saturday, and we met with Sony in      Tokyo for a sneak preview.Whisper it quietly, but first impressions of the &#165;41,790 (£220) Librie are that it looks a little dowdy. Its      grey plastic case is vaguely reminiscent of an old-school PDA, albeit a slim one. Any disappointment vanishes      the instant Ukita flips the power switch to bring his baby to life.The quality of the display will come as quite a shock to any seasoned user of mobile devices; it looks more      like paper than the computer screen it is. The closest comparison is to think of old-fashioned ink on pulp      you're likely holding now, unless you're reading this online, in which case the Librie looks far better.In fact,      as it's a reflective screen, it looks the same whether you read it indoors or out.       At power-up, the Librie presents the ubiquitous Japanese cartoon character to guide you through the      electronic library. The mascot is called Libro, after Ukita's three-year-old miniature Schnauzer, whom he      acquired in 2001 just as the ebook project was getting off the ground.The library screen is a straightforward category-based list leading to whatever tomes are stored in the 10MB      of memory or on a Memory Stick. After that, it's a simple matter of starting a book from the beginning, or      from where you left off (via a bookmark). A single book can handle up to 40 bookmarks, each of which can be      annotated, while further notes and text excerpts can be kept in a separate clipboard application.With a      sufficiently large Memory Stick for storage, 500 books can be indexed at any one time, which might just      cover a fortnight at the beach.       Controls are straightforward, an important factor that should suit the non-technical audience such a product      has to win over, with the main ports of call being the buttons to page forward and back and a jog dial for      scrolling through menus. While making headway through a book, an image of our canine pal moving along a      track appears at the bottom to indicate how far there is to go.The miniature Qwerty keyboard at the base of the screen gives a hint as to the other applications available.The Librie comes with three Japanese dictionaries in Rom and an encyclopaedia. Audio content is catered for      through a rear-mounted speaker (there's a standard headphone jack, too) and the ability of the BBeB      (BroadBand eBook) format to include a degree of multimedia interactivity. Having a novel read out aloud by      your book is, it has to be said, rather cool in a Douglas Adams kind of way.The BBeB specification was developed by Sony to shrink the text of a 250-page book into around 500kb and      to incorporate Open MG copy protection to prevent unlimited content copying. Publishers can choose to      eschew BBeB and present pages - for example, those in unsupported scripts such as Cyrillic - as graphical      images, although the benefits of compression and protection will be lost.       Even paper-focused publishers are keeping an eye on ebooks, particularly from a creative point of view. Bruce      Rutledge, president of Chin Music Press in Seattle, says: "A lot of traditional books are thrown together      these days without much thought to their design or their overall appearance. I think that ebook technology      could make inroads here."After flipping a few virtual pages on his ebook version of Natsume Soseki's classic Botchan, Ukita spends a      good 15 minutes explaining just how the crisp ink-like look is achieved. The end product is the result of three      years of work on the part of Toppan Printing, Philips, Sony and E Ink Corporation. The display is based on tiny      40-micron diameter microcapsules, which contain dozens of oppositely charged black and white particles      suspended in an oil solution.Electromagnetic fields dictate whether black, white or a combination of both are      drawn to the surface of each capsule to render the desired shades - the smallest picture element is the      particle, rather than the microcapsule. The finer the degree of control over the fields, the crisper the      possible onscreen image. Achieving that control was one of the greatest challenges of the past three years,      says Ukita.The result is a 6in screen with a resolution of 600x800 dots at 170dpi, considerably sharper than the      70-90dpi of a regular computer display. This allows for increasing the text size up to 200% with no      degradation.       One much-repeated fallacy about the Librie is that power is used only for turning pages. While it is true that      the "ink" particles stay in position without consuming power, the electronic innards do drain the juice, hence      the inclusion of a standby mode. Nevertheless, the three AAA batteries used to power the Librie should      stretch to an impressive 10,000 pages, enough for about 40 novels.In his enthusiasm, Ukita lets slip that flexible electronic paper which can handle Harry Potter-esque moving      images and colour is in the research and development labs and may be just two to three years away.He has reason to be cautious: the value of the publishing market in Japan is huge - last year saw sales of      $22.6bn. Compare this with the $5.6bn spent on music and you'll see why ebooks have the potential to excite.      Ukita throws out a statistic that reveals a little of the marketing know-how behind the Librie project."The      average book in Japan weighs 309g; we designed the Librie to weigh 300g, including case and batteries." Toss      in the fact that books retail for around &#165;1,200 (£6.30), while downloaded ebooks will cost a fraction of that,      and you have the beginnings of a reason to shun paper.Naturally, there's more to the Librie launch than just the hardware, as getting hold of content has the      potential to trip up even the best-laid plans. To keep a tight rein on the flow of ebooks, 15 major publishers      and newspapers, including Kodansha, Asahi Shimbun and Yomiuri Shimbun, have teamed up with Sony to form a      company called Publishing Link and to provide content through a website known as Timebook Town.Readers can choose texts from seven sections, or clubs, ranging from business books to novels and may      either pay &#165;315 (£1.65) for a single title or join that club and gain access to up to five books a month for      &#165;210  (£1.10) each. Thanks to free house ads in the publications belonging to the megacorps behind Timebook      Town, advertising reach should be vast.The current-generation Libriè has no online capability, so books must be downloaded to a PC (Windows only      for now, although the device runs on Sony Linux), then transferred to the reader via its USB 2.0 port or by      using a Memory Stick.Timebook Town texts may be "checked out" to a group of up to four devices, so it's possible to have the      same book on a Librie, a home PC, a work PC and perhaps a laptop. Sony offers the efficient Libriè LE for      Windows ebook emulator as a free download, for the slightly unappealing experience of reading a novel in      front of a computer.The variety of content appears to cover most bases - there are niche clubs dedicated to language learners      and female readers and Timebook-only titles from major authors - but the sting in the tail is that each title      is really only borrowed. Thanks to Open MG protection, the content is unreadable after two months, so it's      best to think of the Libriè experience as a library of sorts.The BBeB format also offers publishers and      authors full control over peripheral elements, such as whether notes persist after the rental period has      expired.Ukita explains the thinking behind the book club strategy as "an attempt to open up a new market for rental      books". However, he is aware that the start-up cost to potential customers is critical. "The publishing people      wanted the hardware to cost less than &#165;20,000 (£105), but we've gone for something around the price of an      electronic dictionary - it's up to the customer to judge if it's a good price."Whether the convenience of having an armful of books in a pocket-sized reader is worth forsaking building up      a physical collection remains to be seen, but if Ukita has his way, we'll soon get used to seeing books in a      new, electronic light. For now, he'll be happy with 5,000 Librie sales a month, if Sony's production run is      anything to go by.However, book lovers need not despair at the march of technology. As Rutledge suggests, the simple      pleasures of life still retain their appeal."For those of us who love the smell and feel of paper, the art of      bookbinding, cloth covers with foil stamps and all the rest of the touches that make a book something to      covet, ebooks just aren't a very exciting alternative. Nor are they a realistic threat - yet."Mod cons6in electronic paper display with E Ink technologySVGA (800x600 dots)170dpi300g with case and      batteries (190g without)126mm x 190mm x 13mmMotorola Dragonball processorSony Linux OS10MB      memoryMemory Stick slotUSB 2.0 portheadphone jackmono speaker
If you have had an interesting email (mine came from Beloved) offering a free laptop, don't visit the site ... unless you are prepared for it to try to install a Trojan.Codefish Spam Watchposted a warning on Tuesday.
China's authorities are installing video cameras and high-tech software in Shanghai's internet cafes and bars to make sure that customers do not look at forbidden websites, a state-run Chinese newspaper reported today.The new controls, part of a crackdown also aimed at keeping children out of internet cafes, will begin in every one of the city's 1,325 internet venues by the end of June, the Shanghai Daily newspaper quoted a government official as saying.The equipment will be used to "spot illegal activities immediately", the paper reported Yu Wenchang, of the Shanghai culture, radio, film and TV administration, as saying.If the software detects a computer user reading a banned site, it will automatically send a message to a "remote supervisory centre", the report said.Off-limits websites are those deemed to be pornographic or "superstitious", the report said, using sites carrying information about the banned Falun Gong spiritual group as an example.Authorities are known to have installed filters aimed at preventing access to such sites, as well as those that criticise the government or the Communist party. Dozens of people have been sentenced to prison for posting on or downloading from sites.The new software will require all computer users in internet cafes or bars to enter their identification card numbers - or, in the case of foreigners, passport numbers - the report said.
 
Internet venues caught violating rules that bar those under the age of 16 will face fines of 15,000 yuan (£1,000) for a first offence. Business licenses will be suspended for a second violation, and revoked for a third.Any venue found letting minors in after midnight would have its license revoked immediately, the report said.It added that youngsters were likely to try and skirt the restrictions by using their parents' ID numbers, and said that this was a major reason for installing the video cameras.Since Shanghai began its campaign to clean up internet bars and cafes this month, 57 establishments have been punished or shut down, the city government said yesterday.
"Walla said it hoped to be the first company in the world to provide e-mail with such a large capacity, which could be a marketing coup when it makes the service available in two months," reportsReuters.Comment: Presumably Reuters has missed the freeSpymacmail service, which offers "1GB e-mail account, 350MB combined storage, personal blog, forum, gallery, auctions and more".
"When Nick Holonyak Jr set out to create a new kind of visible lighting using semiconductor alloys, his colleagues thought he was 'nuttier than hell'. Today, his discovery of light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, are used in everything from DVDs to alarm clocks to the NASDAQ stock billboard in New York. Dozens of his students have continued his work, developing lighting used in traffic lights and other everyday technology," reportsAP."On Friday, Holonyak will receive the $500,000 Lemelson-MIT Prize at a ceremony in Washington. This marks the 10th year that the Lemelson-MIT Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (news - web sites) has given the award to prominent inventors."
Dan Gillmor, Mercury News Technology Columnist, went to the Harvard Law School for Dave Winer's one-day conference, BloggerCon (http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/bloggerCon/). "I was glad to see a trend: The gee-whiz stuff of the past is giving way to realistic questions of where the medium is going." he reportshere.
eBay, the world's largest online auction company, today said first-quarter earnings nearly doubled as the number of people using the service burst through the 100 million mark.The company said earnings in the first three months of the year soared by 92%, the highest ever rise, as more people used its online auctions to sell goods.Net profit soared to over £113m from £61m in the first quarter last year, comfortably beating both analysts' and the company's own estimates.The number of people trying to sell goods on eBay's sites, which included the entire special effects development team behind films such as The Matrix and Mission Impossible, rose by over 50% to 104.8 million.The value of goods sold on the site climbed to £4.5bn as eBay raised the fees it charges users during the period.eBay said it now had 12 auction categories generating over $1bn (£566m) including top the four earners; cars, consumer electronics, books/movies and music and clothing. 
 
"eBay's Q1 results exceeded our highest expectations. Our continuing momentum demonstrates yet again the power of eBay's community and reinforces our confidence in the long-term potential of our business," the company's president and chief executive, Meg Whitman, said  in a statement.At the end of the quarter the online auctioneer said it had than more than £3.6bn in assets and revealed it planned to "invest aggressively" in China and expand its secure online payment system, PayPal, internationally. Revenues from the company's electronic payment service rose 64% to £2.45bn.It said it expected revenues for the year to be as high as £1.8bn, further fuelling speculation it will add to recent acquisitions. Earlier this month eBay paid £85m in cash for leading German online classified operator mobile.de.Shares in eBay, which alongside Amazon is one of the few big named survivors from the internet boom of the late 1990s, surged on the news. They are  trading at their highest price since the company went public six years ago.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The decision to levy VAT on academic journals published over the internet despite printed publications being exempted is holding back the take-up of new technology, MPs were warned yesterday.Lynne Brindley, the chief executive of the British Library, told a committee of MPs investigating the scientific publications market that the 17.5% tax was hampering the move towards the internet-based publishing of research."Our concern is that it is inhibiting a faster move towards digital publication," she told the science and technology committee.While there is no VAT on printed publications, online subscriptions are charged at the normal rate. Several other European countries charge a reduced rate. Many British universities are unable to reclaim the VAT as they lack commercial status.Mrs Brindley was part of a panel of librarians and academics giving evidence to the committee which has been looking into the rise of internet-based scientific journals in which authors pay for publication and the articles are available free for everyone - a movement known as open access publishing.Frederick Friend, the director of scholarly communication at University College, London and a member of the joint information systems committee, defended the open access movement, saying "any publicly funded research ... the articles published through that research should be freely accessible over the internet.""Open access will release a lot of information to learners of all ages that at the moment is being restricted," he said.In the UK, BioMed Central has already produced a range of open access journals, while across the Atlantic the Public Library of Science is publishing an online journal in the biology field.The rise of such journals presents a threat to the business model of traditional publishers such as Reed Elsevier.Select committee member Evan Harris, the Liberal Democrat MP for Oxford West and Abingdon, raised concerns that because under open access it is the author who pays for publication, standards may slip. But James Crabbe, head of the animal and microbial sciences school at the University of Reading and a self-styled convert to open access, hit back. He said: "If that happened, nobody would publish in that journal ... It only takes one bad paper in a journal for that journal to get a bad reputation."Jane Carr, the chief executive of the Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society - which looks after authors' rights -read out a letter from one of her members, describing the state of academic publishing as "a complete rip-off" because publishers often force authors to surrender all rights to their work.
Perfect crimeThe Aluria spyware eliminator identifies Perfect Keylogger on my PC. I clean it, but it reappears. How can I get rid of it permanently, and is it a threat to my security?John MitchellJack Schofield replies:It sounds as though you are being bugged. BlazingTools' Perfect Keylogger is one of many stealth programs that can be installed to capture keystrokes and thus discover passwords, bank details and other sensitive information. It is definitely a threat to security. BPK is a surveillance program, not a virus, though some anti-virus programs detect it: seehttp://vil.nai.com/vil.Keyloggers are usually installed by parents or spouses checking for visits to porn sites or similar behaviour, but can also be installed by hackers. To remove it, tryKeylogger Hunter,KL-Detectoror a program such asPest Patrol. The files to delete include BPK.EXE, BPKWB.DLL and BPKHK.DLL.You must also run a Trojan scanner such as Tauscan or run an online scan, to make sure your system is not being penetrated via a "back door". There are good, free online Trojan scanners atSygateandTrojan Scan. You should also install a firewall such as Sygate's Personal Firewall, Kerio's Personal Firewall, or Zone Alarm. Once you are sure your machine is clean, change any sensitive online passwords.Hidden wormCan you help me identify the application/process called Csrss.exe, and why it is hogging my system's resources?John G SmithJS:If you are lucky, csrss.exe is a standard part of Windows, the Client/Server Runtime Server Subsystem, which handles various Windows and graphics functions. This has been known to hog resources if your user profile is corrupt, as explained in the Microsoft Community Solutions Article 555021 athttp://support.microsoft.com. However, I suspect you are hosting the W32.Nimda.E worm/ virus, which "now copies itself to the \%Windows% folder as Csrss.exe instead of Mmc.exe," according to Symantec. This is a mass-mailing (ie spamming) worm, so naturally it is slugging your PC's performance. Symantec has afree removal tool.ESP?Is it possible for forensic experts to obtain the make and type of a computer from its printed output, as seen in the ITV drama, Amnesia?Alan HardingJS:No.Surfing blindPlease can you advise about software for a totally blind person, the best screen reader and anything else that may help?Tony McQueenJS:Probably the best source of information is the Royal National Institute of the Blind (RNIB), which has a website atwww.rnib.org.ukand a helpline on 0845 766 9999.Dawnbug (Disability Advice Welfare Network Blind Users Group)is also developing a site to help people help each other. Different people prefer different products, so it helps to discuss their pros and cons.YahooPOPs?Last week, you mentioned paying Yahoo!'s extra charge for full POP3 access to their email server. You may be interested in YahooPOPs, which provides a gateway from Outlook/Eudora to the web-based Yahoo! service. More here:http://yahoopops.sourceforge.net.Chris JenningsJS:I did not mention YahooPOPs or Hotmail Popperwww.boolean.ca/hotpopfor two reasons. First, Yahoo! made the commercial decision to remove free POP3 mail access, and I think its decision should be respected. Second, there have been dozens of attempts to automate various Yahoo! processes and they have often been used for antisocial purposes. Automated systems can also hammer Yahoo!'s servers, so it puts a lot of effort into stopping them from working. The results tend to make things worse for the rest of us.Backchat&#183;Geoffrey Smith wanted an alternative to BT Yahoo! email. Keith McClelland says: "An excellent and free email service which has both POP3 and web access is provided by the British Library via a local rate (0845) number." The site says: "There are no registration fees, no hidden charges, no adverts, no junk email, and no need to change your telecomms supply company." Seewww.britishlibrary.net. Frank Jordans suggestswww.fastmail.fm.&#183;Stewart Boyle wanted to listen to his music files via a decent hi-fi. Philip Bouscarle uses "a rather wonderful bit of kit called a Squeezebox". The Squeezebox is networked to a Windows or Linux PC or Mac and plugged into the hi-fi. Run thisGoogle searchfor more information.
In 1985, Bill Gates wrote a memo to Apple Computer, saying it should license its Macintosh operating system. Gates offered to help Apple find hardware partners with the aim of making Mac OS a standard. This would, of course, have created a much larger market for Mac applications, of which Microsoft was the leading supplier.Recently, Rob Glaser, the founder of RealNetworks, has been sounding a similar warning about the digital music business, where Apple is the current market leader. He also wrote privately to Apple's boss, Steve Jobs, suggesting an alliance against Microsoft - a letter that Apple somehow leaked to the New York Times.Both Apple and Real run music download services, and both use the standard, patented AAC (Advance   Audio Coding) file format, but they use different copy-protection or DRM (digital rights management) systems. Thus, iPod users can only play licensed music if it is downloaded from Apple's own music store: they cannot play music downloaded from Real's music store. According to the New York Times, Real wanted to license Apple's Fairplay DRM in exchange for making the iPod its preferred portable player.It's not clear why Apple rejected this idea. It would provide iPod users with another large source of music downloads, increase Fairplay's market share, and encourage sales of iPods. Real's Rhapsody service would obviously compete with Apple's iTunes Music Store, but Apple makes little, if any, profit from 99c (55p) music downloads. Its strategy is based on selling iPods, and Real's proposal   would surely help with that.Either way, rejecting the proposal makes Apple look proprietary and anti-competitive, and leaking the letter makes Apple look untrustworthy. Both of these are bad for Apple.But worse, Glaser's letter, like Gates's memo, could come to be seen as a defining moment in the development of online music services. When faced with competition from thousands of companies selling PCs running Windows 95, Apple's sales tumbled: the Mac's market share has now fallen to about 1.7%. Glaser told me he thinks failure to open up the iPod could lead to the same "inexorable march to single-digit market share".Apple is about to face increased competition from new services, including those from Sony (using its own DRM, Atrac file format and   portable devices) and Microsoft (with Windows Media Audio). And if WMA is used by most online services and most portable players - as it already is - then it is hard to see more restrictive systems prospering for long. If Apple, Real, Sony and others don't cooperate, Microsoft will probably win.Where does that leave RealNetworks? It's now offering "the first free universal media player", RealPlayer 10. The strategy is to work with all available file formats, including Apple and Microsoft, whether the files are protected or not. Real says RealPlayer 10 now makes it possible for consumers to use a single media player to play music on their PC from all of the major online music stores. What they can't do is move them all to portable devices, and that's the next battleground.Links  Jack Schofield's columnGlaser's letter to Apple (article from the New York Times)www.nytimes.com/2004/04/15/business/media/15real.htmlGates' memo to Applewww.scripting.com/specials/GatesLetter/text.htmlMPeg2 Advanced Audio Coding (AAC)www.mpeg.org/MPEG/aac.htmlRealNetworks releases RealPlayer 10www.realnetworks.com/company/press/releases/2004/realplayer10.html
In The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, our planet was demolished to make way for a hyperspace bypass because earthlings were too lazy to travel a few light-years to the galactic planning office to object.That joke, as Douglas Adams would have been first to admit, is very 1978. Nowadays, even Vogons have web sites. One of the biggest e-government achievements is the way local authorities are putting the planning process online.Residents of Halton, Cheshire, for example, can now go on the web to find details of planning applications dating back to 1991; for applications submitted since April 2002, all maps, plans and other documents are available electronically. An intranet/extranet programme developed in-house helps ordinary citizens navigate with a   few mouse clicks through files that were once restricted to specialists.Halton is one of 38 local authorities commended for best practice in a report just published by Parsol, the painfully acronymed national project to encourage local authority planning and regulatory bodies to go online. (Remember: this column reads turgid government documents so you don't have to.)It found plenty of other examples of authorities using the web, call centres and CD-Roms to communicate more imaginatively with their citizens and business communities.Although planning departments were generally ahead of the other services examined, all of these little-loved areas of local government responsibility had projects worth shouting about.Nuneaton and Bedworth environmental health, for example,   distilled 96 areas of health and safety information into electronic summaries guiding businesses on the law and good practice. Since making the information available electronically, the number of requests for advice has quadrupled. This is apparently because small firms that used to be worried about calling attention to themselves by asking about rules feel safer in the internet's anonymity.The Parsol report has two interesting conclusions. First, there is no need for elaborate two-way transactional services - simply giving the public access to structured information such as planning registers can bring about the most significant transformation.Second, in a conclusion likely to dwell at the heart of the e-government programme, it found that while all authorities reported bene fits, they were not yet saving money. "New systems had enabled better working practices and distribution of workload, but had not meant significant short-term savings in staff or operational costs." Halton found that planning applications submitted online tend to be more accurate, and that limiting the size of text boxes produced "briefer and more focused comments".If online planning and regulation doesn't save much money, is it really worth doing? Yes. These services may be minority interests, but they matter a great deal to the people involved. They are also notorious in urban legend for delay and bureaucracy. Any improvement will dramatically reduce the feeling that we're being governed by Vogons.www.parsol.gov.uk
There has been a rush of Microsoft smart phones and connected PDAs reaching the UK recently, and one of the most interesting is the Eten P300. A kind of cut-down PDA with GPRS and Windows Mobile 2003 software, it doesn't have a direct rival in the Microsoft camp.Not only is it fairly small, at &#163;351 (without contract) it is quite cheap, too. The place where the cash has been saved is obvious as soon as you switch on the device. Its 2.8in 240x320, 4,096-colours transflective LCD screen is simply way behind those found on handsets such as the XDA 2. It is tricky trying to read the screen without the backlight on and this saps battery life.Another curiosity is the camera. It is placed at the front of the handset, not the rear. While this is great for self-portraits, it is of little use for day-to-day snapping. There's also no Bluetooth or speakerphone.However, the 200Mhz ARM 9 processor is just about fast enough, and the core Microsoft applications all work well. It comes with a decent cradle and offers reasonable value.
So everyone (ie, Bill Gates) is agreed: the only way to get rid of spam is to start charging. The idea of having to pay for email might put people's backs up, but there are now more proponents of paid email than ever because of the spam problem. Email is such a useful tool, and such an integral part of everyday life, that having to pay a small amount to get rid of spam starts to seem reasonable.But it's hard to imagine how such a system might work, even if everyone were agreed. Suppose you did have to buy an e-stamp for your email. That means we'd have to develop a system for managing 0.0001p transactions around the world, with security to stop people from counterfeiting e-stamps and software to check that e-stamps   are valid at every step. It's possible to do this: Microsoft is currently running an electronic postmark trial with the US Postal Service .It would be a huge undertaking, well beyond the basic steps announced by the main players (such as AOL's SPF) in the recent round of anti-spam initiatives, and it would hardly help bridge the digital divide. I wouldn't care about paying a few quid a week for spam-free email, but in developing countries, it would be an unacceptable tax on development.Even if charging could work, however, the interesting question seems to be about who actually gets the money. Will it be, as Rob Slade neatly put it recently in the Risks Digest: "Some bloated bureaucracy parcelling out the cash to the various national telecoms carriers? Charity? Microsoft?   The recipient?" None seems ideal, but unless someone is going to get the money, they won't invest in building the system.There may be a way forward, though. Payment, as I've pointed out before, does not necessarily mean money. It could mean giving up some other resource, and in the world of internet resources, that means bandwidth or computing power.One of the options Gates set out requires the sender's PC to do a simple computation. This would be easy for a machine sending a few emails, but would be expensive for machines sending out millions of emails.John Levine, co-author of Fighting Spam for Dummies, has pointed out that under such a scheme, Grandma's old 486 might take 10 times longer to send an   email than a brand-new high-speed PC, but it might not matter too much as Grandma doesn't send out that many emails.A good example of the kind of calculation that could be required is a digital signature: this would have the attendant benefit that, as the law already recognises digital signatures, it would make it easier to do business online as well.Forming a digital signature requires complicated mathematics: it might add a second to sending an email on a PC. But if I am a spammer sending out 1m emails, that would tie up my machine for more than a week. So I'd have to buy another PC to work on while my first PC is sending email. Spamming would cost something rather than nothing, and that (more than any amount of legislation) would tilt the balance.
TOCA Race Driver 2Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Codemasters,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Apart from looking stunning (surely Gran Turismo 4, hamstrung by the PS2's graphical shortcomings, will look inferior?), TOCA Race Driver 2 avails itself thrillingly of Codemasters' experience of creating ultra-realistic racing simulators. Yet it is much more accessible than TOCAs of old.Like R:Racing, TOCA Race Driver 2 has a story mode, in which you are cast as an aspiring racer. But whereas the former's cut-scenes were little more than airbrushed soft porn, you can smell the Castrol GTX here. TOCA Race Driver 2 sets you targets for mini-race series, in which you drive the same car on different circuits.The diversity of vehicles on offer highlights the cars' superb handling characteristics - Formula Ford single-seaters drive like water-boatmen, E-Type Jaguars need a telegram before the brakes bite and so on.While some of Codemasters' rigour has been sacrificed - off-track excursions don't cost as much time as they should, and while you can wreck your car, it is not easy - the company's AI, which will see rivals tank-slapping you out of the way mid-corner if you get off-line, is present in all its glory. As are cars ancient and modern and most of the world's finest race tracks.This is 2004, so you can play the game against up to 11 other people on Xbox Live, and once you have opened up the tracks in the story mode, you can return at your leisure to seek improved results. Will not disappoint the petrol-heads.Steve BoxerGoblin Commander: Unleash the HordePS2, &#163;29.99 Jaleco Entertainment&#42;&#42;&#42;Creating strategy games for the console market is an age-old problem and it's been a while since we saw a developer venturing into a territory that has almost always worked best on the PC. Jaleco's Goblin Commander is testament to the fact that original strategy games can be made to work well on consoles, without being mere watered-down ports.The fact that this goblin battle-themed game has a WarCraft feel to it is no accident, as several of the developers are ex-Blizzard. But Goblin Commander has a more refined approach to resource management and its interface. So, although your goblin units may be few (you're limited to just 10 per horde), controlling and upgrading them is very easy.Graphically, the goblins are basic and there's an overall lack of detail, yet the game manages to achieve the occasional slow frame rate. However, Goblin Commander has a slightly cartoonish slant, and even if things aren't pretty, at least they blow up nicely!Strategy enthusiasts are likely to be disappointed that the game has no online multiplayer option, and those coming from a PC background won't warm to the less-is-more approach. But those who'd prefer to skip the resource juggling in favour of getting   down to the action will have fun with Goblin Commander.Rhianna PratchettThis is Football 2004PS2, &#163;39.99 Sony,&#42;&#42;Videogame footy is as tightly contested as the top of the Premiership. At the pinnacle is Pro Evolution Soccer 3, the beautiful game. In second place is FIFA 2004. The rest congregate below them, occasionally threatening to break in but never quite getting there. Sony's This is Football series is one of these contenders.Initial impressions are positive as it rights some of Pro Evo's wrongs. The team and player names are largely accurate, the menus comprehensible and the presentation superb. But on the pitch, TiF often resembles an ice-hockey game, as the players feel like they are skating rather than running. Intrusive animations, which make it harder to produce flowing moves, and erratic goalies don't help.Online, it's a different story. TiF works well, allowing easy setup and a ranking system that encourages regular play. The flaws are less important when playing online for the simple reason that if you want console footy on the web this is the only option. However, with an online soccer game due out soon on Xbox Live, TIF's dominance will be under threat.Greg Howson
Best of bothA9 could be the future of search. The Amazon-owned company has just launched a test version of its search service, which combines Google results with Amazon's book search, lets you keep a history of search results, and throws in Alexa-type information plus a toolbar you can use to make notes. The extra features - Open Book Results, Open Search History - are in columns down the right-hand side. Search for Philip Glass, for example, and you not only get Google's results, you can click Site Info for details of the site plus user reviews, presented Amazon-style ("People who visited this page also visited"). In the next column, the Book Search results take you to Amazon pages selling books and CDs. You can also search A9 from the Address box: I would have typed a9.com/philip glass. But bear in mind the privacy implications of letting a company that may have access to your real name and bank account record your web searches.www.a9.comFrock'n'rollAlyce Santoro's Fish-shaman Rhythm Dress, "made especially for my friend, Phish percussionist Jon Fishman" made its stage debut in Las Vegas recently. "The dress fabric is made from audiotape recorded with Jon's favourite music, and specialised tape-head gloves are used to 'play' the dress on stage." But if you would look as silly as Jon Fishman in a dress, how about a $100 Tell-Tail Thangkas (a sort of Tibetan prayer   flag)? The sonic fabric has "ambient nature sounds, urban noises, and improvisational music recorded on to it".www.alycesantoro.comGoogle FAQThe content of Usenet newsgroups used to be transitory, which meant people popped up asking the same questions every week. The solution was to collect the "frequently asked questions" - and their answers - into a single file, called a FAQ. In that great tradition, Tomi H&#228;s&#228; of the google.public.support.general newsgroup has now produced a FAQ, though many of the questions are answered with links, rather than being synthesised group wisdom. Other useful Google resources include the Elgoog.nl directory (it's Google backwards), the Unofficial Google Weblog, and Watching Google Like A Hawk.www.geocities.com/googlepubsupgenfaqwww.elgoog.nlhttp://google.weblogsinc.comwww.watchinggooglelikeahawk.comhttp://google.weblogsinc.comwww.watchinggooglelikeahawk.comGeek chicDesigners of geek gadgets traditionally worried about their WAF rating, or "wife acceptability factor". Today, many women like gadgets just as much as men, and often the same ones, but Shiny Shiny TV looks for those with a bit of style. The blog is written by "a team of the UK's top gadget girl writers, plus the odd token bloke". Although they still suffer from iPod fixation, they've also managed to cover a hi-tech jacuzzi, a vibrating duck, a bubble-blowing machine and an intelligent perfume dispenser. It's more interesting than the Girls Stuff site and, thankfully, a lot less pink.http://wirelessdigest.typepad.com/shinyshinywww.girlsstuff.co.ukFlat tyresIf you have always wanted to ride a bike with square wheels, then doff your cap to Stan Wagon, a mathematician at Macalester College in St Paul, Minnesota. He has invented one that you can ride smoothly along an inverted catenary track. His website also features entries in the International Snow Sculpture Championships in Breckenridge, Colorado.www.stanwagon.com/wagon.html&lt;A HREF="http://www.sciencenews.org/articles/20040403/mathtrek.asp"Raspberry beretNot only is the princely Purple One back in the news, he has his own artist-controlled music download site. Lifetime membership costs $25, with tracks at 99c each.www.npgmusicclub.comhttp://www.fast-rewind.com/purplerain.htmSix of the best:Gadgets and gizmosGadgets weblogwww.gizmodo.comRival gadgets weblogwww.engadget.comFemale viewhttp://wirelessdigest.typepad.com/shinyshinyAshley &amp; Chriswww.tech-digest.comFireboxwww.firebox.comAmazonhttp://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/tg/browse/-/3108311
Reclaim your emailIn Second Sight(Online, April 15)Neil McIntosh lambasts privacy campaigners for being somehow out of touch with reality. He says the public views email "as a semi-public space, not a secret one".This declaration is misleading. The public simply has no choice at the moment but to regard email as insecure. The telephone at one time was just as prone to intrusion, until we made the mature and civilised decision through law and technology to make that space as private as possible.Instead of giving in to the invaders (whoever they may be), let's agree that email is our private space, and demand that it be treated with respect and afforded genuine protection. It's a simple choice to make.Simon DaviesPrivacy InternationalSeeing senseReading Neil McIntosh's piece was heartwarming. It feels good to see there are still informed people who are not afraid of the fuss made by wishy-washy campaigners, and I hope readers overwhelmed by disproportionate media coverage of those campaigners make the best use of opportunities like this article.Saeed VahidStranded in EssexOne does not have to be in a remote mountainous region to have difficulty with modern communications.  Here in Gestingthorpe, less than 50 miles from the centre of London and halfway between Chelmsford, where   Marconi developed radio, and Ipswich, where BT developed digital technology and installed the world's first fibre-optic telephone cable, we have no mobile phone signal and no broadband. The lines to the exchange are so poor that dial-up modems only work at half speed, we need a roof aerial to get Radio 3 in stereo and a 3m mast attached to the chimney is needed to pick up digital television - but it may only work for three-quarters of the channels! (And the Guardian arrives at 11am.)The BBC is putting many of its best programmes on the digital channels. It will be a great pity if we have to wait until most people have disfigured their houses with 3m masts before frequencies are freed up to allow full-power digital transmission. Perhaps higher powers could be used for major channels unavailable on analogue.The set-top box with its extra plug and trailing leads is an anachronism. How does one put a box on top of an LCD TV? If the analogue signal is to be turned off in six years' time, all televisions in the shops should have integral digital tuning, not just the very expensive ones.Steve BolterPoor bargainI am a BT broadband user and pay a monthly fee of &#163;28 for the privilege. I recently saw TV advertisements for BT broadband available for &#163;19.95 per month so I was, of course, interested to find out more. It seems there is a limit on the amount of information that can be downloaded if you take out the cheaper option.But being a low user, not wanting to download music or films, I thought this would be ideal, and enquired what would need to be done to change over. I was informed that I had to apply for connection as if I were a new user and my old connection would then be cancelled. This sounds good until you realise that a new user also has to buy a modem, line filters and pay a connection fee, totalling &#163;80!I require none of this as I already have a fully functioning broadband   connection, having bought it all the first time round and paid for the connection.Peter BorderHavant, HantsHard to miss?I refer to Joia Shillingford's article(Second Sight, April 8)on the Norton Internet Security programme. Unfortunately, I read it too late and have also had problems of a similar nature with the package. However, I bought my software on the recommendation of a Which? magazine report in January that rated it as a "best buy" (along with McAfee's equivalent version of the program).I can't help wondering about the efficacy of reviewers' testing methods if they overlook fundamental things that, although not central to the purpose of a product, are pretty hard to overlook when making an evaluation. For example, whether a software package makes your computer cease working or not.Matthew WilkinsonManchesterI give upI have grave doubts about the trainability of BT Yahoo!'s antispam widget SpamGuard (Train, don't strain, Feedback, April 15). After a few weeks of rummaging through several hundred spams every morning looking for the three legitimate newsletters to which I subscribe, with no sign that however many times I click the "Not Spam" button the system will learn and put them straight in the Inbox, I have given up.I have also given up on the fact that the Inbox Spam Blocker will only take 200 addresses -  less than a week's worth of the spams that wind up in my inbox rather than the bulk mail folder. I think that SpamGuard sucks and have gone back to Mailwasher. At least it's capable of learning.Ron Graves
Most people would like their mobiles to have more and better features: email, an appointments calendar, better games and simple synchronisation with their desktop PCs are high on the wish list. For many business users, you can also add compatibility with Microsoft Office applications, as well as connecting to office intranets. It is no surprise, then, that the mobile industry is adding such features to smart phones and PDAs (personal digital assistants). But with the arrival of such devices has come a fierce battle over the operating system that organises applications on the phone.The two main protagonists are Symbian, originally spun off from Psion, and Microsoft, with the Symbian OS and Windows Mobile OS respectively. The alternatives include Palm OS from PalmSource, formerly the software side of Palm, as well as embedded Linux, Java and a variety of proprietary offerings.According to Arc Group research, Symbian is well out in front. Backed by Nokia and most other leading mobile manufacturers, it has a 64% market share, followed by Microsoft with 15% and Palm with 14%. But it is early days: smart phones/PDAs with mobile operating systems only accounted for 2% of the phones sold last year, with 8.6m sales worldwide, according to the research company, Gartner. But it expects that figure to double this year.Nokia, the world's leading mobile phone manufacturer and majority shareholder in Symbian, says that at the moment, market share is irrelevant. "At this stage, we don't take much notice. Look what happened to Apple after it did so well in the early days of computing. We are not celebrating yet, and we don't want a monopoly, either," says Antii Vasara, Nokia's vice president for technology marketing and sales.His caution is echoed by many who say that Microsoft is increasingly focused on the mobile arena. The latest version of its email server software for businesses, Microsoft Exchange 2003, is designed with mobile collaboration in mind. "We see Microsoft poised to bring mobile services to IT departments and more of them are saying they are seriously considering it and want easy integration to Office applications," says Dale Vile, service director of Quocirca, a European research company. "Microsoft has the relationships to make that happen."Like many analysts, Vile believes Symbian is gaining traction with consumers and will find it harder to challenge Microsoft's traditional   relationship with large firms' IT departments.Microsoft also believes that businesses will be the first to use smart phones in large numbers. "Look at the history of the PC: it was business that led the consumer market," says Duncan Ledwith, head of Windows Mobile. "We don't want a dogfight, we just want to see the market grow." Last November, Microsoft set a headline-grabbing target to sell 100m devices running Windows by 2007.Microsoft may also be heartened to see that Sony and Ericsson are urging smaller shareholders to reduce Nokia's ability to gain a 63% holding in Symbian as a result of the recent exit of Psion. However, the Windows scene is not short of conflict. Microsoft remains in a legal tangle with tiny UK cellphone maker Sendo, which switched from Microsoft to Symbian. Sendo is accusing Microsoft of a "secret plan" to plunder its technical information and expertise.And while Nokia is increasingly seen as the dominating force behind Symbian, Nokia disagrees. "Being a majority shareholder doesn't mean you run the company," says Vasara.A lot depends on whether the mobile phone business remains markedly different to the PC industry, where Windows has managed to gain dominance. Some believe that because operators and manufacturers are wary of a monopoly, they are doing what they can to maintain a level playing field, and many are working with several operating systems. Others just think it's a different type of business: "We don't believe it will converge. It's more like the car industry with plenty of customer choice," says Michael Mace, chief competition officer at PalmSource. "Unlike PCs there is no 'killer appli cation', and people end up choosing from around 12 popular applications."And just as in the PC industry, some see Linux as the white knight that could upset the party for the main challengers. Motorola and NTT DoCoMo, Japan's leading mobile phone operator, have invested hugely in developing Linux-based phones, and China looks increasingly set on Linux for mobiles and PCs. There are obvious savings for manufacturers who can avoid the cost of licensing their operating system from Symbian, PalmSource or Microsoft. There's also the proprietary operating system that drives the Blackberry handheld from Research in Motion, which is attractive to manufacturers because it has a proven success story in business, and has recently become available under licence.Yet another force is the power of the operators, such as Orange and   O2, with their huge brands and their desire to increase average revenue per user (Arpu) regardless of what type of phone they are using. "The operators don't see the mobile enterprise as a priority," says Patrick Bossert, telecoms strategist at Atos KPMG Consulting, "They prefer to focus on revenue from content services because the mobile business market has been incredibly hard to develop." He says continued concerns over security and technical support are the main barriers. Others point out that operators make huge margins from text messages and ringtones compared with data services.Operators also play an important part in deciding the look and feel of the graphical user interface (GUI) that sits on top of the operating systems. The question of which GUI to use is complicated by the fact that Symbian provides such software through its subsidiary UIQ, and Nokia also licenses its own Series 60 interface. Its more recent Series 90 interface, with greater multimedia capability, is not available under licence, however.But manufacturers are aware that sales have faltered, thanks to a mix of software bugs, technical complexity and lack of internal support in businesses. "If anything goes wrong, it's quite nightmarish to sort out with these phones," says Bossert. He believes this will lead to a rise in the use of managed services from the likes of IBM and EDS, which take away the need for in-house expertise.Either way, such problems will not stop operators and manufacturers from delivering phones with even more features this year. At the recent 3GSM show in Cannes - visitors saw demonstrations of smart phones and PDAs with Bluetooth and Wi-Fi wireless capabilities, as well as GSM. This means users will be able to exchange data with other mobiles and laptops using Bluetooth or via the internet at Wi-Fi "hotspots" in cafes and bars.For all their problems, smart phones and PDAs are central to the mobile industry's growth. Nobody wants people to use the same cheap, entry-level mobile for years, but to trade up to a more expensive model with more functions - and more opportunities to spend money on online content and services.
The Compass IT system is unpopular with at least one customer. A man charged with violent offences stood a good chance of being released when a prosecutor on his way to the bail hearing was delayed on the motorway. Without the prosecution paperwork, the judge would have had to accept the defence's argument.Unfortunately for the accused, the crown court was equipped with a secure terminal linked to Compass, the Crown Prosecution Service's case-management system. A prosecutor at the court called up the details, and the defence withdrew its application for bail. The defendant was later jailed for three-and-a-half years.Ken McDonald, director of public prosecutions, told that story this week to illustrate why electronic case files are better than paper ones. So far, however, the only criminal justice agency to install such a system nationally is the CPS. It announced this week that its Compass case-management system had gone live on time and on budget. Ministers are hoping that Compass will break the run of bad news around criminal justice IT, particularly case-management systems.Compass (developed under a &#163;200m contract with IT supplier   LogicaCMG) records, tracks and manages details of every case handled by the CPS, enabling them to be called up at 400 locations in England and Wales. Cases are being added at the rate of 7,500 a day. It also stores records of closed cases, making them available in seconds rather than days. Each case record is identified by a reference number created by the police force investigating the crime.The CPS says that the system reduces the number of "cracked" trials, those that collapse because of administrative blunders. It also helps prosecutors identify criminals carrying out offending sprees across different counties. Until now, courts have relied to an alarming extent on defendants volunteering such information.Electronic case management also underpins the government's pledge to set up a web site through which victims of crime can follow progress in their case. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, says the portal will be ready by the end of next year.A national case management system, to be used by police, courts and prison services, will start to come into use by April 2006, Goldsmith says. This virtually unified case management system will not be created by a single system, but by interfaces   between individual agencies' systems.The first big step in creating this system is to link Compass with police case-management systems. Pilot links will begin from autumn. "That interaction is going to provide the core. We have got to get this right," said Goldsmith.Police-prosecution links are essential because the CPS is taking over from police forces as "gatekeeper" to the criminal justice. Last year, it took over from police forces responsibility for charging offenders. The change was typical of the kind of "policy shock" that tends to throw government IT programmes into disarray; Goldsmith says the Compass team took it in its stride.The snag is that only one quarter of the 43 services in England and Wales have the nationally approved police   case preparation system, developed by Vivista for the Police IT Organisation. Another 10 are due to be on the system by next April, with all 43 by April 2006. However, the government cannot compel services to join. The constitutional independence of police IT systems is likely to be called into question by the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders. Its report, due next month, is expected to call for stronger central direction.If Compass has broken the jinx on criminal justice IT projects, there is an irony. It was one of the last big systems to be procured through the private finance initiative (PFI), which the Treasury now says is unsuitable for large-scale IT projects. Martin Read, LogicaCMG's chief executive, says the project was "a shining example of the way to get it right".However, the black museum of criminal justice IT still contains some chilling exhibits. The Libra project to create a case-handling system for magistrates courts came unstuck when costs doubled. A case management system for the probation service was a notorious fiasco in the 1990s. Shortcomings have been revealed at the Criminal Records Bureau.The good news is that legal professionals seem to be learning to accept working cultures based on IT. McDonald says that whenever he encounters lawyers protesting that they are not typists, "I say to them: 'You can't be a lawyer any more without being a typist'."
It's not often that BT adopts a technology ahead of rivals. But it is off to a good start with its VoIP services. Voice over Internet Protocol refers to the process of making voice calls across the internet, rather than the traditional telephone system.Several software products claim to provide internet phone calls, including instant-messaging programs such as Yahoo! Messenger and the recently launchedSkype, developed by the team behind the KaZaA file-sharing software. However, such programs only provide PC-to-PC communication. More useful VoIP services work on a PC-to-phone basis.Tiscali, one of Europe's biggest internet service providers, is working on a VoIP service to be launched in Italy later this year. Industry pundits are predicting the worldwide market for VoIP services will be worth more than   $45bn within five years.And BT has got the ball rolling. In January, it launched a VoIP service calledBroadband Voice. For &#163;7.50 a month, you can make free calls in the evenings and weekends, and 4p-a-minute international calls. When you subscribe, BT sends you a telephone adaptor to plug into your ADSL or cable modem. You then plug a telephone handset into the adaptor, effectively giving you a new phone line. You even get a new phone number, using the 055 numbers set aside for multimedia and internet services.But, as the name implies, the service is only available to customers with a broadband connection at home. And it will only work with modems that have a standard Ethernet networking interface, rather than the USB interface commonly used for broadband in homes.BT's next step is to take a more mass-market approach with another service called BT Communicator, due to be launched next month. It will be based on a modified version of the Yahoo! Messenger software, which will be able to make PC-to-phone calls in addition to its instant-messaging features. You won't need special hardware, either."To get mass-market adoption, you have to keep it simple," says Bruce Abercromby, of BT Retail. He says there are around 4 million in the UK using the Yahoo! software, giving them a huge audience familiar with the software who won't be afraid to try out the new VoIP features.Abercromby says that Communicator will allow kids to make phone calls without hogging the main telephone line. However, calls will cost the same as conventional phone calls based on BT's Together payment   scheme: free calls in the evening and at weekends, but peak-time and international calls will cost the same as using an ordinary phone.This is one area where BT may be vulnerable, as rival VoIP services, such asLondon-based CallserveorDialpadclaim to offer lower rates for peak-time and international calls.Communicator won't require broadband, although it will work better with it. Abercromby believes that Communicator will prove a stepping stone to broadband. "It will demonstrate the power of broadband, and new multimedia features, such as video-conferencing, will require a broadband connection to work properly." Ultimately, then, BT hopes that such VoIP services could be the service that finally convinces people to upgrade to broadband.
The neat diagram of a company's IT system usually has little to do with the reality of the systems that make it up. Instead of a logical flow of information around the company, you have a spaghetti of systems that just replicate the departments within the business. Separate systems such as accounting, purchasing, stock control, human resources and marketing all have some information about employees, products and customers, but getting a single view of all the different facets of what a customer means to your businesses involves gluing the dismembered pieces together. That's wasting business time and IT time too, with so many incompatible systems to look after.But if you think of your back-end systems in terms of the total cost of ownership for the servers, the way we've learned to look at the cost of desktops, investing now can save money later. And once you unify applications, you can provide services throughout the company.As Robert Duffner, of BEA, points out, the technology is not the problem for many companies, it's the internal politics. When development goes across different departments or   autonomous divisions, it can be hard to get agreement on a common data model. You have to decide who's controlling the project, and who's paying for it. If a department is happy with its own system, getting it to agree to use it through a framework - or allow it to be changed to share functionality - can be tricky. It might seem common sense to put the needs of the business first, but human nature doesn't work that way.One of the problems comes when the manager needs to assess the technology a developer is proposing. If you aren't a cryptography expert, how can you tell whether you really need an extra layer of encryption and, if so, which algorithm to use?We all have favourite technologies, but you need to have solid business reasons for picking something, whether it is old or new. Once you've mastered a difficult system, you get attached to it, and it is easy to stick with it when it is no longer the best solution. Equally, make sure a developer isn't suggesting a new tool because having worked with it, it will look good on his CV.The opposite issue can crop up with hardware and network infrastructures. If you want to install Voice over IP (VoIP) to make phone    calls via the internet, will the IT manager or office manager look after it? The average IT manager doesn't want to manage the telephone system, especially when that includes mobiles. Handing out numbers, replacing handsets and talking to   people about bills don't sound like IT jobs. However, choosing the VoIP server, software or PABX is something both sides need to be involved in, so you get a system that's technically competent and easy to administer.If IT people deal with laptop PCs   but not mobiles, what about PDAs and smart phones? At the least, there are security issues though, as always, it's most important to look at handheld devices in terms of what they can do for the business. Does having a phone with the entire company address book on it make someone more productive when travelling? What if it had up-to-date details of customer enquiries? Can the system tell an engineer there's no need to visit a customer who's fixed the problem just after calling it in? That kind of joined-up thinking is about bringing IT and business together and designing systems that do what the business needs, rather than implementing the latest technology because the developer wants to play with it.It also means treating IT strategically on the business side. We're due to spend a predicted 12% of IT investment budgets on mobile technology this year, but an O2 survey found more than half the businesses they spoke to admitted they didn't have a strategy for making that money bring value to the business. Over a third let individual departments spend the money rather than keeping the IT department in charge.Even if you do have a strategy, you might benefit from keeping a closer eye on how it is being implemented. TRBI estimates that bad project management wastes so much employee time that it costs the average medium-sized company about &#163;600,000 a year, and the bigger the company, the bigger the bill. Add in office politics and you could be heading for disaster, according to Neil Laver, Project product manager at Microsoft UK."The sheer volume of money being wasted in poorly managed projects is shocking. But if internal struggles are at work within the organisation as well, then even the most well-planned project will descend into chaos and soon make these figures look naively optimistic," says Laver.Planning and strategy are vital when it comes to making sense of IT investments. But it's also important that the benefits don't get lost in the bickering between departments.
Laptop or desktop?Both. If I do music on my PowerBook G4, then it'll be mainly pre-remix work - sometimes people send me a mix on Pro-Tools and it's all over the place so I'll have to set it up and build it how I want it. That's easy to do on a laptop. I haven't loaded the G4 up with too many plug-ins, so I tend to do the mixing at home.G5?I've learned over the years that there's a huge scam going on in the technology industry where they blow your mind with the newest technology but the trick is not to buy it ... wait at least six months until the bugs are all sorted out. Otherwise you end up   having to call a record label and say "everything keeps crashing on me" and you just look like an idiot! I generally just wait a few months when something new comes out, then I ask someone who has already got it what they would recommend that's glitch- and bug-free. I let everyone else do the dirty work!File-sharing?I grew up in the cassette era and had no problems recording from the radio so the downloading craze is the same thing ... free music. I just think theRIAA, etc don't know what to do ... but I can't blame them. When they came up with CDs they put themselves in high heaven but now the whole thing is crumbling.Is MP3 creeping into the club scene?As of New Year's Eve I basically don't play vinyl any more when I'm DJing. If I can't get something on CD that's rare or hard to find then I'll find it   at KaZaA and play it ... but not if it's 128kHz, as that usually sounds a bit trashed out. I'm already playing some 192kHz MP3s in my set and the cool thing is that the people who turn them into the MP3 format generally do a good job of putting the level to the peak.iPod?I had one but gave it to a friend. The last thing I want to do on my days off is listen to music. I can see that iPods are an amazing accessory but for me it's just overkill.You're a digital camera fan though?A few years back I bought a top-of-the-line 4-megapixel Fuji digital camera and am ready to jump up to a new one. I usePhotoshop Elements(but I'm not that amazing with it ... I'm not good at using layers. I have an uncle who is a wedding photographer and he always said "real photographers don't use digital" but he   converted to digital and his business has improved as he's paying less for film, development and everything.PDA?No Palm or such-like but I do use theSony-Ericsson P900, which basically does everything ... it's cool.Wi-Fi?I don't use it at home but I use it when I'm staying in hotels. My friend works for Verizon, which is the biggest phone company in the US. He was telling me that they have three cities in the States that have high-speed Wi-Fi.Visit:http://armedrecords.com/armed/armedrecords.html&#183;Van Helden's new single Hear My Name is released on Monday.
Mobile Phones3 takes a Nokia3G network 3 has added its first Nokia phone to its range of handsets. On sale now from the network's 3,200 outlets, the 7600 is an unusual tear-shaped phone that features integrated still and video cameras, MP3/AAC music players and a web browser. 3 had originally passed on the phone, as it doesn't offerits signature feature - person-to-person video calling. However, high demand for the 7600, which had been available on 3 networks in limited quantities exclusively via Carphone Warehouse, prompted a rethink. The phone costs from &#163;0-150 depending on which tariff is chosen.www.three.co.ukHardwareNAB theseIt has been a busy week for Apple, which unveiled a slew of new products at the NAB (National Association of Broadcasters) Show in Las Vegas on Monday, including upgrades to both its PowerBook and iBook portable computers. The top of the range 17in screen PowerBook G4 notebook (&#163;1,949) can now be fitted with a 1.5GHz processor, while a version of the 15in PowerBook with a 1.5GHz processor retails for &#163;1,749. Apple has also added Airport Extreme (802.11g) wireless networking and Bluetooth to all its PowerBook models.The company also delivered a trio of new iBooks and paraded an Airport base station that doesn't need to be powered from the electricity mains.www.apple.com/ukSmart phoneAnex for MicrosoftLondon-based Sword Services is bringing yet another Microsoft   Windows Mobile 2003 smart phone to the UK. Retailing for &#163;500 without a contract, the AnexTEK SP230 sports a design not unlike the Sony Ericsson P800/900, in that it features a flip-up or down keypad. The handset boasts a 320x240 screen with 64K colours, a 400MHz Intel PXA22 processor and 64MB Rom and 64MB Ram.Intriguingly, in addition to "pocket" versions of Outlook, Internet Explorer and Word, Sword claims that the SP230 can be configured to receive live video transmissions from a security camera using its proprietary software.www.swordservices.MusicSize of a CowonCowon, which earlier this week launched its hard disk-based iPod rival, the iAudio 3, is also bringing a small Flash memory-based music player, the iAudio 4, to the UK.Available with storage capacities ranging from 128MB (around &#163;120) to 512MB (around &#163;220), the iAudio 4's unique feature is a large screen with a backlight that displays up to 124 differ ent colours. Compatible with MP3, Windows Media Audio (WMA) and WAV (CD quality) formats, the iAudio 3 also boasts an FM radio tuner and an integrated voice recorder. It offers up to 15 hours worth of music playback via an AAA battery. The player also comes with a neck strap, carry case and JetAudio 4 audio and video software for the PC.www.mp3-plus.netPlay timeLinksys has unveiled a portable hi-fi designed to let users listen to the music stored on their PCs anywhere in the home via a wireless (802.11b) network. The device can also access internet radio stations and websites that stream   music as well as playing MP3s and WMAs archived on a PC's hard drive. Also new from Linksys is a DVD player, the WMLD54G, that can connect via a wireless (802.11g) network to stream digital videos (MPEG-2 and -4 and DivX), images and audio from PCs to a television/home entertainment system. Both are expected to arrive in the UK in the summer - no price details yet.www.linksys.comInternetSpeed freaks 'While many computer users have been wondering whether to upgrade their access to the internet from 56 kbps to "broadband" of 512kbps , those nice people at CERN in Switzerland (whose former employee Sir Tim Berners-Lee brought us the world wide web in the first place) have just broken the world land speed record.In association with the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), they have transferred data across nearly 11,000 kilometres at an average speed of 6.25Gbps. That is nearly 10,000 times faster than a typical home computer and means that you could transmit the entire contents of Google's new giant mailbox (one gigabyte) in not much more than a single second. Don't try asking BT for a connection of that speed just yet.Digital camerasNever too thinSony, which earlier in the year launched the Cybershot DSC-T1, an ultra-slim 5-megapixel digital camera, has an even skinnier model on the cards.  On sale in Japan only - though it is available throughwww.dynamism.comfor $700 plus p&amp;p - the Cybershot DSC-T11 takes 5-megapixel images and features its predecessors' large (for cameras of these dimensions) 2.5in LCD monitor. It is, however, 4mm thinner than the T1 (17mm) and finished in white rather than silver.Sony expects the DSC-T11 to sell mainly to female buyers.www.sony.co.ukSoftwareEudora + GoogleQualcomm has added a Google search facility to the new version of its Eudora email software, allowing use of the search engine's database from the same menu used to search stored emails. Users can also search on a highlighted word or phrase in an email. Other new features in version 6.1 include better importing of data from Outlook Express and support for Apple's address book. Eudora is available in a free cut-down version; in a sponsored version including most features, which shows a small advert; or at $49.95 for the full version.Stat of the week:Broadband connectionsMore than 24% of all subscriptions to the internet were "always on" connections in February, according to National Statistics. This compares with 12.6% a year earlier and reflects the accelerating take-up of broadband in the UK.
Paper storageToppan Printing and Sony are demonstrating a 25GB paper-based disc to replace DVDs and CDs. The disc is 51% by weight of paper, and this is mixed with a plastic stiffener. The benefits include easier label printing, a reduction in environmentally unfriendly materials, lower cost, and increased security - when a disc is no longer useful, it can be put through a shredder or cut up with scissors. The high data density comes from the use of Blu-ray disc technology, which uses blue rather than red lasers to write and read data.www.sony.net/SonyInfo/News/PressDrive onlineMore than 130,000 learner drivers have booked their practical driving tests online since the Driving Standards Agency opened the facility last October, 14.8% of the practical tests booked in this period. Users can book a test for any of the 430 centres in Britain at the time of their choice then pay online, between 6am and midnight. Outside these times, users can apply for a test, but will not receive immediate   confirmation. The agency says that most of its customers are young people who are used to the internet, and may also have booked their theory test online, which has been possible since December 2001.www.dsa.gov.ukPhish netA new phishing Trojan bypasses Barclays Bank's security sign-in by pasting screen graphics into an email. Phishing is the name given to the tricks used by spammers to lure people to fake web sites and revealing their bank sign-on or other confidential details. Most banks already warn users about phishing, but techniques are becoming more sophisticated. Barclays' log-on is one of the most secure, and scammers' key loggers (programs that detect key presses) are useless because part of the sign-on uses pulldown menus. This has been defeated by planting a graphics copying routine. The phishing emails claim that a purchase has been made from a website: worried victims will go to the site, where the graphics program is secretly downloaded. This technique could also be used to defeat other graphics-based log-ons.http://spamwatch.codefish.net.auExecutive channelPolycom is trying to dispel the poor image of desktop video conferencing with a system that offers TV-like video, and audio that approaches CD quality. The VSX 3000 system is an integrated desktop unit that doubles as a PC display. It provides a 17in LCD screen with built-in camera, microphone and speakers. The system, which is aimed at company executives, is integrated with Polycom's WebOffice conferencing portal. It allows users to see if their contacts are online and to create video links at the press of a button. The VSX 3000 works on intranets and integrates with Polycom Office, an integrated catalogue of conferencing devices.www.polycom.com
Apple and Microsoft led the way in providing the tools that have, they tell us, made personal computers the centre of our digital lives. But what they and others have shied away from admitting is that sitting at a desk in front of a PC is no way to enjoy the digital photos, MP3 music files and videos they have helped us cram on to a hard disk.It is far more comfortable to watch and listen to PC-based digital media curled up on a couch, and there's now an affordable and rather elegant way of doing this - a set-top box called a network media player.Network media players can work with the computers on which we already store stills from digital cameras, download and rip MP3 music and edit home movies. They cost around &#163;200 and use networking - wired or wireless - to enable home entertainment systems to play digital media files held on PCs anywhere in the house.Most network media players are designed for use only with Windows PCs, but a few can work with Apple Macs, and one of them, from Neuston, works with both platforms and Unix/Linux, too. All have certain things in common.Each displays menus on a TV set in characters large enough to be easily read from a distance. And, as standard, each has a remote handset so you can choose from the menus what files to watch or listen to from PCs connected to the home network.A wide selection of output sockets is also the norm, possibly taking in Scart, composite video, S-video and even component video and optical digital audio - allowing connection to sophisticated AV systems and all but the most basic TV sets.No files are stored on the media player: they stream from the PC on demand. That requires the computer to be running a program that can respond to commands from the media player to serve up the chosen files. The server program is bundled with the media player and can run in the background without interfering with tasks such as word processing and internet browsing.Media players can only handle a limited range of low data-rate file types - a necessary restriction intended to ensure that playback is smooth even over wireless networks. It's not possible to view high-resolution Tiff still images or play video captured from DV camcorders.For most players, Tiff files would have to be converted to JPegs and DV   AVI video turned into a format with a much lower data rate - MPeg-1, MPeg-2 or DivX. Similarly, only a few players can stream audio in formats other than MP3 or PCM. Tools for file conversion are built into most server programs and some can automatically convert any files that are copied into "watched" folders. The conversion process, like streaming, can run in the background without affecting everyday tasks.A number of server programs incorporate powerful file-management tools to allow users to categorise, sort, group and rename files. That takes time but, if done thoroughly, makes life on the couch much easier. Craftily, Elgato's Mac media player, EyeHome, leaves that side of things to the iLife software suite that Apple supplies with every modern Mac.All network media players connect to wired 100Base-T Ethernet but, typically, there's also a PCMCIA card slot for a wireless network adaptor. A Wi-Fi wireless card does away with cables running from the PC into the living room but has two disadvantages. The cards are optional extras, though they can cost as little as &#163;20. Also, most media players only accept cards working at the slowest wireless standard, 802.11b. This has a practical data limit of about 4Mbps - far less than 100Mbps Ethernet, and less than half that possible with fast, 802.11g, wireless kit.While slow wireless may be OK for those who only want to watch stills and listen to MP3 audio, its low data rate limits the resolution and quality of video that can be played over the network.But any media player can be connected to a fast wireless network by using an 802.11g wireless media converter - a transceiver that plugs into the player's Ethernet port. However, the total cost of the transceiver and the 802.11g wireless router at the PC end is almost as much as for the player itself.Prices of 802.11g kit and media players are likely to fall rapidly and we should be able to look forward to the day when TV sets and AV systems have high-speed wireless network media players built in.Entertaining solutionWindows XP Media Center Edition operating system, which was reviewed in Online on October 9, is Microsoft's solution for enjoying digital media in the living room. But it can only be bought pre-installed on highly specified home-entertainment PCs.These machines cost more than less well-endowed Windows XP PCs, and are far more expensive than most of the boxes clustered around our TV sets, such as set-top DVD players and digital TV receivers.Making their sales prospects even worse, few of us are willing to have noisy, cumbersome PCs in the living room - though not all of them fit that stereotype.Microsoft recently said there will be a kit to turn its Xbox games console into a network media player but, seemingly, this can only be fed by expensive XP MCE computers.Entertaining solutionWindows XP Media Center Edition operating system, which was reviewed in Online on October 9, is Microsoft's solution for enjoying digital media in the living room. But it can only be bought pre-installed on highly specified home-entertainment PCs.These machines cost more than less well-endowed Windows XP PCs, and are far more expensive than most of the boxes clustered around our TV sets, such as set-top DVD players and digital TV receivers.Making their sales prospects even worse, few of us are willing to have noisy, cumbersome PCs in the living room - though not all of them fit that stereotype.Microsoft recently said there will be a kit to turn its Xbox games console into a network media player but, seemingly, this can only be fed by expensive XP MCE computers.&#183;Bob Crabtree is editor of Computer Video magazine.
The mobile phone has long ceased to be the primitive gaming device it was. The latest handsets are capable of the level of graphics seen on the early PlayStation and GameCube consoles in the late 90s. To the millions who play mobile games, they have been little more than a pastime, a chance to fill a few empty minutes. But in Sweden, at least, mobile games are beginning to be taken very, very seriously indeed.This month, the Invest in Sweden Agency - a government-funded body - flew a group of US and UK journalists to Stockholm with the aim of presenting Sweden as a leader in "mobile entertainment research". On show was a mixture of small Swedish companies, 3G mobile operators and research institutions trying to offer a peek into what kind of games we might be playing on our mobiles in the near future.Stockholm has for the past few years enjoyed the greatest concentration of mobile phones per person. So when mobile games came on the market a few years ago, the city was quick to establish a reputation as an innovative centre for the emerging market, with companies such as Synergetix and It's Alive! leading the way.As in the UK, the Swedish games market has become a multimillion pound industry, earning large revenues for producers and driving up much needed data traffic for mobile operators. Sweden has also become one of the few net exporters of mobile games (the UK, the US and Finland share this honour), tempting big players such as Saab Training Systems - which builds development platforms for military and industrial simulations - to target the field as a potential money spinner.But it is in the area of research that Sweden differs from Britain. The country's Interactive Institute, an archipelago of research labs specialising in digital media, is zeroing in on tomorrow's wireless games market. Its Mobility Studio, in Stockholm, is developing a range of location-based games to be played in the back of the car. "In the future", says Oscar Juhlin, of the Interactive Institute, "the real world passing by the window will become an interactive gaming terrain."His team has developed an interactive children's story that uses real locations dotted around Stockholm. Kids, sitting in the car, armed with the correct handheld computer, can access this "augmented reality" and affect a simple narrative.Over in Visby, at the Institute's Zero Games studio on the Baltic island of Gotland, a team of programmers and games designers is collaborating on the Visby game project: a location-based game that similarly applies a virtual layer over real-world locations. As tourists investigate the ruins of the medieval city, they use handheld computers fitted with global positioning system technology to learn more about the city's history - while they dart around the narrow streets evading virtual trolls.Sweden's universities are also developing courses to train a generation of mobile games designers and programmers. As part of Link&#246;pings University Media Research Centre, the campus in Norrk&#246;ping, a former textile town 100 miles south of Stockholm, is developing postgraduate courses in wireless games design."Sweden is a very advanced market when it comes to buying games and has become a testbed for new distribution models," says Dr Mark Ollila, a Finnish-Australian academic. "The   biggest weakness is commercialisation and roll-out. We have plenty of great ideas here and the research and development is extremely innovative, but not necessarily the financing and venture capital."Traditionally, mobile games have been sold through the air and billed along with voice calls and text messages. They have been at the vanguard of the so-called t-commerce industry. But as mobile games become ever more sophisticated, taking upgreater chunks of memory, other delivery methods are being developed. Nokia already sells games for its N-Gage via small cartridges, and now a Swedish company called Middleware has begun to sell mobile games in shops. Across the country, you can buy a range of mobile games in branches of Carphone Warehouse.More than 20 branches house a special kiosk full of CD-shaped boxes that sell the top mobile titles. The boxes are empty: customers take them to the counter for an assistant to beam the data into their phones using an infrared port. The company, which also trades in France, is planning to sell ebooks and music files in the same fashion later this year.And you don't need an R&amp;D lab to witness the future of wireless gaming. Earlier this year, 3 Scandinavia, the Nordic arm of the 3G mobile operator, launched Rally Pro Contest, a networked 3D racing game that allowed players to compete against each other in real time. Not only was this kind of multiplayer game a first for Europe, it outsold the previous bestselling game by a factor of five.
I built a house the other day. Designed it before lunch, had the roof on by late afternoon and laid out the garden after dinner. And I didn't even chip my nail polish. However, I should come clean and admit that I completed the entire project at my PC.The nation has gone home-improvement mad. Flouncy interior designers and "let's-build-a-house" wallahs challenge us to create the perfect home. Happily, several software packages cater for the DIY-obsessed. Some offer landscape garden design, others claim to do the lot. Of these, Punch Home Design Architectural Series 18 is one of the most comprehensive, offering everything from garden design to home renovation and self-build, an expenses estimator and "RealModel", so you can assemble a scale model of your masterpiece.At &#163;89.99 it's pricey, so if you only want to fit a new kitchen, it might be a little over the top. But if you're thinking of doing several projects, it could be a shrewd buy. The (bulky) manual offers guidance on everything from placing stud walls to which plants are suited to the soil type in your garden. It's set out in chronological order, starting with the foundations and is quite technical.A fabulous addition would be an introduction acknowledging the program's two broad user types - architects and artists - and explaining who should concentrate on what sections. Chapters about popular tasks such as designing a bathroom or planning an extension would be a help if the manufacturer is serious about appealing to both. As it stands, the manual is aimed squarely at those building a house from scratch.A great way to get started is to take a virtual tour round some of the ready-made house designs. You can   use and adapt any of these. To take a tour, you use the exciting but exasperating LiveView 3D Walk-Through or Fly-Around. These are priceless opportunities to get a real feel for your design - and spot any glaring errors. You can even alter things in 3D. Viewing is temperamental, though, as the little walking figure and the helicopter both have a tendency to race out of control.Generally, the instructions are clear, and once into the project, you can summon help by clicking on an object or you can keep the online manual open as you work. However, you tend to be blasted with pop-ups as you click your way around the plans. There are even video tutorials and, for the terminally confused, technical support is just a phone call away.As with all programs, this one lacks a "logic" button to make furniture move when you alter walls, make staircases meet floors, or stop you when you're about to do something stupid. Whoever comes up with that will have really cracked it.Take your pick&#183;Punch Professional Home Design Suite Platinum (Fast Track, 2003) &#163;49.99. Slightly fewer bells and whistles than Architect 18, but still hi-tech.&#183;TurboCAD V9 (IMSI, 2003) &#163;69.99. Rival to Punch for capability.&#183;Visual Home Deluxe (Focus Multimedia, 2000) &#163;9.99. Good-value, basic home design program.&#183;3D Landscape 2 Deluxe (Focus Multimedia, 2001) &#163;9.99. Green-fingered partner to Visual Home deluxe.&#183;Floorplan 3D Home Design Suite V7 (IMSI, 2002) from &#163;14.95. Basic home and garden design package.
Gmail, Google's web-based mail service, could be the first thing the company has got wrong. It is, of course, premature to judge an early test version of a system that will undoubtedly get better before it is launched, but not all the problems have obvious technical solutions.There are, for example, privacy concerns raised by the fact that Google's offerings have gone a long way beyond search. The company now has the potential to collate information about what you search for, what your thoughts are (from Blogger), and who your friends are (from Orkut), with your email. While we might be confident that Google would never do such a thing, it is silly to assume the Home Office and America's Department of Homeland Security will have any qualms about it.None the less, I expect Gmail to attract tens of millions of users. It has four obvious virtues that could kill off Microsoft's Hotmail. First, it offers a gigabyte of storage: 512 times more than Hotmail's two megabytes. Second, it lets you use Google to search your email. Third, you won't have to log in every month to avoid losing all your messages. Fourth, it's   fast. It may slow down when millions of users sign up, but Gmail's pages are cleaner, lighter and more readable than Hotmail pages. Unless Microsoft's web designers get a clue, Gmail is likely to stay faster.Gmail also has some drawbacks, the most important being its lack of standard POP3 or IMAP mail support. Web-based mail services are OK for beginners and people who don't make much use of email, but they are horribly slow and far too inefficient for serious use. The sort of people who are likely to need a gigabyte of mail storage will want to use mail software on their own PCs -Outlook, The Bat, Thunderbird, Eudora, or whatever.The usual solution is to provide web-based mail free and charge for POP3 access. Google may well do this eventually, probably for a fee, but it goes against the spirit of the enterprise. If users download their mail, they won't be able to use Google to search it locally, and Google will not be able to display appropriate "sponsored links" (small text adverts) alongside their messages. These are shown unobtrusively alongside email in Gmail just as they are alongside Google searches.Also, if Google intended users to   download POP3 mail, I don't think it would have put so much effort into trying to offer similar facilities via its web interface. It would have settled for a simpler system - something like Yahoo! Mail.The traditional solution to the problem of handling large volumes of email is to put it into manageable folders and sub-folders: on a PC, you can "drag and drop" messages to make the sorting simple. Gmail takes a different approach. Instead of using folders, it uses labels and stars. You have to create your own labels - examples might be Office, eBay, or wedding - and you can have as many as you can handle.In Gmail, the easy way to mark an important message is to give it a star; one click then displays all your starred email. It may be quick but it is crude. More likely you will need to give each message one or more labels, so that you can find it under more than one heading. This is tedious and time-consuming. It avoids the drawback with folders - which is that an email can only be in one - but is not as nice as the "virtual folders" system in Outlook 2003.Gmail also introduces a new way of grouping email into what it calls "conversations". If you exchange half   a dozen emails with someone on a particular topic, Gmail shows these as a single message with the number of emails in brackets (6). Clicking to open the conversation shows a list of headers, which can be expanded to show the full messages. It's an intelligent solution to the problem of displaying threaded conversations in a web-based system, though not as nice as a proper threaded email program.Another advantage of good mail programs is that you can do everything very quickly with keyboard shortcuts instead of slow, debilitating mouse movements. Again, Google's designers have made an impressive attempt to match that feature on the web, and Gmail supports optional keyboard shortcuts. For example, pressing c lets you compose a new message, while pressing o opens an existing email. But many of the shortcuts are not ones I would have chosen, and they sometimes fail to work when and how you expect. For example, Gmail uses the letters j and k for older and newer email - ie, moving up and down. These might be familiar to programmers who use vi, an antique Unix text editor, but are a bizarre choice for PC or Mac users.To sum up, Gmail flies in the face of conventional wisdom, which offers   two ways to handle email: a slow but simple web-based system, accessible from anywhere, and a faster, more powerful approach based on downloading mail to a PC. At the moment, Gmail comes somewhere between the two. But it is not as simple as a web-based mail service should be, and is not as powerful as a PC-based one can be. If the compromise works for you, it's a brilliant innovation. If it doesn't, it could be a terrible mistake.
Fun park Alton Towers was accused today of encouraging employees to bunk off work after it launched a new website called ihatework.co.uk.The Federation of Small Businesses today accused the theme park of behaving "irresponsibly" by targeting workers with the midweek ticket offer."We do not take issue with their right to market an offer, but enticing people to leave work is not the way forward.  It is irresponsible. They are getting people to toy with the idea of taking a sickie and then persuading them to take that decision with this offer," said a spokesman for the FSB.The organisation, which represents around 185,000 small companies, said absenteeism cost the UK economy £10bn each year, adding that it tended to be smaller companies that were hardest hit.The Staffordshire-based attraction said it launched the site after it discovered that over 30% of midweek visitors had lied to their employers to spend time there, with men twice as likely to skive than women.The website urges working adults to take advantage of the end of the Easter school holidays to visit Alton Towers, offering a £15 discount to those that do."Do you know a friend in need of a great day out - away from work? Simply e-mail this URL www.ihatework.co.uk to them and they too can get out of the office and have a great day out at Alton Towers," the site says."With the kids out of the way and back at school and the ride queues at an all time low, what better time to grab a bunch of mates and hit the UK's best theme park?" it adds.While the FSB urged the park to drop the website, the theme park - run by the Tussaud's Group - said it was sticking with the online promotion."We are a fun park and this is just a bit of fun. Its not up to us to cut down on skiving. The site will be staying up until the end of the promotion next month," said a spokeswoman.The park surveyed over 200 adults earlier this month and found that one in three visitors had lied to get there. Visitors from the north were the biggest culprits, with 60% admitting they had bunked off - compared with 30% of southern attendees.Three-quarters said they used illness as an excuse, while 10% said they were going to the dentist. The park said a "significant proportion" had used a death in the family as an excuse. Around one in 10 had not even told their employers they were going to be absent.Earlier this month the Advertising Standards Authority criticised internet banking firm Egg for running an advert encouraging people to feign illness in order to skip work.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Martyn Williams of IDG News Service provides another gadget rounduphere, but without the essential pictures. There's a review of the Toshiba Gigabeathere-- interesting because it can now connect to a wireless network.
