The next Ryder Cup, which kicks off on Friday, is not short of ambition. The tournament will bring together some of the world’s finest golfers and 45,000 fans at the Gleneagles Hotel in rural Perthshire. Aside from the golf, spectators will also be privy to one of the most significant technological feats in modern sport.Phones were banned at the 2010 Ryder Cup but next week they will play a central part in the visitor experience, as a vast wifi network streams the action direct to mobile devices positioned anywhere on the course. The move is intended to revolutionise the tournament for spectators who would otherwise be cut out of the game when they aren’t at the heart of the action.With oversight of technology, TV production and distribution, and digital media, Mark Lichtenhein, CIO of PGA European Tour is the man responsible for building the network and delivering the material that is broadcast to those at Gleneagles and the rest of the world. “We’re about to embark upon the most ambitious project yet,” says Mark. “It’s a pretty phenomenal undertaking.”Similar ventures have been attempted before in the football world. But taking the process out of the stadium is what makes the project so complicated. Mark says: “It’s similar but over a much wider area. On the flip-side, people are more densely packed together. I’m very excited about it but it does make me wake up at night.”Those who have struggled to buy a reliable 20Mbps connection in towns and cities might empathise with the task of introducing a 10Gbps wifi connection to rural Scotland. The rarity of such speeds is not lost on Mark: “It’s probably unprecedented in Perthshire.”In 2010, he had a different solution: a portable television in the hands of every spectator. But as maintenance costs skyrocketed and the perceived security threat of mobile phones as potential detonator devices dwindled, it was back to the drawing board. It is testament to advances in the mobile industry that such an ambition can now be realised.As well as looking after broadcasts, Mark is also in charge of delivering the new Ryder Cup spectator app. It’s designed to deliver logistical information to those navigating the course, including signage, bus times and sat nav that not only tells them where the moving players currently are but also the best “point of intercept”. “The more help you can give the spectators the better,” says Mark.The proliferation of mobile devices and video-sharing apps, like Instagram and Vine, has caused event organisers in the sports world a commercial headache over the last few months. In August,the Premier League warned fans that posting Vines of goals online was illegal, after thousands were shared for free during the World Cup, threatening the financial interests of traditional broadcasters.Mark is less anxious about a similar problem arising in golf: “It’s pretty difficult to put together any footage that had any commercial value.” But he adds, “Our litmus test is people trying to to make money out of it.”Data has become an essential component of golf both for players and fans. Mark says that providing statistics to consumers at speed is essential and that his team is becoming increasingly reliant on the cloud to relay it from the course to their digital applications as quickly as possible.But the automated process does require significant leg-work to set up, namely “building wifi in a new field” on a regular basis, and then dismantling it all again at the end of the tournament. With so much sensitive scoring and payment data flying around the ether, cybersecurity is high up on Mark’s priorities. He says “any event in Europe and America is seen to be a threat” so their tours have to be especially secure.While technology brings new risks to large public events, this year’s Ryder Cup will also show just how effectively a business can engage its customers when it is truly innovative.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
Amazon is launching its Kindle Unlimited ebooks subscription service in the UK, following its US debut in July.The service,which costs £7.99 a month, offers unlimited access to a catalogue of more than 650,000 ebooks, as well as more than 2,000 audiobooks from Amazon’s Audible subsidiary.The ebook equivalent of Spotify for music or Netflix for TV shows and films, Kindle Unlimited is being marketed with an emphasis on bestsellers: J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series; Suzanne Collins’ Hunger Games trilogy; 2013 Man Booker prize winner The Luminaries and more.However, Amazon is also pitching Kindle Unlimited – which launches with a 30-day free trial – as a way for people to discover new books, taking a risk on titles they might not have bought otherwise.“Our US customers have shown us how much they love the opportunity to discover new authors and genres, and now we’re delighted to offer the same freedom to our customers in the UK,” said Jorrit Van der Meulen, Amazon’s vice president, Kindle EU.Kindle Unlimited is the most high-profile attempt by far to create an ebook subscription service, although startups including Oyster, Scribd and Entitle have also been exploring the idea.Amazon’s launch comes shortly after the companyunveiled its latest range of Fire tablets and Kindle e-reader devices, with the latter including its new Voyage device, which will go on sale in early October.However, Kindle Unlimited’s launch also comes after a bruising few months for Amazon in its relationships with publishers and authors, sparked by a contractual dispute with publisher Hachette.Most recently, a group of authors including Malcolm Gladwell, Donna Tartt and Stephen Kingwrote to Amazon’s board membersunder the banner of “Authors United”, criticising the company for its hardball negotiation tactics.“Amazon is undermining the ability of authors to support their families, pay their mortgages, and provide for their kids’ college educations,” claimed the letter. “Amazon has other negotiating tools at its disposal; it does not need to inflict harm on the very authors who helped it become one of the largest retailers in the world.”What does Kindle Unlimited mean for those authors, given the heated debate about creator royalties from streaming music services like Spotify?Amazon says that authors will be paideach time someone reads more than 10% of one of their booksthrough the new service. How much they get paid depends on individual deals struck between publishers and Amazon, however.This analysis by Digital Books Worldsuggests a rough figure of $2 per unit, while stressing that the details can vary between publishers.•The Guardian view on Amazon v Hachette: reading and writing
A feast of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFocus groups are worthless &gt;&gt; MediumErika Hall:Everything focus groups purport to give you, you can get through interviews and contextual interviews, without the unpleasant side effects. Here is what you get from a focus group:Opinions that participants are willing to speak in the presence of a group of strangers.One-on-one interviews can be challenging to get right, but they always have the following advantages:• Fast to set up and run.• If one bad participant makes it through the screening, you can cut your losses and stop the conversation without affecting other recruits.• You can have the conversation with participants in their natural environment.Also worth reading for:People are lazy, forgetful, creatures of habit. We all are. This is why the mega bestselling book is calledThe 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, instead ofAn Infinite Number of Novel Tasks Performed by Highly Effective People.Some iPhone 6 Plus owners accidentally bending their iPhones in pockets &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors"Yesterday, I left at 10am with the iPhone in my left FRONT pocket of my suit pants. I drove 4 hours to a wedding, which also involved a lot of sitting during dinner etc but also 2-3 hours of dancing. I left at 2am and went to bed, driving home 4 hours back.So in total, the 6 Plus was about 18 hours in my pocket while sitting mostly.As I lay it on the coffee table and sat down on the couch to relax from the drive (yes, sitting again ), I saw the reflection of the window in the iPhones slightly distorted."Er, yes.Exclusive: Samsung exits laptop market including Chromebooks &gt;&gt; PC AdvisorFollowing in the path of Sony and its Vaio PCs, Samsung has decided to exit the laptop market stopping sales of Ativ Windows and Chromebook devices in Europe, PC Advisor can confirm.It's common knowledge that the PC market is in decline with Sony pulling out and selling its Vaio business back in February of this year. Despite being a giant of the tech world, Samsung has now followed suit.Things have been quiet from Samsung this year on the laptop side of things with no new devices at IFA 2014 in Berlin. The firm's main recent releases have included the Ativ Book 9 Plus and Ativ Book 9 Lite."We quickly adapt to market needs and demands. In Europe, we will be discontinuing sales of laptops including Chromebooks for now. This is specific to the region – and is not necessarily reflective of conditions in other markets," said a Samsung spokesperson.Sony, Toshiba, Samsung - who's next to retrench?How the new iPhones could help scientists predict the weather &gt;&gt; CITEworldSomewhat like the way old Androids are:Researchers are already using data collected from an Android app that measures barometric pressure. Jacob Sheehy and Phil Jones built the app, calledPressureNet, and have been sharing data collected from it with scientists. They also let other developers build their technology into third party apps as a way to further distribute the technology and collect more data.TheylaunchedPressureNet in 2012 and have had 95,000 downloads but only about 22,000 people actively use it, Sheehy said. However, including third party apps, likeBeautiful Widgets, around 300,000 phones are capable of feeding pressure data to PressureNet.So far around 300 people have signed up to use the data from the app, 100 of whom are researchers. But only around 10 or so are active, Sheehy said.That's the real problem - getting scale.Now you can quickly share the best parts of your GoPro videos, with BrightSky Labs' App '10' &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe 10 app was created to reduce the friction GoPro users currently have when finding and editing videos to share. Currently, anyone who attaches a GoPro to their snowboard, surfboard or any other device usually ends up waiting until they get home and upload videos to their computers before being able to access them. Then they have to go through the trouble of sorting through all the content they recorded for just the choice bits and cut them down before uploading them to YouTube or other networks.BrightSky Labs hopes to simplify that process, which they believe will make for a lot more shareable and shared GoPro content making its way online. The 10 app makes it simple for extreme sports enthusiasts to finish recording, check out the videos they've recorded, and get right back to the slopes or the surf, or whatever it is they're being extreme on.Stanford promises not to use Google money for privacy research &gt;&gt; ProPublicaStanford University recently declared that it will not use money from Google to fund privacy research at its Center for Internet and Society, according to alegal filingmade by the school."Since&amp;#160;2013, Google&amp;#160;funding&amp;#160;is&amp;#160;specifically designated not [to] be used for&amp;#160;CIS's&amp;#160;privacy work," the university said in the court filing, found by ProPublica in documents filed in an unrelated lawsuit.Stanford's Center for Internet and Societyhas long been generously funded by Google, but the center's privacy research has proved damaging to the search giant in the past two years. Two years ago a researcher at the center helped uncover Google privacy violations that led to the company paying arecord $22.5m fine.Academics not happy, and prepared to say so publicly.Watch this madman fix the iPhone 6's biggest design flaw with a grinder &gt;&gt; Gizmodo UKThe industrial design of the iPhone 6 is close to flawless... except for one flaw so weird, so major, that it's maddening: the fact that the camera protrudes from the body of the phone, meaning it never lies completely flat and gets caught on all kinds of stuff.The perfectionists at PeripateticPandas have a solution, and it involves industrial machinery.Maybe iron out the lumps on the Samsung Galaxy Alpha next?iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus hit India's grey markets, prices touch Rs 140,000 for the 64GB iPhone 6 Plus &gt;&gt; BGR IndiaApple will be launching the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in India on October 17. With less than a month to go for the official launch, the smartphones have hit India's grey markets, with prices touching a ridiculous Rs 140,000 for the iPhone 6 Plus 64GB variant.In Delhi's grey markets, the 16GB variant of the iPhone 6 is priced as much as Rs 80,000. The bigger iPhone 6 Plus, on the other hand, is retailing at Rs 120,000 for the 16GB variant, and Rs 140,000 for the 64GB variant.Last year, before the iPhone 5S was officially launched, it too hit the grey markets in India. It retailed for around Rs 75,000 for the 16GB variant, and the rare gold colored variant was available for as much as Rs 115,000.Rs 140,000 is about £1,400; the iPhone 6 Plus 64GB retails for £699 in the UK.iPhone 6 and 6 Plus battery life: how long they last &gt;&gt; Tom's GuideWe saw how the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus compared to the Samsung Galaxy S5in terms of performance, but how well do Apple's new smartphones stack up to the competition when it comes to battery life? We ran our battery test over the weekend to find out.Answer seems to be: battery life follows a basic law of physics, so endurance is almost exactly proportional to capacity.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
When Motorola released the Moto G in 2013, it was seen as an industry breakthrough, making the most fully featured, high quality smartphone for the lowest price at the time.Moto G sold well and put Motorola back on the mapbecause itgot the basics right, using fast and responsive Android software in a solidly built handset and with an battery that could last all day all-day – something that most other smartphones around the £135 mark couldn’t offer last year.With its new Moto G, Motorola is attempting the same trick again – this time with a bigger screen, better camera and at approximately the same price. So does it succeed?Simple, solid designThe curved back is removable and fits the hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Moto G follows a similar formula to its predecessor - solid build quality with no bend or flex in the body and a no-nonsense approach to the case.It has a removable, plain, curved back covering two SIM card slots, as well as a microSD card slot which allows the 8GB or 16GB storage to be expanded by up to 32GB. The battery is not user replaceable. The curve makes it easier to hold despite the phone being quite large, while the rounded corners fit into the crease of the palm.This is a chunky phone by today’s standards at 11mm thick; most smartphones are around 8mm thick or less, and weighing 149g it is 6g heavier than the 2013 Moto G. But it has a larger 5in screen, which is 0.5in bigger than the old Moto G and maintains the same 720p HD resolution.The 2013 Moto G in black on the left and the larger 2014 Moto G in white on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Gorilla Glass scratch-resistant screen has wide viewing angles, is bright and colourful. It has a lower pixel density than its predecessor because the screen is bigger but the resolution the same, with 294 pixels per inch compared to 326ppi. It is visibly less sharp compared side by side with its predecessor, but that can’t really be noticed in general use.Above and below the screen are two front-facing stereo speakers, which are loud and make watching videos without headphones a better experience. They are clear except at maximum volume when distortion is audible.The Moto G is quite thick and heavy compared to more expensive phones, but it doesn’t hamper its usability.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5in 720p HD displayProcessor:1.2 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400RAM:1GB of RAMStorage:8/16GBOperating system:Android 4.4.4 “KitKat”Camera:8-megapixel rear and 2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:3G-only, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPS -Dimensions:141.5 x 70.7 x 11 mmWeight:149gSnappy performance and all-day batteryDual SIM support allows two phone connections to be used simultaneously if needed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Moto G has the same snappy performance as its predecessor, using the same 1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 400 chip and 1GB of RAM.Applications load instantly, swapping between apps is smooth and the phone is lag-free – again trumping almost all of its competition under £150 and even competing with smartphones costing twice the price or more.The Moto G is available with 8 or 16GB of storage space – I would recommend the 16GB – and has a microSD card slot for expanding the storage space for music, movies and photos up to another 32GB. Apps cannot be stored on the SD card and so 8GB can quickly be filled up when apps and games can take up to 1GB or more on their own.The removable back conceals a microSD card slot and two SIM card slots, but the battery is not user replaceable.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWith constant push email, lots of notifications, listening to music for 60 minutes over Bluetooth, 1.5 hours of browsing and a bit of light gaming, the Moto G’s battery lasted well over one full day. With light usage it should last two days between charges.The Moto G comes with two SIM card slots, which allows users to have two mobile phone contracts bound to one smartphone. Calls and texts from both lines can be sent and received, while only one can be used for data at any one time.For travellers it means a local SIM can be used for cheap data, calls and texts while in a foreign country, while still being able to receive calls and texts from your home phone contract. Alternatively, one SIM could have a favourable data contract while the other has calls and texts.For those with a work and personal number, both can be put into one phone, while the work number can be switched off in the settings outside working hours.Speedy, uncluttered AndroidStandard Android without modification.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto G runs an almost unmodified Android 4.4.4 “KitKat”, making only the smallest of modifications including the dual-SIM settings menu. Instead it has optimised the software so that everything runs as well as possible, which makes the phone a lot smoother and feels faster than its competitors.Motorola has also promised an upgrade to the next version of Android “L” once it is released, and has been one of the fastest to upgrade previous versions.There are a few optional apps worth using like Motorola Assist, which can automatically silence the phone during scheduled meetings, and Motorola Migrate, which makes it easier to transfer data from another smartphone to the Moto G.Running the standard version of Google’s Android, rather than a modified version like Amazon’s Fire Phone or others, gives the Moto G access to over 1m apps – something other solid budget smartphones - Microsoft’s Nokia, for instance - cannot offer.CameraThe camera app is simplified to make taking a photo just one tap anywhere on the screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Moto G has an eight-megapixel camera, which is a decent step up from the five-megapixel camera on the old Moto G.It has decent colours and detail, lacking some vibrancy that higher-end smartphone cameras are capable of, but is great for casual photos for Facebook or Twitter.The super-simple interface is another Motorola software tweak. There’s no touch to focus by default – simply tapping the screen takes a photo. Settings slide out from the left. It works great most of the time, but occasionally fails to focus on the right spot.PriceThe new Moto G is available in black or white, with a range of coloured backs available as an extra purchase.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto G’s suggested retail price is £150, but some retailers are already offering it at £140 or less.VerdictWhile not quite as remarkable as the original Moto G, the new Moto G is a solid follow up. Some won’t like the 5in screen, while the lack of 4G is disappointing, so expect a 4G variant in six months.But with dual-SIM support, solid build quality, good battery life and a nice screen, the Moto G is arguably the best value, highest specification smartphone you can buy for £140 - and has a range of features better than some smartphones that sell for twice that price.Pros: afast and lag-free experience, standard Android, all-day battery life, dual-SIM slots, microSD card slot and a big screenCons:heavy and thick device with no NFC, no 4G, and the screen could be sharperOther reviews•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•Motorola 2013 Moto G review – previously the best budget smartphone is just £135•Which is the best smartphone for less than £150?•Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90?•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
US regulators have moved to shut down Butterfly Labs, a Missouri-based company they allege deceptively marketed computers designed to produce the virtual currency Bitcoin.TheFederal Trade Commission (FTC) saidthe company charged thousands of consumers between $20m-$50m for its Bitcoin computers and services, but then failed to provide the computers until they were practically useless, or did not do so at all.Bitcoins are not distributed by a central bank, but instead are “mined” using increasingly complex algorithmic formulas. Solving a formula leads to the Bitcoin system awarding a set number of Bitcoins.Butterfly purported to sell dedicated Bitcoin mining machines, with its more powerful models costing up to $29,899. According to the FTC, Butterfly employees said some of their machines were useful only as a “room heater”.In August last year Butterfly announced it was selling the Monarch, a machine the company called the “fastest and most power efficient Bitcoin miner yet”. Consumers were asked for upfront sums between $2,499 and $4,680 to buy the machines.The company has yet to provide consumers with a single Monarch machine, “despite defendants’ representation that the machines should be delivered by the “end of the year [2013],” the FTC said in court documents.“We often see that when a new and little-understood opportunity like Bitcoin presents itself, scammers will find ways to capitalize on the public’s excitement and interest,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection. “We’re pleased the court granted our request to halt this operation, and we look forward to putting the company’s ill-gotten gains back in the hands of consumers.”In a statementButterfly Labs said it was “disappointed in the heavy-handed actions” of the FTC and its “rush to judgment”.“It appears the FTC has decided to go to war on bitcoin overall and is starting with Butterfly Labs. Butterfly Labs is being portrayed by the FTC as a bogus and fake company. To the contrary, Butterfly Labs is very real. As pointed out in court filings Butterfly Labs made last night, Butterfly Labs has shipped more than $33m in products to customers and voluntarily granted refunds approximating $17m to customers for cancelled orders,” the company said.The company said it was “literally in the midst of shipping out completed products to fulfill the remaining millions of dollars of orders on our books and issuing requested refunds when the FTC effectively closed the doors of Butterfly Labs without any chance to be heard in court”.A court hearing is set for Monday and Butterfly Labs said it would “defend our business and our nascent and promising industry. The government wants to shut Butterfly Labs down, and we are not going away without a fight to vindicate bitcoin, our company, and our employees. Our continued focus is our customers and finding a way to continue to deliver products and processing refunds for those who have requested them.”
The 60th anniversary of the unveiling of London’s famous Routemaster bus is being celebrated with a Google doodle on Wednesday. The vehicle, which replaced the capital’s fleet of electric trolley buses, was first shown to the public by London Transport at the Earl’s Court Commercial Motor Exhibition on 24 September 1954.The organisation had been involved with producing Halifax bombers in the Second World War and gained considerable expertise of working with lightweight aluminium and new manufacturing methods. As a result the design was much lighter than its predecessor despite having 64 seats, compared with 56, and being slightly wider at 2.43 metres.Production did not commence until 1959 and a total of 2,760 Routemasters were made for London over the next nine years. The design proved to be enduringly popular with passengers and the last Routemaster stayed on the streets until 2005, until new accessibility rules made them unviable.A handful are still used on parts of route 9 and 15 as a tourist attraction.The concept was given a new lease of life by Boris Johnson, who promised to revive the Routemaster if elected as mayor in 2008. The new version of the bus, designed by Thomas Hetherwick, incorporates the “hop-on, hop-off” design of the original, and is built by Wrightbus in Northern Ireland at a cost of £335,000 each.The first New Routemaster took to the streets on 27 February 2012 and is deployed on eight daytime routes in London.
Google’s anti-trust row with the European commission could turn into a case bigger than the one that cost Microsoft more than €2.2bn (£1.7bn), the outgoing competition commissioner warned on Tuesday.In a dramatic change of position, Joaquín Almunia, the EC’s competition commissioner, told the European parliament that unless Google altered its offer to settle complaints, it could face a “statement of objections”, the formal path towards a fine that could equate to 10% of the company’s global revenue, or about $6bn (£3.7bn).“Microsoft was investigated [by the EC] for 16 years, which is four times as much as the Google investigation has taken, and there are more problems with Google than there were with Microsoft,” Almunia told MEPs.His comments marked a reversal from his position before the summer, when he was poised to accept Google’s third set of proposals to settle the long-running dispute, which he opened formally in November 2010. Rivals including Microsoft, was one of the complainants, have been delighted by the change in outlook.Google controls more than 90% of the online search market in Europe, substantially more than in the US where it was cleared by the US federal trade commission in January 2013 of favouring its own searches to the detriment of consumers. The FTC said that any such favouring helped users.Almunia’s intention to accept Google’s proposals collapsed over the summer following outspoken opposition from French and German politicians, lobbying groups, and other commissioners.However, he told MEPs his change of position was due to “new factual evidence” about the impact on rivals of the proposals.He added that the EC competition group could also open an investigation into preferential positioning for Google in its Android operating system, which is the most widely used smartphone software in Europe and the rest of the world.He said there could be another investigation of the US search firm for “the possible diversion of internet traffic towards Google services which are not search services” – a remark thought to refer to the positioning of the YouTube video site and Google+ social network in search results.Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, said in response: “We continue to work with the European commission to resolve their concerns.”Almunia leaves office in October, and will hand the task of completing any Google inquiries to his successor, Margrethe Vestager.In June, Almuni said companies including European publishers, a telecoms firm, an association of picture industries and photo libraries, and an advertising platform, had complained about Google taking advantage of its dominance to promote YouTube and the Google+ network.Last week it emerged that Robert Thomson, chief executive of News Corporation, had written to Almunia to complain about Google’s dominance of the market.
Electronic Arts; PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested)/Wii; £45; 7+Ardent fans of the Fifa football games know two things to be true whenever the latest instalment arrives. It will be mostly the same game as before, and it will also be the best football simulation ever. EA Sports, much like Apple with its iDevices, has found a winning formula, and it is reluctant to do more than drip feed us tiny changes every year.That said, it has long been believed that this year’s instalment would be the big one. After all, developers have had almost a year since the launch of the Xbox One and Playstation 4 last November to really get to know the possibilities and limitations of these machines.Well, the graphical improvements are by no means dramatic, but they are noticeable. Faces are more expressive, and EA claims that there are 600 emotional reactions that could potentially be seen during the game; players from opposing teams push, shove and bark at each other after having engaged in a series of aggressive physical battles over the course of the match. Strikers look pleased with themselves after scoring a belter and assistant referees … twitch their noses when making an offside call. Unnecessary perhaps, but it’s a tiny detail that adds yet another layer of realism to the most realistic football sim on the planet.Indeed, EA Sports is all about the small things this year. Blades of grass (and, if it’s raining, water) go flying into the air in slow motion when the ball is struck during replays, the pitch develops physical signs of wear and tear over the course of the match, shirts are visibly pulled by defenders chasing a zippy winger and the PA system at Selhurst Park warns fans in the stadium that the Northern line isn’t running (hats off to EA, they’ve clearly done their research on that one).The game now has disallowed goals, rather than laser-accurate robotic linesmen that will instantly stop play for offside the moment the ball goes anywhere near an offending player. That rollercoaster of jubilation followed by disappointment when your team is stripped of a winning goal in the dying moments of injury time is, to borrow a phrase from EA Sports, “in the game”.Also in the game are fully licensed stadiums for every team in the Premiership. As well as looking the part, real fan chants have been recorded, and crowds have been given custom behaviours based on the team. You probably won’t make it through a match at Anfield without a chorus of “You’ll Never Walk Alone”, and commentators notice and remark on Manchester City’s supporters doing the Poznan.Nothing has been left un-animated in Fifa 15. Substitutes celebrate from the bench when their teams score – sometimes the camera even cuts to a close up of a major player on the sidelines, while there are 10-man goal celebrations on the pitch. Ball boys supply players with another ball when one has gone out of bounds, and corner flags bend when pushed against.The player models have been updated, and not just in the hairstyle department. The game’s digital sportsmen have generally been given more muscular body shapes, with longer arms and shoulders slightly reminiscent of 1980s Arnold Schwarzenegger. It’s perhaps a bit extreme for all but the most ripped players, but they certainly look more like athletes than in previous games.For all the graphical improvements, the odd glitch does remain. Far less often will you see a player’s arm pass through the body of his team mate during a goal celebration, but they do occur on the rare occasion. Gone, as far as one can see from some 12+ hours of gameplay so far, are glitches involving levitating players or getting knocked over by invisible team mates in the post-goal festivities.He shoots, he savesGoalkeepers are getting some long-needed attention this time round. Saves look and feel more natural – often the big man will parry a thunderous strike off to the side of goal rather than knocking it right back into the path of the opposition’s striker. Keepers also react and position themselves better overall, but that’s not to say they are brick walls. The trick to scoring in Fifa 15, as in real football, is to catch the goalie off-balance – or guide it through their legs ( a new feature for this edition.)EA has also tinkered with the ball physics to allow for more varied flight paths than in previous titles. in the past, you could pretty much guarantee a goal when the ball was struck from certain positions. Now the ball can dip, spin, or spiral not-so-cleanly off your player’s boot. This randomisation is even more noticeable if you strike the ball off-balance, or shoot using a player with less lethal finishing. On the other hand, less predictable flight paths means more opportunities to score those wonder goals that flick into the top corner or skim in off the crossbar.But to get a shot off on goal, you’re first going to have to beat a defender or two. Centre halves and fullbacks are more intelligent and appear to have a better understanding of when to stand off and when to go for the tackle than they did previously. EA has balanced this, however, with greater intuition for attacking runs and less clumsy dribbling – a welcome addition, considering the sometimes “clumsy” feel of last year’s game. Players now turn faster and more precisely, giving you a better chance to make it out of tight spaces.It’s all about finesseOff the pitch, the menus feel less laggy than last year’s game and the ability to save up to three custom team sheets, each with their own formation, strategy and player instructions, should please the tacticians among us. Plus, the addition of two new team mentalities, including “park the bus”, should please Jose Mourinho wannabes. For the rest of us, EA’s much-touted “player intelligence” means that teams will automatically change their strategy according to the events and importance of the match. Need nothing less than a win to clinch promotion? Tied 1-1 with ten game minutes to go? Your men will automatically get forward like a team possessed, or at least like Man City against QPR in the dying moments of the 2011/12 Premier League season.All the regularly-featured game modes such as career, Be a Pro seasons and skill games are back in Fifa 15, with a new addition in the form of Friendly seasons, an online one vs one mode where you can take on your friends for bragging rights and the ownership of some digital silverware. The skill games are as creative and addictive as ever, with few new challenges such as a Soccer AM-esque “hole in the wall” style shooting challenge, a lesson on winning aerial battles and a game that encourages you to look for passing triangles – a vital component of Spain and Barcelona’s famed “tika taka” play style.As for Ultimate Team, a football sim Top Trumps hybrid and the franchise’s most popular game mode (as EA keeps telling us), many of the old truths remain. The gameplay is faster and more arcade-like than in the other modes, and the defenders seem more error-prone. As a consequence, this encourages online players to adopt an ugly, high-pressure, route one style of football, with an over-reliance on lofted through balls to a fast striker lurking on the shoulders of the defence – simply because this tactic is so effective. Ultimate Team is a still a fun and addictive game mode, but the beautiful game it ain’t.The trading card aspect of this mode has undergone some more drastic changes. EA has removed the ability to trade cards between friends as this was being exploited by websites selling digital, in-game “coins” for real, physical money. This would inflate the mode’s transfer market and bump top player cards like Hazard, Bale and Ibrahimovic up to prices that would make even the president of Real Madrid’s eyes water. Fifa 15 allows any and every Ultimate Team player to try out football’s elite, however, by introducing the ability to sign a player on loan for a few games.Previously, gamers would have to visit a website such as FUThead or FUTwiz to map out their dream team but now, thanks to the new “concept squad” tool, future or theoretical lineups can be planned right within the game, using players from the entire Fifa 15 Ultimate Team catalogue.If this is your first Fifa game on the new gen consoles then you will be blown away by all the little details that together contribute to an overall experience not too dissimilar to watching football on live television. If you owned Fifa 14 on Xbox One or PS3, Fifa 15 is still a significant upgrade, though maybe not the revolutionary product that it was built up to be. It’s a baby step rather than a leap towards perfection. Fifa 15 is still not entirely flawless, but then who cares when it’s already the new best football simulation ever?Fifa 15 hands-on, part one: physics and physicalityFifa 15 hands-on, part two – scraps, stats and sunsets
An influential Labour group has called for a fifth of all votes in the House of Lords to be devolved to citizens, who it says should vote online to directly influence legislation.The recommendation – one of 82 in all – comes in a new report,Number One in Digital, produced by Labour Digital, a grassroots network of more than 300 digital professionals created by shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna to advise the party on technological policy.Implementing all 82 recommendations could cost “up to £10bn” over the next five years, the report’s authors say, adding that it would add £63bn per year in value to the UK economy.As well as calling for a revolution in how the internet is used in the democratic process – a recommendation the group admits is “more experimental” – the report also pushes Labour to commit to treating internet access as a basic utility, to strengthen the rights of citizens to control how their own data is used, and to streamline regulation affecting online startups in fields such as the sharing economy and financial technology.The report argues that “questions must be raised over the efficacy of a representative democratic system that provides little official scope for realtime digital feedback in age where an MP, standing in central lobby, can read the tweet of a constituent who has just watched Prime Minister’s Questions on the BBC’s dedicated online democracy service.”To counterbalance that, the report calls for 20% of the electoral college of the House of Lords to be allocated to the public, who would vote on legislation online and “be supported by an institutionalised briefing service”. Such a move would, the authors argue, “provide a channel to engage the electorate directly in decision-making. It would incentivise politicians to pay even closer attention to the popular impact of their decisions. It would also help to reposition the House of Lords as the most broadly-based forum for scrutiny of legislation.”Faster connectionsBut before such measures can be taken, the report argues that Britain needs to reassess its targets for digital infrastructure. The current aim of the government is to extend superfast broadband to 95% of British premises by 2017, and to make access to standard broadband universal, but that aim – not yet achieved – would leave the UK lagging international leaders.Instead, “the UK should target nationwide access to 1Gbps broadband in homes, businesses and public buildings, with 10Gbps services for tech-clusters, as early possible in the next parliament.” And, the group argues, access to the internet shouldn’t be restricted to those who can afford it.“Government should assess the viability of providing free basic internet access to all citizens, possibly as a requirement for participation in 5G auctions, or targeted at children eligible for free school meals.” It also argues that BT should be mandated “to provide broadband services to homes without requiring a telephone line for voice calls.”Focusing on the very infrastructure that enables a digital economy also means ensuring that it is kept open to all uses, and to that end the report says that “a Labour government should declare support for national and EU-level net neutrality.”But one area that many technology workers will be questioning is the mild proposals for migration. The document addresses the UK’s dearth of qualified workers, quoting a Policy Exchange report which argues that visa regulations have “effectively shut the door to many of the best and brightest from around the world, and even to international students who have studied in the UK”. But the only proposal to counter the trend is that of a “one year ‘programmers’ passport’ whereby… digital skilled migrants from outside the EU may reside in the UK.”Writing the foreword to the document, Labour’s policy co-ordinator, Jon Cruddas, says that he believes the party’s priority “is to make the UK the number one country in the digital revolution”.“We will tackle concentrations of power, and make sure people have the skills and the abilities to take advantage of the internet,” Cruddas adds. “Labour in partnerships with business and workers, will build the new economy of the coming decade. But we will not do so with the old politics of command and control. As in the age of steam and the age of the railways, our new digital age is radically changing society.”It’s the second such document in as many weeks, following in the footsteps of industry group TechUK’smanifesto. That matched calls by the Labour group for new leadership roles within the UK government in charge of promoting technology, as well as calling for the UK to be “a world leading domain in data protection.”But it went much further in calling on the next government to reform migration policy to promote growth, demanding a “‘smart migration’ policy that allows high growth companies to tap in to the world’s best talent, alongside measures to strengthen the pipeline of home-grown skills.”A manifesto for the future of the ‘right to be forgotten’ debate
Picking a new laptop is difficult. There are so many across a whole range of prices that it’s difficult to separate the wheat from the chaff.Depending on what you want to do with a laptop, you can end up overpaying, or conversely buying something that can’t do what you want. Here’s our guide to five decent ones to suit all budgets and needs.Dell Chromebook 11Dell’s Chromebook 11 handles and feels much more like a laptop twice its sub-£200 cost.Photograph: DellFrom £180Chromebooks are cost-effective, simple laptops for web browsing. They are essentially a computer with just a browser. If all you need is to browse the web and do some simple word processing then a Chromebook is ideal, but it will not run applications like iTunes or Word, instead relying on Microsoft Office-compatible Google Docs and other web apps.The Dell Chromebook 11 is the best Chromebook available, with a solid build quality, excellent full-size keyboard and trackpad. The 11.6in display is clear and easy to read, while its small size and 1.3kg weight makes the laptop portable and light. A webcam and microphone are mounted above the screen.Performance is snappy with instant boot-up and it can easily handle dozens of open tabs in Chrome.It has an all-day battery life, while an HDMI output means connecting the laptop to a TV is simple. An SD card reader makes viewing photos from a camera easy, while Google bundles 100GB of Google Drive storage in the cloud for two years with each Chromebook purchase to augment the 10GB internal storage space.Verdict:the best laptop for simple web browsing and great value.Asus X200MAThe Asus X200MA is one of the cheapest Windows laptops available.Photograph: AsusFrom £200Windows PCs provide more flexibility than Chromebooks because they can run standard Windows programs, including Microsoft Office. There are hundreds of PC laptops available in different sizes.At the bottom end is the Asus X200MA. It has an 11.6in screen, weighs 1.2kg and has a full size keyboard and trackpad. It runs Windows 8.1 with access to both the Windows Store and the thousands of standard Windows apps.The X200 is quite slow, but it will manage simple web browsing and office duties. The included VGA and HDMI ports make connecting it to a TV or monitor easy, while an ethernet port provides internet access where Wi-Fi isn’t available. A webcam and microphone mean video chats via Skype are easy.With a 500GB hard drive and an SD card reader, viewing and storing photos is simple, while around five hours of useful battery life should see the computer through at least half a day’s usage.Verdict:best low-cost computer if you simply must have Windows.Acer Aspire E1-572The Acer Aspire E1-572 is a solid Windows 8 laptop.Photograph: AcerFrom £425Small screens are great for portability, but can be cramped for getting work done. The Aspire E1-572 has a 15in screen, runs Windows 8.1 and is ideal for an all-round budget laptop.It has plenty of USB ports, both VGA and HDMI ports for hooking up to displays and TVs and has access to both the Windows Store and the thousands of standard Windows apps including iTunes and Office. What makes the E1 different from the cheaper Asus is that it packs a powerful Intel Core i5 processor that can more than handle multi-tasking. The E1 can handle a bit of light gaming too.A 500GB hard drive provides room for photos and videos; the battery lasts about six hours on a single charge.The E1 has a few downsides , including a low-resolution screen for its size, no touch screen and no CD/DVD drive, but the performance and battery life make it a great everyday laptop.Verdict:best all-round computer on a budget.Apple MacBook AirThe MacBook Air in 11in and 13in sizes is one of the best built thin and light laptops ever made.Photograph: AppleFrom £749Apple’s MacBook Air is one of the best thin, light and powerful laptops available and a cut above most PC laptops, although it costs significantly more.Combining lightweight, premium aluminium materials and a very solid build, plus reliability, the Air is built to be portable with a full-sized backlit keyboard. It also includes a powerful processor, fast solid-state storage and unrivalled all-day battery life. It powers on instantly and handles all but the most graphically intensive tasks without issue.The 11in version is the most portable and lasts nine hours of useful work with a Thunderbolt port for connecting to a monitor, TV or for attaching other accessories like fast external hard drives. It also has two USB ports and a webcam for video chats.The 13in version adds an SD slot and extends the battery life to 12 hours of use. Apple’s OS X software has plenty of apps and utilities available, including Microsoft Office, while Office-compatible apps, a movie editor and music editor come as standard out of the box.Verdict:the best for portability with the power to get things done.Apple MacBook Pro with Retina displayThe latest MacBook Pro with retina display is arguably the best laptop currently available.Photograph: AppleFrom £999The Apple MacBook Pro with Retina display is arguably the best full-sized laptop available, but costs significantly more than even the MacBook Air.It is the most powerful laptop in this group, with enough processing power to handle video editing. Gamers will have to resort to running Windows on it, however, as the selection of games for Apple’s OS X is poor.But what makes the MacBook Pro special is its screen, which is at least twice the resolution of most others. Instead of making icons and text tiny, Apple uses the added pixel density to increase the sharpness of the display, making text, photos and icons appear pin-sharp, much like smartphones and tablets.The MacBook Pro with Retina display is available in a 13in or 15in screen size, both with two Thunderbolt ports, two USB ports and an HDMI out for connecting to a TV. The 13in has a nine-hour battery life, while the 15in lasts for eight hours.Verdict:the best laptop money can buy.•Which laptop’s best for £400 for university?
Apple will not shut down its Beats Music service, acquired in May as part ofits $3bn purchasewith Beats headphones, but may rebrand it as part of iTunes.A company spokesman told the Guardian that thereports of Beats Music closurewere not true, corroborating a reportfrom technology site Re/codethat Apple would maintain the Beats Music subscription service.Apple did not rule out a rebranding of the service, which could bring it in line with the company’s iTunes music brand. It already operates a streaming music service in the US called iTunes Radio, which operates as an ad-supported personalised radio service, using particular songs or artists to build a playlist rather than allowing the user to choose tracks individually.Unlike the Beats headphone brand, which has worldwide recognition, Beats Music has failed to gain widespread recognition. The service was launched in January in the US, but has not expanded to the UK or elsewhere. Beats Music is available on the iPhone, Android, Windows and through a browser, and recently launched on Apple TV with its iOS 8 update.Uptake has been slow, withjust 111,000 registered accounts in May, according to leaked figures, and an estimated 250,000 users through the service’s combination of personal and family accounts, and Apple has shown no signs so far of pushing the brand further.‘We’ve been doing it for years’Beats Music might be rolled into a new iTunes streaming service akin to Spotify, but using a new music format to differentiate itself and provide an enhanced experience for iPhone and iPad users.U2’s frontman Bono, who joined Apple chief executive Tim Cook on stage at the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus launch on 9 September, revealed in aninterview with Irish radio station 2FMthat he had been working with Apple on a new music format for years.“With the team at Apple we’ve been doing it for years, and it’s not ready yet for Songs of Innocence, it will be ready for Songs of Experience,” Bono said. “It’s a new format, and you can still get the MP3 format, and you can rob it or whatever you want but you won’t be getting the full experience.”“It’d be like you walking down the streets in Dublin in the 70s with a copy of the Rolling Stones album Sticky Fingers; just the vinyl, and not the Andy Warhol designed sleeve. You wouldn’t feel like like you had the proper package,” he said.Apple has attempted to revive the album artwork and experience of owning a physical copy of an album through its iTunes LP format, which includes interactive album artwork.The new music service might be offered under a free trial to every iPhone or iPad user, similar to the 90-day free Beats Music trials currently being offered to customers of US mobile phone provider AT&amp;T, to entice users away from established music services.Apple is unlikely to make any sort of rebranding attempt this year, but Apple acquired both the Beats Music service and the people behind it, which could see them join the iTunes team as Beats becomes fully integrated into Apple over the next few months.•Apple iPhone 6 and 6 plus sales top ten million in first weekend•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review
Now commonplace, game controllers are so familiar in scenes of living-room clutter that they have, with the exception of when they are hurled wall-ward in frustration, become almost invisible. Yet these mass-manufactured collections of buttons and circuitry might yet prove to be a prototype tool for exploring the final frontier, having escaped the anonymity of millions of homes and captured the attention of Nasa.Dr Jeff Norris is the supervisor of the planning software systems group at the Nasa jet propulsion laboratory – designers and operators of space exploration robots such as theMars rover Curiosity– and he and his colleagues are increasingly taking an interest in gaming devices.Norris is one of a collective of scientists looking at how best to control a vast range of robots, from giant, experimental, spider-like constructions that carry laboratories on their backs to unmanned spacecraft orbiting Saturn. “Games companies, we’ve noticed, are highly skilled at building control devices that are durable, highly capable and easy to use,” Norris explains.“They are doing that, of course, because they want their games to be immediate and easy to play. Meanwhile, in control systems at Nasa, the first thing you’d have to do is sit down and read a manual,” he continues. Perhaps you’d also need to follow college through to an advanced degree in a topic that’s relevant.“So as we started to look at control devices, and the way games present information, we started to wonder how we could leverage and build upon the work of the games industry in our work to explore space.”And build they did. Today Nasa uses off-the-shelf and modified game controllers in testing robots on Earth, while contemplating how they can be reworked for remote control of similar contraptions elsewhere in our solar system. “We are literally taking unmodified game controllers and building systems to translate their inputs to control our robots here on Earth,” says Norris.“That’s not quite a suitable technique for controlling a robot on another planet, but it is a way to better understand how we can make our robots easier to operate, and it is a way to imagine how an astronaut might control a robot.“We’re not attempting to ‘flight modify’ an off-the-shelf game controller for use in space today, but I don’t think it’s far-fetched to say that in partnering with the manufacturers of these controllers we could produce things that are excellent for those kinds of uses.”And by Norris’s own admission, Nasa can’t do everything alone. The job of venturing into space is simply too big for one organisation. That’s why they use partners, such as tyre and aircraft manufacturers to help. And it’s such collaboration that may one day see controllers originally conceived for use on the sofa redesigned for stellar travel .“We have to partner to progress,” explains Norris. “In the area of control devices, the game industry seems like a natural place for us to look for partners when we do start asking the question of exactly what controller should be packed in the astronaut’s backpack.”Yet Nasa’s interest in gaming does not end with the lucky few that will escape the Earth’s gravitational pull. “Exploring space is a journey that belongs to everyone, and through games we can share that with a huge number of people,” enthuses Norris. Through interactive worlds that allow people to explore Mars based on real data, and gaming reimaginings of active missions, they do so to an extent already. Indeed, Xbox 360 owners can try their hand at remotely conducting a virtual Curiosity rover landing. But Nasa also sees the chance to pipe distant planets’ environments into our homes through the potential of VR and graphics technology.“600 million people shared Apollo through televisions in their living rooms,” concludes Norris. “That at the time was the best technology available to make it feel like we were all there together. It changed lives, it changed careers and it changed the world. And I don’t think it is simply a job for television any more. As a population we don’t just want to watch . We want to participate and interact.”With consoles almost as ubiquitous now as TVs were then, and Nasa keen to embrace the opportunities they offer, the next time we share such an experience it may well really feel as if we reallyareall there together. And all it takes is one small step from game developers.
Some people like to play the lone hero, some like to team up with friends, and others prefer to test their skills by killing strangers. With its “shared-world shooter”,Destiny(PS4, Xbox One, PS3, Xbox 360), Bungie wants to gather these players under one roof, but that house is not as open plan as it would have you believe.Destinyrepresents a dream, the first part of a 10-year story set in a post-apocalyptic future. After a Golden Age of space colonisation and subsequent Collapse, the only human survivors are in one Earth city, protected by a giant magical sphere called The Traveler. The concern is to tackle an alien threat, but Bungie plans to add content that will change that shared world – everyone will experience that ongoing story together, however they want to play.At this early stage, however, things are disjointed. Take competitive multiplayer: when humanity is on the brink of extinction it doesn’t make sense for Guardians to turn their attention away from the threat to fight each other, even if it is – as the lore here insists – for “practice”. The competitive modes emphasiseDestiny’s best features – the beauty of its environments and the quality of the gunplay – but they don’t feel part of the persistent narrative that Bungie is trying to mould.Destinydoes a little better at bringing different kinds of play together. In most areas you will come across other players, and maybe even fight alongside them during a random encounter, but often they will just be running after their own mission marker, or listening to their own flying robot companion, rather than paying attention to you. For a shared world, it can feel lonely.For the important parts of each story mission,Destinyborrows an ingredient from MMOs and gives each player or group their own copy of that game area. It’s jarring to see other players disappear as you enter, but it does leave you free to tackle that section without interference, either alone or with a small team. Pick the latter and the game instantly improves. You won’t mind as much that the missions are linear when you’re racing someone to the next encounter, orthat the plot is uninspiring when you’ve got your buddies to entertain you instead. Like much in life,Destinyis best enjoyed with friends.Dance Central Spotlight(Xbox One) has been designed to be fully playable with someone else. Each song (of the 10 that come in the £7.99 starter pack, or those you buy afterwards) has multiple routines, and the Kinect can track two players dancing to different tunes at the same time. You can even start with a high five.The Sims 4(PC) is another slimmed-down sequel, which makes the price seem excessive, but the core features have all been improved, and that desire to share has been considered at each step. The new Create-a-Sim and Build Mode tools enable easier creation of Sims and houses, which can then be uploaded to the Gallery for others to use, and the complex emotions system seems designed primarily to provoke funny moments that players will want to share.There’s still room for solitary experiences.Hohokum(PS4, PS3, Vita) is vibrant in its aesthetic but minimalist in its explanation; this is a game meant to be played alone and unhurried, its secrets uncovered through a patient exploration that is almost meditative. For the millions throwing themselves into the shared world ofDestiny,Hohokumshould make the perfect secluded retreat.
I’m here to warn you offWhoSampled. Seriously, don’t use the website, and don’t download its iPhone or newly released Android apps. At least, not if you have some work to do.WhoSampled is a proper rabbit-hole of a digital service: you start by looking up a sample in a song you like, and emerge blinking 10 or 20 minutes later with a head full of new (old) music.Founded in 2008 in the UK as a website, WhoSampled has built up a database of more than 270,000 tracks and the samples they use, helping people trace back the roots of the music they love, and then disappear off down a web of interconnections.Nicki Minaj’s Anaconda has its prominent sample of Sir Mix-a-Lot’s Baby Got Back, which itself sampled Channel One’s Technicolor, which was also sampled in Unkle’s Celestial Annihilation, which also sampled Grace Jones’ Operattack, which was... You get the idea.Each connection uses Vevo and YouTube videos to pinpoint the exact position of the sample in the respective tracks, while providing links to buy downloads, vinyl and CDs, and discuss the songs.WhoSampled launched its iPhone appin June 2012, adding the ability to scan your iTunes library then explore samples used by those tracks. Now it’s on Android too:released today as a free downloadfrom the Google Play store.It’s also been finding its audience. “Up until a year or two ago, when I met people I had to explain what WhoSampled was. Now, we find so many people who are fans. It’s no longer this obscure little thing that you have to explain,” says founder Nadav Poraz.WhoSampled’s growth has been steady, rather than explosive: its website now attracts more than 1m unique monthly visitors. But that growth has been entirely self-funded so far, as the London startup builds its reputation, and reaches out beyond its earliest adopters.“We have broken out of the niche of super-hardcore fans of sampling. We recently changed the title on our site too: we used to be ‘the ultimate database of sample-based music’, but it no longer mentions the word ‘database’,” says Poraz, citing the new slogan: ‘Exploring the DNA of music’.“Of course, our database is still the core of the service, but we are much more than a glorified Excel spreadsheet. It’s an experience, with contextual recommendations, community aspects and the apps. The premise of the site was always about music discovery, and it’s great to see how that’s catching on.”When WhoSampled released its iPhone app in 2012, it took the bold step of charging £1.99 for it rather than making it free. That policy has remained over the last two years, although it has occasionally dropped to £1.49 or £0.69 for limited periods.“It’s done very well in terms of keeping users happy and winning various accolades from critics, but it’s a paid app, which has limited its market penetration. There’s a mainstream opportunity here that we’ve not really tapped in to yet,” says Poraz.“The download numbers have been very strong for a paid app, but if you look proportionately at how many people use the app rather than the website, it’s a tiny proportion.”That’s one reason why WhoSampled is taking a different approach to Android, where its app will be free, and make its money from advertising – just as the main WhoSampled website does.“We want to go as mainstream as possible, and bring this experience to as many people as we can. If it does monetise reasonably well on Android with the ads, we’ll certainly consider it with the iPhone,” says Poraz.WhoSampled founder Nadav PorazPhotograph: PRThe Android app may be many people’s first experience of WhoSampled, but the company is working on some intriguing partnerships to spread its net wider – and to popularise the idea of discovering music through samples.WhoSampled already provides metadata toSoundHound, the music discovery app that’s a rival to Shazam, and it’s working on other deals with larger streaming music services.“It goes both ways: we could integrate streaming services into the WhoSampled experience, to power streams in our apps. But it could be us powering discovery on those services too,” says Poraz.This could be a valuable extra layer for the likes of Spotify, Deezer and Beats Music, who’d be able to point you in the direction of tracks sampled by a song as you’re playing it. Music labels would approve, too, as it would provide another route into their back catalogues.WhoSampled has already worked with Universal Music Group on a site calledGet On Up James Brown, which promotes the soundtrack to a new biopic by exploring the songs that have sampled his work. And there are a few of them, to say the least.“The major labels sit on top of massive back catalogues that need exposure, and what we can do is take people who are listening to the latest hip-hop and electronic music back to the samples that sit in those back catalogues, and bring them new audiences and appreciation,” says Poraz.That plays into the reasons he founded WhoSampled in the first place: reflecting his love of sample-based music and sampling as an artform, against a backdrop of not-always-positive music industry debate around sample culture and copyright.“We think it’s very obvious that sample-based music creates new value both to the sampling and sampled artist, as long as there is attribution and respect. It’s something that is very, very central to music, and creates value for everybody,” he says.“Putting in all the legal hurdles and making the process of clearing samples convoluted hasn’t helped that culture, and there hasn’t been any proper legislation around it, although that may be changing with the review in the US of copyright law, and various initiatives in the EU.”Poraz hopes that as legislators get to grips with sampling, and music rightsholders see it as a way to help people discover their back catalogues rather than a spur for legal action, more people will talk about sampling in terms of “the beauty of the artform rather than the lawsuits”.WhoSampled is hoping to ride that wave, while expanding its audience through partnerships. “We think that pretty much any music fan you put our experience in front of would enjoy and appreciate it, but your average music fan is not going to do a Google search for a sample,” says Poraz.“That’s our biggest challenge: they would engage with this content, but wouldn’t go and search for it. So we want to find even more ways to get in front of the right eyeballs.”Having bootstrapped the company so far, will WhoSampled need more funding to realise those ambitions? Poraz says he’s constantly mulling that very question, but is loath to raise funding for the sake of it.“It’s been a lot of blood, sweat and tears to get to where we are today. You have to tough it out in the early days until you become a viable business,” he says.“We know we can raise funding quickly if we wanted to. Is there a clear and obvious opportunity that we can’t execute on with the resources we have? If there is, we’ll go and raise funding.”•Harlem Shake: could it kill sampling?
Photo-sharing app Instagram is introducing adverts into the feeds of its British users, following their introduction in the US in 2013.The Facebook-owned app will run ads from brands including Waitrose, Rimmel, Channel 4, Starbucks, Cadbury, Estee Lauder and Sony Music in the UK from this week.“We are giving brands an opportunity to sponsor their posts and deliver them to a much wider audience,” Instagram’s global head of business and brand development James Quarles told The Guardian.“We are starting with brands who already have a very strong presence on Instagram. We want this to be a natural experience, like the way people consume high-quality ads flicking through a magazine.”Instagram launched as a free iPhone app in October 2010, enabling people to apply visual filters to their photos, then share them with other Instagram users, as well as on other social networks like Facebook and Twitter.The app was ported to Android smartphones in April 2012, shortly beforeFacebook agreed to buy the company for $1bn. Instagram now hasmore than 200m active userswho have posted more than 20bn photos with its app.In the UK, Instagram ads will follow the template set in the US, where theylaunched in November 2013: still photos – not videos, yet – which people can choose to like, comment on or hide from their feed.Waitrose’s first Instagram campaign in the UK will be based on its “Love Food” promotion, with shots of “deliciously messy” cookery according to Quarles.Meanwhile, Rimmel London will be running a campaign based on images of women putting on make-up with the help of reflective surfaces, from mirrors to windows; Channel 4 will be promoting two of its new TV series; and Sony Music is running an ad for pop star Olly Murs.“We are partnering very closely with creative agencies, with the brands themselves, and sometimes with freelance photographers who are already great community members,” said Quarles.Instagram is pitching itself as a “premium brand environment” comparable to magazines, reflected in the US by reported prices of anywherebetween $350k and $1mfor a month-long campaign.In March, advertising industry site Ad Age reported thatInstagram had struck a year-long deal worth up to $100mwith agency group Omnicom. The first seven brands launching Instagram ads in the UK are all managed by Omnicom-owned agencies.“We think that the consumption – when people are sitting, scrolling through their Instagram feed in this relaxed moment – that is consistent with taking your favourite magazine and flipping through pages, having images that capture your attention,” said Quarles.“Some are advertising, some are editorial, and some are in between. And this is what people most associate with Instagram: beautiful images. People curate their feeds so carefully on Instagram: they choose photographers, celebrities and friends, which is much more consistent with a creative context.”Waitrose and Starbucks are among the first brands to run Instagram ads in the UK.As in the US,Instagram has run a “house ad”in the week leading up to the first ads’ appearance, explaining its plans and showing “an example of what an ad on Instagram looks like”.“We want to create an environment that’s authentic, transparent and honest. We are trying to be really slow, measured and thoughtful,” said Quarles.“We are going to go slow, and we are going to learn. At the start, it’s a very slow introduction to the market, to help people understand what it looks like. We’re very much in a learning mode, but we think we’ve struck a great balance in the States.”In October 2013, when Instagram had 150m active users, the company’s chief executiveKevin Systrom told the Guardianthat 6.9m of those people were in the UK: one of its biggest countries outside the US.Instagram has already said that the next countries to get ads after the US and UKwill be Australia and Canada: a rollout to English-speaking countries that reflects the company’s expansion of offices and editorial staff.“The sequence is that we build our community, then highlight and partner closely with great creators on the platform. We set the tone first, then it’s easy to get brands building organic presences,” said Quarles. Only then will Instagram introduce paid ads.He added that while branding campaigns are the focus for Instagram’s advertising business at the moment, there is potential to open up to other kinds of companies and content, including editorial.“We’re very open to working with publishers. We love what the Guardian and BBC do for using Instagram for short snippets. I do think we’re open to having further discussions as to how those might go to a wider audience, because the content’s so good,” said Quarles.“And in the US, you can see us working with lots of the movie studios, broadcasters and sports leagues like the NFL and MLB. They are getting very creative about how they do the recaps via Instagram. Perhaps you can see someone like Sky coming through with that for sports in the UK.”•Instagram’s Kevin Systrom eyes up world domination
Four months after its release on CD, vinyl and download, Coldplay’s Ghost Stories album is now also available on streaming music services.“We’re pleased to report that the band’s current album, Ghost Stories, is now available to hear in full on all major streaming services worldwide,” explained an email to fans from the band’s official mailing list.The email included direct links to stream the album onSpotify,DeezerandRdio. The four-month delay is the latest example of “windowing”, where albums are held back from streaming services in an attempt to maximise sales for a few months.Ghost Stories was released in May, meaning its non-streaming window was slightly longer than that of the previous Coldplay album Mylo Xyloto, which went on sale in late October 2011, then appeared on streaming services in early February 2012.Other recent prominent examples of windowed albums include Adele’s 21, released in January 2011 then available to stream from June 2012, and Taylor Swift’s Red, released in October 2012 then available to stream from May 2013.In the case of Ghost Stories, one streaming music service got a month’s jump on the others: Apple-owned Beats Musichad the album from 19 August in the US, in what now looks like a month-long exclusive deal.Before its release, Ghost Stories had also been available to stream from Apple’s iTunes store for a week, in an effort to drum up pre-orders for the download version of the album.Spotify has been a prominent critic of the windowing strategy, arguing that rather than cannibalising sales in the weeks after a big album has been released, streaming availability provides fans with an alternative to piracy.In May,Spotify started showing a message to its usersfor albums that had been withheld from streaming: “The artist or their representatives have decided not to release this album on Spotify. We are working on it and hope they will change their mind soon.”Ghost Stories was one of the first albums to get this treatment, although three of its tracks have been available to stream as singles. On Spotify alone, A Sky Full of Stars has been streamed more than 108m times, while Magic has more than 112m plays.•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
A barrel of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus: preliminary results &gt;&gt; AnandTechWhile we're still working on the full review, I want to get out some preliminary results for the iPhone 6. For now, this means some basic performance data and battery life, which include browser benchmarks, game-type benchmarks, and our standard web browsing battery life test. There's definitely a lot more to talk about for this phone, but this should give an idea of what to expect in the full review. To start, we'll look at the browser benchmarks, which can serve as a relatively useful proxy for CPU performance.If you like benchmarks, here are some.Mandatory Google+ Gmail integration quietly shelved &gt;&gt; WordStreamRumours of the decoupling of Google+ and Gmail first surfaced in the spring. Google, unsurprisingly, hasn't exactly gone out of its way to shout about the change from the rooftops, instead choosing to quietly shelve the mandatory integration which had previously been in place since 2012. Although the change means that new Gmail users will no longer be forced to sign up for Google+, they'll still have the option to do so, as you can see in the image above.Conscious uncoupling?Apple iPhone 6 Plus second impressions &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Regarding the camera, I went to Twitter yesterday and foolishly announced that "it's easily and readily apparent that the iPhone 6 Plus camera is no match for the Lumia 1020, 1520 or Icon/930." I'd like to clarify that statement now. I was referring to overall camera quality there: With their superior 41 megapixel (Lumia 1020) and 20 megapixel (Lumia 1520, Icon/930) cameras, Microsoft's high-end Lumia handsets can produce better photos than can the iPhone 6. But camera quality isn't just about picture quality. And the iPhone 6 Plus's camera in particular can take excellent photos while offering a number of advantages over the high-end Lumias. In fact, it's pretty clear that the iPhone 6 Plus is the better overall choice for most people.iOS app devs warn customers off iOS 8's iCloud Drive &gt;&gt; ComputerworldGregg Keizer:Essentially, iCloud Drive is Apple's response to Dropbox and other services, which show the cloud-based storage and its files in an OS's file manager.When users upgrade to iOS 8 today and after, they'll be offered to update iCloud's current storage structure to iCloud Drive. (Anyone who has tried OS X Yosemite, either the developer previews or the public beta, has seen the same message.) Several iOS app developers told their customers not to take Apple up on the iCloud Drive offer, as doing so will make it impossible to synchronize with their apps on devicesnotrunning iOS 8, or with Macs running OS X Mavericks or earlier.Mavericks is the current latest production version of OS X."When you upgrade to iOS 8, you need to ensure that you choose the right iCloud Drive option to ensure that Clear for iOS continues to sync with Clear for Mac," said Realmac, the maker of the to-do app Clear, in ablog posttoday. "If you upgrade to iCloud Drive, you will only be able to sync with devices running iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite."If iCloud Drive isn't backported to Mavericks, it's going to cause problems.The reasons why the networks abandoned Phones4u &gt;&gt; Matt AguileraMy experience and from others I have spoken to is that the service by Phones4u was abysmal. Having worked at a Phones4u call centre briefly. I can only confirm what I saw to be completely broken. If you weren't buying a new contract today, you would be fobbed off and quickly too. You know you have a broken, strange culture when a sitcom [Phone Shop] can be made about your industry and be cringe-inducingly accurate. Some people who have walked into a Phones4u store will have experienced something out of Phone Shop at some point. The aggressive sales tactics and selfish agenda gave Phones4u the reputation of being a place to avoid. Rightly so. The networks had now got their own slick sales processes in place and knew what tricks they were up against. The public knew it too and joined in with the in-jokes of Phone Shop. Getting locked into high-tariff contracts and being offered insurance that you can cancel in 3 months (so the salesman got their commission). It all happened.FBI investigating death threats against Feminist Frequency creator Sarkeesian &gt;&gt; PolygonThe FBI is investigating death threats and online abuse that Feminist Frequency's Tropes vs Women in Games creator Anita Sarkeesian says drove her out of her home last month, a San Francisco police spokesperson confirmed to Polygon. San Francisco police public information officer Albie Esparza told Polygon that Sarkeesian had filed a report with the police department about the threats she received online and that the police department handed the information to the FBI for investigation. Esparza declined to release any other details, saying that doing so could compromise the investigation or the safety of the victim. He also noted that the FBI is the primary agency handling the case. An FBI spokesman told Polygon that the bureau's policy is to neither confirm nor deny any investigation they may be conducting.Other parts of the story suggest the FBI is taking a lot of notice of what's going on.Samsung, LG's conflict deepens &gt;&gt; Korea TimesA conflict between Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics is escalating. The row was triggered last week by alleged vandalism by LG executives on Samsung's washers during an industry fair in Berlin, Germany earlier this month. In a new twist, the prosecution said it is investigating allegations that former LG executives pocketed Samsung's confidential air-conditioner business plan related to a government-run project.It's like something out of a film. Possibly the film that comes on before the film you actually paid to watch.Commercial replacement demand upholding global PC shipments in 2014, says MIC &gt;&gt; DigitimesShipment volume of global PC systems - comprising of notebooks and desktops - is forecast to reach around 299m units in 2014, down 0.1% on year, according to Market Intelligence &amp; Consulting (MIC). The global PC industry has been bolstered mainly by the PC replacement demand in the commercial market in 2014. Looking at the performance by sector, with the majority of desktop PCs shipped being commercial ones, desktops have played a significant role to bolster global PC shipments in 2014. Global desktop shipment volume is estimated at 130m units in 2014, up 3.1% on year. Though continuing eroded by tablets, the notebook industry has seen its shipment decline slowly in 2014. The notebook shipment volume is anticipated to top around 168m units, down 2.5% on year. Notebooks' share of total PC products is expected to slip to 56.2% in 2014, down from 57.6% in 2013.Asustek, Gigabyte unlikely to achieve motherboard shipment goals for 3Q14 &gt;&gt; DigitimesNeither Asustek Computer nor Gigabyte Technology is likely to be able to achieve their 5.8m motherboard shipment targets for the third quarter, as demand in China remains weak and the retail channel's orders ahead of China's National Day holidays have been also worse than those of previous years, according market sources. Asustek and Gigabyte are expected to ship around 5.6m motherboards each in the third quarter, the sources said.Now the PC squeeze is hitting the replacement/self-build business too.Exclusive: U2 and Apple have another surprise for you &gt;&gt; TIMEAs an article in the new issue of TIME reveals, Bono, Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr believe so strongly that artists should be compensated for their work that they have embarked on a secret project with Apple to try to make that happen, no easy task when free-to-access music is everywhere (no) thanks to piracy and legitimate websites such as YouTube. Bono tells TIME he hopes that a new digital music format in the works will prove so irresistibly exciting to music fans that it will tempt them again into buying music--whole albums as well as individual tracks. The point isn't just to help U2 but less well known artists and others in the industry who can't make money, as U2 does, from live performance. "Songwriters aren't touring people," says Bono. "Cole Porter wouldn't have sold T-shirts. Cole Porter wasn't coming to a stadium near you."The point about songwriters is valid (and generally overlooked by those who say "play live gigs!" is the answer), but a new music format? DRM on music keeps failing because people like sharing music. (The article also contains U2's reactions to the social media reaction to their album release.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard.
Virtual reality is still a niche product, a senior executive at Oculus Rift has said, dismissing the potential of mass market success because the business and the technology is not ready to scale.Oculus Rift is well resourced after beingacquired by Facebook for $2bnearlier in 2014. Yet its recent partnership with Korean electronics firm Samsung tolaunch the Gear VR headset, which attaches the powerful Galaxy Note 4 to a headset to create a virtual reality device, will remain a niche product says Max Cohen, Oculus’s vice-president for mobile.Cohen doesn’t want iPhone-style success yet because, he says, “it’s really hard to service millions of users at once”.The announcement of the Gear VR in September caused some confusion in the industry, because Samsung had no experience in making VR devices yet would be releasing its product ahead of rival Sony, which has a wealth of gaming experience and the PlayStation 4 to piggyback on.But why did Oculus chose to partner with Samsung, potentially creating another rival to its own VR device that had been two years in the making?Cohen says the pairing all started because of a meeting about screens. “Samsung has the lead in OLED screens, which allow you to do low persistence [so that pixels turn off or on quickly, making images vanish and appear rapidly] and things like that, and they said ‘hey, what about mobile VR?’ And at the time, it seemed like a crazy idea, to actually get good VR running on mobile.”The arrival of former Doom developer John Carmack - one of the most high-profile games programmers in the industry - in August 2013 saw a new concentration on mobile. “He basically did a lot of work with his team of engineers down in Dallas, and they proved out that this was a viable concept,” Cohen says.By the time Cohen joined the company in February 2014, the month before Facebook announced its acquisition, “mobile was running on Galaxy S4, and it was clear that there was still a lot of work to do, but the potential was there. And so that’s when we all started working towards actually launching it on the Galaxy Note 4.”In the Gear VR, the Galaxy Note 4 provides both the processing power to make the gaming-focused device work and the screen. The Gear VR hardware holds the phablet in place, and provides the motion-sensing technology needed to make virtual reality work - so that when the wearer moves their head, that is fed back instantly to alter the view they are shown by the screen.If the feedback is too slow or is inaccurate, the lag and difference causes nausea and dizziness because the body’s balance system, mediated by the ear’s vestibular canals, disagrees with what the eyes are seeing.But using a phone for VR inevitably brings compromise: what’s best for a phone screen may not be what’s best for a VR screen. Cohen agrees, saying “We have to keep going.”He continues, “I’ve heard different numbers about what [the high quality screen] Retina needs, whether it’s good enough for a VR screen. The 1440p SuperAMOLED screen [on the Galaxy Note] is good for now, but it’s by no means enough for VR. We have to keep pushing technology further in the future. You can imagine 4K screens and beyond – but it’s going to take some time to get there.”Currently, Cohen is resigned to the Gear VR being a niche product. “We’re not trying to sell millions of devices this year, that’s not something that either Samsung or Oculus is interested in. This is the Gear VR Innovator edition, designed for enthusiasts and developers.“And the reason for that is, you just have to look at the news: when Apple did their keynote event [in September to launch the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus], the livestream was spilling all over the place, tons of people had problems with the store, trying to order their new iPhones. What that shows is that it’s really hard to service millions of users at once.”But Samsung and Oculus have lofty goals for the Gear VR. The target audience for the device “is everyone”, Cohen says, with the addendum that that’s “as time approaches infinity.” But in the near term, the Gear VR “is absolutely a gaming platform and a media consumption platform.”This seems to sit uncomfortably with the fact that Oculus is making its own gaming and media platform, also targeted at a potential audience of “everyone”. How does the company avoid competing against itself? “The Oculus is for a similar group of people,” Cohen concedes, “who want a higher-end experience, and also a more comfortable experience.”He explains: “One thing we are very open about is that comfort is very important in VR. That’s why a lot of games are ones where you’re stable and not moving around or turning too much. The PC product is definitely more comfortable for more people.” The Gear VR will also be unusable for people who find a flickering screen – caused by the low (for VR) refresh rate of 60Hz – too irritating.Another way to square the circle would be for Oculus to focus on becoming a platform for VR, monetising itself as an app store and hub for developers. Cohen hints that that might be an acceptable solution.“We’re absolutely happy about them being part of the Oculus family in any way. That’s something that we’ve said many times: we’re making hardware because hardware’s important, and we want to make the best hardware, and we will continue to do that while we make the best hardware, but if you look five, ten years out, if the hardware has been commoditised, then Oculus still plans to provide a great VR experience via the platform.”If the company does become a platform owner, the de-facto bosses of all VR, how widely will that platform spread? Would they even open up to owners of Sony’s Morpheus headset? “I think that’s a massively premature question,” Cohen says.Whatever happens, Oculus can afford to keep its options open. The company has Facebook’s war chest to keep it afloat until it decides to settle on a business plan, and the full consumer versions of both the Rift and Gear VR – as well as the Morpheus VR – are still some way away.In the meantime, Oculus can focus on solving some of the more pressing issues facing virtual reality, such as ghosting images, low-resolution screens - and the fact that it’s really very hard to put one on without looking very, very odd to onlookers.•Oculus Rift hands-on: why the latest version is a watershed moment in gaming
It's Tuesday.
After a year of prominent hackings of millions of US credit and debit cards, one of the top regulators regulators of the American financial system has said that the prospect of an “Armageddon-type cyber event” is one of the most significant issues he plans to address in the next year.New York State Department of Financial Services chief Benjamin Lawsky presides over an agency that is three years old and has pushed for harsher fines and executive accountability for banks including Standard Chartered and BNP Paribas.On Monday, Lawsky said the technological vulnerabilities of the financial system are apressingand potentially catastrophic problem.“I worry that we’re going to have some sort of major cyber event in the financial system that’s going to cause us all to shudder, an Armageddon-type cyber event,” Lawsky said at the Bloomberg Link Most Influential Summit.Lawsky elaborated that it would be “something that causes a blip in the financial system for a period of time” and compared it to the attacks on the World Trade Center on 9/11.“The failures to detect the 9/11 plot were sort of a failure of imagination, some would say …I worry about the same thing here: that an event will happen and we’ll all look back at it and say, ‘How did we not do more?’”Lawsky said he and other regulators are considering “concrete actions” to encourage banks to be vigilant, including a cyber insurance fund that would help banks cover some liability if they step up their online security. There is a current private market for such insurance, but it is so small as to be negligible.A spokesman said that the form of the incentives is still under discussion by regulators. He said the cost of tighter cybersecurity will cost a number of people: “Shareholders will have to bear it, customers will have to bear it, taxpayers are going to have to bear it.”Over the past year, several prominent US companies saw hackers slip into their customers’ credit-card data. Target, Home Depot and JP Morgan all suffered significant data breaches.In all cases, the attacks were not only massive in size, but also occurred over several months. In the case of Home Depot, the company said afive-month attackon its data systems compromised 56 million credit cards. TheTarget hackingcompromised 40 million cards, and the attack on JP Morgan continued between June and August without the bank’s knowledge.Lawsky suggested the attacks will only get more prevalent and harder to capture.“Cybersecurity experts will tell you when they get in a room with a bunch of CEOs to talk about this, there’s only two types of people they meet: people who have been hacked and know it and people who have been hacked and don’t know it.“In other words, it’s that prevalent. The sophistication of the hackers is that great that they’re breaking into everything. And it thus feels to the really – to a lot of people like only a matter of time before we have something more systemic, more problematic, more coordinated.”Lawsky also discussed his thinking around fines on RBS, Standard Chartered and BNP Paribas, stressing that he believed that holding “a few bad apples” accountable was key to his method.“I think if you’re not holding individuals accountable, you’re not going to get the full effects of deterrence,” he said.Banks, he said, often “jump at this” individual approach as a way to punish wrongdoing that might otherwise wrap up the entire firm.“They’ll say if you’ve identified, Mr Regulator, individuals who did this, that and the other thing which was clearly wrong, just exposing it to the light of day has a salutary effect often,” Lawsky suggested.On the RBS case, he said: “I think we realized that just damning the entire firm is actually often counterproductive. It puts you in a position of saying or making it look like the whole firm is to blame.”“And often, by the way,” Lawsky added, “a huge fine is picked up by shareholders or customers or whoever the costs are passed along.”Lawsky also explained his decision to go after Standard Chartered a second time, after installing a monitor inside the bank after its first $667m fine for helping alleged money-laundering.“Regulators get a bigger settlement, pound their chest, move on to to the next case and the monitor is left inside the bank,” Lawsky said. “They’re being paid by the bank. They’re spending all their time with very nice people in the firm, and all too often we see the results of those monitorships is sort of less than satisfying.”
More than 10m iPhone 6 and 6 Plus phones were snapped up in their first three days on sale, Apple has said, setting a new record despite the phones not being available in China.The figure includes sales to mobile phone operators as well to consumers, some of whom queued for days outside the company’s stores around the world. The total exceeds last year’s sales of the new iPhone 5C and 5S, which reached 9m in the first weekend. In 2012, sales of the iPhone 5 were 5m.The first-weekend totals in 2012 and 2013 were boosted by sales in China, which according to analysts has the largest number of iPhone users in the world. The government there has not yet approved the new models for sale.Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said: “Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch weekend, and we couldn’t be happier.”He said sell-through – phones bought by end customers rather than by mobile networks – had shattered previous figures “by a large margin”. Apple is able to measure sell-through based on phone activations, which require the device to contact Apple servers during setup.The new phones, which have 4.7in and 5.5in screens respectively, catching up to the larger screen sizes used by many other handset manufacturers, were unveiled on 12 September and went on sale on Friday. About 4m pre-orders, which are included in the first-weekend figure, were submitted the week before.Analysts expect the new devices to fuel a record quarter of sales between October and December, though that may hinge on whether the new iPhones get approval for sale in China.Analysts say the premium end of the smartphone market is slowing down, but Apple hopes its larger, thinner devices will tempt users of phones running Google’s Android operating system.In the US, where Apple’s base is strongest, iPhones make up more than 40% of smartphones in use, and nearly a third of all phones. In a survey by Gazelle, a Boston-based phone trade-in company, a third of Android users said they were likely to move to the iPhone 6, up from about 10% a year ago when the iPhone 5S and 5C first went on sale.Use of Android phones is far higher outside the US, making up around 80% of handset sales, according to data from IDC. Apple’s introduction of a 5.5in phone aims to catch the rising wave of sales of such “phablet” (for phone-tablet) devices, which IDC says made up over 20% of all smartphone sales in China in 2013.The number of iPhones bought in the first three days after new models go on sale has climbed over the years as Apple’s user base has increased, giving it a growing number of customers looking to upgrade. At the same time, the number of mobile carriers that work with Apple has grown.This year the new phone was released simultaneously in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, and Singapore. From 26 September Apple will offer the phone in another 20 countries, and it will be on sale in 115 countries by the end of the year.Apple has continued selling the iPhone 5S and 5C, at reduced prices. The new figures exclude sales of those handsets.The Chinese government has not yet approved the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus for sale, although previous generations of Apple’s products have sold strongly there. No reason has been given, and there is speculation that the delay is to give local rivals a better chance to win sales, or because the authorities may be concerned that Apple has made the phones more difficult to tap by increasing security.
If you want to understand the future of humanity – where we’re headed, who’ll be in charge, and exactly how worried you should be about that – you could do worse than begin with two unremarkable buildings, on opposite coasts of the US. The more famous one, half a mile from Google’s main campus in Mountain View, California, is home toGoogle X, the search giant’s purportedly secret research lab. It’s not really very secret. Frombreathless reportsin the technology press, we know it’s where Google’s co-founder,Sergey Brin, oversees the development of self-driving cars; tiny drones that can deliver packages by hovering high above the ground and winching them down on fishing line; helium balloons tobeam 3G internet accessto remote parts of the world;unmanned flying turbinesto collect wind energy at high altitudes; andGoogle Glass, the head-mounted, web-connected, video-enabled computer perfect for alienating friends and strangers alike.The other building, at 25 Massachusetts Avenue in Washington DC, gets less attention. Since July, it has been home to Google’sexpanding political lobbying activities: a staff of 110 now works there under Susan Molinari, a former Republican congresswoman for New York. Ten years ago – the year it went public – Google spent a mere $180,000 on lobbying; as of this August,according to the Wall Street Journal, it had spent $9.3m in 2014 alone, making it the second-biggest spender among private companies, ahead of defence contractors such as Lockheed Martin and outdone only by Dow Chemical. Facebook and Microsoft both spent significantly less.Washington politicians are well accustomed to being treated to steak dinners by lobbyists (and receiving campaign contributions from those they represent: Googlegave $1.1m to national US political candidatesin the first half of this year). But Google’s lobbying reaches much further. If you are, say, an Illinois lawmaker pondering a bill to stop people wearing Glass while they’re driving, you may find Google lobbyists reaching out for discussion; if you’re in a position to influence legislation on driverless cars, you may find yourself being taken for a spin in one. There are Google policy teams in Brussels; in Berlin, site of many battles with the German government over privacy; and in many other cities, including London, wherethe team is headed by Sarah Hunter, a former senior adviser to Tony Blair.The Google Inc office in Washington DC, home to Google’s expanding political lobbying activities.Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesThis level of political activity is unusual for a technology company. What, in the broadest sense, is Google up to? Even more broadly: whatisGoogle, these days? Looked at one way, it’s just a massively successful advertising company:90% of its revenue, or about $52bn in 2013, comes from ads like the ones that pop up when you search. No wonder, a cynic might say, that Google wants people to be permitted to wear Glass while they drive; it wants people never to leave the internet at all. But then there are the self-driving cars and the drones;there’s Baseline Study, a project to collect blood, saliva and urine from hundreds of anonymous volunteers to try to predict the likelihood of heart attacks and other life-threatening conditions; andCalico, a biotech subsidiary that aims – in the words of Time magazine, anyway – to “solve death”.Among the more than 160 companies that Google has acquired since 2001 – recently at an average of more than one a week – are makers of robot arms and robot wheels, thermostats and smoke detectors; a satellite imaging company that has launched two private satellites from Russia and Kazakhstan; andZagat, the restaurant review business. Are these all just the hobbies of astonishingly rich men who’d like to find a way not to die (and a good place for dinner)? Or is there a masterplan? What does Google want?You have to read between the lines ofHow Google Works, a new book by the company’s executive director Eric Schmidt, and its head of product, Jonathan Rosenberg, to catch a hint of an answer to questions like that. Mainly, the book is a Googleish version of a self-help manual for managers – full of upbeat, west coast business advice: Make big bets instead of small ones, so you’ll feel forced to succeed. Treat your career like you’re surfing. Launch things before they’re ready, so you can improve them using customer feedback. There’s a photo of Schmidt dancing with the Korean rapper Psy, and jokey anecdotes aboutLarry Page, the socially inept genius who started the whole thing. But there’s also a refreshingly icy honesty. The authors freely concede that Google’s offices feature free food, pool tables and napping pods in order to keep workers there as much as possible; they should be “overworked in a good way”. Its products are free, and some of its code and company data shared more openly than elsewhere, because rapid growth is the best path to a bigger audience for ads.Even “Don’t be evil”, Google’s famous motto, is “not entirely what it seems”, Schmidt and Rosenberg write: it was always less about some crusade to do good than about providing employees with the most minimal possible moral framework, to free them to focus on creating new products. (Their candour has its limits: theysteer clear of discussing Google’s rolein the surveillance activities revealed by Edward Snowden, or ofallegations of tax avoidance.) Overall, the book reinforces the general impression you get the more you probe Google’s activities. It’s not that it began as an internet search engine, then metamorphosed into something no one could have foreseen. On the contrary, Page and Brin were clear from the outset:their missionwas “to organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful”. The crucial thing about that sentence is that there’s no reference to the internet. In some sense, every person, every object, every thought in every brain, everything anyone ever does, is information. Page and Brin told us what Google was up to. We just didn’t take them literally enough.Google co-founders Sergey Brin (left) and Larry Page were clear from the start – their mission was ‘to organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful’.Photograph: Paul Sakuma/ASSOCIATED PRESSThe way Page tells it, in a foreword to How Google Works, it began with a dream. An actual dream: in bed one night aged 22, while a graduate student at Stanford University, the Michigan-born Page had a vision: what if you could download the whole web, then strip away everything but the links? You’d be left with the hidden structure of cyberspace: how everything connects to everything else, and which pages are linked to the most, a useful indicator of their importance and reliability. That insight becamePageRank, the algorithm behind Google Search. A few years later, when the company was still in its infancy, the other part of the puzzle clicked into place. One day in 1999, Page and Rosenberg were crossing a car park “when Larry mentioned, almost in passing, that there had to be a way, eventually, to monetise search. After all, Larry reasoned, when someone did a search, they were telling Google exactly what they were interested in.” Organise the world’s information, and you would create, at the same time, both the most useful service on the internet, and the best-targeted, most blisteringly efficient delivery system for ads.You could view everything Google does today as representing the extension of these principles beyond web pages to the rest of the world (and, thanks toGoogle SkyandGoogle Moon, beyond the world, too). This is fairly obvious in the case of Google Maps, Google Earth, or the Street View image database: they all help make Google a search engine for the offline world. For a subtler example, take those drones. According toa report in the Atlantic, Google staff in rural Australia have been testing miniature “tail-sitter” aircraft, which take off as helicopters, then rotate to become planes. Upon reaching its destination, the tail-sitter sends its package hurtling downwards at 10 metres per second until just before it reaches the ground, when an egg-shaped device at the end of the fishing-line detects the change in altitude and slows it down. (The Google team don’t yet have an answer for what happens if the package hits power cables. But if you try to steal a drone by tugging on the wire, a razor blade in the aircraft’s body will slice it off, enabling it to cut and run.)The drones are all part of the plan. “What excited us from the beginning,” Astro Teller of Google Xtold the Atlantic, “is that if the right thing could find anybody just in the right moment they need it, the world might be a radically better place.” A search engine for the physical world is of limited use if it only serves up online photos of whatever you’re looking for. A Google drone network could bring you the thing itself, almost as instantaneously as the search box delivers electronic results. Or, if more practical, Google could deliver you to it, by means of a self-driving car.A Project Wing drone vehicle makes a delivery.Photograph: Uncredited/AP“It’s been clear for some time that Google sees nothing as being beyond its domain,”says Siva Vaidhyanathan, a cultural historian at the University of Virginia and author of the 2011 bookThe Googlization of Everything. “Everything is subject to being organised or distilled or analysed, assessed and presented by Google’s algorithms. It became the operating system of the web, then of our mobile devices; now it would like to be the operating system of your eyeglasses and your automobile. It has a prediction it wants to fulfil: that data will flow through everything, your re frigerator, your clothing, every aspect of human interaction. And if everything’s quantifiable and traceable, Google wants to be the company that monetises that. It’s an immodest vision – but nobody every accused Google of modesty.”The beauty of this strategy, commercially speaking, is that whatever serves to connect people to what they want also serves to educate Google’s giant artificial brain about what they want, enriching the data-stream on which advertising’s value depends. The search box learns what you’re looking for; location-enabled phones running Google’s Android operating system learns that too, along with where you are, how fast you’re moving, or whether you seem to be stuck in traffic; Gmail learns what you’re communicating about; web-connected thermostats might guess when you’re on holiday; Glass could come to know precisely what you’re looking at; self-driving cars could rapidly build a detailed picture of users’ daily rhythms. Devices to collect health-related data such as blood pressure or cholesterol levels could help target ads for anything from medical services to health products. (Or seemingly unrelated things. Maybe people with high cholesterol spend more on shoes, or science-fiction novels? The patterns revealed in data don’t need to make sense to humans.)“Sometimes I think about Google’s business model as the best on the face of the earth since Rockefeller and oil,” saysFred Vogelstein, a contributing editor to Wired magazine and author ofDogfight: How Apple and Google Went to War and Started a Revolution. “The more people use the internet, the more money Google makes. And if you think about it in that simple way, it gives Google licence to do pretty much anything.” This also explains why Google lobbyists end up, to many onlookers, on the “good” side of the net neutrality debate, but the “bad” side of (say) the copyright debate or the distracted-driving debate. Really, they’re on the more-internet, more-data-collection side of every debate. (And the anti-Facebook side: by enticing us to spend our online lives within its walls, Facebook poses a huge threat to Google’s data-collection efforts.)Sit back and relax ... Google self-driving cars.Photograph: Eric Risberg/ASSOCIATED PRESS“What do human beings do every day?” asks Vogelstein. “They look for stuff, find stuff, or use stuff they don’t have to look for because they already found it. Google built the best search-and-discover machine in the digital world. Doesn’t it make sense to try to leverage that into the physical world?”And yet, as many have observed, all this seamless searching-and-finding comes at a cost. The usual way of putting it is that it’s privacy that gets compromised; the data Google collects can only be properly exploited if it’s all tied to a single user identity for each real-world human. That explains Google’s hostility to pseudonyms and multiple identities – andits deeply unpopular attempt, now abandoned, to force users of its Google+ social network to use their real names. Vaidhyanathan puts it slightly differently: the biggest threat posed by a data-saturated future, he argues, is to human dignity and diversity. That includes the right to withhold certain information from certain people or institutions – and also the freedom to build your life around values that aren’t Google’s.“Efficiency and transparency become the paramount values, superseding all other values. To Google there’s only one way to be, and that’s perfectly transparent and maximally efficient. In boiling everything down to digital signals, we lose the colour and flavour and turmoil of competing values. So the challenge is to politicise digital culture: to understand that we can’t just sit back and let these boys play with so many important things with impunity. The worst option here is the one where we assume that what’s good for Google is good for the world. That may be true more than half the time, but it’s not true enough to bet the future on.”To see how far we’ve already gone in this direction, he says, consider the controversy over the recent European court judgment on the “right to be forgotten”, requiring Google to remove some search results. The ruling was unclear, impractical, and probably self-defeating. But Google’s boosters in the media didn’t just object on those grounds: they erupted in incredulous fury that anyone might assert a right not to have their lives wholly transparent to Google in the first place.And then there’s the controversy over whether Google is using its position of dominance fairly: earlier this month, a group of European publishers ran newspaper advertisements accusing the firm of favouring its own sites in search results. (Denying the charges, Schmidt responded: “We built Google for users, not websites.”) It has alsobeen accused of acting as a de facto censorby removing from its advertising network sites it deems offensive.Google Glass ... you may never have to leave the internet at all.Photograph: John Minchillo/APWhether you’re alarmed or excited by the possibility of a fully Googleised world, though – and wouldn’t most of us admit to a little of both? – there’s something else to consider. Can the internet economy really survive forever on advertising alone? Google’s average cost-per-click – reflecting the amount it can charge advertisers for a single click on one of their advertisements – has generally been falling since 2011. As advertising colonises the web, it seems to be getting less and less effective. Studies suggest that younger adults are less influenced by it than older ones. The first online banner ad, published in 1994, was clicked by an astonishing 78% of the people who saw it. These days, when people see an ad, what proportion of them click? On Facebook, it’s one-20th of 1%.Ina playful paper published last year, from which these statistics are drawn, two researchers,Tim HwangandAdi Kamdar, floated the possibility of “peak advertising” – a point at which advertising might reach its maximum effectiveness and then begin, gradually, to die. If that really happened, they argue, it would initially strengthen the hand of Google: only huge firms would retain big enough distribution networks, and sufficiently massive datasets, to make advertising pay at all.Whether advertising thrives or falters, then, Google’s position as the proprietor of the maps of our lives seems unassailable. That’s at least partly our fault, says Vaidhyanathan; for too long, we’ve treated Google’s technologies as harmless magic, and Google as some kind of exception to capitalism’s rules. “Look, it’s the most interesting company in the world,” he says, “but it’s still a company. It won’t always be working in the public interest. And that’s OK: companies don’t always work in our interest. Once we recognise that these companies are not our protectors, we can approach them reasonably, and find the right political framework for the next Google or Facebook eventually to rise and replace the current ones.”The future is coming. The cars will navigate themselves: Google’s latest prototypedoesn’t even have a steering wheel. Nonetheless, the question stands: who will be in the driving-seat?• How Google Works, by Eric Schmidt and Jonathan Rosenberg (John Murray Press), is published on 25 September at £25. To order a copy for £20 with free UK p&amp;p go toguardian.co.uk/bookshop.
As a steady, intense game, golf might not be the first sport most would associate with the high-speed game of Big Data analytics. But it was, in fact, one of the early adopters.Towards the end of the 90s, the PGA Tour team responsible for putting together the scores were relying on old tools: pen and paper. The scores would only be entirely apparent at the end of a round. Golf was still in the slow lane technologically and as a result the PGA Tour wasn’t meeting the needs of its broadcasting partners.But when it was time to revamp its system, and as businesses across the world were starting to realise the manifold benefits of collecting and analysing all kinds of data, the PGA Tour decided not only to have volunteers funnel through round stats so scoring switched to real-time, they would also hoover up all kinds of information to see what would come of it, says Steve Evans, the architect of the Tour’s ShotLink data system.From this point on, those volunteers would collect information on every stroke, where the shot was taken from, the ball’s lie, the player’s stance and a timestamp of their swing. Another volunteer would use laser-based technology to locate the golf balls so the Tour team could get a coordinate of every ball when it came to rest. That would allow for data on distance to the hole or the bunker. Later, in the noughties, radar would be deployed to track the spin and swerve of the ball.Much of this is now taken for granted by viewers used to high-quality broadcasts and the concomitant in-depth analysis by whatever punditry is on offer. But from the late 90s and early 2000s, this was the start of a quiet revolution in golf, during which players would begin to exploit the reams of data they were producing out on the course. At the same time, global organisations were already reaping massive benefits from collecting more and more granular data and having analysts make use of it - the golf world would soon mirror that.Many pros now make use of ShotLink, even if they’re not allowed to access most of the information during gameplay. On the practice course or when researching with their trainer, they can use it to analyse their round and compare themselves to others.“There is a small group of players who use it quite a bit, that group is growing. There are ten or more who have somebody who is a data analyst who helps them build a strategy in play,” Evans notes. “Then you’ve got others who look at the data over a broader period of time to benchmark themselves.” Brandt Snedeker is the best example of a pro player employing a data analyst to helps him understand how best to attack each hole, Evans adds.Much of the ShotLink data can be accessed on the internet or via mobile apps, including ShotTracker that gives the crowd a chance to view accurate, real-time, graphical depictions of play. Indeed, thanks to mobile and cloud technologies, much of the ShotLink data is easily accessible to the amateur player and average fan. Once it’s all funnelled through servers contained within the 50ft long ShotLink trailer at the course, it goes out to the wider world.This is symptomatic of a separate trend: the divide between what the pro player gets and what others see is slimming. HP’s Martin Houghton, managing partner for HP Analytics and Data Management in EMEA, believes golfers will open up more and more of the data related to their game, as will the courses and competition organisers. As seen across the public sector in the UK, “open data” initiatives are likely to arise across sports and many private businesses.“As a rubbish player, this is quite interesting,” adds Houghton. “That democratisation of data is really important.”Of course, this can only go so far: players and businesses alike won’t want to leak too many of their trade secrets. Security and intellectual property protection becoming increasingly critical for sports teams and organisations across the world.But it’s evident every amateur can now make their way around the course, smartphone in hand, to collect data and analyse their own game. At the same time, they can live their other lives, doing business or even carrying out work tasks between shots. With the right mobile device management on the device, this “dual persona” approach is now easy for all businessmen and women to enjoy. Whatever they love doing in their spare time, or when entertaining business partners, they can do so without anxiety about not being able to access their office data when they need to.All of this - the widening business opportunities, the ability to do business and pleasure simultaneously - can only increase the boardroom love of golf and of the technologies that are enabling a wider enjoyment of the game. And with the Ryder Cup just around the corner, expect this to intensify in the coming weeks.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
Apple says it sold more than 10m of its new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models in the three days after they went on sale on Friday, setting a new record despite the phones not being available in China.Thefigure, which includes sales to operators as well to consumers – some of whom queued for days outside the company’s stores around the world – exceeds last year’s, when9mof the iPhone 5S and 5C were sold, and 2012, whensales were 5m.However in 2012 and 2013 the first weekend sales were boosted by sales in China, which has the largest number of iPhone users in the world, according to analysts. The government there has not yet approved the new models for sale.Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said: “Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch weekend, and we couldn’t be happier,” and added that “sell-through” – where phones are bought by end customers, rather than by mobile networks – had shattered previous figures “by a large margin”. Apple would be able to measure sell-through based on phone activations, which require the device to contact its servers during setup.Apple announced the new phones, which have 4.7in and 5.5in screens that finally catch up to the physically larger screen sizes used by many other handset manufacturers, on 12 September, and they went on sale on Friday.Analysts expect the new devices to presage a record quarter of sales between October and December – though that may hinge on whether the new iPhones get approval for sale in China.The number of iPhones bought in the first three days after new models go on sale has ramped up over the years as Apple’s user base has increased, giving it a growing number of customers looking to upgrade, and the number of mobile carriers that it works with has grown. This year it was released simultaneously in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, and Singapore. From 26 September Apple will extend that to another 20 countries, and it will be on sale in 115 countries by the end of the year.A question mark still hangs over availability in China, however, which may have driven some of the first-weekend sales. The government there has not yet approved the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus for sale, although previous generations of Apple’s products have sold strongly there. No reason has been given - though there is speculation that the delay is to give local rivals a better chance to win sales, or that the authorities may be concerned that Apple has made the phones more difficult to tap byincreasing security.Video review: ‘it’s going to have a lot of success’
Last week, a “phone lane” designed for texting pedestrianswas unveiledin Chongqing, China. The lane has a phone painted onto the ground, similar to the painted bike which indicates a cycling lane. As it turns out, the lane is actually situated in a theme park and isn’t a serious civic proposition, but of course a lie spreads halfway around the internet before the truth is even logging in, so it was shared and re-shared.This isn’t the first “phone lane”. One wasintroduced to Washington DCearlier this year as part of a social experiment. And it’s obvious why the idea connects with us: people texting while walking is a perennial problem.The lane for texting pedestrians in China.Photograph: Guardian shortcutsWe make our way around the world, texting as we go; heads down and eyes trained on the phone’s periphery for other feet, dog-shit, tree roots, lampposts, potholes, entrances to Mordor.Having one of the Walking Text bump into you is incredibly annoying, especially if they’re so inconsiderate as to interrupt your own texting-and-walking. We should all learn to only text when stationary, shouldn’t we? But it’s just one of a few irritants about modern mobile phone usage. Here is a brief guide to mobile phone etiquette.Thou shalt not sodcastIs there anything more irritating than having to share the upper level of a bus with a tinny50 Centalbum track? There’s a clear positive correlation between how awful music is and the likelihood of it beingsodcasted- chewed-and-spat from a phone speaker; landing on your eardrums with all the clarity and soothing of mud splatter. You never hearJanis Joplin,Thelonious MonkorVan Morrisondrifting down the aisle, do you?Just as bad are headphones leakier than a police officer in the pay of News Corp. Forcing people to listen to poor-quality music without their consent is not a good thing; that’s why it is arecognised form of torture.This being the general reaction to a phone playing music.Photograph: Diply.comThou shalt not look through someone else’s phoneI’ve had a number of awkward conversations with friends who, after discovering a partner’s infidelity by searching through said partner’s phone, have then spent hours waxing lyrical to me about how trust is the most important asset in any relationship. Their outrage seemed a bit like breaking into a bank and expressing fury at finding someone else with their hands in the till.You should never go through a person’s phone. Not your spouse’s, not your child’s, not your best mate’s. It’s not just about dodgy texts or naked selfies, it’s about having a little bit of privacy in a world which increasingly collates and stores our data like Sellotape collects lint. Fair warning; if I ever come back from popping to the kitchen to make tea and I find you trying to guess my pin, I will carve the number into your arm with the sharpest and nearest instrument to hand so you don’t have to guess.Then I will change the number.Thou shalt reply to textsIt’s hugely annoying* to text a friend who does not respond yet, during the time they take to not respond, manages to tweet 17 times, gain three new followers, update their Facebook status four times and create seven variations of the same Vine. WE SEE YOU.A long time waiting…Photograph: funsauce.com* Please ignore the fact that I do this.Thou shalt not pocket dialPocket dialling or “butt calls” are when one accidentally phones a person. This happens mostly with parents. Quite often, I’ll get a 15m 43s voicemail from a relative (no names, mum) consisting of the tick-tick-tick of a car indicator as they drive home. Or the clanking and sliding of freshly stacked plates. Or the blaring of News at 10 mixed with the light snore of an 11-year-old cat.The reason why these types of voicemails from parents last so long is because parents tend to use their phones less frequently than young people, and are therefore not likely to notice their phone is connected until a machine cuts them off, if it cuts them off. Whereas the rest of us would reach for our phone two minutes later and realise.The annoyance of the pocket dial.Photograph: Quickmeme.comThou shalt not visit someone’s home and immediately ask for WiFiHonestly, is it too difficult to come round, drink the wine I’m providing, and chat face to face? Youseriouslywant, within minutes of your arrival, to clamber over the back of the couch, grab the router and read the password off the back of it, unplugging it in the process? Just use your goddamn data allowance if it’s so pressing to checkInstagram.Thou shalt not pick an annoying ringtoneOk, so this was marginally amusing in the days ofDom Joly’s Trigger Happy TV (in 1999, guys) orCrazy Frog. But there is absolutely no excuse for an irritating ringtone in 2014. You think “novelty”; everyone else thinks “dickhead”.It shouldn’t be too hard to follow these six simple rules. After all, nobody wants to be the annoyance on public transport, the irritating friend or the reason technophobes moan. Is there anything we’ve missed? Add your mobile phone-related bugbears in the thread below.
When I was 12, I was head chorister of the school choir. O for the Wings of a Dove? Been there. The descant to the final verse of Once in Royal David’s City? Sung that. Then my voice broke and my musical prowess went south.So it was with hope in my heart that I unpacked theSingtrixkaraoke machine. “Singtrix can make anyone sing like their favourite star,” boasts the publicity blurb. “Your voice will sound noticeably better without sounding unnatural, making bad singers sound good and good singers sound amazing!” Bring it on.I assembled the components and plugged in my iPod, which was loaded with an embarrassing amount of 70s and 80s disco, courtesy of a recent party. Here we go: That’s the Way I Like it by KC and the Sunshine Band. The intro, a succession of “do do dos”, emerges crystal clear, then in comes KC with the first chorus. I press the “song voice” button on the Singtrix box and, as if by magic, KC fades into the background and it’s my cue: “That’s the way, uh-huh uh-huh, I like it, uh-huh uh-huh, That’s the way…” Hey, I don’t sound half bad. But wait a minute: I don’t know any more words. Where do I find the lyrics? Help.An iPod is no good on its own, it turns out, unless you have a complete set of KC and the Sunshine Band lyrics to hand. Summon the iPad, and with it, the free Singtrix app of 11 song lyrics (if you want more you have to pay for them). Mean, by Taylor Swift? Meh. As Long As You Love Me, by Justin Bieber feat Big Sean? No thanks. I opt for Amazing Grace. But the tempo of this rendition is so slow as to be almost impossible to sing.By now, some friends have dropped by to play with my new toy (my teenaged children have disappeared at the merest hint of dad-dancing). One visitor sings in and another plays in a band, so: a) they’re musical; and b) they have words and music to Bruce Springsteen, Cher and more.We attach the second microphone, and take turns. Microphone A is the cool one, the one that can make your voice sound like Barry White, Tinker Bell, a choir of carol singers and 339 other options; microphone B tells it like it is. It’s no surprise that Clare, the singer, sounds great on both, while I am clearly more suited to microphone A. Now I sound like a chanting monk! A prank caller! Darth Vader! Now I have my own backing singers!Singtrix is undoubtedly a seriously clever piece of kit. It does indeed transform your voice. But, call me old-fashioned, do I really want to spend £299 on sounding like someone who isn’t me? Isn’t the art of karaoke to do the best you can with your own voice, however limited? I know what answer my school choirmaster would give.
Children across England have been back at school for a few weeks now, and with the launch of a revamped computing curriculum, they’ll be learning some new skills: including programming.Pupils as young as five will be learning about algorithms and computational thinking, as well as creating and debugging simple programs of their own, using a variety of tools. It’s a big shakeup for children and teachers alike.The changes have been widely praised within the technology industry, but there are also critics questioning the value of teaching programming to young children, or wondering whether enough teachers have the skills and support that they’ll need to teach computing.The new curriculum sparks debate, it’s fair to say. “We helped write it. It’s our fault!” chuckles Bill Mitchell, who as director of education at BCS, the Chartered Institute of IT, played a key role in the creation process for the new curriculum.BCS worked with the Royal Academy of Engineering to coordinate its development, with campaigning body Next Gen Skills and other organisations also heavily involved in revamping what they saw as an outdated and overly-prescriptive ICT curriculum.Since the new Computing curriculum was announced in 2013, all these bodies have been trying to tackle the new challenge of actually implementing it properly. Mitchell is not playing down the task that’s still facing them.“The huge challenge is to make sure all our teachers are able to be confident and enthusiastic about teaching the subject, which isn’t going to happen by the end of this month,” he says.“There is a huge variation in the kind of computing background that teachers have got: a very tiny handful have a degree in computer science, but for most of the teachers, they are going to be teaching a brand new subject.”He points out that the same is true for the leadership teams within many schools, up to and including head teachers, who are just as unlikely to have a degree in computer science, and are “learning as they go along what a good computing offering looks like”.Human support networksThe new curriculum deliberately leaves some of its details down to individual schools: for example, their choice of materials for teaching computational thinking to younger children, and which languages and software they use for teaching programming.That should make the curriculum more future-proof than if it mandated materials and languages that might be less desirable in five or ten years’ time, but it does put the onus on schools and teachers to make decisions about resources for a subject that they are still new to themselves.“We don’t want teachers just to wait for someone to hand them interesting things to do in the classroom, but to develop themselves. But that’s hard when you haven’t ever taught this subject before, or studied it yourself,” says Mitchell.He praises the work of private companies including BT and Microsoft, with their respective Barefoot Computing and QuickStart Computing schemes to provide materials and training to teachers in partnership with BCS.Mitchell says BCS is also supporting the work of the likes of Code Club, Coder Dojo and Codecademy, while also enlisting technology companies to sponsor a new scholarship program that will fund people with £25k to become computing teachers.However, he’s just as keen to talk about human support networks, including individuals from the technology world going into their local schools to give talks and advice, and teachers swapping their own experiences now the curriculum is in force.“They need face-to-face, peer-to-peer contact with other teachers, to find out what’s working in other schools,” says Mitchell, citing the regional hubs run by BCS’ partner Computing At Schools (CAS) as one attempt to spark this community.“When you meet with other teachers every half-term or month, that kind of long-term, mutually-supportive professional relationship between like-minded teachers is really important,” he says.“This is where you can really take these ideas and make them truly inspirational for kids in the classroom. We want to avoid teachers being spoon-fed things that they don’t take ownership of and develop themselves.”BCS director of education Bill Mitchell.Photograph: PRWhat about parents? BCS commissioned a survey of 1,020 British parents in June, asking them if they were aware of the new computing curriculum’s introduction in September. 60% said they weren’t – a figure that’s since been backed up by similar percentages in surveys by O2 and Ocado Technology.Is this a big problem, really? If schools and teachers have spent recent months getting to grips with the changes themselves, it would not be surprising if they had waited until the new term got underway before communicating those changes to parents.Awareness will hopefully be much higher now, although if it isn’t there’s a problem. “It’s very important that parents do know it’s happening, and I personally think it’s going to be tremendously positive for their children’s education,” says Mitchell.He’s recommending that parents read BCS’ PDF guides to the newprimaryandsecondarycomputing curriculum, which were written for teachers, but which he hopes will “demystify” the changes, as well as the computing jargon that goes with them.Talk of the new curriculum being “tremendously positive” leads on to the other major criticism of the changes: whether teaching programming to younger children is a waste of time – or at least, an effective use of time and resources for schools.One argument here is that making programming fun and accessible for five year-olds gives a false impression of the discipline’s requirements when they get older. Another related criticism is that since only a small minority of pupils will become professional programmers, it is pointless making every child learn.The most common defence against both accusations is that programming at an early age is more like learning a musical instrument or foreign language: something that can benefit all children beyond the specific skill being taught, rather than a drive to train up more professional musicians or translators.“At primary level, if you teach computing and do it right, you can help children develop their skills in literacy and numeracy,” says Mitchell, who suggests children using the Scratch programming language as part of creative writing, and practising sentence structure while learning about algorithms, as two examples.Transferable skills“To me, the basic idea of computing is you have to get a computer to solve a problem: you have to come up with an algorithm, a set of instructions. If you can do that, it’s a hugely valuable skill whenever you’re working as a team for any kind of project,” he says.“Also, think about other subjects. When you learn physics, you think about physics. But when you learn computing, you’re thinking about thinking. About how thinking works. You have to try to imagine how this computer is going to do something for you. There are lots of transferable skills.”He continues: “At school, when you learn physics, you’re thinking about physics – and that can be wonderful. But when you learn computing, you are thinking about thinking, and about how thinking works. You’re having to try to imagine how this computer is going to do something for you.”For these reasons, Mitchell thinks that it’s “almost irrelevant” what software and technology teachers use in the classroom for the new curriculum: reflecting the belief that the best teaching won’t necessarily happen in the schools with the most devices or most expensive software.“What matters is are they better at inventing new algorithms, understanding how to break a problem down, and how to abstract away all the details they don’t care about?” says Mitchell.He cites New Zealand professor Tim Bell’sComputer Science Unpluggedproject, which teaches computing concepts using (in its website’s words) “cards, string, crayons and lots of running around” as an inspirational example.“You can learn really important things about computing without going near a computer. The transferable skills are mostly about those things. And this is transformative: it could have a massive impact on society in general,” says Mitchell.“When generation after generation of children have these computational thinking skills, it will change how they view the world around them, and what they can do to change that world so it works for them.”•Coding at school: a parent’s guide to the new curriculumThis article was amended on 22 September with a correction: the new computing curriculum is for English schools, not UK-wide.
The silicon chip in your mobile phone is not perfect because it is a single crystal like diamond, even though it is; nor because it is ultra pure, even though it is. No, it is perfect because it is an orchestrated collection of defects; it is these that give your phone its immense social power.Silicon chips are the electronic brains that run the world. They fly our planes, drive our trains, take care of the washing while we are out, keep us alive in hospital and handle our most intimate conversations. We get all this from a thin sliver of material the size of a postage stamp that was invented in the 20th century when the popularity of the telephone and the radio led to a general enthusiasm for all things electronic.Harnessing electricity to do more complicated things like computation relied then on thermionic valves that were essentially souped-up electric light bulbs. They were hot, unreliable and bulky. But they could act as switches, turning electricity on and off, providing the ones and zeros of the digital world and so when connected formed the first programmable computers such as Colossus, which was pivotal for the British in the second world war. After the war, it became clear that connecting yet more values and other electronic components to get more powerful computers was not going to work. The engineers encountered something they called the “tyranny of numbers”, which meant that as the machines got more complex they became more unreliable.They needed a way to make computers simpler but more powerful. The answer was to make all the electronic components of a computer out of one material: silicon.Silicon is a semiconductor, which means that it conducts electricity, but not very well. This sounds like a problem, but is exactly what you want if you are trying to create a computer out of a single material because you need some parts to conduct electricity and others not to conduct at all. Engineering the material to do this involves adding tiny amounts of impurities. Silicon has four outer electrons, which are bound up in the chemical bonds holding the crystal together. By adding a tiny amount of phosphorous, which has five outer electrons, you in effect add a free electron to the crystal and make it conduct moderately well. Similarly you can add boron, which has only three outer electrons and in effect do the same thing, only now the conducting charge is called an electron hole.Circuit boards from various mobile phonesPhotograph: AlamyIf you put a phosphorus silicon layer next to a boron silicon layer, the holes and the electrons cancel each other out at the junction but create an electric field that means that electrons like to flow in only one direction across the junction. This is called a diode, but the computational magic happens by adding another phosphorus layer, which creates a diode that will allow electrons to flow only if the voltage applied to the sandwich layer is just right. This is an electronic switch, called a transistor. It does what thermonic valves do but is smaller than a hair on a flea.Being able to make electronic components like resistors, diodes and transistors out of a single piece of silicon and connecting them all yielded the archetype of the integrated silicon chip that we have today. But hindsight is a wonderful thing and none of the pioneers believed it would work, because initially it didn’t solve the tyranny of numbers. The chip still involved thousands of components linked together, albeit out of a single material, but if there was one part that was in error the whole chip didn’t work – it some ways it was worse because these parts being so tiny could not be repaired.The solution to the problem turned out to be cleanliness. Chip technology relies on tiny amounts of defects being introduced into the silicon, such as phosphorus or boron atoms, but any other impurities are severely detrimental. So the starting point for all silicon chips is extremely pure silicon, what is called 9 nines silicon, which is 99.9999999% pure. Silicon chips are made in a clean room environment where workers have to wear special suits and must enter and exit via an airlock. The craft of these silicon makers is not so much about learning technical skills, but their ability to be precise, calm and methodical in an alien environment more akin to a spacecraft than a traditional workshop.But even purest cleanest silicon isn’t free enough of defects. This is because solid silicon forms crystals, billions of them, and where these crystal meet are yet more defects. The solution is to rid silicon chips of the crystal boundaries completed by making every chip out of a giant single crystal. The Czochralski process is used to do this: pure silicon is melted in a crucible, then a tiny seed crystal is lowered into the crucible to touch the surface of the liquid and removed slowly. As it moves away from the surface of the molten silicon, liquid solidifies on to the seed, growing an immense single crystal of silicon often more than two metres in length. You may have visited some wonderful crystal grottos in your life, but they are nothing compared to the wonders that assault your eyes in a silicon fabrication facility.The crystals are sliced into thin ultra pure 9 nines silicon wafers ready to be manufactured into silicon chips by the selective addition of impurities, etching with acid, and using a photographic method to create the interconnections. It is the industrial scale of the operation that makes silicon chips so cheap, and the precision of the silicon makers that makes them so reliable. Over the years the power of each individual chip has increased as the size of the transistors has become smaller. It is this ability to miniaturise the fabrication of precise amounts of impurities that has made silicon such a powerhouse: there is more computing power in a modern smartphone than the Apollo spacecraft that landed on the Moon. If any material proves that defects are necessary for perfection, it is undoubtedly silicon.
Text, story, and the skills of writing in general, are often the games world’s poor relations. Talented games writers are frequently brought in at the last minute to work on games made without much thought having been given to character, plot or narrative. I’ve sat in meetings where commissioners have said airily that they’ll make the game and then I can “wrap a story round it”. There’s a whole school of thinking – “ludology” – that says that if an interactive experience tells a story it’s not really a game anyway. Games, it’s often thought, are sold more on their mechanics and graphics than the quality of the writing “wrapped around” them like newspaper round a fish supper. But there’s always been a niche for games that care about text; and, as a delightful new text-based game80 Days, has raced to the top of the Apple charts, it’s a good time to celebrate them.Some of the earliest computer games were text based: what were then called text adventures and are now known as “interactive fiction”. Games likeZork,Adventureland, and a fiendish reversioning of Douglas Adams’sHitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxyused “text-parsers” to tell a story and allow the player to give simple commands to move that story on. “Go north,” you’d type, and your character would go north. “Open door,” you’d say, only to be told; “The door is locked.” “Kick in door,” you might try. “I don’t understand that,” the game would tell you.There’s still a magnificent retro charm to these guess-at-a-command-the-game-actually-understands experiences, and for those already feeling nostalgic for the words “inventory” and “examine door”,the XYZZY awards for interactive fictionhave enough recommendations to keep you going through a month of rainy Sunday afternoons. But there are also newer games that keep the delights of beautifully crafted words, but offer ways to access it that are a tad less frustrating.Emily Short’s work is always worth seeking out and exploring; she’s been a visionary in the world of text-based games for years and herpersonal blogis a masterclass in both reading and writing interactive fiction. I’d recommend starting with her short game, made withLiza Daly,The First Draft of the Revolution, in which your choices about how you edit letters between a husband and wife drive how the story – a sort ofDangerous Liaisonswith magic – unfolds.For a brilliantly atmospheric experience, Failbetter Games’Fallen Londonis a joy. Somehow Victorian London has been stolen and fallen into hell – you navigate its strange districts and stranger people by following “storylets”. Helpfully, Failbetter has made the platform for its games,StoryNexus, available for anyone to write on. Any young person interested in writing games should be trying their hand out at making a game on a free platform like this – it’s also worth exploringTwine,Choice of Games, and theInform 7text-adventure-programming language, all of which offer tools to stimulate creativity and imagination in writers.Despite all this creative flowering, text-based games are still a niche product. But I am delighted to see the success of the around-the-world game80 Days. I detect the influence of both Short and ofFallen Londonin its marvellous construction, but it’s a thing all of its own, a delightful, easy-to-navigate, constantly surprising piece of interactive fiction.The pitch is simple: you’re Passepartout. Your employer, Phileas Fogg, has taken on the bet: around the world in 80 days. You plan the route, exploring and quizzing fellow passengers. At each stopping-off point, you can visit the “market” to buy goods and if you plan carefully you’ll be able to sell them for profit later. The goal is to circumnavigate the globe and not to end up massively in debt. It is challenging enough to be engaging, but not stressful.But this doesn’t begin to describe the fun and joy of the game. For one thing, the world is not exactly the earth of the 1890s. And it’s only as you do the journey that you start to understand what’s the same and what’s different. It’s sort of steampunk, but not as generic as that makes it sound. There’s a guild of artificers who make automata, everywhere from Paris to Rangoon to Stonetown to Caracas. Are the automata alive? You’ll start to wonder and to doubt, the more of the emotional, even spiritual, machines you meet on your travels.WriterMeg Jayanth, whose previous work includes a game set in 18th-century Bengal, uses this deep narrative to comment on colonialism, but with a light and intelligent touch. And there are plenty of mini-story arcs to keep you occupied. Who did kill the engineer on your flight to Honolulu? If you don’t find out in three days, you and Fogg might be arrested for the crime. What’s behind the sadness of the pirate who plucks you from your auto-car in a drive across Europe? The fact that so many of the fascinating characters are women – easily so, without effort, as if women might just be an equal, unremarkable and not particularly sexually-focused part of the world – only adds to the deep satisfaction of this game.The design experience of playing80 Daysis extremely pleasing, with enough visual flair and audio effects to be immersive. The storytelling is fluid, and manages that rare miracle of being interactive enough that you feel you’ve influenced events, without collapsing the narrative completely. And, as a game about adventure, even set in a world of jewel-eyed automata and giant birds, it really captures the joy of travel. In fact, I suspect that this game is half responsible for my now planning a trip to Delhi and maybe one around the world.
On those fine summer mornings, the earliest light would tickle the tops of the trees and trickle in through our kitchen window. My sons are two and five, and bowl downstairs for breakfast too soon after the sun rises, so we’d end up sitting around their tiny table in the sunlight, telling stories, them dribbling milky cereal on the floor, chattering about the plans for the day. Amongst the chaos, exhaustion and the brutal logistics of child-rearing are these tiny, precious moments of absolute delight, of demanding that we suspend all the things that seem to matter and just sit on the floor and play, or listen, which we adults find so hard.And our babies, these buds of people, grow into children, their personality unfolding, one petal at a time. We laugh a little, cuddle while reading a book, and maybe argue over getting dressed or about throwing a spoon across the room. And then I have to kiss them goodbye and get on a train to work.At the weekends, my youngest will look at me for reassurance: “Are you going on a train to London today, Mummy?” “No. No, not today. Today is a Mummy Day.” But in truth there are too few of those, and that conflict is there for me every day that I go to work.I found the summer holidays hard, because the kids were at home with my husband and I couldn’t be there with them too. But this is an everyday conflict for women who work, and it’s the tiniest crystal of ice at the top of the berg. In our family, the division of duties just about works.In the office, I feel an obligation to make it work so that I still have a voice, a valuable female voice, in our organisation. But every woman has tales of obstacles, of discrimination and of compromise, whether missing bedtime, missing a promotion because they took time out to raise a family, being paid less than male equivalents, being talked over by men in meetings or of being assumed to be the PA. This is the norm.I’m often asked about how to address the lack of women in the technology, but the framing of the question – and the fact it seems to be only asked of women – assumes it’s a problem for women to solve. It’s not as simple as encouraging more women to train and apply for jobs in the tech industries because the dynamics of those jobs are all wrong. Leaving aside the crippling, off-putting cost of transport and housing in the capital, legacy presenteeism, a lack of female managers and role models and outdated HR make it unappealing.Equality demands and deserves the support and engagement of men, which is why I find women-only networking events to promote women rather futile. Parental leave is a great example of the equality we should be aiming for: most men take only a few weeks’ leave, so it’s the woman who takes the year out, and who no longer has a voice at work. That may well be the best thing for her family, but wouldn’t it be nice to have the choice? All businesses serve women, and need more women to inform what they do.A new realisation of the world dawned after the birth of my first child, overwhelmed as I was by my redefined life, relationships and identity. It was that busy, delirious tiredness of a mother doing essential but silent work away from the world for weeks and months and not represented in it or by it.A medium where many of the most prominent women are being leered over or judged for some failure. Unrepresented, unheard, unimportant to the still male world of industry and establishment.The internet, with all its claims of democratic potential and openness and opportunity, has reflected and then amplified the squalor of human behaviour. The most recent episode of online misogyny is theGamerGate scandal,a vicious, calculated campaign of threats and abuse directed at female video games writers, some of whom have had to leave their homes. How little progress have we made that women cannot speak, be heard, assert themselves without being subjected to bullying and violent threats?Equality isn’t a women’s issue, it’s everybody’s issue. It’s not for someone else to sort out — it’s for us to sort out. We can’t let complacency take the place of acting on something we know to be wrong, or unfair. Whether it’s GamerGate, or cat-calling, or a conference line-up with no women, or talking over a woman in that meeting, it all matters. I’m writing this with five minutes to spare before we have to leave for nursery. My son wants me to finish a dinosaur jigsaw puzzle. I’m 100 words short …
Windpump detail: ‘Just down the road from the Reclaim the power 2014 camp someone is already utilising wind power.’Photograph:  Victoria Buchan/GuardianWitnessPotential energy of dewdrops on a spider’s web: ‘The slightest nudge will cause the surface tension to break and the water to spill.’Photograph:  Jenny Downing/GuardianWitnessCityscape: ‘Amazing energy of Dubai city. Photo taken from Burj Khalifa, the tallest man-made structure in the world.’Photograph: StanleyDellimore/GuardianWitnessTug of War: ‘Tug of War at Great Eccleston &amp; District Agricultural Society Annual Show in Lancashire on 13 July 2014.’Photograph: Applicationanna/GuardianWitnessWave/Tidal energy: ‘Restless, unceasing, unharnessed power of the tides.’Photograph: fourthplinth/GuardianWitnessNYE at the London Eye: ‘Having sneaked into an office block nearby, we had the best view in the house, complete with smuggled champagne. The fireworks burst all over the sky.’Photograph: James Thomas/GuardianWitnessStreet light at sunset.Photograph: Piers Scott/GuardianWitnessBright Horizons: ‘Two wind turbines stand tall in the evening sun above the super sustainable Cornwall Campus.’Photograph: DougAllsop/GuardianWitnessMeteor falling above windmill farm: ‘A meteor streaks across the sky during the Perseid meteor shower at a windmill farm near Bogdanci, south of Skopje, in the early morning August 13, 2014.’Photograph: Nake Batev/GuardianWitnessBackstreet Skaters: ‘Fueled by the nearby taco stands, young skaters practice in the backstreets of Guadalajara, Mexico.’Photograph: Ben Ransley/GuardianWitness
Technology has been great for helping us find taxis and stalk exes, but its impact on workwear has been minimal. A pity, since we spend so much time in the office. The modern suit-n-shirt combination for men was established at the start of the 20th century and survives happily to this day.Can technology change that? What do the coming years hold for our everyday clothes?For starters, in future everyone will be slim. Or at least that’s the only conclusion I can draw from my Apollo shirt, sent over from America advertised as the next evolution in workwear. It fits nicely around the neck, but then constricts tightly around the chest and belly. As I clamber into it I understand what theDaily Mailmeans when it says a celebrity has “poured their curves” into an outfit. It baffles me why slim-fits are made for fat necks. Anyone with a 17-inch neck is hardly likely to taper from then on down to a lithe base.No matter. The Apollo shirt is designed to keep you warm when you are cold, and cool you when you’re warm. (Gladstone ascribed similar properties to a cup of tea.) The shirt, however, depends on Phase Change Materials, as used by Nasa in space suits. “They act like a battery,” reads the blurb, “storing heat away from you when you overheat, then releasing it back at you when you return to an air-conditioned office.”The material took a bit of getting used to. It has a tightly webbed top layer that reminds me of the Aertex shirts we wore during the summer at primary school. Underneath it is slightly stretchy, useful when I want to strap myself into it, but a bit peculiar. Stretchy fabric implies imminent sport and so fills me with dread.Apart from that the shirt was perfectly plain, in gleaming white. It is labelled a “dress shirt”, but I’m not sure how comfortable I’d feel wearing it to a black-tie function. Something about technical gear resists formality. It’s more of a smart casual vibe, I think, to be worn with jeans while you stroll through some climactically variable landscape – London in August, for example, which veers from sultry heat to freezing rain. I can report feeling neither too hot nor too cold, though I did get wet. Perhaps a waterproof Apollo is in the pipeline.For an amusing photo we head to the Ice Bar off Regent Street. The shirt’s promoters are keen to stress that the heat-retention properties do not extend to -7, the temperature at which the bar is kept. But as I lean against the bar my torso feels surprisingly unchilly – especially compared to my hands, from which I soon begin to lose sensation. Perhaps my “battery” is kicking into life.The shirt is fine. I suppose my objection to the Apollo is that the beauty of shirts lies in their simplicity.There’s a reason the design has barely changed in a century.They look and feel best when made from plain but good quality cotton, worn in a simple colour.They don’t need bells and whistles. Or if bells and whistles are to be attached, they need to be amazing. For most of us, the environments where we wear shirts are already tightly controlled and air-conditioned. The Apollo feels like a slightly stretchy solution to a problem that doesn’t really exist.ministryofsupply.com; $98/£60
“In couture, they call this cheating,” Francis Bitonti, architect-turned-designer and founder of the eponymous New York luxury fashion studio, is rubbing a 4-inch piece of biopolymer mesh between his fingers. We’re at Ravensbourne College in Greenwich, London, where Bitonti is teaching “Studio’s New Skins Summer 2014”, a workshop focusing on the design and production of multifaceted skin textures, or 3D printing. The mesh doesn’t look much, but with a little refining and buffing is essentially a fabric swatch, “and what I think couture could well start from in the next decade.”Dita Von Teese wearing the 3D dress created by architect Francis Bitonti and designer Michael Schmidt.Photograph: Albert Sanchez/ObserverTechnology and fashion have been quietly fusing over the last decade, but arguably the greatest strides are being made in 3D printing. The process is fairly straightforward: design a garment – hat, shoes, baguette bag – sketch it out on the requisite software, save it on an SD card, transfer the file to a 3D printer, pick a spool of your “fabric” (the polymer I’m holding is about £45 and you’ll need a few to make a garment) and print it in 3D. This takes a few hours as the biolpolymer is heated to 230C, sketched out and built up in layers, but that’s it. Ta-da! You’ve just printed a vase.While the process remains in the prototypical stage (the vase, for example, will take five hours to print; fabrics and colours are fairly limited), it’s a lot quicker and cheaper than it used to be. “When I was starting out in 2007, a machine cost £100,000. Now it’s around £1,700. A dress would cost £50,000 to make, now it costs £2,000. That’s the same, or less than, a designer dress and it requires less labour.”Bitonti’s approach isn’t universally admired. He has no background in fashion and says he’s “kind of done” working with designers. Yet he isn’t afraid to suggest that all couture will be printable, all fabrics replicable. But, thanks to a background in architecture, he’s honed his own sort of hybrid niche – “the process between designing the facade of a building isn’t dissimilar from building a dress”.His move into fashion technology has been gradual. In the mid-noughties, he started making belts for New York designer Katie Gallagher. He later met New York-based 3D printing marketplace Shapeways, collaborating with them on 3D products. In 2013 he agreed to work with Ace Hotel New York, Shapeways and designer Michael Schmidt to build a 3D dress for burlesque dancer, Dita Von Teese. The dress was geometric, black and terrifying, fetishist-friendly, trypophobia-unfriendly, which may explain why he’s since been approached by customers after one of two things: sex toys and lingerie – “but we’re making neither”.There are a few designers working in 3D. Dutch designer Iris van Herpen has been showing her 3D pieces since 2012 and has designed for Lady Gaga. But with his new line launching this month, Bitonti is fast becoming the face of 3D fashion.Dita’s dress was created from 3,000 moving parts made using “selective laser sintering”, in which a metal is built up in layers from plastic powder fused together with a laser. “It was just a case of her climbing into the corset and lacing her up. The dress weighed 5kg, with each piece 0.5mm thick.” It took a while to design (Bitonti and Von Teese batted ideas back and forth over Skype) but a day to print in the Shapeways factory in Queens, “although we could have done it in less time. The demand for one-off pieces is not the aim. It’s nice to pique interest with prototypes, but I want to mass produce.”Bitonti has grand ambitions. Indeed, developments in computer-based design and 3D printing mean designers are no longer limited by their knowledge of materials. They are on the verge of replicating leather, skin and even fur. The positives include perfectly dimensioned mannequins, mass production and customisation, technologies Bitonti is capitalising on by launching Molecule, his own line of 3D printed clothes.But surely the two can coexist, fashion and printed fashion? People still care about the provenance of their clothing. “In five to 10 years, I think a large percentage of casual goods will be entirely printed,” says Bitonti, in a heartbeat.Naturally this puts the luxury market in a tight spot. Mass production will render exclusivity redundant, with designers being reduced to sketch artists. “But I think there’s a new generation ready for the change,” says Bitonti. “The millennials, the ones embracing normcore.”For him, it’s the next logical step: “There is no limit to what this technology can do. Every other sector – music, our social lives, films – has been subjected to technology. From where I started, I’m shocked by how far the software has come in the last year. So long as we keep educating, we can get there.”
A thrilling buffet of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy cognition-as-a-service is the next operating system battlefield &gt;&gt; Gigaomthe intelligence that powers cognitive apps will come from cloud based platforms that host their brains &amp;#8212; the apps themselves won't really have to be that smart on their own. Which means that truly vast, always increasing, intelligence will be available via APIs to all kinds of apps, and right into the full range of consumer appliances, devices and even the Internet of things. All apps and even things will start to become cognitive.Even in the last few months several interesting announcements were made that all signify this trend:• The startup, Vicarious, has developed a new form of AI that iscapable of readingCAPTCHA images, the most widely used test for differentiating human and computer actions online.• Next ITannouncedthe Alme platform for virtual healthcare assistants, furthering the development of intelligent virtual assistants with domain-specific expertise• Google is finally starting tomake search smarterby incorporating more contextual conversational capabilities for queries, and evenchallenging Siridirectly within iOS• Stephen Wolframannouncedthe Wolfram Language, which models the world and combines both programs and data — what he calls a new "language for the global brain," &amp;#8212; that will essentially be able to weave sophisticated computational knowledge into everything.• And finally, IBMannouncedit is going allow third-party developers to build cognitive apps that leverage cognition hosted in the cloud on Watson.Acquires the horrible acronym CAAS, but one to watch.At Google, Larry Page's dreams keep getting bigger &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati:The Google 2.0 initiative comes as Mr. Page is discussing with associates his desire to effect major change on many industries and lamenting that he lacked the tools to do so. He's talked about starting a new research-and-development arm that he would oversee personally, says one person who was briefed about it. It would be a cousin to Google X, the research lab that fellow company co-founder Sergey Brin controls. Some have referred to the proposed new lab as "Google Y."…Another Google 2.0 project involved location. Mr. Page determined that Google in the future should know a person's precise location down to the inches, not just that they're in a particular room or store. That way, people might be able to know who else is in a room with them (assuming they don't know them already).By knowing which aisle a person was at inside of a store, for instance, Google could potentially provide helpful information to the shopper about what's there. Google could also let people "pair" their smartphone with another device, like a Web-connected TV or Google Chromecast, which might then automatically know what to show on the screen.Other Google 2.0 initiatives were even "creepier" from an outsider's perspective, says one person who participated but declined to provide specifics. Many Googlers say that, in general, utility beats creepiness. Google Now, a smartphone app that pulls together data from a person's Google account in order to offer helpful automatic reminders, is often cited as a example.(The full article is paywalled.)Payment via smartwatch: simple payment functionality to be in Samsung smartwatch &gt;&gt; BusinessKoreaSamsung Electronics is trying to add simple payment functions to its smart watches. By the earliest, Samsung Electronics might reveal a simple payments-enabled smart watch at Mobile World Congress (MWC) 2015, the world's biggest mobile exhibition to be held early next year.According to the related industries on 17 September, Samsung Electronics, together with global financial transaction service PayPal, is preparing to install the mobile payment function using a biometric identification sensor including fingerprint verification into its third-generation smart watch to be released next year.A high-ranking official at Samsung Electronics commented, "We are currently developing the smart watch equipped with fingerprint identification technology and relevant solutions through cooperation with PayPal, the world's most renowned financial transaction service company, as well as Synaptics, a global company specialized in biometric verification. By the earliest, the third generation smart watch to be released early next year will have this new system in which payment is authorized immediately when users identify themselves through biometric sensors such as a fingerprint or login."Samsung to set up arbitration body over leukemia talks &gt;&gt; Korea TimesSamsung said it has agreed with six representatives at talks currently underway on providing compensation to victims who developed leukemia after working at a chip and display-manufacturing plant, to set up an arbitration body in an effort to agree on financial settlements."Samsung Electronics agreed with six of eight affected families to establish an arbitration body on a compensation settlement for the victims and their families. Further discussions will soon get underway," Samsung said in a statement, Wednesday.This is the first time in four months that Samsung has established an independent unit on compensation settlements since its vice chairman Kwon Oh-hyun made a public apology to those suffering from leukemia and vowed to compensate them.Why it's hard to find Android developers &gt;&gt; SephirothAlessandro Crugnola:Why is hard to find Android developers?Because you [businesses] are not committed to Android development. You just think you "have" to do that. Because at some point you realize either that you need it to go global, or because a lot of users are asking it, or just because you think that porting your app will double your users overnight.But you're not committed to doing it.And when you start, most of the time it's with a 1-to-1 porting of your iOS app, or at the very best a porting of UI created ad hoc for an iOS environment, which cannot be applied to Android (although, to your credit, you probably don't know this because you didn't bother hiring an Android PM or UX expert). I don't think I even need to mention the cases where you've already given the initial porting to 3rd party companies…Then, after all of this, you complain because the response of the Android market is not as good as you expected and the profits are not comparable to iOS.The SSD endurance experiment: only two remain after 1.5 petabytes &gt;&gt; The Tech ReportYou won't believe how much data can be written to modern SSDs. No, seriously. Our ongoing SSD Endurance Experiment has demonstrated that some consumer-grade drives can withstand over a petabyte of writes before burning out. That's a hyperbole-worthy total for a class of products typically rated to survive only a few hundred terabytes at most.Our experiment began with the Corsair Neutron GTX 240GB, Intel 335 Series 240GB, Samsung 840 Series 250GB, and Samsung 840 Pro 256GB, plus two Kingston HyperX 3K 240GB drives. They all surpassed their endurance specifications, but the 335 Series, 840 Series, and one of the HyperX drives failed to reach the petabyte mark. The remainder pressed on toward 1.5PB, and two of them made it relatively unscathed. That journey claimed one more victim, though—and you won't believe which one.OMG SSD CLICKBAIT IS A THING.Against Sharing &gt;&gt; JacobinAvi Asher-Schapiro:Kazi drives a Toyota Prius for Uber in Los Angeles. He hates it. He barely makes minimum wage, and his back hurts after long shifts. But every time a passenger asks what it's like working for Uber, he lies: "It's like owning my own business; I love it."Kazi conceals his opinion because his job depends on it. After passengers finish a ride, Uber asks them to rate their driver on a scale from one to five stars. Drivers with an average below 4.7 can be deactivated — tech-speak for fired.Gabriele Lopez, an LA Uber driver, also withholds the truth. "We just sit there and smile, and tell everyone that the job's awesome, because that's what they want to hear," said Lopez, who's been driving for UberX, the company's low-end car service, since it launched last summer…Uber drivers have no say in the pricing, yet they must carry their own insurance and foot the bill for gas and repairs — a cost of 56¢ per mile, according to IRS estimates. With Uber's new pricing model, drivers are forced to work under razor-thin margins. Arman, for instance, made about $20 an hour just a year ago. And now? Some days he doesn't even break minimum wage.Apple throws down privacy gauntlet &gt;&gt; American Civil Liberties UnionChris Soghoian, principal technologist, on the privacy protection in iOS 8:This was a big step for Apple, and one that likely required significant engineering work. What is so interesting and smart about this move is that rather than telling the government that they no longer want to help the government, they re-architected iOS so they are unable to help the government. Think of it as Apple playing a game of chicken, and the company has just thrown the steering wheel out of the window.That's something that's going to be difficult for most tech companies to do, because so many of them have built their businesses around access to user data. If the companies can search and analyze that data, they can be forced to turn it over to the government. Apple's business model—selling expensive, luxury hardware to consumers—gives them the freedom to lock themselves out of access to their customers' data. Apple doesn't care what you store on your phone as long as you buy a new one every two years.Although today's announcement is certainly big news, in many ways, it is far less significant than Apple's success in delivering end-to-end encrypted text, voice and video communications to the hundreds of millions of people using iMessage and FaceTime. To date, these apps have been advertised as free and easy ways for people to stay in touch with loved ones and family. However, the company could and should start advertising them as a much more secure alternative to regular telephone calls and text messages.Using QR codes: three simple tips &gt;&gt; 51 Degrees51 Degrees is a mobile consultancy, here looking at a McDonalds QR code in-store promotion on some of its tray leaflets, which then opens a URL on your mobile:The page is optimised for large screen laptop computers, or at best bigger screen tablets. How many of McDonalds' customers are really going to be using laptops and tablets to scan the QR Code and view the content? Less than 20% would be my guess, but more on that shortly.Less than 20%? More likely to be less than 2%, surely. Still feels like an idea that hasn't quite hit its mark.Bomb threat targeted Anita Sarkeesian, Gaming awards last March &gt;&gt; KotakuAn anonymous e-mailer threatened to blow up a bomb at the Game Developers Choice Awards this past March unless the hosts rescinded an award recognizing feminist critic Anita Sarkeesian, the organizers of the event have confirmed to Kotaku."We can confirm that approximately 25 of GDC's organizers received an anonymous email early in the morning of Wednesday, March 19th, 2014 during GDC 2014," the organizers said in a statement."The email stated the following: 'A bomb will be detonated at the Game Developer's Choice award ceremony tonight unless Anita Sarkeesian's Ambassador Award is revoked. We estimate the bomb will kill at least a dozen people and injure dozens more. It would be in your best interest to accept our simple request. This is not a joke. You have been warned.'"The threat merited the attention of the San Francisco Police Department's Explosive Ordinance Disposal Division, which sent officers and bomb-sniffing dogs to the Moscone Center, where GDC is held.That's not even the scariest thing Sarkeesian has had to deal with. Read the piece and consider how you would hold up. Plus the commenter(s) insistent it could have been her. Or, equally, space aliens.Nissan faces battery plant cuts as electric car hopes fade &gt;&gt; ReutersThe plan, which faces stiff resistance within the Japanese carmaker, would see US and British production phased out and a reduced output of next-generation batteries concentrated at its domestic plant, two alliance sources told Reuters.In what may also prove a politically sensitive blow to Japan Inc., Nissan would follow Renault by taking cheaper batteries from South Korea's LG Chem for some future vehicles, including models made in China."We set out to be a leader in battery manufacturing but it turned out to be less competitive than we'd wanted," said one executive on condition of anonymity. "We're still between six months and a year behind LG in price-performance terms."So it's not that electric cars as a whole aren't working, just Nissan's battery production.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Congratulations to our top entrant Victoria Buchan who captured the nuts and bolts of a windpump as part of ourenergyproject. See our other favourites in our online galleryhere.This month, we would like you to focus your lenses on images relating to pressure, whether it’s a steam engine or a celebratory bottle of champagne – but don’t forget to let us know how you took the shot.You can share your photos by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article. You can also use theGuardianWitness smartphone appor thenew Guardian appand search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’.Our favourite will be seen in print in the October issue ofObserver Tech Monthlywhile the best of the rest will appear in an online gallery.Closing date is 1 October 2014.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
It's Monday!
Studio XO is the outfit – “fashion laboratory”, they would prefer – that made Lady Gaga fly. Or rather levitate in what looked like, and was, an upscaled manned drone. Still, an airworthy dress called Volantis is not something you see every day. They also created “interactive clothes” for the Black Eyed Peas and the “digital mermaid bra” for Azealia Banks, stage clothes that blink and flash in controlled sequences, and outfitted JLS with boots dotted with LEDs and screens. And earlier this month, they moved on to the catwalk, helping the fashion designer Richard Nicoll create a twinkling optic fibre dress, a couture tribute to Tinkerbell the fairy (Nicoll’s show was sponsored by Disney).It is easy to see these stage costumes as little more than the Nudie suit or Elvis’s sequins with added industrial light and magic, and digital embroidery.But Studio XO, formed in 2011 by Nancy Tilbury and Ben Males (if you watch Gaga take to the air on YouTube, they are the pair in flight suits), see these spectacular pieces as merely test-runs and teasers, the first wave of a wearable revolution. “There is a tsunami coming in fashion, no doubt,” says Tilbury.One of the initial flying dress sketches. Studio XOPhotograph: Studio XOThe next step is to take this technology off the stage and offer it to the people. “We were touring with the Black Eyed Peas, standing beside the stage,” says Tilbury. “And we looked out and there were 80,000 phones in the air taking pictures and there was this scream for the idea of these interconnected artists broadcasting to them, these superhuman robots. And we just looked at each other and said, wow, if you could just harness all that emotion and turn it into a product or an experience.” Studio XO intends to do the harnessing. All they have to do is negotiate the how and the who with.Yet, as we have all learned, no one is ever really sure how people are going to use new technology. And Males suggests that Studio XO is primed to open up a space, create behaviours, that few have really thought about.“People say there are two types of people interested in this technology,” he argues. “People who are into health and fitness and people who want to increase their productivity. And we believe that misses out a whole other category that is more about expression and emotion.”The pair have already developed emotional sensors, technology they call XOX, which they claim can register your psychic state. Saatchi &amp; Saatchi used it in wristbands that could gauge emotional reaction to a show reel. Males and Tilbury suggests that this kind of technology opens up new possibilities for human connection and communication, a new body-born visual landscape, what Tilbury calls the “ambient mapping of emotion”.Nancy Tilbury and Ben Males with Lady Gaga at the ‘Artrave’ Press Conference.Photograph: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for 42 WestMales studied mechanical engineering at Imperial College, with a special interest in nuclear reactor design. He also had an interest in fashion which ultimately had a more powerful pull. Tilbury studied fashion at the RCA before moving to the research lab of the Dutch technology giant Philips where she pioneered wearable technology. She also worked with the Media Lab at MIT and set up the MA fashion futures programme at Kingston University. She met Males when he was teaching at the RCA.Their studio is in a nondescript block in Holloway, north London. There are 3D printers and soldering irons but also scissors, cut-out paper patterns and rolls of fabric. The pair have around 10 staff, whom they describe as “hybrids”: designers as well as coders and engineers who, like them, want to cold-fuse fashion design and technology. “There has always been this problem with this over-the-wall approach,” says Males. “Scientists solve something and they hand it over the wall to the designers. We want to break down those walls.”The next stage is Studio XOB, their own label. Their first output will probably be a version of the JLS trainers and then a “jacket that can remix content on the body”. “We are making a lot of decisions about where we go next,” says Tilbury. “The products in our mind are designed. But we really need to test the environment to see where we are in terms of people using content on the body.”They talk of Studio XOB as a platform, as much as a brand; a platform that other brands can jump off. “The big question for the fashion industry at the moment is what is digital,” says Males. “And no one really knows. We want to create this platform that says this is how you use digital.”“But I don’t think it will be long before we are talking to the likes of Prada,” insists Tilbury. “You can imagine Celine, for example, wanted a dress that pulsates between different shades of deep blue.” Nicoll suggests there is definitely an appetite among designers for those kinds of effects. “I’d love to incorporate it every season; it’s modern, relevant and it pushes boundaries.” But he also points out that, for the moment, cost is a factor. “The price is prohibitive for large-scale production but I suppose it can be seen as modern couture.”Fergie from the Black Eyed Peas in a Studio XO outfit.Photograph: Tom BanksThe first wave of wearables, though, might be described as body content rather than couture special effects. “Kids are saying, I’ve had lights in my sneakers, why can’t I put an Instagram image on there?’” says Tilbury. “The idea of the digital skin is so unexplored and that is what we want to do.” They imagine clothes that can download new images, videos and effects.The problem at the moment is that it can still look like a load of wires, LEDs and mini-screens inelegantly grafted into and on to traditional jackets and shoes. But they are confident radical new materials are out there, being developed in labs around the world but with no clear use in mind. Studio XO will, they say, join the dots.Next up on Studio XO’s development time line are clothes that can change size and shape at the touch of a button, the application of micro-robotics to textiles. “We haven’t even scratched the surface,” says Tilbury.
I have seen the future, and I’m worried it’s really going to mess me up.Specifically, I have a cutting-edge virtual reality device, halfway between an old-fashioned Polaroid camera and a snorkel mask, strapped over my face. A few minutes in, I’m no longer sure whether I’m facing forwards, backwards, or simply crouching for dear life as a Tyrannosaurus Rex stomps down the cavernous, echoing hallway of an empty big-city museum – at night. I am, inexplicably, rooted to the spot, not running at full pelt, while T-Rex roars his terrible roar and slobbers his terrible slobber. And then he lurches forward to crush me underfoot.Back in the real word, which is to say no more than two feet away, I can hear my minder – my guide, my virtual reality goggle-strapper – laughing helplessly as I flinch and weave to dodge T-Rex’s pile-driver legs and his lethally wagging tail.“That one really got you, didn’t it,” she says.I don’t begrudge her the moment. She is, after all, trapped in a tiny airless cubicle all day, doing one demonstration after another for the hundreds of people lining up to try a new prototype fromOculus, the pioneering virtual reality developer which has jumped out so far ahead of the competition that it was snapped up by Facebook six months ago for a cool $2bn.Andrew Gumbel and his minder in the tiny airless cubicle.Photograph: OculusBut I am a little angry with myself for suspending disbelief, against my better judgment, and achieving what the virtual reality geeks refer to as “presence” – that is to say, forgetting that my senses and mind are being shamelessly toyed with and behaving, however momentarily, as though the dinosaur staring me in the face were all too real.In short, Oculus appears to be on to something. It’s been barely two years since the company was just a pushy start-up relying on a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign, with only the haziest notion of how quickly it could create virtual 3D worlds and make them convincing enough to be commercially viable. Already it is on to a third-generation device that, like its predecessors, will be sold to game developers so they can let their imaginations run rampant and come up with content commensurate with the state of the art.This model, named Crescent Bay, represents a major leap forward – not only because it captures that lightning in a bottle and achieves “presence”, but also because it no longer induces nausea in most users. Motion sickness is an issue that many gaming enthusiasts have happily overlooked for the past year or two but one that Oculus understands it had to conquer if it is to have any hope of selling virtual reality to the general public – the company’s chief executive, Brendan Iribe, called it “the elephant in the room” before declaring the elephant well and truly slain.Two weeks ago, Samsung seconded the company’s confidence and announced it was producing the first commercial virtual reality device – essentially, a mobile version of the previous Oculus prototype with a Samsung Galaxy smartphone slapped across the front to act as the screen.The Gear, as it will be known, was less polished than Crescent Bay when I tested it – it overheated the first time and froze the second time – but it still achieved moments of “presence”, particularly with its 360-degree photographs and videos. The Gear put me on the very top of Berlin’s television tower circa 2002, and the view to the ground was so vertigo-inducing I caught myself clutching the side of the device, to steady myself.To virtual reality freaks in the gaming world, this feels like a watershed moment – as attested by the wild enthusiasm and clamorous applause of the attendees, most of them game developers, who filled the ballroom of a Hollywood conference hotel to capacity. Iribe, channeling Steve Jobs, made a rock-star entrance from stage right, wearing an Oculus t-shirt, dark designer jeans and a black jacket, and proceeded to talk about the magic revolution he believed he had unleashed.“This is the Holy Grail,” he said. “We’ve thought about VR for decades. We’ve dreamed about VR.”Even if this is the beginning of a new era, it is by common consent very early days. Oculus’s chief scientist, Michael Abrash, said the industry still needed “more of everything” – more moving parts, sharper definition, dramatically improved graphics. One demonstration piece put the user in a cinema to watch 3D previews, and while the seating area responded impressively to the different light intensities on screen, the seats were still empty. The reality, at times, felt more congealed than virtual.One demonstration piece put the user in a cinema to watch 3D previews.Photograph: OculusFor now, VR is largely the domain of gamers, because that is where the enthusiasm and the money is. But attendees pointed to many uses virtual reality machines could have in the near future – allowing a couple renovating their home to see the end-result just from the architect’s plans and check, say, that the kitchen cupboards aren’t too high to open comfortably; or allowing an industry regulatory agency to model the emissions it expects from a factory and show local residents what the sky might look like on an average day.It seems inevitable, however, that any commercial application would be open to every conceivable form of distortion and deception. Iribe and Abrash talked extensively about the technology being about “tricking” the brain into believing things that aren’t so. “Really, our brains might as well be hooked up to wires and glass jars, given the way we process reality,” Abrash said at one point.As he talked excitedly about creating the new wave of technological progress, I kept thinking of the scientist in Terminator 2 who believes he is working for the good of humanity – until confronted with the terrifying machines his work will eventually make possible.It’s not inconceivable that the future could be a Matrix-type scenario in which the “reality” people experience is just a veneer behind which lurks a much uglier world. Or it could be one where people become addicted to self-gratification – everything from virtual sex, engaging all five senses, to virtual dates in which partners living on opposite sides of the world meet in medieval China or 1920s Paris.The Oculus team may be excited to be riding the crest of this new technological wave, but it also clearly understands this potential dark side. One of the worlds created for the demonstration was a dystopian future city in which the tallest skyscraper was a skinny tower with the Oculus name and eye logo at the top – reminiscent of nothing so much as the sinister, all-seeing tower of Isengard from The Lord of the Rings.The reference was of course meant as a joke, but it was only so funny.
U2 have a new album – and it’s all over the web. There are 14 downloads points. It’s all over BitTorrent, available for free. People are exchanging notes about how to download it for free. There’s a certain element of glee that the album, which wasn’t going to be available, has suddenly leaked out.No, I’m not talking about the release the other week on iTunes, for free, ofU2’sSongs Of Innocence. This is a rewind to February 2009, when the band’s previous album,No Line On The Horizon, leaked out on to the web nearly two weeks ahead of its official release date. The same had happened before that, withHow To Dismantle an Atomic Bombin 2004: leaks, and peer-to-peer delight at getting something for nothing.Yet to judge by the howls when Apple made the latest album free to download to all of the 800m or so iTunes account holders (by automatically adding it to their “Purchased” folder), there’s nothing the internet hates more than getting music for free. Especially if, in the case of people who have “automatically download new purchases” turned on, the music appears in their music folders. (For everyone else, it is simply sitting as a potential, but unrealised, download.)So what’s going on, internet? Do you like getting U2 music for free, or not? Actually, and as so often, the howls came from a minority – as you can tell by the fact that all of U2’s other albums immediately shot back into the charts. But those outside the fanbase seemed to throw a collective grump. And those who get their kicks from purloining stuff that they’re expected to pay for were especially grumpy. How very dare the music industry make something available for free that it usually gets people to pay for. And what a wicked notion to get the world’s most valuable company to bear the costs of buying it (Apple is said to have kicked in $100m on this). It’s much more wicked thanSamsung spending $5m on Jay-Z’sMagna Carta Holy Graillast yearto make it available to a million Galaxy smartphone owners … isn’t it?Both Jay-Z and U2 got some bad reviews for reasons unrelated to the music content.Samsung’s special app for downloading the album crashed(leading a waggish commentator to observe that Jay-Z now had the round 100 problems). U2’s album has a slew of one-star reviews from frustrated would-be listeners who don’t seem to have received the album. Distributing the data to hundreds of millions of accounts turns out to be a non-trivial task.But there’s another way to view it. “Giving away a U2 album highlights how much Apple has missed the shift in music consumption,”observed Peter Richardson of Counterpoint Researchafter the event. He’s pointing to the fact that streaming music has become so important to the business. It’s certainly how I tend to discover new music: I find new artists through streaming service Deezer (and previously, before the sad demise of its cheap streaming service, last.fm) and via songs I hear and identify via Shazam. By contrast, iTunes is mostly for when you’re sure you want something. It’s buying the book versus visiting the library.We’re moving though to a time where people aren’t content with buying the book, nor visiting the library. They want to carry the library with them all the time. Hence Spotify and its mobile subscriptions. But are people happy to pay for the library? Music piracy is still an issue that the record labels grapple with – though the introduction of streaming services, notably Spotify, does seem to have reduced it to a hardcore who just won’t pay for anything, and enjoy getting stuff for free. Such as U2 albums. Hang on a minute.Maybe the real problem is that the music industry has actually done what every internet critic kept saying it should: find a different business model. Getting Apple to pay for an album is the same process as the Coca-Cola company licensing the Ting Tings for new ads, or a TV company using a song to advertise a new series (I know a veteran guitarist whose bank account got a nice uplift via a detective series recently). Perhaps the problem isn’t with U2; it’s with some people’s expectation a few years ago that the music business would roll over and start giving everything away without strings. That was never going to happen – except in the minds of those less imaginative than record executives. Complaining about the U2 album puts you into that category. Now, are you still sure you want to complain about this?
1 The pomeranian –Tokyo JungleTaking the DNA of arcade gaming to the PS3,Tokyo Jungleremains one of the console’s largely under-recognised gems. Presenting a world where humans have vanished, leaving their cities as proving grounds for a new animal hegemony, it built gameplay around survival, evolution and even a bit of playfully romanticised animal copulation. The game was anything but easy, and hugely stylish. And its star was that well-known beguiler of Crufts judges, the pomeranian. The prime playable character, this plucky canine – often seen still dragging a pink lead in the dust – was a true star, outwitting great danger and establishing itself as an unlikely video gaming hero. It turns out that sporting frizzy red fur needn’t hinder those eager to claim their place in the interspecies pecking order.Riley in Call of Duty- Ghosts.Photograph: Observer2 Riley –Call of Duty: GhostsAs the next instalment in the household name shooter was revealed, it wasn’t the glossy visuals or hi-tech arsenal that garnered the most excitement online. Rather, it was Riley, a playable dog character with a knack for charming jaded gamers, and who quickly became a star of the online realm. Developer Infinity Ward confessed it wasn’t expecting such affection, but they had gone the extra distance in breathing life into their four-legged combatant. AsGhostswas developed a real trained Navy Seal dog visited the studio, donned a motion-capture suit and performed in a “capture volume” stage, providing data that would enable its digital counterpart to move with all the grace of a real-world dog soldier.PaRappa the Rapper.Photograph: Observer3 PaRappa –PaRappa the RapperDonning an orange beenie and an unrelentingly positive spring in his step, MC, dancer and committed optimist PaRappa – backed by a cast of hens, martial artist onions and talking flowers – convinced the world of the merits of the rhythm-action genre in 1996. Led by its dog host, the game combined the basic principals of the electronic toy Simon with the vibes of a daisy age De La Soul LP, and to this day stands as an icon of Japanese game design. The same year PaRappa made his debut, canine hip-hop cohort Snoop unleashed his own record,Doggfather. A great year for wagging tails to rap cuts, then, and perhaps one that inspired Lil’ Bow Wow.Nintendogs.Photograph: Observer4 Nintendogs -NintendogsThere was once a rumour that such was the success of the Tamagotchis in the mid-90s that a gangster empire was built on counterfeiting the virtual pets. They had a power even organised criminals couldn’t resist, apparently. No such underworld dalliances for the Tamagotchi’s spiritual offspring Nintendogs, who in 2005 spearheaded the casual gaming boom as the titular stars of Nintendo’s extravagantly popular pet-rearing game. These pooches demanded walking, feeding, brushing and playing. And how did they pay back their devoted owners? They just about understood voice control. Just like a real dog then.The engaging dog in Fable II.Photograph: Observer5 Dog –Fable IIThe Fable RPG series is as close as there is to a “British Zelda”. A light RPG set in the rolling hills of Albion, the game in its opening chapters introduced a wandering nameless dog, with which the player could build a symbiotic relationship. It was, as much as any of the best fictional relationships in videogames, meaningful, rewarding, and strangely touching. And if you stuck by your four-legged companion, you could eventually even name the creature. The Fable series famously let the player develop as either a being of good or evil, and in the second release in the main canon in particular, the dog’s behaviour was one of the most apparent indicators of the protagonist’s position on that spectrum. Good dogs, it turns out, are playful retrievers.The laughing dog in Duck Hunt.Photograph: Observer6 Laughing Dog –Duck HuntDown the sights of a NES Zapper lightgun, there weren’t just ducks. There was a smug, fearless hound with opposable thumbs.FUTURE TECHGame JamsThe idea of a game jam is simple. Make a game, typically within 24 hours to one week, competing with other teams while recognising a brief revealed at the moment of the starting whistle. The largest, such as Global Game Jam, welcome tens of thousands of entrants. The smallest might be a creative exercise within a game studio.They let developers flex creative muscle, welcome newcomers to the world of making games, and even spawn hit releases such asSurgeon Simulator.As September and October roll on, there are jams for NESdevelopmentand building your owncontrollers. And if you want to play some jam creations, late August saw Ludum Dare spawn 2,539 games around the theme “connected worlds”. Try them forfree.PIXEL PERFECTRetro rebootedArcade classicCrazy Taxiwas always a game with mass appeal in its sights. So perhaps it’s no surprise that the 1999 release has now been reworked for smartphone and tablet, rebranded asCrazy Taxi: City Rush.Kenji Kanno, the man behind the original, is on hand as executive producer, and his effort for touchscreen devices is undeniably fun. It’s effectively an on-rails “endless driver” – thinkTemple Runon wheels – and is a free-to-play affair.Like many “free” mobile games,City Rushfavours those that spend money on extras, and sometimes its appetite for cash can feel irksome. But the spirit and energy of the original is firmly in place, and, the endless running gameplay is surprisingly evocative of the pace of the arcadeoriginal.
Facebook Messenger1) Avoid using MessengerFacebook has drawn the ire of its users by making it nigh-on impossible to not move over to the new Messenger app, which replaces the message functionality on the Facebook app itself. Now, when you click on messages, you are obliged to install Messenger, unless you’re content to never send Facebook messages from your phone again.The only workaround, for the time being, is to use the mobile browser version of Facebook. There have been suggestions that on iOS if you pause the installation of Messenger, or delete it after installation, you can continue to send messages the old way, but we found this didn’t work.2). Mute notifications in Facebook messenger2) Silence that awful soundFacebook Messenger has been controversial, to say the least. Not only are users irritated by being forced to use the app, the ‘Ping!’ notification can quickly become relentless when you’re in a group conversation, for example.This is harder to stop on iOS than on Android.Head to Settings -&gt; Notifications on iOS to can mute all conversations for either 1hr or until 8am, however long that may be. Alternatively head to a specific conversation and click the “i” on the top-right hand corner to mute for 1 hr, until 8am, or indefinitely. If you really want to nix any sounds from the Messenger app entirely, head to your iOS Settings -&gt; Notification Center -&gt; Messenger -&gt; Sounds.On Android you can simply head to Settings -&gt; Notifications and customize notifications however you wish, including disabling that awful ‘Ping!’ To Mute specific conversations, select and hold the conversation in the ‘Recents’ tab, then click ‘Mute notifications’.3) Chat headsYou may want ready and easy access to particularly important Facebook Messenger conversations. Chat heads are small bubbles that remain on your phone’s screen even after you leave the Messenger app, allowing you to click back into a conversation easily. To create a chat head, click and hold a conversation in the ‘Recents’ tab, then click ‘Open chat head’. This is only available on Android.4) See shared photosScrolling through reams and reams of messages to find that one photo someone sent two weeks ago is a pretty inefficient way of doing things. Facebook Messenger lets you see all the photos sent in a single conversation in a collated grid view, making the ordeal of finding an old photo much less painful. To go to the collated grid view on iOS, click the ‘i’ at the top right of a conversation -&gt;Photos (or in group chat, ‘i’ -&gt; More -&gt; See Photos). On Android, you will need to open a chat head, then click the three vertical dots on the top right -&gt; See Shared Photos.Viber5). Don’t download pictures in Viber.5) Don’t auto download my photos please!Use Viber for a short while and you will quickly find your phone filled with pictures and videos that you neither took nor saved yourself. This is because Viber, like WhatsApp, automatically downloads and saves any images you receive. To end this multimedia tyranny, on iOS, click ‘More’ on the bottom right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Media. On Android, it’s in the same location: Menu -&gt; Settings -&gt; Media.6) Be more privateBy default, your contacts can see when you were last active on Viber and if you have read their message. The obvious result being if you’re actively avoiding someone, they can probably tell. You can easily disable both of these functions. On iOS, click ‘More’ on the bottom right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Privacy. You will also be able to block contacts from this menu. On Android, it’s in the same location: Menu -&gt; Settings -&gt; Privacy.7). Smart Notifications in Viber7) Smarter notificationsIf you are receiving a particularly large amount of messages from someone, but don’t want to be buzzed every time, Viber has the option to enable ‘Smart Notifications’. When this is on, you will receive notifications for the first one or two texts, but messages from your contact immediately after won’t buzz your phone. Sadly this function is only available on Android. Select a conversation, then swipe left. A menu will appear with an option for ‘Smart Notifications’WhatsApp8) More private messagingWhatsApp is similar to Viber in many ways, including in the fact that it lets your contacts see when you were last in the app, hardly ideal if you’re slow at replying to messages or just plain don’t want to talk to someone. Disabling this feature is straightforward. On iOS, within the app, head to Settings -&gt; Account -&gt; Privacy. You can also block numbers from this menu. On Android the process is the same. Head to Settings -&gt; Account -&gt; Privacy. In the same menu, on iOS and Android, you can block contacts who you no longer want to be able to message you.9) Don’t autosave mediaAgain, just like Viber, WhatsApp will save all images and videos you receive to your phone, clogging up your photos with content you didn’t explicitly want to be there. To disable this go to Settings -&gt; Chat Settings -&gt; Save Incoming Media. On Android this option is found in the same place: Settings -&gt; Chat Settings -&gt; Media Auto Download -&gt; Data.SnapChat10). Snapchat Fun Filters10) Fun FiltersEveryone knows you can doodle on your Snapchats, it’s a core premise of the messaging app. But you can also add filters to your photos, giving them the look and feel of Instagram photos. To enable filters, click the clear square at the bottom left of the screen when you open the app, then click the cog at the top right hand of the screen to enter Settings -&gt; Manage -&gt; Filters. You will need to give Snapchat your location data. Then when you take a photo, simply swipe left and right to add filters.Snapchat also has location-based filters, which are special overlays that only appear when you’re in certain places. So far it appears they only work in the US, at famous locations in New York, for example, and at attractions like Disneyland.11). Enlarged text in Snapchat11) Embiggen textIn the same menu as ‘Filters’ is ‘Special Text’, which allows you to enlargen the text you send. While this might seem rather mundane, it offers new opportunities for creativity when mixed with emojis, which can also be enlargened. Once this feature is enabled by going to Settings -&gt; Manage, you will see a large ‘T’ in the top right hand corner whenever you type text into your Snapchats.12) Black and whiteThe ordinary colour palette on Snapchat is rather limited, conspicuously lacking white or black. But a simple trick will let you access a whole range of new colours and tones. When you select the pen tool, tap and hold the colour bar. Instead of swiping up and down, instead swipe left and upward to the opposite side of the screen. Here you’ll find white. Swipe down to the bottom of the screen and you’ll find black. In between, you’ll find varying shades of the default colours. On Android you can even paint transparently: tap and hold on the colour bar until the full palette appears, then select the transparent colour.13). Front-facing flash in Snapchat13) Front facing flashFew if any smartphones have a flash for the front-facing camera (that’s the one you use for selfies, by the way). But Snapchat has a nifty way of recreating the flash effect even in the absence of a physical flash. When taking a photo with the front-facing camera, Snapchat will force the screen to flash all white at the instant the photo is captured. The blast of light created is basically equivalent to a flash. To enable this, go to Settings -&gt; Manage -&gt; Front-Facing Flash. On the same menu you’ll have options to enable replaying people’s Snapchats and ‘Special’ (read ‘Larger’) text.14) Stop chat messages from disappearingSnapchat used to be a simple photosharing app, but in May this year it introduced a text chat function. Now when you exchange snaps with someone, you can also swipe right on their name to bring up a chat box that works in the same way as any other instant messaging app. There’s one crucial difference, the text disappears as soon as you close the chat box, which can quickly become frustrating if you’re exchanging information you need to remember. To stop this from happening, simply tap on the message you want to save – it will become highlighted in grey and won’t be deleted until you un-highlight it again by tapping it.iMessage15) Switch Off Read ReceiptsLet’s start with the simple stuff: read receipts. When you’re a messaging a friend, these appear underneath their messages on their end of the conversation, showing them if you have opened the chat and seen their message, which means they know exactly how long you took to reply. This can be disabled by heading to iOS Settings -&gt; Messages -&gt; Send Read Receipts16) Send texts from your computerIf you are working hard at your laptop, you may not want to break your flow to check messages on your phone. Download the Messages app for Mac and you will be able to have iMessage chats from your computer. Better still, with the new OS X Yosemite, you’re not just restricted to iMessages, you can also send SMS.17) GIFs!Animated GIFs are those short, looping, often hilarious, videos that dominate much of the web’s less serious communication. Although it may not the most important feature that the iPhone has to offer, iMessage supports animated GIFs. Send one to your friend and it will automatically play in your conversation thread. To send an GIF with iMessage, save a GIF to your Photos in the same way you would an ordinary picture, then during an iMessage conversation, click the Camera icon and ‘Choose Existing’. Alternatively, you can enter the ‘Photos’ app, click the GIF, select the box with the upward arrow at the bottom left of the screen, then select ‘Message’.18). Caps lock in iMessage18) Write in capital lettersSending long messages, emails, Facebook posts or tweets in all-caps is widely regarded as obnoxious, but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t have its place. This is more of a general keyboard trick for iOS, than specific to iMessage; it will work for all of the apps here. The shift key on the iOS keyboard switches between upper and lower case, but annoyingly it only allows you to type one capital letter before you have to tap it again. Alternatively, you can hold it down, which makes typing difficult. But if you double tap the key, it will go into all caps mode, allowing you to type in upper case continually. To go back to lower case, simply tap the key again.19) View time stampsiMessage hides the time stamps for messages by default (the same is true for iOS texts generally). Instead of showing the time of each text, it simply shows when a session of texts begun. Swipe left on a conversation, however, and you will be able to see the time of each and every text.20). Emojis in iMessage20) Emojis!Emojis are a fun way of communicating in shorthand online, replacing text-based communication with a visual language that is broad enough to let you say almost anything, but restrictive enough to force you to be creative about how you construct messages. There are cute little illustrated icons to represent everything from facial expressions, to landmarks, to fruit. You could think of them as hieroglyphics. To enable emojis in iMessage (and for the keyboard generally across all apps on iOS), go to iOS Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Keyboard -&gt; Keyboards -&gt; ‘Add New Keyboard’ -&gt; Emoji. On Android phones, emojis are active by default. Simply click the smiley face on the bottom left of the keyboard. Some of the emojis are slightly different on Android. For example, the dancing lady emoji on iOS is a dancing man on Android.
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?My son’s a gadget fiend but he moved out because I used him as tech support too much. I was constantly making him do things – fix my iPhone, tweet for me. He’s moved far away and now I don’t know where he lives. He’s eight. (Laughs)Do you use technology more in your work since you moved away from comedy towards being a “poster girl for mental health”?Well, I’ve always loved to write and I carry my MacBook Air with me in case any genius floats into my mind. I also have a website and said in the beginning that it was only to promote my shows and my book. But now it’s turned into a disease where I’m doing it for any attention or affection that I can wheedle out.Is it the same with social media? You’re on Twitter with 89,000 followers.Totally. At first, I convinced myself that my Twitter account was for PR and highlighting important mental health issues, scientific breakthroughs and anti-discrimination initiatives. Now I’m just talking about shopping and watering my tree. It’s humiliating. A cry for help.What other social networks do you use?None. I don’t Facebook, I don’t have time. Instagram is just too desperate and dumb. Your self-esteem ends up being dictated by how many people thumbs-up you. Oh God, it’s so superficial.You did a degree in mindfulness-based cognitive therapy at Oxford. Did you use the web a lot for for research ?Very much so. One upside of technology is that I don’t have to go to school, I can steal everybody else’s work off the web.Does technology cause problems with mental wellbeing, by contributing to a more frenetic world?No, people do that themselves. How can you blame it on technology? It’s about your relationship with it. Put the device down. People can’t blame inanimate objects, they have to take responsibility.You wrote in your book about shopping obsessively online, constantly checking emails and feeling anxious…Yeah, but it’s my disease, my illness, not the internet’s fault. It’s my job to wean myself off, the web’s not going to do it for me. You have to decide when going online is essential and when it’s just the drug, the desperation. Find your own tipping point and learn to watch out for it...Are you a phone junkie?Yeah, that’s another addiction. But I’ve learnt and now I don’t answer calls when I’m working or when I’m with my kids.Do you use textspeak or emojis?No. Who the fuck has time? As if a smiley face is going to express your feelings.What’s your favourite app?TED talks. That’s just genius. I would’ve been much smarter if I’d had that as a kid.Do you recommend mindfulness apps?Yeah, there are good ones but the bottom line is you have to do it yourself. Someone can talk you through it but it’s like going to the gym, you have to focus. You can get as many mindfulness things as you want but if you’re not committing to it, it’s not gonna help.What’s your favourite gadget?My Macbook. I love the feel of it under my fingers. I did have an iPad too but there’s no reason any more because the Mac’s so thin and light.What’s your most expensive gadget?I don’t know. Wouldn’t that be the MacBook?Depends if you’ve got a swanky TV or something.Maybe we do. I don’t buy the television. I point to the TV and say: “What the hell’s she wearing?” or: “Do we have to watch this?” (Laughs). Actually, the most expensive gadget at home is the boiler, which I have to replace every week. There’s a sign outside my house saying: “Rip me off.”Is there a gadget which you bought but never used?Oh, loads. Those little music players you wore on your wrist. Fitbits, pedometers, things for measuring your heart - they were an atrocity of nature. I got a breadmaker and that held the door open for about a year.Do you ever Google yourself?No. I have no idea what’s out there. I’d be mortified. I know there was a picture of me on a porn site and they’d put my head on the body of a young girl. I was thrilled.Have you tried Google Glass?Yes! It’s too sensational to even discuss, kind of a heightened state. You never have to hit reality again, which is good if you’re a person who’d probably like morphine or coke.Online banking or in the branch?Neither. Hide your money in your pillowcase and lock the doors.Do you use self-service tills in the supermarket ?I wait for a person. I like them to check out my food and judge me. Do they have anything terminal? Are they divorced? You don’t get that from a fucking machine.Which gadget should be invented?Something where I could read my own genome, then create my own medication.Ruby Wax’s Sane New World tour continues.The bookis out now (Hodder).
GO ANALOGUEThe most reliable way to avoid creating a social media profile of your child is to embrace analogue technology. That is, buy a film camera (lots of bargains on eBay), get the photos processed at your local Snappy Snaps (if it hasn’t closed down) and put them in an album (Muji do nice ones). You can then take the album to social occasions and “update” your “friends” by showing them photographs of Oscar’s first steps and whatnot. They will be able to “comment” and “like” the photographs, but their comments won’t be permanently recorded on the internet, Oscar will be out reach of facial recognition technology and his steps won’t be turned into data points for multinationals or governments.UpsideDoesn’t require the memorising of any passwords, involve the ongoing management of privacy settings or increase the likelihood that an extremely large number of people will be privy to your intimate family moments.DownsideA roll of colour film and processing starts at about £8. You can’t put movies in an analogue album. Leaving the album on the bus would constitute a lapse in privacy settings.DROPBOXThe cloud storage service allows you to share photo albums with non-Dropboxusers, however you have to upgrade to “Pro” to password protect those links and to have the ability to revoke access to an individual.UpsideSimple set-up. Very difficult to mistakenly share something. No adverts.DownsideThe Pro service is £7.99 per month. Not recommended by Edward Snowden who described it as “hostile to privacy”. He recommendsSpideroakwhich employs a “zero-knowledge” system to protect your data from snoopers and hackers. The service operates much like Dropbox although password-protected sharing is possible using a free account.IPHOTO/CLOUDThis servicehas been gettingsome bad press, however if you take the right precautions it is an option worth considering. Moreover if you’re not a famous actress (sorry about that) you’re less likely to be targeted by hackers.From iPhoto &gt; Preferences &gt; Photo Stream you can switch on “Shared photo stream”. You can create one or more photo streams and share them with iCloud members and also with non-members, although the latter won’t be able to comment on your pictures.It is pretty straightforward to remove and add pictures to the stream and also revoke access to a subscriber if you so wish. You can use this function without enabling My Photo Stream which was the feature that created embarrassing problems for those actresses. iPhoto does include a default facial recognition feature called Faces but if you stubbornly refuse to name people it is not going to learn anything.Apple is replacing iPhoto with Photo for Mac in 2015 but the Shared Photo Stream feature will remain.UpsideSimple to set-up, free if you already have iPhoto installed and an iCloud account (which you may be paying for depending on your storage needs). A good option if you already use iPhoto to store and organise your photographs.DownsideOnly works on Macs, although you can share with non-Mac users.FACEBOOKIf you mustuse Facebook,here’s how to set it up. First, click on the little padlock icon on the top right. Choose Privacy and set Who can see my stuff? to Friends and also Limit Past Posts – this restricts old posts to Friends which were previously posted using Facebook’s Friends of Friends setting. Next within Timeline and Tagging, anything about reviewing tags choose On, anything about who can see stuff select Friends. Also, keep an eye on the final option which is about Facebook’s face recognition technology automatically tagging anyone in your photographs – when this becomes available, opt out.It is wise to purge your friends list to remove randoms you have met in bars, old school friends you never liked anyway and all the other sub-acquaintances. This will reduce your number but scientists sayanything more than 150 friendsis just silly anyhow.Then create a Friends List of people with whom you are comfortable sharing family photographs. (You might want to name this list yourself rather than filling out the Family and Close Friends labels FSomething to bear in mind with all of these web options is that once a photo is online it can be downloaded or screen-grabbed by anyone with access to it, who might then distribute it, upload it to another site, alter it and/or use it for a grubby and/or illegal purpose. Even if you set them up correctly the security of these services is dependent on the trustworthiness and technical expertise of the people you share with.Also, a hybrid option could be to continue using your digital image capturing device but save and edit all your photos locally on your hard drive using iPhoto or Windows My Pictures, then print them and create an analogue album. This avoids putting your pictures online which is the source of these concerns rather than digital photography per se.acebook provides – do you want to tell FB to know who your nearest and dearest are? Let their algorithms try to figure it out.)Then next time you post a photo of Esme with her cat, click on the little head and shoulders icon next to the date and select this friend list from the drop-down menu. You must remember to do this each time. And don’t add location info.UpsideSharing is simple and quick.DownsideYou can only share with people who have Facebook accounts. You have to be vigilant about sharing with all your friends or all users by accident, and be alert to the site’s changing privacy policy. Facebook’s current business model involves harvesting as much data about you and your child as possible and you may not be comfortable with this.Make sure you use the privacy settings on Facebook.Photograph: Eric Thayer/Reuters
There is an unwritten rule that one does not post photos of other people’s children on Facebook. I know this. And yet in October 2012, swept away with the excitement of the birth of my son (and probably a little sleep-deprived), I made a terrible mistake. My friend, let’s call her Katy, invited me over to meet her own new arrival, a little boy exactly one month younger than my son, Max. I took a photo of the two of them lying side by side; one in a red Baby-gro, the other in white. Max was already a good two inches longer than the new baby, which I found startling as he was still so tiny, and he had already started to lose some of that crinkly new-baby look.On my way home, I looked at the photo and felt a swell of pride. It seemed to say so much: here were two fresh baby boys who would likely grow up with a catalogue of shared childhood memories, their friendship predetermined by their parents’ relationship. Without really thinking, I opened the Facebook app on my phone and uploaded the photo, alongside a reference to my friend and the caption: “what a difference a month makes.”People love photos of new babies, so it’s not surprising that within a couple of hours I had amassed tens of likes, as well as multiple comments. But then the email arrived.It was from my friend. The tone was light-hearted, but she was obviously upset. Her inbox had been flooded with messages from friends congratulating her on the birth of their son. Most of them didn’t even know she had entered labour; she certainly hadn’t got around to sending out that all-important first photo. She asked if I would kindly delete the post, which I immediately did. I felt horrified; I had effectively broken the embargo on their baby.Love it or loathe it, Facebook is a fact of modern life, and the arrival of smartphones has made the process of updating your status near-effortless. One implication is that most of us give far less thought to what we post online than in the days when we had to go home and switch on our computers before telling the world what we had been up to. Occasionally we make mistakes, posting an embarrassing photo or an angry comment, say, but we are consenting adults and these are our mistakes to make. By signing up to social networking sites we also consciously agree to them using our personal data to some degree. But what of our children?Most people who have a relationship with a child will have posted, or thought about posting something about them on Facebook, Instagram or Twitter at some point. But is it safe, or even ethical to publish something about someone who can’t give their consent? And as the business models of social networking sites change and digital technology develops, could these innocent snapshots someday come back and bite our children on the behind?When it comes to posting pictures of kids, parents are often the worst culprits. A recent US study found that 63% of mums use Facebook; of these, 97% said they post pictures of their child; 89% post status updates about them, and 46% post videos. I do it myself, though sparingly – and admittedly this is more to cultivate the image that my life hasn’t been completely swamped by my kids, rather than because of any safety fears. But there are photos that I probably wouldn’t share; naked photos of my kids; snaps where I or they are captured in unflattering poses; and shots that might clearly identify where we live (just in case someone decides to sneak over and attack us in the night). I have never really thought these rules through, they are more instincts.I do it because I want to share the growth and development of my children with friends and relatives who don’t necessarily live nearby. It seems harmless, as my privacy settings mean that only my friends can see them. But is that good enough?“There are two things to be careful about,” says Victoria Nash, acting director of theOxford Internet Institute. “One is the amount of information that you give away, which might include things like date of birth, place of birth, the child’s full name, or tagging of any photographs with a geographical location – anything that could be used by somebody who wanted to steal your child’s identity.“The second issue is more around consent. What type of information would children want to see about themselves online at a later date?”As Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology at the London School of Economics, and an expert on children and the internet says, the nature of what is being posted is important: “I think we should start with the question of cost – if you post a picture of your child with the mark of the devil on their arm, or in a temper tantrum, perhaps that will have a future cost. It’s not all pictures, but certain pictures that are problematic.”According to the online recruitment site Career Builder, around a fifth of employers use social networking sites to research job candidates, and close to 59% say they would be influenced by a candidate’s online presence. University admissions tutors are also rumoured to Google candidates, although the extent to which this occurs is unknown.“If you put information out there, you are a possibly putting your child at risk in the present, and you could be putting them at risk in the future,” says Livingstone. “We don’t really have a good sense of how likely this is, but both are only likely to increase.”I wonder about my fellow parent friends on Facebook – many of whom share photos of their children – so I post a status update asking for their thoughts. Most say they feel confident sharing information about their children because, like me, their privacy settings mean that these are only shared with friends. But as I dig deeper I realise that some friends have given more thought to this than I have.Sarah is a friend with a year-old daughter, affectionately known as Libbet, who likes nothing better than watchingFrozenin her princess dress, unscrewing her mum’s nail varnish and biting people’s toes. I know this because Sarah updates her Facebook feed with Libbet anecdotes and her own feelings about motherhood on a near-daily basis. Mostly, I find it entertaining, and it creates an emotional bond between us that would be all the weaker, were our interactions strictly limited to physical meet-ups – especially now that we live in different cities. Sarah says this is part of why she does it. “I think if I didn’t put stuff up, then the people we love would miss out on some special moments.”However, she adds that she is very careful with her privacy settings, massively culled her friend list when Libbet was tiny, and will probably do another cull in the near future. “To me, Facebook is about staying in touch with people you really care about, not finding out what your old school friend’s neighbour’s daughter had for tea,” she says.By using a pet name, rather than her daughter’s real name, Sarah has also afforded her some protection against those companies or individuals who might be interested in her daughter’s personal data; even if Sarah’s privacy settings let her down, a search for Libbet’s real name would not bring up any of her posts – at least for now.Her approach is typical of many parents, says Nash. “Unless you literally post nothing at all, there is no perfect protection. But most parents probably find a happy medium, which is posting pictures or stories about their young children either without using their real name or without tagging them in pictures.”This might be good precaution for now. But what about in 10 or 20 years, when today’s children reach adulthood? “It’s hard to know what Facebook will look like 15 to 20 years from now, and I suspect that they don’t know either,” saysSarita Yardi Schoenebeckat the University of Michigan, who researches mothers’ relationships with social media. Right now, Facebook and other sites use the personal data they collect to help advertisers reach their target market; it is how they make money. But that business model could change, and new tools are being developed to capture personal information all the time.“It is increasingly difficult to secure anonymity online,” says Amy Webb, a futurist andCEO of the digital strategy firm Webbmedia Group. “Passwords and photos are easily hacked, and the more information that’s available, the easier it is to trace digital breadcrumbs back to one person.”Wearable gadgets that can track the location of your child are already available, and some fear that these could be hacked. Meanwhile, Facebook already has a facial recognition tool on its US site that will scan photos and automatically identify people based on existing pictures and tags – although it is not currently available in Europe. But by the time today’s toddlers are teenagers, we can expect such algorithms to be far more sophisticated and widespread. Machine-learning algorithms have already advanced to the point where our faces are instantly recognisable, even as we age or if we deliberately change our appearance.“I can see a scenario where the picture I post of my four-year-old then gets linked to one taken when they are 10, and to their Facebook or other profiles,” saysAlice Marwick, who lectures on social media and digital culture at Fordham University in New York. “It becomes something that they have no control over. The doomsday scenario is a profile that can follow you around, be accessed by all sorts of different agencies, and be used in the future to decide whether you get student loans, if your university application is approved, or if you get a mortgage.”Though data protection laws may guard against some of these worries, some parents, like Webb, feel an extreme approach is necessary. In order to protect their daughter’s future digital identity, she and her husband post nothing about her at all. What is more, before naming her, they ran their preferred names through an array of domain and keyword searches, checking for similar names or other negative content. Once they had picked a name, they took digital ownership of it so that by the time their daughter was born, she already had a registered URL, plus Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Github accounts, all linked to a single email address.“We’re contributing enormous amounts of personal data to various databases and repositories,” Webb says. “That information is searchable by law enforcement agencies, marketers and even just savvy internet users. Our goal in the present is to protect her future digital identity.”Extreme as Webb’s behaviour may seem to some, she is not alone. Google CEO Eric Schmidt has suggested people change their name in order to escape online shame and move on with their lives. I find these fears echoed by several of my own friends. Richard is a technology journalist who works for the BBC. When I ask if he posts pictures of his one-year-old daughter, he says he does, but only to a very limited circle of friends and he worries about it. “There’s a broad, nebulous fear that I’m giving away too much,” he says. “Our descendants will frown at us for many things, and I think that our lack of attention to Facebook and Google’s tracking of our lives from cradle to grave might be something they care about much more – or at least want to make an informed choice about participating in. When my daughter is 20, she may well be irritated at me for threatening the privacy of her early life.”Linda makes sure her Facebook privacy options are set to share her photos only with friends.Photograph: Suki Dhanda/the ObserverMany experts point out that even if you lock down your privacy settings to prevent strangers viewing your pictures and posts, that doesn’t stop others from uploading pictures of you or your kids. “In reality, there’s lots of other people posting information about you without your control and it is fairly difficult – if not impossible – to police the social media circles of everyone you know,” says Marwick.It appears to be phenomenally difficult to have no digital footprint – even if you have not yet learned to type. Even Webb found herself caught out; in the process of trying to integrate her many social network and digital accounts, a couple of baby photos that she had edited using Instagram’s mobile editing tool somehow became public.Webb never would have known, except that after writing about digital anonymity inSlate, several readers started rooting about and found those photos. You have to admire the tenacity of trolls.Adults are not the only ones who are worried about digital privacy. According to a report by theFamily Online Safety Institute, 76% of teenagers are very or somewhat concerned about their privacy, or being harmed by their online activity. In reality, it is unlikely that much of what we post about our children will result in bullying, in job applications being refused, or worse. Yet some feel additional safeguards are needed that would enable young people to delete unwanted content that they, or others post about them once they reach a certain age. “Maybe when you are 17 you will pass your driving test, and you will be allowed to check across all known databases in order to correct and wipe clean mistakes and start your adulthood fresh,” Livingstone suggests. Last week the campaigning group iRights launched five principles aimed at empowering young people to make the most of the digital world without putting themselves at risk.“Principle number one is the right to remove content that you yourself put up if you are under 18,” says iRights’s founder, Baroness Beeban Kidron. “Young people experiment, they change and they mature.”However, iRights also calls for a place to go for help that is not a court, if they are upset by things put up by others, even if they are not illegal.The idea is that websites, companies, parents and educators can sign up to these principles with the ultimate goal of creating a framework through which people can judge their digital interactions with young people. The remaining principles are the right to know how the data being gathered about you is used; the right to be safe and comfortable; the right to agency; and the right to digital literacy.“What these five things add up to is a conscious use of the net; using it in a way that is effective and positive for your life, and being given more skills and more support to navigate and understand what is unseen, unclear and occasionally unpleasant,” Kidron adds. Signatories so far include more than a hundred civil organisations, including children’s charities such as Barnardo’s, plus technology companies and academics.As for the logistics of removing content from the web, that is another matter. In May, the European Court of Justice ruled that a person has the right to have a link relating to their name removed from a search engine if it is inaccurate, misleading or distressing – the so-called “right to be forgotten”. Yet many, including a House of Lords committee, have said the judgment is unworkable because smaller search engines do not have the resources to process the thousands of removal requests they are likely to receive. The committee also said that it was wrong to leave the task of deciding what to delete to a commercial company such as a search engine.And yet for all this worry about privacy, there is an alternative future that could come to pass: the return of anonymity. Already, we are seeing teenagers rejecting sites such as Facebook in favour of apps like Snapchat, which enable photos to be shared transiently – a change in behaviour that parents might bear in mind the next time they are posting photos that will remain online indefinitely.Rather than the big data scenario which sees us haunted by a ubiquitous digital footprint, we could end up with a digital world that thrives on pseudonyms and anonymity. “Apps like Snapchat, Whisper and Secret are popular with young people because they allow them to share information with each other without permanence,” says Marwick. “I think one of the reasons for this return to anonymous communication is precisely because sites that use people’s real names have become so problematic.”Whatever the future holds, it is likely that our children’s digital footprint will look very different from our own. We grew up with the luxury of not having our lives documented in pictures online. Those embarrassing baby photos remained firmly locked up in albums, unless our parents decided to air them to potential romantic suitors.But security concerns aside, perhaps it is also worth pondering just what our children will think about our posts when they grow up. “Ten years from now, almost all the next generation of teenagers will all have baby photos on Facebook; it’s not going to be something that stigmatises them,” says Schoenebeck.“My guess is that it will magnify whatever relationship they already have with their parents. If they have a great relationship, they may look back on those photos and say, ‘Wow, I can appreciate what my mum went through.’ However, if they are upset with their parents they may view such posts as this infringement of their privacy, and use them as fuel to the fire.”I think about the 248 friends I have on Facebook; many of them relics from my schooldays. Am I sure they are people I trust enough to share my intimate family moments with? Perhaps it’s time for friendship cull of my own, or at least to become more selective about which friends I share photos with. I also go back and check my own privacy settings, which haven’t been adjusted in several years. I am relieved to see that my posts are indeed still only being shared with friends. But there are other holes.For instance, I haven’t ticked a box that says I can approve any photo I’m tagged in before it is broadcast to the rest of the world. If someone were to post a picture of me and my kids on Facebook, it would be me they tagged. It is a small comfort, but ticking that box affords me a degree of extra control.Finally, I confront an issue that has been niggling at the back of my mind since I deleted that photo of Katy’s baby two years ago: is it really gone? I go back and check my own feed, and find no trace. Then I rack my brains for friends who liked or commented on the photo and scroll back through their Facebook pages. I find plenty of pictures of their own children, but none of Katy’s.I contact Facebook asking for clarification, and they assure me that delete really does mean delete – although what happens to the metadata (location, tagging etc) added to a photo by usersis less clear.Possibly, that photo is still lurking in some obscure corner of cyberspace, but it doesn’t seem to be on Facebook. But if you have somehow stumbled across a cute photo of two tiny baby boys – one in red, one in white – and have forwarded it or published it elsewhere, kindly press delete. Their futures may depend on it.
In 1998, Peter Thiel co-founded PayPal and four years later sold up for $1.5bn. He went on to be Facebook’s first investor, buying a 10% share (his advice to Mark Zuckerberg was deceptively simple: “Just don’t fuck it up”). He also co-founded Palantir Technologies with funds from the CIA’s venture capital arm and which, it is claimed, helped to locate Osama bin Laden. He is now one of the most successful and influential investors in Silicon Valley, and an outspoken supporter of libertarian politics and a major donor to causes as diverse as Ron Paul for president to Seasteading, an organisation that is aiming to create an offshore floating nation state.Your book,Zero to One, is based on a course that you taught at Stanford University. And yet in the book, you’re very vocal about how universities are a waste of money and create a class of indentured slaves unable to think independently. Isn’t this a bit of a contradiction?I don’t think universities are categorically bad. I think there’s something of an education bubble. It still is important to try to learn things. The goal I had in teaching this class on startups and entrepreneurship at Stanford was to try to figure out a way to convey all the knowledge that I have about business as an entrepreneur and investor over the last 15 years in Silicon Valley in the form of a single course. I’m trying to do the same thing with this book.Peter Thiel has donated money to Seasteading – a group which wants to create an offshore nation.Photograph: Emerson Stepp/Emerson SteppIn the manifesto for your Founders Fund, you say: “We wanted flying cars and instead we got 140 characters.” Do you think that’s the problem, that we’ve been thinking too small?I think the 2,000 people who work at Twitter will still have well-paying jobs 10 or 20 years from now. I think it’s a good business but I don’t think that it’s enough to take our civilisation into the future. I don’t think it’s necessarily the case that there will be enormous amounts of technological development in the next few decades. I’m not likeRay Kurzweil where the singularity is nearand all you have to do is sit back and eat the popcorn. It’s something that we have to choose to work on and we have to make it happen.Would it be accurate to describe you as a techno-Utopian? Would you still like a flying car?Well, I don’t think science and technology are automatically good. We did develop nuclear weapons in the 20th century, but I do believe that in the future without technological progress, there can be no good future. We have seven billion people on this planet, it’s going to be 10 billion in the next century. If those people are going to have the living standards of the first world, it will require enormous amounts of innovation. Simply copying will not work. If everyone in China gets to drive a car as in the United States, you will have massive pollution, you will run out of oil. It does not work on its own terms.But you don’t think that death is inevitable?I think we’ve made our peace with death too much. We should not go gently into that good night. I think this question of ageing and longevity and mortality was deeply linked with the entire inspiration of the scientific technological age from the very beginning. And yet we know far more about theoretical physics than, for example, we do about nutrition.Do you think that you have a reasonable chance of not dying then?People always say they want to live every day as though it will be their last. I always have this contrasting view that I think I’d like to live every day as though it will go on for ever.If we had an indefinite life span, we would continue to work and start great new projects, we would be very careful about how we treated the people around us because we would encounter them again.In the book there’s a quote where you say Silicon Valley has become obsessed with “disruption” and that word has transmogrified into a trendy buzzword. But in aNew Yorkerprofile of you three years ago, you said that it was one of your favourite words. What happened? Has disruption disrupted itself?I think we get caught up too much in intense competition. The great businesses are not focused on disrupting some other business, they are focused on doing something that’s valuable on its own. In the same way that a successful career is not focused on disrupting someone else’s career, but on doing something valuable on your own.You say one of the most contentious questions in business is whether success comes from luck or skill. You suggest that it’s skill. Could that be just because you’ve been very lucky in life?I’ve certainly been fortunate and it is hard to actually figure out whether I was skilful at taking advantage of opportunities or just blind luck because you can’t actually run this experiment twice.What I do think is that as a society we attribute too much to luck. Luck is like an atheistic word for God: we ascribe things to it that we don’t understand or don’t want to understand. As a venture capitalist, I think one of the most toxic things to do is to treat the people I’m investing in as lottery tickets where I say: “Well I don’t know if your business is going to work. It might, it might not.” I think that’s a horrible way to treat people. The anti-lottery ticket approach is to try to achieve a high level of conviction, to ask: “Is this a business that I have enough confidence in that I would consider joining it myself?”You’ve created $100,000 scholarships for young people not to go to university and to become entrepreneurs, but you went to an elite university, and you’ve done pretty well, haven’t you?You can’t run your life twice. I think the reality is that the elite schools are great credentials, but they also strangely narrow people’s focuses on certain very tracked careers of law and finance, maybe medicine, maybe politics. I worry that the people who go there could be doing a lot more for society. When you look at people graduating from high school, they have all these great dreams what they will do with their lives. I think there’s something about the university system that makes people compete very intensely and has the effect for most people of beating their dreams out of them.You’ve donated an awful lot of money to politicians, most of whom, like Ron Paul, have gone on to lose. To the lay person that looks an awful lot like chucking money down the drain.I’m fiscally more conservative and socially more liberal. And I always go back and forth on how much one should do in politics. Whether it’s just an endlessly frustrating process. I think what matters is trying to advance ideas and I do think Ron Paul had the effect of advancing a set of libertarian ideas. He questioned the various wars the US was engaged in and I do think that was important.Wikipedia says that you’re on the steering committee of theBilderberggroup. Is that true and what does that involve? Are you the one who organises the covert world domination?It is true though it’s not so secret and covert that I can’t tell you about it. It’s a good discussion among various business, political, media, finance leaders in the US and western Europe. I would say that I think there is no conspiracy. This is a problem in our society. There isn’t a secret plan. Our leaders do not have a secret plan of how to fix all of our problems. While secret plans might be a bad thing, I find the lack of any plan whatsoever to be far more disturbing.Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How to Build the Future is published by Virgin Books, £16.99. To order a copy for £13.59 with free UK p&amp;p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846
Q I’m thinking of upgrading to an iPhone 6 – the 4G phone and plans are significantly more expensive; are they worth it?Josh, via emailA This is a question of two parts as the merits of the iPhone 6 and 4G technology are quite separate.4G is short for fourth generation telecommunications technology, a successor to 3G. It has the potential to offer connection speeds that exceed that of the average home internet connection and could potentially replace an ADSL connection for many people (the IMT-A standard sets the peak speeds as somewhere between 100 Mbit/s and 1Gbit/s).In my personal usage I’ve found EE and Three both offer around 20-40Mbit/s with a good signal although your speeds may vary, although I’ve replaced my home internet connection by tethering my laptop to my Three 4G smartphone. The downside of 4G is that on data plans that don’t provide unlimited data, you run out more quickly due to the increased data transfer rates.If you use a lot of mobile data, travel a lot, or can get an unlimited data plan for a good rate, then 4G is a great option to allow for fast internet wherever you are. However, if you cannot, then you’re likely to be better served by getting a nicer phone and saving some of your bill, at least until 4G coverage is ubiquitous.The iPhone 6 is Apple’s latest smartphone and isone of two devices recently launched by Apple(the iPhone 6, and the iPhone 6 Plus). It has a 4.7” display, which is a step up from the 4” iPhone 5, and older 3.5” models. They’ve also reduced the thickness of device and increased battery life. The iPhone 6 comes with iOS 8, and with that comes iTunes and the App Store for access to a plethora of third party content as well as any of your prior iTunes/AppStore purchases that can be redownloaded for free.Q I read that I should only run my laptop battery between 40% and 80% to preserve it, is that true and how much of a difference does it make?Jenni, via emailA There is lots of confusion around techniques that extend your battery’s life, primarily caused by the difference between modern lithium ion batteries and older nickel-based batteries (Ni-MH/Ni-CD) that suffer from something called the memory effect which would cause them to rapidly deteriorate if only partially charged/discharged in a way that it appears to “remember” the previous charge. Lithium ion batteries, however, should usually last a few years before they lose significant capacity, although under some usage patterns may deteriorate much more quickly.Before I begin, it’s worth noting that whatever you do, your battery will die in a few years, and it’s not worth sacrificing practicality for longevity. It’s fine to let your battery hit 0, or charge it for a long day away from a socket. That said, if you want to prolong the life of your battery, the following few tips should help squeeze a little more life from it.1. Once you hit 100%, avoid keeping your computer plugged in. This is becoming decreasingly an issue as modern manufactures build in safeguards and buffers to prevent this from killing your battery.2. Frequent partial charge cycles can confuse the battery’s time remaining clock. Although fully discharging a computer frequently can damage the battery, it’s worth draining the battery occasionally to reset the clock.3. Perform shallow charges. Instead of fully discharging every day, li-ion batteries perform best when discharging for a short while, then charging for a short while. A discharge to around 45%-50% offers the best usage to cycle ratio, and allows you to still use your computer away from the socket.Keeping these few points in mind can really help to maintain battery capacity for longer, and keep it running smoothly.If you’re interested in more information about batteries, tryBattery University, and for a more scientific explanation:Washington University.Q I have a large collection of films and TV shows on my computer that I’d like to be able to watch on my commute, but not all of them will play on my iPhone — I don’t really want to spend a month converting them all, so what options do I have?Jordan, via emailA The problem of file format compatibility is one that causes trouble for lots of people who are trying to eradicate CDs and DVDs from their lives.Fortunately on the desktop this problem was solved a while ago with VLC by VideoLan, a free and open-source media player that runs on OS X, Windows, many flavours of Linux and BSD.It packages many video and audio codecs that can play almost anything that you try.VLC for iOS and Android is pretty great, playing most of the files you could ever want to watch as well as offering more convenient playing mechanisms such as swipes on the screen to skip or change volume (although this is annoying if you accidentally touch the screen).VLC can be found for free on both the Apple AppStore and Google Play Store.
With the England captaincy still under discussion, here’s a chance for armchair strategists to put things right. For newcomers, this is a very enjoyable, well-built cricket sim, though longtime fans of theICCseries will find that the latest iteration of the game boasts a new interface but not a huge amount of innovation, apart from the updated match engine, which makes watching highlights a more attractive proposition.Also welcome is the option to only manage a team in specific types of matches. For those who consider Twenty20 to be an abomination, this is perfect, as it can be ignored entirely.But some of the old problems have not been addressed. Infuriatingly, there is still no way to release players considered to be dead wood until after the end of the first season, while the umpire can incorrectly signal byes. Both are minor complaints with what is a solid update but, given that titles such asCricket Coachare starting to compete, a few more additions to the format might have made for a greater step forward.
Life sims are in no short supply on 3DS. First cameAnimal Crossing, thenTomodachi Life, and now this intriguing title fromProfessor Laytoncreators Level-5.Fantasy Lifemixes up the standard formula by combining the life sim with an RPG. Players must select a “life” (roles range from combat jobs, such as wizard, to non-combat, such as lumberjack) and master their trade before embarking on an adventure, all the while customising their house and performing tasks for other characters.It’s a beautiful game, with visuals reminiscent of Japanese animation. The soundtrack is delightful, the story is charming, and there are plenty of missions and places to explore. But unfortunately, the gameplay is rudimentary. The combat lacks any real strategy, the quests largely involve fetching items, and the non-combat roles quickly become dull. Young gamers will find plenty to love here, but  for older fans there are superior RPGs already available on 3DS.
