For the parents of the missing 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, the nightmare could be no worse. Abduction now seems the most likely explanation for the disappearance of their daughters.The last few days' depressingly familiar procession of blurred CCTV images and maps of their last known movements only serves to remind us of similar disappearances in recent years, and their tragic conclusions.What could have brought such anguish to a little Cambridgeshire town? Every parent must be asking the same question, and wondering if it could happen to them. The discovery that the girls had logged onto the internet on the Wells's family computer just before they vanished could provide just the scapegoat needed in the absence of the abductor himself.For a few newspapers, a "net fiend" is already being pointed at. The net angle is becoming a tried and tested way of attempting to bring the horrific even closer to home: pin the blame on a masked pervert appearing through a machine that is in kids' bedrooms the nation over, and the nightmare is supposed to get worse for us all.The fact is nobody yet knows who is responsible, or how the girls vanished. It is possible their last internet session will take on no more than a bit part in the story of their disappearance.This morning, Detective Superintendent David Hankins refused to say what had been found on the PC, saying there were "good and sound operational reasons" for not revealing its contents. But senior police sources have been quoted as saying that no chatroom traffic resulting from the girls' last 24-minute internet session has been discovered.Something may yet turn up in the email records of the machine, and police said today that they were pursuing leads which have been thrown up by the computer's contents. But the confusion that surrounds the PC's role in the case suggests the headlines this morning had wildly jumped the gun.Of course, we can all pray the computer does throw up a clue that leads police to the girls and a possible abductor. But while the investigation continues, should parents lock away their home PCs this summer holiday for fear an attacker might make contact through cyberspace? That would be an over-reaction.The fact is that with more than half the UK population now connected in some way to the internet, all sorts of people are online and have been for some time. Cyberspace is far from being a nest of perverts, but nor can we behave as if it is - or even could be in the future - a completely safe playground for children.Just as you would remind children of road safety and the dangers of talking to strangers in the real world, worried parents might find it worthwhile talking to their children about how to use the internet safely. Some important points to get across include:&#183;Watch out for strangers online. Not everybody is who he or she says they are.&#183;Never say who, or exactly where, you are - first names are fine, but you don't need to give away your surname, address or telephone number. Credit card numbers and passwords are private, and should never be disclosed online without parents' permission.&#183;If you don't like the way an online conversation is going, end it - nobody can force you to continue.&#183;If something frightens or upsets you, tell a parent or teacher straight away.TheNational Children's Helpline's Netsmart campaignhas a more in-depth list of guidelines for "Netsmart" children, written in accessible language.As well as advising children how to behave online, parents can also make two simple moves that might ease their worries over the holidays. First, engage your children in conversation about what they do online. Find out where they go, what applications they use, and try to get them to show you how to use them. Second, move the computer out of the bedroom and into the living room. By being able to see what your child is up to online, there can be no secret chats or downloads.Given the intimidating levels of computer literacy of most children, you might even learn something along the way - as well as easing your fears about what horrors are lurking in the cyberworld.neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.uk
Mediawhoring on a tech panel on BBC Radio Five Live yesterday, I was asked about digital camera sales: I had to admit I didn't have any figures to hand, but blustered through muttering something about them being jolly popular, with people now willing to pay a bit more than they would for an analogue camera because of the savings on film and developing. I think I understated it. Right on cue (which is to say, around 12 hours late to save me being found out)News.comhas come up with figures which show US digital camera sales growing by 50% year on year, with the bulk of the sales growth in the $200 to $400 range.
Hats off to the New York Times for covering "smart mobs" and"swarming"[free registration required]. And thanks to Online's old mateAzeem Azharfor blogging the linklastmonth. For the record, Azeem got Online on to the Web almost single-handled, long before Guardian Unlimited was even thought of. IndeedGo2(for Guardian Online Online) is still visible on the Web, even if the link no longer works.
In a settlement announced today with the Federal Trade Commission, "Microsoft agreed to stop making false claims aboutPassport's data-collection practices and security protections, and agreed to set up an enhanced computer-security system that must pass independent review every two years, for a period of 20 years," reports Reuters. There were no breaches of security, Microsoft did not give information to third parties, and there were no fines in the settlement. Now, "tracking information collected by Passport would only be used for customer service needs and would be purged after 10 days in most cases," said Microsoft. What a pity the FTC has no power to hold the British government to similar standards.
No free lunchAlex Barley complains that Microsoft deleted all Hotmail sent messages more than 30 days old. Did Microsoft     give notice? Yes. How much was he paying for the service? Nothing. Is it sensible to expect a free lunch in perpetuity? Not     very. Whose fault is it that he didn't back up his mail to his PC, etc? His own. If he thinks they are so arrogant and     contemptible, why was he relying on them?Luke O'Sullivanuczwldo@ucl.ac.ukNet arroganceAlex Barley complains that     Hotmail deleted all his old emails from his sent mail folders (Feedback, August 1). I assume he ignored the warnings Hotmail     sent him and overlooked the message on the website. I assume he thinks Microsoft should continue to bear the costs of     offering him free email and storage. Barley says the episode shows Microsoft's "arrogance". Surely the arrogance is being     displayed by net users, who continue to believe the web should be free in all respects until the end of time. Well, there's no     such thing as a free lunch or - soon - a free email service.Richard Kurtrichard.kurt@clara.co.ukPay for itWith reference     to all the complaints against Hotmail/Microsoft. It is not "nice" for things like email to be deleted after 30 days etc, but it     is a free service. How many of your readers offer free services to millions of users? Not many because you'd probably go     out of business! I would never use Hotmail, or any "free" email service (or ISP) for my main account. I pay Netscaliber around     £120 per year, and receive reliable email and web service. If you can spend £1,000 on a computer, £40 a month on internet     calls/line rental, surely £10 a month for a proper email account is not too much?Simon Watsonwatson@dircon.co.ukTrust yourselfI would not disagree with Alex Barley's view of Microsoft. But surely, if his emails are so important, why trust his     ISP to take care of them? Why not hold them on his own PC as word processor documents and then either paste them into     the email or send them as attachments?Dudley Turnerdudley_turner@yahoo.co.ukBT opens upFollowing my item in Online, I     had a phone call from BTOpenworld who wanted to try to put things right. Their Mac expert spent about 30 minutes helping     and, since then, it has been much better. The diagnosis was complex, but involved some, or all, of the following: owning the     original Bondi blue iMac with the original operating system, which does not feature the "best" modem for BT; running two     ISPs so I can use the other when a major service interruption makes BT unusable; my iMac not "remembering" that BT and     Clara have different server settings; and ensuring that my daughter does not try to log into BT when I am using it.As long     as I stick to BT, put up with being disconnected occasionally, checking the server settings every so often, maybe upgrading     the Mac OS before long and keeping my fingers crossed, then, in the words of every help desk, "it should be OK now".Peter JonesPierreJones@btinternet.comPC bias unfairAs a regular reader of the Guardian and Online for many years I have     become increasingly frustrated with the PC/Microsoft bias. You can probably guess I am an Apple user, so am in a minority,     but the bias towards PC-based topics is unfair. How often do I read articles that might be tackling a general subject but     there is never any mention of Macs or the Apple OS? Is this narrow mindedness or just lazy journalism?I'm sure the     demographic of Guardian readers contains many in the creative industry, as well as home users who use Macs, so why are     they overlooked? There are rarely any Mac letters to Ask Jack, for instance. Does this say something about Mac's     reliability? Not only has Apple brought out the best operating software in OS X and its firm Unix basis without stupid     Microsoft registration and user number limitations, but they are innovative in the design and usability of both hardware and     the software. It's not just "pretty" design, but reliable and efficient software as well.Richard Jenkins&#183;Ask Jack welcomes     queries on all subjects, including Macs. Victor Keegan, editor
Prisoner of WarPS2/Xbox 	&#163;39.99 Wide/Codemasters	***It's a great idea, of course, but basing a game around being a world war two POW is tricky. Do you take the realism route, with tightly structured daily schedules, roll calls and random violence? Or do you follow the Great Escape template, with cocky US inmates and ambitious tunnel plans?Developers Wide Games have gone for a bit of both, mixing routine with excitement, although only with varied results. Playing a captured US airman, your aim is, unsurprisingly, to escape. You need to enlist the help of fellow inmates, observe the movements of the guards and plan the perfect route to freedom. This is harder than it   sounds, thanks mainly to the routine-ridden day that leaves little time for mischief. From the morning inspection to lights out, attendance is compulsory, making management of your limited free time crucial.This realism is extended throughout the game, which adopts a painfully slow pace, punctuated by moments of excitement as you sneak past guards. Nevertheless, escape brings immense satisfaction, even if the only reward is recapture and a tougher prison such as Colditz.Unfortunately the slow pace, despite a useful timeskip facility, and unforgiving nature of the game make POW a tad disappointing. Escape soon boils down to completing a series of objectives undetected. Get spotted and it's the cooler, and players will regularly experience frustration, despair and boredom, making POW just a bit too authentic for its own good.  (GH)Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's ThronePC 	&#163;29.99 Triumph Studios/ Take 2 Interactive	****If strategy games were people,   they'd be those unassuming tank-top wearing gentlemen, who pick out the sultanas from their muesli. Rather unfairly, the slower-paced gameplay of such turn-based titles often gets branded as being unfashionable in a strategy game climate that clamours for fast action and maximum carnage.Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's Throne is a sequel to one of the remarkably similar fantasy themed titles that eked out an existence in the late 1990s and part of a genre now experiencing a second wind. With so many titles proving that impressive graphics often come at the expense of gameplay, it   makes a change to play a title that is all about well-planned tactics.The graphics in Age of Wonders II depict a sumptuously detailed world, themed around the seven spheres of magic. You play an immortal wizard hero charged with the task of conquering and uniting the spheres. In contrast to the original game, this time you get to play as 12 races, each with eight unique and well-balanced units.While it might not have as much depth as the popular Heroes of Might and Magic series or the graphical eye candy shown in Etherlords, Age of Wonders II improves on every aspect of the original game delivering a great title that is accessible and challenging for all strategy fans.  (RP)Disciples 2: Dark ProphesyPC 	&#163;30 Strategy First/ Sierra	***Turn-based strategy games may have been the poor relation of real time ones, but games like Etherlords have raised the bar by adding quality special effects and spells to the normally plodding cerebral challenge. Strategy First   has noted such developments, producing a polished update.The original Disciples was well received and the sequel expands on that formula. You now have four races to control: the Empire, the Mountain Clans, the Legions of the Damned and the Undead Horde. Take any one of them and begin to rebuild your former empires by acquiring land and resources and waiting for the inevitable retaliation of enemies. There are quests to solve, resources to capture and a host of heroes and allies to recruit.How you develop your empire is pretty much up to you. For example, you must    choose which kind of army you want to build. If you elect to build a Stable, your Squires will become Knights, whereas if you choose a Temple expect   magic users to be your main upgrade. It's all about knowing how fast to expand without over-stretching yourself. The enemy seems drawn to your weakest settlements and a level can turn from victory to defeat in seconds. Credit, too, must go to the units which are unusually creative. Clever use of the Thief can cause havoc with the enemy's plans - even poisoning their water supply.Disciples will devour free time - especially as it takes so long to reload a game and the interface is unnecessarily cluttered. But with fighting, questing and diplomacy, there's plenty to occupy you.  (MA)
Record company giant EMI is suing AOL Time Warner in the US, claiming that the world's largest media company has been playing its songs on its Turner Broadcasting network and America Online internet service without paying for them.The court battle is the latest embarrassment for AOL's beleaguered online division, coming at a time when the two major recording companies are working together with the rest of the industry to stamp out piracy by rival websites.EMI's publishing unit contends that AOL Time Warner is illegally using songs from The Wizard Of Oz, Singing In The Rain and other classic Metro Goldwyn Mayor films, for promotional purposes."We believe that AOL Time Warner, and a whole bunch of their companies, have been rampantly using our copyrighted material without licensing it or paying for it," said Martin Bandier, the chairman and chief executive of EMI Music Publishing.The complex suit relates to an old contract between EMI Music Publishing and MGM/United Artists. The arrangement gave MGM/UA a licence for limited use of certain songs.Since the initial agreement, MGM/UA has changed ownership several times. In 1986, Turner Broadcasting Systems bought MGM, selling the production arm on but keeping its library of more than 3,000 movies.Turner is now part of the AOL Time Warner empire, and EMI contends the music rights do not apply to the rest of AOL Time Warner's vast web of operations."We gave them very personal use. It was non assignable," said Mr Bandier.EMI Music Publishing has rights to more than 1m musical compositions. Some of the composers and writers it represents include David Bowie, Lenny Kravitz, Janet Jackson, Carole King and Phil Collins.
War has broken out in the instant messaging world. Jack Schofield takes a look at how the giants are fighting each other and responding to competition from open source. This week's Online section is nowonline.
Christmas has come twice for digital radio. Last December, a limited number of experimental receivers sold out at selected shops around the UK, underlining, said broadcasters and trade groups, the pent-up demand for new digital services. On July 31, the first full-production &#163;99 digital radio, the Evoke-1, was also a sell-out, emphasising that what people wanted were reasonably priced digital equivalents of the faithful transistor.Previously, listeners have either had to buy hi-fi DAB (digital audio broadcasting) tuners for &#163;300 or more, or tune in on satellite or cable TV set-top boxes or over the internet. The success of the trials, combined with new, attractive digital-only services, is encouraging manufacturers to push the price down further.The Evoke-1, from Pure by VideoLogic, is reminiscent of the popular Roberts Revival analogue tranny and sells for the same price - &#163;99. It will be going on sale in hi-fi and electrical shops and department stores around the country from the middle of this month and will also appear in September's Argos catalogue.The Evoke-1 is stylishly   simple; the front panel includes six preset buttons for favourite stations and a small display. The built-in three-inch loudspeaker produces a clear sound, while there is an output connector for an auxiliary loudspeaker for stereo reproduction.VideoLogic is best known for its tuners and has used third generation DAB chip   technology to produce a lower-cost product. The DRX-701ES, which will sell for &#163;249, offers 99 presets and USB connection for software updates and access to future DAB data services.The lower-end hi-fi tuner market is being opened up by Acoustic Solutions with the SP110, retailing for &#163;129.99. The SP110 will also feature in the Argos catalogue and be stocked by stack 'em high chain Richer Sounds.Modular Technologies, better known for its modems, is moving into digital radio with both a low-cost tuner, due in September for around &#163;100, and a PC card.Modular Technologies' PC card is priced at &#163;99 and is   easy to install, with a simple, yet stylish, display. Websites can be downloaded, including the Digizone for commercial services and the BBC's schedules, although these do not as yet include 6Music, 1Xtra (due on air soon) or 5Live SportX. Programmes can be recorded to hard disk as either MPeg2 or MP3 files.Goodmans will begin a staggered launch of DAB products from September, including a kitchen radio, combined digital receiver-CD player and tuners. Prices will start from &#163;99.The fall in price is making digital radio more attractive, but it is the range of new   services that has stimulated interest. Specialist stations such as Planet Rock are appealing to listeners tired of heavily play-listed stations and the usual oldies. BBC Radio 6Music takes Radio 2's populist programming and adds eclecticism by plundering the BBC's archives.This proliferation of lower-cost DAB receivers, aided by the coming availability of services on the BBC's replacement for ITV Digital, is spreading the attractions of digital radio. DAB may more easily convince listeners of its merits, while digital TV struggles to maintain momentum.
If there was ever a promise of technology to get you excited, it was the one where intelligent handheld devices and internet-equipped fridges meant we never had to see the inside of a supermarket again.No matter how many concept devices you see in the glossy magazines, we're still some way from this digital nirvana. But this week, it came a small step closer, when Tesco launched its latest online shopping wheeze: a PocketPC application that lets you use your handheld computer to get your weekly grocery shopping. I was lent an O2 XDA handheld pre-loaded with Tesco's software to test the new service.In real life, you need to go to theTesco shopping website, and look to the "stop press" column on the right hand side to find the "Shop using your PocketPC" link. Once you've found it - the way the Tesco site works makes it difficult to give a precise URL - you download the software to your Windows PC, which will pass on the application to the handheld through its cradle.That done, you'll quickly discover the best bit about the new service is that, unlike Tesco's web-based store, the PocketPC is loaded with    Tesco's entire stock list. The browsing, searching and picking of items is all done offline, meaning the process is slick and simple. You don't wait for the various menus of items to download, as you do on the website: you click, they appear.You tap on the item you want, say how many you want and hit the update button: the items pass, immediately, to your basket. As well as making things much faster, doing all this offline means you do not have to be connected to the internet. You can do your shopping while on the Tube, or wandering round your kitchen checking the cupboards, and upload your shopping list when you get back to your PC.It feels a lot more sensible to be doing this on a handheld, rather than a desktop. When you're finished, you do one of two things: either put the handheld back in its PC cradle, where it will automatically send your requests to Tesco's server, prompting you for payment at the appropriate point. Or, if you have a fancy new GPRS handheld like the XDA or HP Jornada (both reviewed in last week's Online), then you can connect wirelessly to the net, and it should upload your order to Tesco's servers.I say should, because during my test, it didn't really work out like that. The    wobbles began shortly after the device went online, when I was warned a security certificate was out of date. It's a security problem I've seen before without disaster striking, but it did not inspire confidence in my first personal digital assistant (PDA) credit card transaction.  Nevertheless, I ploughed on, and entered my credit card details and specified a delivery date.And then... nothing. A little spinning graphic appeared, indicating I should wait for something to happen, and nothing did. I went away for a coffee, came back, drank it. Still nothing. In the end, only a hard reset - a rather drastic measure that wiped the XDA's memory - would unlock the device. This was a shame. This was beginning to feel like the singularly most useful application I'd come across on one of these much-hyped PDAs. But if this was my XDA, with all my   appointments, contacts and notes on it, I'd be pretty upset at this kind of bug - even if I had backed up that morning.Am I harsh to judge this software on one bad experience? Maybe - and a much bigger problem is the fact that the order, which did upload before the crash, arrived 80 minutes later than the 10am to midday delivery slot I had asked for. That's a simple logistics-going-wrong issue. Meanwhile, of the technical problems, Tesco says it is aware of a problem with the XDA (other PDAs, they say, work well) locking up in some situations, including the one I experienced. They continue to investigate, and have asked 02 for further information.The problem with security certificates is at their end, and is being resolved. Getting such glitches fixed is vital: Tesco aims to reach the PDA-toting, 20-something male with this application, to try to get them hooked on shopping online from Tesco, rather than at the convenience store they pass on the way home each night. If anything is certain about this demographic group, however, it is that they'll only give something a go once (and don't expect them to happily curtail their work or social lives to wait in for the shopping, either). Even if the software is elegantly designed and easy to use - as this is - if they're forced to wipe their PDAs clean every time they order some more pasta, loo roll and beer, chances are the corner shop's business will remain solid for a while yet. The future, alas, remains a bug fix away.
You can phone anyone you like, if they have a phone. You can email anyone with an email address, or send a letter to anyone with a postal address. But you can't send an instant message to anyone who uses instant messaging (IM), especially if they use AOL's Instant Messenger (AIM).For the past three years, the company that dominates the market with AIM and ICQ has been intermittently blocking its rivals' attempts to send messages to its tens of millions of users. Last month, AOL more or less thumbed its nose at the American government. It said in a filing that technical difficulties meant it would try alternative approaches to the server-to-server links stipulated by the Federal Communications Commission when it allowed AOL to take over CNN Time Warner.AOL now thought gateways "would require further significant    expenditures of time and resources to develop". Boiled down to the bones, AOL's position is that it is not worth giving up any of the speed, privacy or security features enjoyed by the majority to provide interoperability for a minority who could simply download the AIM software (free) to send their messages (also free). That may limit consumer choice, but AOL is keen to do deals, and Apple has just unveiled iChat software that can replace AOL's client software on Macs. However, companies that won't play by AOL's rules, such as Microsoft, Yahoo, Odigo and Trillian, have had messages blocked.This has infuriated users and turned Trillian's authors, Scott Werndorfer and Kevin Kurtz, into folk heroes. They recognised that users did not want to download separate messaging programs to send IMs to people using AIM, ICQ, Microsoft Messenger, Yahoo Messenger or the internet's sys  tem, IRC (Internet Relay Chat), so they created Trillian to work with all of them. It's convenient, it's free and it isn't even adware. Users seem to love it. AOL doesn't love it, because its users are typing their AIM names and passwords into someone else's software, which it says could compromise security.Also, since Trillian (Cerulean Studios) does not provide its own servers and network, critics say it is getting a free ride. Werndorfer says: "We view ourselves as a bridge solution to the ultimate goal of server-based interoperability, &#91;which&#93; will require more technical work and more inter-company collaboration before it becomes a reality. In the meantime, products like Trillian help consumers combine the IM services now."But Rob Batchelder, a research director with Gartner in the US, says bluntly: "Trillian has no right to send its traffic over AOL's network without AOL's permission, and unpleasant as it may be, it's perfectly within AOL's rights to block them. They've built a large network, which costs money to run and, quite legitimately, they don't feel compelled to share that asset with their competitors. Trillian is trying to get something for nothing."Batchelder, who used to run an ISP, also supports AOL's position on server-to-server connections which, he says, have fundamental problems. "If you stick gateways in the middle of a network, you degrade its performance so that in some instances, instant messaging becomes no better than email. Gartner's position is that gateways probably are not the solution to interoperability."Gateways are a way of connecting incompatible networks by translating between their different sets of protocols. It wouldn't be such a problem if almost everyone used the same protocols, and standards are coming into use. The best known are the Internet Engineering Task Force's SIP (Session Internet Protocol), widely used by phone companies, and Simple (SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leverage). Microsoft has contributed to the Simple standard, and has based the Windows Messenger built into Windows XP on SIP.Unfortunately, this was the type of gateway AOL prototyped to test interoperability with IBM's Sametime system, and now regards as unsatisfactory. Although it may look like a proprietary supplier balking at standards, AOL does have a point. Derek Atkins, president of IHTFP Consulting and co-chair of the IETF's Instant Messaging and Presence Protocol working group, told me that the group still needed "closure" on some issues, including security, and    that while it could provide interoperability if everyone used it, not everyone believed in the SIP model.The IETF's IM "design contest" had failed to come up with a single standard, he said, and efforts had been split into three subgroups: Simple, Apex (Application Exchange Core) and Prim (Presence and Instant Messaging protocol)."That's one of the great things about the IETF," he quipped, "there are so many standards to choose from." But if you can't connect your client software to AOL's network, and you can't connect your network to AOL's network, that just leaves AOL dominating the market. When IM was mostly teenagers chatting, hardly anyone cared about that. Things are different now the market is exploding - Gartner reckons IM will be bigger than email - and people think there could be money in it.First, IM is penetrating the business market, and companies need much more sophisticated systems than AOL provides. For example, traders discussing share purchases want their messages encrypted so they cannot be read if intercepted. They want messages logged to provide audit trails. And, sometimes, they want to run their own servers rather than use AOL's.If IM offers these benefits, businesses should be willing to pay for them. Second, IM could replace    SMS once mobile phones are connected to the net either by GPRS or third generation (3G) systems. SMS is not instant - it is a store-and-forward system subject to arbitrary delays - and does not have IM's versatility. Smart phones based on computer industry operating systems from Symbian (Psion), Palm and Microsoft will have no problems supporting SIP, which can handle text, HTML, voice and video messaging. And phone users, unlike net users, are used to paying for things.Robert Mahowald, research manager with International Data Corporation in the US, says that although AOL has "a huge base of consumer users, about 30% of those are using it in their businesses, and we expect that to grow to 35% next year, before going down." IDC expects it to go down as business-oriented IM systems such as IBM's Lotus Sametime come into wider use. (Sametime was developed by Ubique, an Israeli company that Lotus bought from AOL.)This gives AOL a limited window of opportunity to make an impact on the business market, probably by partnering with application providers.  This is just the market Microsoft is targeting with its .Net system, which includes Windows Messenger.The two-pronged attack involves making it easy for developers    to use IM when they build applications, and building IM into Windows XP so developers know users will have access to the applications they build.Integrated IM then becomes part of internet phone systems, online technical support, gaming, file-sharing, white-boarding, video-conferencing, and broadband web services.Software developers are free to write for Windows Messenger or AOL or both, so Microsoft's strategy is to make it easier for them to write more exciting applications for Windows Messenger. Users will follow.With Microsoft and AOL already competing in portals (Microsoft has MSN) and browsers (AOL owns Netscape), instant messaging looks like another battle between Tweedledum and Tweedledee over a nice new    rattle. But there are alternatives emerging from the free software movement based around GNU/Linux, and one that has come to the fore over the past year is a peer-to-peer system called Jabber.Peter Saint-Andre, executive directory of the Jabber Software Foundation, says: "A lot of people don't really want their identity to be wrapped up in AOL or MSN, and part of what Jabber does is that you can run your own server for your own community. It's a grassroots, bottom-up approach, like the weblogging phenomenon."Jabber is an open source IM platform based on XML (Extensible Markup Language), which is also the foundation for Microsoft's .Net. Jabber Instant Messenger clients can, like Trillian, communicate with other services including AIM, ICQ, Yahoo Messenger, Microsoft Messenger, IRC, and SMTP (ie email). Because it's a distributed, instead of a centralised, system, Saint-Andre says it can be hard to block."AOL has tried to shut down some of the bigger Jabber services, but there are other Jabber servers that still communicate. We don't really have a problem with that. If they don't want to be open, we're not going to force them."The appeal for big companies is that they can buy a commercial Jabber server to run their own IM service. Examples include giant phone    companies such as BellSouth and France Telecom, and the Walt Disney Internet Group, which uses Jabber.com Inc's server software to run its Go Messenger service. Because they have access to source code, companies can also integrate Jabber with their applications. "This is what companies respond to," says IDC's Mahowald."I think Jabber's doing the right thing." What Jabber lacks is the sort of giant database that AOL runs to provide what's known as "presence". In a real-time system, users need to be online at the same time. When you sign on to AIM, for example, the database picks up your internet (IP) address, and lets all the friends on your buddy list know you are online. They see your user name pop up and a door opens, complete with sound effects.Jabber doesn't have a huge database and network to provide presence, but Saint-Andre reckons they are not needed. "No one holds all that information for email," he says. They use the net's Domain Name System that turns numbers (212.187.153.21) into names (www.guardian.co.uk). Rather than build the equivalent of the DNS namespace for instant messaging, why not use the one we already have?"Your IM address could be the same as your email address," says Saint-Andre. "We already have a system, it's just   unfortunate that the IM world doesn't use it!"  But Gartner's Batchelder argues that DNS is essentially static, not a real-time presence system. The IETF, he says, has "abysmally failed to recognise that presence is as fundamental to the operation of the internet as is DNS.Presence is the anti-DNS, and ought to be incorporated into the internet as a foundation technology. What you've got is a bunch of private companies with their own interests trying to create it, and it's not working. It's like watching a slow-motion train wreck."So at the moment we have a stand-off between the usual parties: a dominant proprietary supplier, a group of rivals trying to displace it by backing an IETF standard, and a grassroots, peer-to-peer approach that could subvert both. As with early phone networks and incompatible email systems, the battle should lead eventually to the sort of interoperable network users want.But "how you get there from here is still very much a muddle," says Batchelder. "In the long run, it's going to be very exciting, but the short run, it's anarchy. It's a street riot."Where to startAOL:www.aim.comICQ:www.icq.comYahoo Messenger:http://messenger.yahoo.comMicrosoft Messenger:http://messenger.msn.comTrillian:www.trillian.ccJabber:www.jabber.org&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What is broadband for? Is it for live football matches on your office PC? Streaming video from the Big Brother House? Video conferencing? Or the elusive "broadband-enhanced" business content? (I think that means FT.com with little video windows all over it.) Well, maybe. But I doubt it.Ask a broadband user what they do with their high-speed connection and they'll probably tell you they do... well,    roughly what they used to do with their narrowband connection. Only more of it. The critical difference, for broadband homes and businesses, between the dusty old modem and the shiny new high-speed connection is the fact that it's always on. No need to connect, no "negotiation". It's there all the time.The sad thing about this increasingly obvious observation is that so many people got it wrong. So many people ignored even their own experience of using broadband connections and fantasised about a nirvana of "high bandwidth" applications for these new kinds of of connection.Dozens of businesses have already foundered on the assumption that broadband take-up would be driven by "broadband content".  There's something breathtakingly simple-minded about the idea that what you need to make best use of broadband is something that actually soaks up all those bits per second - filling the channel to its theoretical capacity.Broadband connections have three important characteristics: they're fast ("10 times faster than a modem!"), they have low latency (the gap between your mouse click and something happening is    small) and they're always on. The shock to the emerging broadband industry is that we, the users, put these characteristics in the "wrong" order of importance.Most important: always-on. What's the top application with broadband users? Email - the original narrowband application - much enhanced by being there whenever you need it. Next: low latency - terrifically important if you're a gamer. (When you pull the trigger blood ought to spurt straight away.) Third and definitely last: speed. Worse, for the speed freaks, it turns out that, on occasion, the first two can actually stand in for the last.An online game that uses hardly any bandwidth but responds very quickly feels fast. A huge download that takes all night but is there waiting for you in the morning feels fast. The irony of the speed delusion is that it's actually bad for the industry. Since broadband connections, unlike electricity, are not paid for by "units used" but by flat subscription charges, the incentive for providers ought to be to encourage the use of parsimonious, narrowband applications that don't stress their networks.While it might once have made economic sense for the electricity firms to encourage us to buy power showers and 200 watt bulbs, it makes no sense for NTL or BT to encourage us to watch live video on our PCs. A nation of broadband households - connections all maxed out by "broadband content" - is a recipe for network meltdown and commercial annihilation. The exciting thing about broadband is that of its big three characteristics, it is always-on that offers the most potential for transformation - in business, in the media and in our own interactions.Thinking about the practical and metaphorical meaning of always-on is useful. An always-on connection to information, education and communication will change the way we live more than any amount of high bandwidth entertainment.The promise of electronic democracy in a choked-off,   narrowband environment is hardly compelling, but ubiquitous always-on connections to the institutions of government might just change the way we make big, social-scale decisions - potentially substituting continuous, evaluative decision-making for the thin, discontinuous interaction that characterises democracy now. An open line to my GP's knowledge base might be more important than glamorous, high bandwidth telesurgery.For media owners, a narrowband but always-on "back-channel" to readers and viewers - a weblog or a discussion forum, for instance - will add more value than expensively produced video.  Once you start this exercise, it becomes clear that the broadband revolution is real and that huge value will be created for all. But it is just as clear that the established broadband providers are wasting huge amounts of time and money convincing us that broadband is really just a substitute for TV.  We need to agree on what broadband is for. The revolution will not be televised.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Lara Croft may not like it, but the UK videogame development industry that created her is suffering redundancies and closures. This is despite a booming market, on track for a record year in 2002. Global sales are projected to increase by 12% to &#163;20bn (Informa), with the UK's share up by 13% (Elspa) already this year. Nevertheless, for many of the people who create the characters and worlds that sell the games, times are hard.Big studios such as Red Lemon in Scotland, producers of the Braveheart game, have gone under. Even development staff employed directly by publishers have suffered. From smaller concerns such as Funcom, to the much larger Infogrames and Konami, many publishers have recently laid off development staff.So why are the people at the heart of the industry not benefiting from the boom when most publishers and retailers are? "It's fundamentally the result of the continued increase in size and cost associated with the development of a game," argues Jeremy Longley, of the UK developer Lost Toys.Historically, the UK has been the home of games development, with a rich heritage stretching back to the ZX Spectrum in the 1980s. Games were made cheaply and quickly, and titles programmed in spare rooms went on to sell thousands.Over the past five years, the industry has grown massively, with Sony's PlayStation catapulting gaming into the mainstream. Titles such as Tomb Raider were graphically advanced, with realistic characters and settings a million miles from the abstract visuals   of previous games machines.Newer consoles, such as the Xbox and GameCube, have continued this trend, raising expectations of what a game should look and play like. Although this has been good for the industry, it has made game production tougher.The improved technical specifications of the new machines, which offer developers and designers opportunities to make bigger and prettier games, come with a simultaneous need for more people to work on them. "In the 1980s, games were usually made by teams of three or less and many were solo endeavours," says David Lau-Kee, chief executive of Criterion Software, a UK development company. "Nowadays, teams   of 20-30 are common, with big titles involving far more."This has led to an attendant rise in costs. An average PlayStation game, developed in 1998-9, would have cost around &#163;500,000 to produce. An average PlayStation 2 title costs &#163;1.5 million.With the costs and risks now so high, there has been a profound shift in working practices. The days of spending years developing new concepts are increasingly numbered, or limited to the financially independent few, such as Black and White creator Peter Molyneux.Project management and reliability are now as important as creative flair. "The developers succeeding now are the ones that have a proper   management and product structure," says Lau-Kee.Smaller developers, particularly those not working on licensed games, are most at risk, although they are not the only ones suffering. "The sheer pace of change has affected publishers, too, especially the smaller ones, with the big publishers getting most of the attention," says Lau-Kee.This gradual rationalisation has already had an effect, with a growing reliance on licences and sequels. Electronic Arts, the world's top games publisher, gets more than 50% of its annual turnover from its sequels and franchises such as HarryPotter, with other publishers not far behind."Increasing development costs are forcing publishers to put much more focus on the potential commercial viability of projects before spending any money on development, hence the prevalence of big brands and licences topping the charts," says Jonathan Newth, managing director of the UK developers Kuju.This new conservatism could threaten development of innovative titles such as Sony's Ico and Sega's Rez, which offer new gaming experiences and drive the industry, even if they don't always sell well.Despite the changes, Newth is confident that this won't be the case: "There is massive value attached to suc cessfully creating an original IP (intellectual property), so I don't think creativity is going to be sacrificed with the current changes in the marketplace but, rather, a new publisher/ developer/ funder relationship is going to evolve, sharing more of the early risk and long-term reward."Part of this new relationship could come from independent incubators such as Start! and the Capital Entertainment Group. Primarily, they work by helping smaller developers fund the creation of the higher quality concept "pilots" now needed to convince potential publishers. "Creativity is moribund and will not be resurrected until games are cheaper to make. That won't happen until we have fantastic tools and more creative financing available," says Shahid Ahmad, of Start!The days of sole programmers creating million-selling games on their ZX Spectrums are long gone. The UK games business is now a billion-pound concern that competes with the film and music industries. Indeed, Ahmad argues that game production will adopt a Hollywood-style system that sees a small number of big companies continue to dominate, while smaller developers will specialise. "Independent producers and creative agencies are increasingly making a name for themselves," he says.As the games industry grows, it's clear that those UK developers who survive this shakeout will prosper as the whole sector matures. With proper funding and management structures in place, great games can still be developed, even if the big decisions are now made in the boardroom rather than the bedroom.
Tomb raiderSince 1978, the Theban Mapping Project, based at the American University in Cairo, has been working to prepare a comprehensive archaeological database of Thebes, the    resting-place of the rulers of ancient Egypt and one of the world's most important archaeological sites.Last week it relaunched its website, to replace the incredibly popularwww.kv5.comthat enjoyed 18 million hits last year. Just about every aspect of the site has been expanded for the relaunch, but the most impressive addition is the new interactive atlas of the Valley of the Kings. From a large map of the tomb complex, you can zoom right into individual tunnels and temples. Each comes with a video and commentary. It is a well-executed and informative resource, and one of the best uses of Flash animation Web watch has seen.www.thebanmappingproject.comSecret mailThomas Pynchon's The Crying of Lot 49 featured a phenomenon called the Tristero: a secret mail system that operated under the nose of the US postal service. Members inscribed and re-directed innocent letters as a way of sending coded messages to each other. Now, a group of UK net artists wants to recreate something of the system using email and unwanted pictures from your computer.The site at  invites you to upload digital images for a spot of "creative   recycling" by a succession of online artists in residence. Each artist will feature for a month. There is an archive of last month's debut artist, Nick Crowe, and you can send your junk mail to the current resident artist Simon Biggs until the end of August. Michael Landy - whose last major work involved him destroying all his possessions in the old C&amp;A building in Oxford Street - is among those coming later.This kind of digital recycling has been done before. New York net art collective Potatoland's digital landfill has been piling up with the waste material from people's hard drives for the past couple of years.www.tristero.co.ukwww.potatoland.org/landfillOnline newsThe Guardian Newsroom is a new archive and visitors centre opposite the paper's main editorial office on the Farringdon Road in London EC1. If you cannot make it to the capital, or want to see what is there before you arrive, then take a look at Guardian Unlimited's interactive tour of the new building. The site includes detailed floor plans of what is on show, contact details if you want to make a booking, plus a map of how to get there. There also potted histories of the Guardian and the Observer, and a handsome timeline for each.www.guardian.co.uk/newsroomGive itGiveNow.org is the latest website to enter the charity market. Backed by AOL Time Warner, the site is an incarnation of the successful Network for Good that has raised over $1m (&#163;658,000) in the US. GiveNow allows you to give money to more than 185,000 charities in the UK using a credit or debit card. It also offers advice on claiming tax relief on the money. The site pledges that for the first &#163;2m raised, 100% of every donation will go direct to the charity. After that, administration deductions of about 5% will be applied.www.GiveNow.orgwww.networkforgood.orgFree rideLondon cabbies now have their own website, although you cannot yet book a black cab online unless you already have an account. What you can do is test your knowledge against a London   cabbie, play an interactive game, and create art for London cabs.www.radiotaxis.co.ukYour typeThe Alphabet Synthesis Machine website allows you to "create and evolve the possible writing systems of one's own imaginary civilisations." A single scribble is enough to generate a whole alphabet, and you can manipulate the font once the initial set has been cast. It's great fun and not at all difficult. There's also an online database demonstrating the versatility of the generator, just in case you thought it was too easy. Once created, you can download your creations as PC-format TrueType fonts and start typing with them.http://alphabet.tmema.orgNew &amp; noted&#183;Examine the genealogy of blogging atwww.blogtree.com&#183;Try your hand at the air guitar championships:www.omvf.net&#183;Follow 24-year old Ben Saunders on his expedition to the North Pole:www.northpole2003.com&#183;Sharp new design e-zine:www.sharpeworld.com&#183;Bjork's website has a lovely new look:www.bjork.comSix of the bestNorthern EnglandRegional directory&lt;A HREF="http://www.neon.org.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.neon.org.ukAngel of the Northwww.gateshead.gov.uk/angelImperial War Museum Northwww.iwm.org.uk/northNorthern presswww.wrx.zen.co.uk/norpress.htmNorth in pictureswww.eclipse.co.uk/pens/truenorthWeekly round-upwww.guardian.co.uk/northerner
What are the prevailing trends in the computer games industry?The games market is valued at more than $20 billion and competes with all entertainment products - movie releases, album launches, MP3 etc. We have to continue to take gaming to new levels and give consumers a reason to buy. We have to bring more casual gamers into the market and continue to meet the needs of enthusiasts. This will be done by not only creating games with huge worlds and high levels of complexity but also by developing more simple, yet effective and enjoyable, "pick up and play" games. The boundaries between fantasy and reality will continue to be challenged, giving players the chance to immerse themselves into the world of their choosing.Why the move from cartridge to disc for the GameCube?The GameCube also uses an 8cm optically read proprietary disc and the combination of this media and the hardware technology is ideal for developers to stretch their creativity. The disc delivers a more viable economic model for production, which acts as a great incentive for third party publishers.Will console games be able to rival the processing power of PCs?Technology and power can be enablers for great gaming experiences. But you can have all the power and lack the true creativity or elements of surprise and challenge that make video games great. It's what comes out of the box that is important rather than the technology that goes into it.Should the net be regulated?There's a collective responsibility for all involved with the internet to regulate the global offering. However, as the technology evolves and the uses of the net continue to expand, there will be a need for regulatory control to be extended from the offline world into the online world - regulation of movie on demand services, music downloading, banking, data protection etc. But there will always be areas beyond the regulator and that's where corporations, parents, individuals and users take the lead in protecting the integrity of this great media and communications tool in a balanced way.Favourite gadgets?MyBluetooth iPaqandEricsson T68 Bluetooth mobile phoneare great.Bluetoothworks well from phone to laptop or iPaq.Could your iPaq replace your desktop PC?The iPaq is outstanding for core PDA functions and infrequent web surfing and its portable keyboard facilitates large-scale data entry. With the additional PowerPoint software package ,it could replace the laptop but because of processing power and screen size, it's not close to replacing the desktop PC yet.Favourite sites?www.decanter.com;www.hardens.com;www.t3.co.uk;http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com;http://news.ft.comVisit:www.nintendogamecube-europe.com
Catch WMPI have been collecting music using Windows Media Player to copy from CDs. When I needed to reformat my hard drive, I copied all my files to CD-R, re-installed my operating system and copied them back, only to find my music would not play.Rowan BurgessJack Schofield replies:Microsoft's web sitesays: "By default, Windows Media Player &#91;7.x&#93; is configured to protect content that is copied from a CD to your computer from unauthorized use by using Personal Rights Management. When this feature is enabled, each track that is copied to your computer is a licensed file that cannot be played on any other computer unless you backup and restore your licenses on the other computer."Reformatting the hard drive has made your PC, in effect, a different computer. Since you did not back up and restore your licenses, there is no obvious way to play the protected files. However, Michael Aldridge, lead product manager in the Windows Digital Media Division at Microsoft in Seattle, says: "There is still a way to get these licenses back and it is pretty easy using our Personal License Migration Service (PLMS), &#91;which&#93; was designed to address the exact situation you outline. The customer just has to be connected to the internet, then they can automatically restore their licenses just by playing the music files in question.Windows Media Player will recognise that the music had a license and will go out on the web and update their music files with new licenses. All this service does is note these files once had a license and    provides a new one. No internet connection is required for playback after that. "If the reader is connected to the internet and this is still not working, it is most likely because they created their music collection with an earlier version of Windows Media Player (7.0) and then upgraded on top of that collection. We did anticipate this scenario and developed a tool to help them update their licenses: the Personal License Update Utility. This must be run before they upgrade their system or transfer their music files to a new PC.If they don't use this utility they will need to re-create (re-copy) their music CDs into their music library on their PC. Find out more information about this process atwww.microsoft.com/"You can also choose to turn off copy protection when you create your music collection, which can be done easily in any version of &#91;WMP7.x or later&#93;.When you first run Windows Media Player, it will ask if you want to keep copy protection on, and you can turn it off if you wish. If you missed that dialog box, it is still easy to turn off copy protection by going into the Tools|Options menu. Click on the Copy Music tab, and under Copy Settings, uncheck the 'Protect Content' box. In previous versions, this box was called the 'Enable Per  sonal Rights Management' check box." Turning off copy protection would seem the best idea.Hang upI keep forgetting to close my internet connection, and consequently remain attached to my ISP for hours doing nothing but run up a phone bill.Reg BauckhamJS:Go to the Dial Up Networking folder (in Start| Settings|Control Panel), right-click the icon for your ISP, and choose Properties. Click the Dialog tab on the right. Enable the box that says "Disconnect if idle for &#91; &#93; minutes" and type in a number, such as 20 minutes. Also, in the Control Panel, double-click the Modem icon, select Properties and click on the Connection tab. Under Call preferences, check the box that says "Disconnect a call if idle for more than &#91; &#93; minutes". Again, type in the number you want. Alas, neither of these can be relied on to work. For example, you may be connected to a site that repeatedly exchanges information with your PC for security purposes. Or you may be using a free program that fetches advertising banners. Or your PC may be checking for email, updated software, or whatever. Although you may know    nothing about these tasks, they will keep your connection alive, so the automatic disconnection time-out is never invoked. Try using a program such asRat Software's Internet Timeras a reminder. You could try a hardware solution such as the UK-invented TIC (Timed Internet Connection), which costs &#163;29.99 plus post and packing fromwww.timedinternet.freeserve.co.uk. But the best idea is a flat rate internet connection that lets you stay on as long as you like.Name domainHow do I get a .name email address, and does it work with any ISP I choose?Eugene UysJS:The .name domain has been devised for personal users, and is backed by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICann). Read about it and check the availability of the eugene.uys.name at theGlobal Name Registry. GNR does not sell names itself, but it has a list of "official providers". In other respects, .name addresses work the same as .com addresses. One alternative in the UK is .me.uk, launched in January by Britain's domain registry, (Nominet. This is a subdomain of the .uk domain, which is equivalent    to .us in the US. You can register your name with Nominet but it is better to shop around: Nominet charges &#163;80, but it only charges a domain name supplier &#163;5 to register a name for you. You are not obliged to register. If you do, you are not obliged to register your legal name. Registering a domain name is like buying a car numberplate: it doesn't get you anywhere. You also need the name hosting, plus services such as mail forwarding, a mail account, Web space etc.Backchat&#183;Forward Americahas confirmed that it is happy to forward email from AOL UK mailboxes as well as American ones. However, this paid-for service forwards email by logging on to your live mailbox, which may be chargeable. It does not forward email after you have left AOL, which AOL ought to do.&#183;Nikko Irrelevant (sic) points out that in last week's Working the Web, I mistakenly described the link to Ntlhellworld as NTL Hell, which is a different site. Sorry.
According to IDC research, Linux revenues fell last year -- which doesn't mean fewer people use it, only that fewer people paid for it. Windows revenues grew.Infoworldhas the story, but ignore the pointless links. It's not clear whether the figures are only for server software: perhaps Infoworld's sharper subs are on holiday.
The Registerreports that BT has published another list of "trigger levels" for broadband availability. These are the required numbers of expressions of interest over which BT will upgrade the local exchange and offer ADSL internet access. Some are pretty high - several require 750 people or more to show an interest before BT says it is economic to hook up the exchanges. You can find out what your local trigger level is, how far you have to reach it, and register your own interest,here.
Lastminute.com, the online retailer, has moved a step closer to joining the rare breed of profitable dotcoms after reporting narrowing third quarter losses.It announced a pre-tax loss of £3.9m for the three months to June 2002 against £9.2m for the same period last year.The deficit was an improvement on figures for the previous quarter, which recorded a loss of £5.2m.Brent Hoberman, the chief executive of Lastminute.com, said the company was inching towards profit by running as lean a business as possible."We have taken £8.8m out of the cost base so far this year. The internet is all about efficiency and we can still get more efficient," he said.Mr Hoberman, who co-founded the company with Martha Lane Fox, said Lastminute.com had saved cash by keeping technology work in-house and reducing the number of times customers had to visit the site to make a purchase.Analysts said Lastminute.com, best known for offering bargain holidays, will break into profit in the next financial year.Allan Leighton, the chairman of Lastminute.com and a renowned corporate troubleshooter, said his strategy of getting the group to focus on the basics - cashflow and profits - was paying off."These results demonstrate the further shift towards group profitability and positive cashflow. All metrics show underlying improvement and development," he said.Lastminute.com reported a turnover of £8.3m, nearly double the total for the same period last year.The revenue total was boosted by a series of acquisitions made over the past 12 months, and the company has grown even more during a busy summer.It bought French-Italian website Travelprice.com for £32m last month and snapped up Destination Holdings Group in June.Lastminute.com's founders have always brushed off criticism of their venture, which became a parable of the dotcom era when it plunged from a post-flotation high of nearly 500p a share in 2000 to a recent low of 17p.However, the shares have staged a steady recovery this year and were priced at 98.5p this morning, giving the group a market value of just over £200m.
Worried you've left it too late to catch any of the Edinburgh Book Festival? Don't panic, Guardian Unlimited Books, with this year's sponsorsOrangeandNokia, are  giving away five fantastic trips to Edinburgh for this weekend.Each package includes return travel to Edinburgh, two nights accommodation at a luxury hotel and a pair of tickets to one of the Edinburgh Book Festival's main events: 11th on the 11th.  You'll also be able to sample all the delights of one of the biggest and most varied arts festivals in the world, including the world-famous Edinburgh Festival Fringe.11th on the 11th, exactly 11 months on from the events of September 11, distinguished American authors Joyce Carol Oates, Kathryn Harrison, Walter Mosley and Claire Messud will gather to talk of how it has felt to be an American and a writer as the world has reshaped itself in the past year.Enter today!Click herefor your chance to win this fantastic trip.This year, Orange and Nokia are the first to pull the Fringe, Film, Book and International Festivals together. Some of the services they provide include a complete listings guide with information you'll need on every show, a Smart Search which lets you search for all related shows and events, as well as all the reviews on what not to miss and what to avoid.  All direct to your mobile phone!For further information on Orange services please visitwww.orange.co.uk/edinburghWinners will be contacted by email on Thursday 8 August.The prize includes flights from Gatwick, Manchester or Heathrow OR a first class return train ticket to Edinburgh leaving on Friday 9 August and coming back on Sunday 11 August.  Accommodation is provided at the Mal Maison hotel on the Friday and Saturday night. Tickets are supplied for The 11th on the 11th on Sunday 11 August. Orange and Nokia will provide you with access to exclusive areas so you can enjoy the Edinburgh experience away from the crowds.
The FBI, the US Justice Department and other agencies have had at least775 weapons and 400 laptops computersstolen, lost or missing over a recent two-year period, according to a Reuters report. As Oscar Wilde might have said, to lose 100 handguns might be considered a misfortune....
News.comreports: "Upholding the rights of filmmakers to superimpose digital images on real-life buildings in their movies, a federal judge in New York has thrown out a suit filed by billboard and building owners against the creators of the "Spider-Man" movie... The judge also struck down the companies' claims that Sony trespassed by using lasers to digitally film the buildings. 'Light beams bounce off plaintiff's three buildings day and night in the city that never sleeps,' he wrote."Lovely stuff.
BT is diversifying into the competitive online travel arena just months after vowing to stick to its core area of business - telephony and broadband.It is launching a subscription site that offers discounts on holidays, flights and insurance.The site, BT Openworld Travel Club, is the latest subscription service to launch through the internet service provider arm since BT abandoned its general portal to concentrate on specialist subscription sites.BT Openworld is also looking to concentrate on providing more paid-for content services.The company hopes many of its customers will switch to BT's "no-frills" broadband product when it launches in the autumn.However, the move has surprised rival travel sites, some of which suggest BT and its partner in the venture, the Online Travel Company, will find it hard to cut margins any further than established operators.Others have expressed surprise that BT is once again diversifying into new areas."BT Openworld Travel Club's range of 'best on the web' priced offers, unique packages and icomprehensive insurance provides excellent value for customers," said John Raczka, the senior vice-president of content at BT Openworld.Membership of the Travel Club will cost £29.99 a year, or £69.99 for a package that also includes comprehensive worldwide travel insurance for an adult and up to three children.BT claims it will be able to undercut its rivals by offering an extensive selection of special offers and discounts on flights and package deals from companies such as British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Holiday Autos.It also plans to offer a series of exclusive packages to sold-out events such as the Ryder Cup, Six Nations rugby and the MTV Awards.Over the past year BT has launched a string of paid-for content sites in addition to its classical music download site, a betting site, gaming site Gamesdomain.co.uk and music site Dotmusic.com.
Microsoft has announced a number of concessions that follow from its anti-trust settlement with the US Justice Department, even though this agreement has yet to be accepted by the latest judge in the five-year campaign, Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. Reporting of the announcement generally suffers from a bad case of "oh dear, how can we dumb this down for our readers" (let's assume the writers understand it) with Paul Thurrott'sWininfosummary andInfoworldbeing exceptions. Microsoft's coverage of thesettlement programis mixed, but thepress releaseis worth a skim.
ViaScripting.com:Paul Boutin's essential Mac DJ gearshows you how to transfer your old vinyl over to your Mac, and also offers some links to some cute software for mixing MP3 tracks. Cool.
You might think that in the brave new world of interactive design the battle of the sexes has been won. New industry, new men, new network.You would be wrong. At this year's ICA festival of digital art and film, for example, 99% of the contributors were male. The organisers of the show, which included one of the only women involved, were so stunned by this that they asked Jane Austin, a founder member of Recollective, one of a handful of female-run digital design companies, to find out where exactly all the women have gone.In response, Austin arranged an exhibition of female designers (which can be seen atwww.untold.net) and organised a debate on the subject at the ICA last week.The answer, it seems, is depressingly familiar. Same old system, same old stereotypical male attitudes, same old boys' network. Austin, who worked as an English teacher for refugees before retraining in web design, believes the problem goes right back to the playground. "Women often don't study digital design because of the technical aspect of it," she says. "This isn't because they don't want to, but because they are steered away from it right at the start of their education. Even for women of my generation &#91;Austin is 30&#93;, school was still about cookery for girls and technical drawing for boys. Now that may be starting to change with the arrival of Jamie Oliver and cooking made sexy, but even women in their 20s are hard to find in digital design."The rarity of women in the field of technology makes it hard to establish good networking opportunities. "It's a great shame, because women are particularly good when it comes to the usability of a site," says Austin. "They are good at giving and taking advice, and when they design a page they tend to be concerned not just with how it looks, but also how it works. It may sound stereotypical, but men are often so carried away by the beauty of what they have designed they forget to think about whether it is user-friendly."But at the ICA debate, the problem that women returned to time and again was the "laddishness" of the industry. One woman described it as being like the advertising industry 30 years ago, and lamented that attitudes hadn't evolved. Susanna Edwards, a lecturer at Central St Martin's and a freelance graphic designer, says it still comes down to territory. "It may be new technology, but women still have to try twice as hard as men if they want to be accepted. The old rules still apply."And then there are the hours. "It's viewed as macho to stay late," says Austin. "Lots of women told us that the men stay late to play computer games whereas they would prefer to go home or out for a drink when they finish work."Another more serious problem is a lack of awareness of how to behave in an office environment. "Many of the men who set up these companies are very young and they don't seem to be aware of what constitutes acceptable behaviour. I have never experienced it personally but I have heard of offices where the men are openly downloading and watching porn," says Austin.It seems that sexism has made a comback. Men in their 30s and 40s are extremely aware of what they can and can't say. Those in their 20s are like a throwback to an older, more politically incorrect generation. "Time and time again we heard that women didn't find these offices nice places to be and they didn't want to work there," says Austin.There is hope however. The overwhelming feeling of the women who attended last week's event is that the problems stem from immaturity and ignorance, rather than a desire to be deliberately malicious. Most men, when their behaviour was pointed out to them, were shocked and willing to change their ideas.Susanne Dickel, a usability consultant with TMG, a firm specialising in online communities, also believes the problems lie with the education system. "Design is divided into industrial, or external, and interior - and it is the men who are drawn to hi-tech architecture and the grand gesture for the public space, while the women get involved with the interior, softer and smaller space," she says. "This divide is mirrored in the interactive side where men do the programming and women, often graphic designers, put a nice face on the man's structure. This becomes a catch-22, as women reinforce the gender divide by continuing to enrol for traditionally female courses."Hege Aaby, a 29-year-old Norwegian, is the only female designer in a 10-strong team at Digit, the interactive design consultancy based in Shoreditch, London. She has worked on projects for Habitat and Stella McCartney as well as the record label Independiente. "I think women often instinctively feel that they can't do this kind of work, and it goes right back to their childhood," she says. "Boys do seem more confident with technology."This makes women feel they have to catch up if they decide to work in this world, and that can be off-putting. "There's no doubt that the office is laddish too. It's full of computer games and gadgets."Aaby is also keenly aware that as soon as the job with the "cute illustrations" comes up, it will have her name on it. "That's the only time that I really notice I'm the only girl," she says. "Half the time it annoys me but the other half it gives me some good opportunities, so I don't mind."Another curiosity that has struck Aaby as she ambles around Shoreditch in her lunch hour is that those women who do work in her field tend to be foreigners like herself. "You get to know the other women and I have met several other Scandinavians and some French girls. But there seem to be very, very few English girls. So perhaps it's not just about gender, but also about culture," she says."I don't find it isolating because I get on well with the people I work with, but it would be nice to have more women around."With this in mind, and following the enthusiastic response to the site at the ICA debate, Austin has decided to expand Untold into a community for women designers to network and publicise their work."There is a directory of women working in digital design but nobody knows about it so we are going to work on publicising it. As with so many jobs, recruitment is often done by word of mouth and some of the complaints from the men were that they didn't know any women to offer the jobs to, so we are going to work on changing that," she says.And in answer to those after-hours PlayStation sessions, Austin plans to arrange the "Untold social" so that women can get together over a drink and do their own networking in a more convivial environment than the office.
Italian police have closed down two"hacker rings"that included not just the usual socially-challenged teenagers but network security managers, reports Reuters. "'The managers sold security systems during the day and attacked the computers of the customers at night,'' police said in a statement."
Thanks toDon't link.comI discovered this little gem from theterms and conditionson the Crossrail site (Crossrail is a railway development company here in the UK)."You may provide links to the home page of this Website provided you do not link from any source which could in any way disparage or damage the reputation of this Website or Cross London Rail Links Limited. Cross London Rail Links Limited reserves the right to withdraw its consent to linking to the homepage of this Website at any time. You may not link to other parts of this Website without prior written consent from Cross London Rail Links Limited."That means you can't link to anywhere other than their home page without "written consent", and you can't be nasty about them as you link. So if we said theirterms and conditionswere half-witted, would that be wrong? Oh dear.
Sun hasretractedwhat it told CNet about plans for a commercial version of Star Office on the Mac (below), apparently following protests from the unpaid hackers who have been helping to turn one of the world's worst office suites into a usable product, and developing Open Office for Mac OS X. However, the two companies probably will work together, behind closed doors. When Apple Computer was being shopped around, after failing to sell itself to IBM, Sun Microsystems was its second favourite rescuer. Alas,the deal fell through. (Amusingly, Sun is now twice as big as Apple, whereas when the "merger" was mooted, Apple was twice as big as Sun.)
In his latest PC Manifesto, Bear Stearns analyst Andrew Neff predictsApple will switch to Intel chips, reports ZDNet News. Neff is taken seriously for predicting that HP would take over Compaq, so even silly predictions can come true. The problem is that even the fastest Macs are noticeably slow when compared to PCs (except in Apple demos based on running obscure Photoshop filters). Apple has, of course, already ported Mac OS to Intel more than once, before chickening out, and also considered moving to Windows NT/XP. After buying NeXT and moving to its Nextstep/Unix-based operating system instead, there is really no technical barrier to making the switch to Intel. Apple's problem has always been its addiction to high hardware margins. It will probably need to include a TCPA/Palladium-style scheme to keep buyers locked to its proprietary hardware, to stop them hacking the ROMs and running OS 10 on cheaper, faster PCs. Where most PC manufacturers have held steadfastly to the Intel x86, Apple has already used three incompatible processor families: the Mostek 6502, the Motorola 68000 and the IBM PowerPC. (Throw in the Acorn ARM in the Newton and eNote if you want a fourth.) It's unlikely to feel much compunction about making its hardware base incompatible again. Indeed, it will probably benefit, because MacAddicts will simply reverse their previous opinions and boost hardware sales by buying new Macs.
The price of cars is as much as 21.5% down on three years ago, according to the latest figures from the Alliance and Leicester Car Price Index with What Car? magazine.On average, the cost of a new car has dropped by 12.7% with MPVs falling the most, losing over a fifth of their value. Used MPVs have come down even further - by 30.8% - with the price of an average used car (three years old) down by 20.6%.Over the past 12 months, the survey found, small cars such as the VW Golf, fell by 5.6% - shaving around &#163;656 off the average model.Andy Bayes, of Alliance and Leicester, says: "The story over the last three years has been one of ever lower prices and, conversely, increased earnings. These factors have combined to make new cars more affordable than ever before."David Motton, of What Car? magazine, said: "By shopping around and insisting on healthy discounts, the consumer has played a big part in the price reductions we have seen."Another survey this week from Which? found that while cars are increasingly reliable, the number of vehicles being recalled is rising.
GRACE, the polite robot (below), made it through the conference better than expected, reports AP.
Kaspersky Labs has published its latest list of the Top 20 viruses but there are only two worth bothering about. Klez is the runaway leader at 84.28% with I-Worm.Lentin a distant second at 9.24%. Nothing else has more than 1%. Symantec and McAfee agree that Klez is rampant, according tothisPC World report. It's not a happy story because it means there are vast numbers of people who can't be bothered to download the patch that appeared inMarch 2001and/or haven't quite twigged that it is not a good idea to run suspicious-looking unsolicited attachments.
Four years after a gala launch among the dinosaurs at London's Natural History Museum - meant to symbolise the death of print journalism - the technology and business news site Silicon.com has been sold to one of the technology sector's biggest names, Cnet Networks, for an undisclosed amount.Last night Silicon.com's 53 British employees were told that the board had accepted an offer from the American company, online publishers of the flagship Cnet.com and of ZdNet, also a former competitor snapped up by Cnet. Cnet was worth $158m (£101m) at yesterday's close on Nasdaq. Silicon.com had reduced its losses over the last 12 months, the company's management said, but had never made a sustained profit.Silicon's founder, Rob Lewis, had hoped to float the innovative company, which offered video-on-demand news briefings and interviews in addition to text news and analysis. The collapse of the dotcom sector, a saturation of technology news services and the failure of Silicon's web TV news offerings to take off made stock market flotation an increasingly unlikely scenario.Silicon's chief executive, Tom Bureau, confirmed that contracts agreeing the sale of the British operation had been exchanged, and that subject to final approval the sale should close by next week. He said the site will continue to be published with the same voice and editorial quality as before, although he could not say how many of the editorial staff would survive the transition."We're very disappointed to lose our independence. We've built a great company over the last four or five years, but this means we've joined a very successful media business," Mr Bureau said. "It will be a sad day for all the people we know and love not to be a part of this brand any more."Two rounds of redundancies preceded the final sale, and the company's video department had been gutted by the layoffs.Employees were being called into a series of individual meetings this morning to learn whether they would be offered positions by the Americans or redundancy packages. Mr Bureau will be going across to run Silicon.com from its new offices, which also house Cnet's European operations, near Tower Bridge, London.One Silicon employee said the news came as a relief, after the tensions over the past year about the company's future.Mr Bureau said there had been opposition to the sale from Silicon's management."There was certainly an argument for independence, but even though there were well developed plans, it was impossible to convince venture capitalist shareholders that this was the right route to take," he said.Silicon Media Group, the site's publisher, has not been sold, and the company will make decisions about its much smaller sites in Germany and France over the coming weeks. The company employs about 15 people in each of those countries.
Slowly, oh so slowly, the record industry learns the lessons of Napster, albeit the hard way.CNET News.comreports that Pressplay is to become the first of the major label online services to offer an "all you can eat" menu for its subscribers, because reaction to their offering has been lukewarm, at best, so far. So, for $179.40 ($14.95 a month equivalent) users of the Sony/Vivendi venture will be able to stream or download as much of the service's catalogue as they want. Previously, users could only aquire 50 downloads, and listen to 500 streamed tracks. As part of the deal, users will be able to burn 120 tracks to CD, and buy the option to burn more if they want, although CNET quotes "sources" who say not all tracks will be available for all the features.
Is IT worth it?The news that Gordon Brown has set aside &#163;3bn over the next three years to drag the public sector into the electronic age is good news (E-democracy's eleventh hour, July 18). However, it is questionable whether this investment will ultimately deliver real value to the taxpayer.Unlike health and education, throwing vast amounts of public money at an IT problem is rarely the answer. The dotcom bust-up is proof that reckless spending without careful planning could make this the biggest waste of taxpayers' money ever.Jason VokesBorland European product managerjvokes@borland.comKiss meIt must be a sign of old age when remarkably young-looking entrepreneurs discover the software techniques I learnt at the same time as how to use a Hollerith card punch. So "extreme program ming" (Online, July 25) "keeps software design as simple as possible": have these people never heard of KISS - keep it simple stupid - which was around 30 years ago?The underlying reasons for many software project failures can be summarised very simply - they were solutions looking for problems. Congratulations to Entranet for realising this.David Gilbertdavid_gilbert2@compuserve.comFurther worksSome additional suggestions of "interesting" IT/PC books to read (Summer of content, July 18): The Mighty Micro, by Chris Evans, who seemed to have forecast quite a lot of what has happened and other things that are still to happen - and two books about the Apple history Odyssey by John Sculley and West of Eden by Frank Rose. Which is the most objective?Peter Lewis Jonesplj@manorresources.co.ukBurning mailIn its latest attempt to harass its users into paying up or moving elsewhere, Hotmail has deleted all messages from sent mail folders that are more than 30 days old. I had lengthy emails there going back three years; they wiped out 1800kb of my life.I don't say the deletion of my emails alone eclipses the burning of the ancient library of Alexandria.  But once again it shows the arrogance and contempt of Microsoft.Alexander Barleyalex_barley@hotmail.comUp to speedNew technologies are sometimes viewed with the same scepticism that the first fax machines received. That is: "What's the point if I am the only one who has got one?" Yet the government is leading the way in the promotion of XML to meet objectives for 100% of services to be delivered electronically by 2005.Staff in accounts departments are spending hundreds of hours a month re-keying data into purchase ledgers when a straightforward, new email technology called XML -eXtensible Mark-up Language - will handle that process for them, with a return on investment unrivalled by that of EDI.Richard C Pierce, MDPS Financials plcrichard.pierce@ps-financials.comWhy me?Frank Close (Watching the detectors, July 25) asserts that physics can tell us "why we're here", and "why there is any material universe at all". He is using the word in a non-scientific way that confuses the issue. Science is concerned with third-person knowledge about how the material world operates. It has no concern with the first-person relationships at the heart of the"why".Alan SmithsonAlansmm@aol.comMore BTalesI would like to add my voice to the chorus about BT. Continual problems with their mail servers and extremely irritating disconnections seem the norm now. They do not normally respond and if you can get hold of anyone, it doesn't bring much relief.It doesn't help if you write to the chief executive, Ben Vervaayen, either. Several   weeks ago, exasperated at BT's failure to do something as simple as send one of their Openworld CDs to a relative, an email to Vervaayen brought a further promise of action but has still brought no CD. They have only been waiting five to six months now!Peter Thompsonpeter.thompson@btconnect.com
Everyone knows that the mobile phone industry is in crisis. Long distance operators are falling like nine pins. Manufacturers are laying off staff by the thousands and some operators are even abandoning plans to introduce third generation (3G) phones that were supposed to be the saviour of the industry.Except, of course, that it is not true, at least not from the point of view of the consumer. In fact I can't remember a time when there has been such a frenetic pace of technological change with regard to any consumer product and such a dizzy variety of choices.When I was young the one thing that one didn't need to trouble one's little brain about was the choice of phone. That was because there was only one model (BritishTelecom) and only one colour - black. Such halcyon days!Now, contemplating a replacement for my last phone which gave up the ghost a few months ago, I am immobilised by indecision. Yesterday I looked at the Jornada 928 (seereview), Hewlett-Packard's answer to the equally impressive o2 XDA.If it was the only phone in the world - the equivalent of BT's take-it-or leave it black one - I would be over the moon. For around £400 you effectively get a serious computer (running Word, Excel etc) weighing under 200g that fits in a shirt pocket but which 25 years ago would have needed a computer the size of a concert hall for the equivalent power.It has a colour screen, built in phone, MP3, always-on access to the internet and email with a screen big enough to make it a good experience.  The trouble is it isn't the only phone in town. These are merely among the first of a new generation of personal digital assistants (PDAs) aimed primarily at the business market that are also phones.They will shortly be joined by a new generation of lightweight phones (ie they look like phones not PDAs) that also have the functions of PDAs. Among the first of these will be the Sendo Z100 with colour screen and which can play console games (albeit compressed) as well as getting Word and Excel.But the aforesaid devices all use Microsoft's proprietary phone software. You may prefer instead Europe's rival Symbian system driving the ever improving Nokia Communicator: or Nokia's 7650 camera which also runs on Symbian and has a built in colour camera as well (enabling you to email photos to similar phones or on to a web site.)Or you may want to buy British in which case look at the ultra-cool Pogo - designed in Clerkenwell and made in East Anglia. But then you may not want to have a camera attached to your phone all the time so you might go for the highly acclaimed Sony/Ericsson T 68 which weighs only 86g (without its detachable camera) and which has GPRS and a Bluetooth (wireless) connection.Or you may want to have a separate ultra light weight phone like the Ericsson T66 which weighs in at only 50g (don't leave it around in a high wind ...) Then you could  buy a cheap and cheerful PDA  separately so you can leave it at home when you go out. Or you might want to have an FM radio built in  - in which case the Nokia 6510 (also GPRS) is for you.I forgot to say that in the months ahead there will be a steady stream of new phones mostly better than the ones before them. And all this is before mentioning the 3G phones in the UK for which operators paid a cool £22.5bn in the infamous spectrum auction. They will start arriving at end of the year, unless there are further delays.     Buying a phone these days is a bit like painting the Forth bridge. As soon as you think you have finished, you are back at the beginning again.&#183;Victor Keegan is the editor of the Guardian's Online section
This is a product that nearly never was. The HP Jornada 928 personal digital assistant with integrated mobile phone was almost shelved when its manufacturer merged with Compaq earlier this year.Fortunately for consumers, and indeed Vodafone, the network through which it is available, the Jornada 928 survived the cull and arrives in the stores billed as a    serious rival to 02's much hyped XDA.The two PDAs have plenty in common. In addition to Microsoft's Pocket PC 2002 operating system's "pocket" versions of such Windows favourites as Word, Excel and Internet Explorer, both feature GPRS (general packet radio service), which ensures faster and cheaper internet browsing (HTML pages as well as Wap) than with plain old GSM.They both have quality colour screens and, even though HP doesn't quote the processor speed for its Texas Instruments OMAP 710, it seems to run applications at around the same pace as the XDA's 206MHz Intel StrongArm SA-1110. In styling, there's no competition. While both are around the 200g mark, the    XDA is small and curvy while the Jornada has the clunky design of its forebears.There are a couple of key differences, though. The Jornada has a second screen for mainly phone-related info such as battery life. There's also a flip-up aerial, which apparently improves reception. In a direct head to head, the Jornada/Vodafone combi won the browser challenge, downloading pages, and especially images, slightly quicker than its rival.Both are excellent for email on the move, collecting a portion of each message and then offering the user the option of downloading the rest next time they access the mailbox. As for their voice phone capabilities, the Jornada is easier to use and    has slightly better speech quality. But both are great products, and this week the XDA had &#163;100 lopped off its price, to leave it at &#163;399 - only &#163;9 more than the Jornada. We could expect one, or both, of these to be available for around &#163;250 by Christmas. Connected handhelds such as these two for less than &#163;300? Surely it is what mobile professionals have been waiting for.  Ashley NorrisKeeping tacks on the kidsVictor KeeganWondering how to keep track of the children during the summer holidays? Using MyChild Tracker (available shortly), you can send a text message to their phone and you will immediately be texted back with a message stating where they are, or a   map with a circle showing their location. This is one of the first consumer uses of the cellphone operators' ability to deduce where their phones are from the cells they are operating from.The same software - from Icelandic company Trackwell - can enable buddy groups to know where their friends are, or keep track of truants.Parents will need their children's permission to do it to stay the right side of the law - but there is nothing to stop them making it a condition for buying a phone in the first place. That's the easy bit: persuading your children not to turn it off when they go out is something else. Cost? The price of sending a standard SMS.www.trackwell.com
Drakan: The Ancient GatesPS2 	&#163;39.99 Surreal/Sony	****You could never accuse the developers of Drakan: The Ancient Gates of being unam bitious. By mixing elements of Zelda: Ocarina of Time and Tomb Raider, they have aimed high, creating a flawed gem of an adventure game.Playing a Lara-esque female lead, your aim is to free the world. You are straight into the action, with    the snowy mountains that surround the first area of the game eerily reminiscent of Zelda's Hyrule field. And, like Nintendo's classic, Drakan rewards off-the-beaten-track exploration with new quests and hidden items. Combat starts off repetitively hack 'n'   slash, although long-range weaponry and magic soon add to your repertoire. The real innovation, though, is the use of your dragon chum Arokh. Not only does the fiery fella operate an airborne taxi service, but he can dish it out to the bad guys. It's also good to hear some English accents.Unfortunately, the artificial intelligence of your enemies is non-existent as they queue up to get whacked. And for every sweeping vista or involving side-quest, there is a sudden death or graphical cockup, a reminder that you are sitting on the sofa and not swinging a sword in a fantasy field. But the good outweighs the bad and you feel impelled to play on. It could have done with some more polish but Drakan is the best action adventure on PS2.  (GH)Zanzarah: The Hidden PortalPC 	&#163;29.99 THQ/Funatics	*****Like many little girls, I was enraptured by the idea of fairies, subscribing to the idea that if you said you didn't believe in fairies, then somewhere a fairy would die. That was until I found out that the tooth fairy couldn't be bothered taking my baby teeth any further than a pot in my parent's bedroom. After that, I was responsible for a few premature deaths in the fairy fraternity.In Zanzarah: The Hidden Portal, you are encouraged to distress these little winged creatures - the evil ones, anyway - in this role-playing game meets first person shooter (FPS) for a 21st cen tury bout of fairy conkers.Amy is like most 18-year- old girls: she rows with her parents and sulks in her room. So it comes as a bit of a surprise when she's sucked through a portal in her house and finds out she might be the saviour of the last realm of magic. Zanzarah, the secret retreat of the fair folk, is being torn apart by unrest between the fairy tribes. Amy is called upon to rally the good fairies and, with her own collection of up to five fairy bodyguards, pull the wings off evil.The gameplay is divided between being a third person adventure in which you explore the world of Zanzarah collecting fairies, and FPS combat as you use the offensive and defensive spells of your fairies in Quake-style arena battles. The storybook theme may seem too kiddie orientated, but it's well executed and surprisingly innovative for a genre that's saturated with so many derivative.  titles.  (RP)Football ManiaPC £24.99 PS2 £29.99 Game Boy Advance £29.99 Electronic Arts **If one was being cynical, one would     contend that Football Mania is most notable as a collaboration between one global mega-brand and an aspiring one: namely,     Lego and Electronic Arts.The latter is distributing the game, a football game featuring digitally recreated Lego men, rather     than motion-captured renditions of real footballers. It is a cute idea: few people have anything other than fond memories of     Lego, and the plastic bricks remain as popular as ever. But Football Mania, unsurprisingly, is aimed at a pre-teenage audience,     so it is bound not to satisfy when assessed on its gaming merits. (SB)Graphically, it is cute: even after you tire of the novelty of     playing with a team of Lego men, there are some amusing themed pitches, such as Wild West. But, no doubt mindful of the     limited co-ordination skills of its target audience, the controls are pretty basic and the AI controlling the opposition pathetic.This ought to render the Game Boy Advance version superior to the other versions (as the two-button GBA is not suited to     complex control systems), but the PC version turns out to be the best executed. Cursory attempts to generate a storyline     as you play football around the world (featuring the dastardly Brickster) do not convince, but some fun power-ups liven up     proceedings.Football Mania will satisfy those too young to cope with Pro Evolution Soccer or Fifa, but surely that applies     solely to those barely out of nappies? And it is much better when played against human opposition. But, ultimately, it is best     left to Lego completists.
Chinaovertook Japan in July to become the world's second most active Web audience, and its personal computer market is set to surpass Japan's later this year, reports Reuters. Meanwhile AP has numbers for theUS and Japan.
What are the poor dears to do? Having shelled out billions of pounds for their 3G licences, the mobile telephone operators have been desperately casting around for ways to recoup their investment. Now it appears that pornography could be their saviour.A report from the IT research company Visiongain forecasts that profits from pornographic materials transmitted to mobile phones will reach an annual $4bn by 2006, out of a total porn spend of $70bn.The company points to the massive worldwide demand for porn on the internet, estimating that 72.1% of web users look at porn sites and that the arrival of high resolution picture transmission, along with video streaming, high quality sound and graphics, will mean demand for porn via mobiles will skyrocket.Deals have been struck by the operators Hutchison and Virgin with Playboy to provide soft porn content for mobiles. Further link-ups are in prospect between hardcore producers and telecoms software companies. London-based One World Telecom, which provides premium-rate services, will give mobile subscribers access to adult content from Private Media Group, a prolific producer of hardcore porn."We are getting an average of an offer a week from the mobile operators," says Charles Prast, the chief executive of Private Media Group in Barcelona. However, the exact pricing model that will apply to adult content is yet to be resolved.The new 3G-compatible    phones will give access to many internet sites, allowing customers to subscribe to porn using a credit card, as they can through a PC. But a more likely route, according to Prast and visiongain's report, is an extension of the premium-rate system available for everything from sports reports to Big Brother voting.Revenue would be shared between content providers and the mobile operators. Prast likes this idea: "I'd rather have the phone companies arguing with governments than us having to. And I'd rather have a commercial arrangement to co-brand and co-promote with a company like Vodafone. I like to work    with marketing partners."Whether Vodafone and the rest will so eagerly start working with a hardcore porn merchant is less sure. None of the main players has committed themselves to handling porn, though Prast says he has some agreements with UK operators to l be unveiled "before the end of the year".The question of public acceptance has yet to be tested, although Prast points out that fixed-line and mobile operators already receive shared profits from premium rate sex lines."I don't understand why we would have different rules," he says. Visibility is one argument. Listening to a sex chat line on your phone is a private affair.    Looking at pictures or videos of couples could provoke more deeply held objections. Creating ways of restricting content to over-18s is one of the tasks being undertaken.Prast believes there are misconceptions in the UK over what content can already be seen through various media. Owning magazines or videos depicting penetrative sex is no longer illegal. Nor is broadcasting such material on TV.It's just that no one has chosen to do it. Certain standards do apply, however, policed by ICTSIS (the independent committee for the supervision of standards of telephone information services).Its spokesman confirmed that it forced a    UK-based internet porn site featuring bestiality and simulated rape to take its material off the web. Promoting adult material in publications read by children or failing to display charging rates also invites the committee's wrath. But on the whole, ICTSIS has no problem with porn on mobile phones."We just want to make sure people can get access to the material with the minimum difficulty," says the spokesman. Most likely, it will become ridiculously easy to access porn on your mobile, but much harder to stop it accessing you.For research purposes, the author of the Visiongain report, Nic Byrne, dialled up a sex messaging service and is    still, a couple of months later, receiving five or six text messages a day from the company, urging him to return to chat with new girls.Just as spam, especially porn-related, is becoming the bane of email life, mobile spam will irritate us all in coming months. Mobile subscribers in Japan were recently offered refunds because their phones were constantly bleeping with unsolicited messages. This could be a strong disincentive to accessing mobile porn. Price is another.The Visiongain report puts the potential cost of video-phoning, through which you could interact with a stripper, as high as &#163;6 per minute. "There is a novelty factor," says visiongain's Byrne, "which means people are willing at the moment to pay for low quality, but I think prices will come down eventually."Technology will respond to demand, according to Stephanie Schwab, founder of Erotigo, the wireless web portal. "Porn will push technology to make it adapt to consumers' desires," she says.Certainly, there are few kinds of content (perhaps sports highlights?) where short video clips are so prized. Schwab is a rare female in a largely male business: women in general are turned on by erotic literature rather than pictures, leading to the popularity of sites such as www.cliterati.co.uk.Ultimately, if men can get cheaper, more varied porn on better quality screens in their homes or hotel rooms, why would they want to fiddle around with a mobile? We'll just have to ask those millions who could soon be dialling up their mobile skin flicks.
PCWorld.comreckons "the first combination cell phone and PDA to run Microsoft's Pocket PC Phone Edition is now available." But it's more than a year since we tried mono-screen GPS versions such as the Sagem WA3050 and Trium Mondo inOnline, July 19, 2001.
Olympus and Fuji Photo Film have announcedxD, yet another removable storage formatin a market where many consumers are already confused by the range of options. The cards are about an inch square and store up to 8GB, reports CNet. But with capacities and transfer speeds increasing, it is almost inevitable there will be a shift from old formats to newer ones.
The war against hackers is entering a new phase. In the UK and the US, behind the walls of usually bland-looking buildings and shielded from wireless hacking by lead-lined walls, the stuff of Hollywood films is being played out across giant plasma screens.Programmers, often working on behalf of government agencies, track, monitor and frenziedly alter code in a bid to patch up vulnerable and sometimes besieged networks.Details have emerged about a new technology, dubbed Magic Lantern, that   allows the FBI to record keyboard strokes by secretly planting a software spy in a targeted computer. Rumours have also surfaced about a possible deal with a file-sharing network which would allow files to be viewed by the Feds.The Bureau also has a shadowy position on European Union committees, tussling with the task of developing a single cross-border cyber crime unit.This ramping up of activity signals a new phase in the long-running battle between hackers and law enforcement agencies. An industry source says BT Ignite is now   tracking hackers across its UK and European networks for, among others, both the White House cyber security team and the FBI. Chris McNab, technical director at the London-based Matta Security, says the UK's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit is also embarking on a busy round of partnership building in a bid to tap the superior technical skills of private industry.Given this flurry of activity, you might be forgiven for thinking that the cyber law enforcement outfits are on the verge of stamping out hacking, cyber crime and cyber terrorism. However, nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, a war is brewing and increasingly irate hackers are the ones being tipped as victors. Hackers are not only incensed at what they see as an outrageous infringement of civil liberties by some of the FBI moves, but are also disparaging about its efforts to counter them.They are actively gearing up to launch their own attack against the agency, and security industry experts claim the FBI doesn't have a chance of winning.The reasons for the FBI's offensive are straightforward: the agency is attempting to get a grip on hacking before it reaches overwhelming proportions. Gartner Group, computer industry analysts, estimates that by next year, 20 million people worldwide will be actively hacking. But by admitting to developing technology such as Magic Lantern, the FBI is also antagonising a global and powerful hacking community that does not classify itself as either cyber criminal or cyber terrorist, but views itself as a guardian of internet democracy.The development of Magic Lantern has caused a storm in the hacking underground. It is deemed unethical, highly dangerous and goes against everything they claim to represent. More surprisingly, this attitude is reflected by some anti-virus vendors, who are also concerned at its implications.Ironically, in developing Magic Lantern, the FBI sought inspiration from Back Orifice: a trojan that could wreak havoc in Microsoft operating systems. Back Orifice was itself developed by hackers to, as one said, "demonstrate what a total piece of crap Microsoft represents from the security perspective and to publicise the danger of trojans to home users.""We are being sucked into an Orwellian nightmare," says one US-based hacker who calls himself Oxblood Ruffin. Oxblood, a member of the influential hacking group Hacktivismo, adds: "This &#91;Magic Lantern&#93; is a powerful tool and basically they   have initiated a state-sponsored trojaning campaign with no judicial oversight. If you look at what's possible it's very scary. For instance, if there is no smoking gun, a rogue cop could plant a virtual one. It's possible to upload as well as download or browse the contents of a targeted user's machine. So if there are no kiddie porn pictures &#91;on a computer&#93; for instance, they can be uploaded and the doors kicked in five minutes later. No traces either."Ruffin says the hacking community is coming together to battle the FBI and predicts that even technology vendors will be throwing their own weight in, too. "It's cut a dividing line right through the anti-virus community: it's a hugely divisive issue," he says. He also predicts that when the FBI unleashes its new tools, hackers are going to respond with a ferocity never previously seen. The last time hackers declared war against government, massive denial of service attacks were launched against the White House website, which had to close down for a day. The FBI website also had to shut down for several hours as defences were rebuilt. Several other websites, including the US Senate site, were defaced with diatribes against the FBI. The spark for the action was a series of raids against several hackers   belonging to a group known as Global Hell. The coming action will be "10 times" more intense, it is claimed.But while hackers are incensed with the FBI's moves, they are also dismissive of them. A hacker who uses the handle Pink Reed says: "We have more targeted experience than anyone in this area and the FBI has stolen our idea. They couldn't come in with their own - they don't have the know-how. If a hacker is any good, he will have a wealth of home-grown tools and techniques with which he can do pretty much what he wants. The FBI doesn't have an idea - or a chance."This attitude reflects the widely held belief among hackers that the people charged with maintaining security are often little more than amateurs. And this is a view also held by experts on the other side of the divide. Chris McNab, a former ethical hacker, says: "Hackers have time, resources and experience. They are experts at finding vulnerabilities and most of the time, the security industry is playing catch up."Even the FBI's attempts, if true, to break into music, text, image and video files as they are transmitted across networks, look set to land little more than a public relations victory.McNab adds: "If hackers are going be transmitting anything that might be of use,   it's certainly not going to be sent unencrypted."They have been using encryption for years and it can take years to unscramble the codes. It's just not feasible." For the FBI to catch the hackers, it must be sure of their identity and intent before they embark on an attack.Both McNab and Ruffin agree that the FBI does not have the experience or resources to combat hackers, despite working hard to assemble partnerships with private industry over the past two years. For example, it holds daily briefings with Internet Security Services' X-Force. This is a team dedicated to defending its corporate clients from attack, a team that uncovers 150 new attack methods every month. X-Force provides this and other information to the FBI, but the discoveries are inevitably made after the attack.Ruffin speaks disparagingly about the private industry partnerships the FBI has formed. "A lot of them are highly paid with poor knowl edge: the FBI does not have the best help in the world." McNab says of the UK's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit: "It's a government organisation with government salaries, how is it going to attract the best talent?"Hackers won't be drawn on when a concerted effort will be made to counter the FBI's strategy, but it is likely to be sparked with the first arrest of a member of the hacking community through the use of Magic Lantern, and attacks are likely to be launched from Cardiff to California.What must be worrying for the FBI are the hacking tools that they are not aware of. Even inexperienced hackers have access to techniques that are devastatingly destructive. For example, techniques exist that allow programs to be planted on a hacked website. Every user that enters that site will unwittingly run the program, which will lie dormant until 3am. It then automatically uninstalls any firewall around that computer or network, replacing it with malicious code that completely wipes the hard disk.And the hard facts are that a hacker can break into any computer and - unless they are incompetent - they will remain undetected. Most hackers, when launching an attack, will route the attack through five or six computers that could be scattered around   the globe. A favoured option for attacks launched from the UK and the US is to ensure the launch computer is often located some distance away, such as in Korea. Cyber crime units could determine its location as a result of its Internet Protocol (IP) address, but then they would need to speak to the ISP in Korea, send people out to Korea, get a warrant to retrieve the logs and audit recent movements to see if more attacks originated from that computer - and only then move in to make the arrests. And there is a very high chance that the owner of the computer is completely unaware his machine is being used to launch the attack.The process would need to be repeated for each computer and, if the hacker is experienced, the same computer would never be used again to launch an attack. If the attack was traced to a UK ISP, the whole process and appeals to judiciary would need to be repeated with the very good chance that the targeted computer was a hijacked machine. Given that hackers have millions of computers from which to choose, the efforts of law enforcement are effectively reduced to little more than a hope and a prayer.Oxblood Ruffin, although keen to stress his law-abiding credentials, says: "There is a lot of arm waving when some one gets caught as though they were the greatest criminal since Professor Moriarty. People who get caught just aren't that good at what they do."Even the technology used to track hackers in real time has its limitations. While it provides the ability to defend against attacks as they take place, it can only track hackers as they move forward through networks to the point of attack. To snare the hacker, trackers must be absolutely sure about where the attack originates from. And seasoned hackers are notoriously adept at covering their tracks.Despite the sense of indignation in the hacking community, there is also a feeling of confidence that its best efforts can easily be countered. McNab believes this too and says: "They will get around it." He points out that law enforcement "really does have some problems at the moment in combating hackers, and the bottom line is that nothing can stop a determined hacker."The danger for the FBI and other cyber crime outfits is that when hackers decide to act, they can hit out - and they can hit out hard.
Freeserve, the UK's biggest internet service provider, is considering adopting the name of its French owner, Wanadoo. If the plan goes ahead, 2.5 million customers may have their email addresses changed and it would deprive UK taxpayers of &#163;17.5m every year."It would be in keeping with Wanadoo's strategy for us to operate under a single brand," said Wanadoo's Nicolas Dufourcq.The Sunday Telegraph reported that Freeserve email addresses will be scrapped for ones ending in "wanadoo.com", possibly next year.Freeserve admitted that Wanadoo is considering a rebrand, but added: "We don't know if customers' email addresses would change_ we will be putting customer interests first."Dr Willy Black, from the UK domain registrar Nominet,   said this demonstrated the value of registering a domain name of one's own: "People who use their ISP's domain name run the risk that it will be changed."Wanadoo has already decided to move the "place of supply" of Freeserve's unmetered service Freeserve Anytime to Madeira, to avoid UK taxes. Madeira charges 13% VAT, compared with the UK's 17.5%. The move, which   takes effect next month, will cost the UK government &#163;17.5m a year. Freeserve has often criticised AOL, another major ISP in the UK, for not paying VAT."This should serve as a wake-up call to governments, that they need to plan for taxation in the internet age with a far greater degree of urgency," said Richard Allan MP, the Liberal Democrat IT spokesman.
Things go wrong. It's a fact of life. But when computers go wrong, there is a good chance you can use them to find the answer online. It is much cheaper and often quicker than phoning a helpline and spending an hour with Vivaldi, or paying for help.Whichever route you choose, the most important factor is giving a precise description of the problem. You should certainly have an accurate record of any error messages the computer throws up.For example, if all you know is that Internet Explorer has crashed, you have little chance of finding the source of the problem. But if you know that "Msmsgs has caused an Invalid Page Fault in Kernel32.dll" then pasting the error message into a search engine may well find the answer in seconds. If it doesn't, well, the most common reason for failure is that a key part has been mistyped or misspelt.But where do you start? The answer is usually Google. In theory, the best information should come from the company whose product is causing the problem. But corporate sites often make you jump through hoops -    they may want a name, an email address, a product registration number or whatever - and when you get in, they may not deliver the goods. If the information is there, you can't find it because their search engine is hopeless.Search Google, however, and you are often searching the three most useful sources of information. These are the official sites; the unofficial sites for particular products and services, such asBT OpenwoeandNTL Hell; and public forums where users help each other.The net has a long tradition of FAQs, or compendiums of Frequently Asked Questions, most of which are the fruits of long online discussions. Since they are not tied to the company, they can be brutally honest about failings; since they are written by users, they are usually easier to understand. The phrase "unofficial FAQ" is useful if you want to find an answer in a hurry.FAQs are not restricted to products or companies. For example, Andy McFadden'sCD-Recordable FAQis the best guide to the topic I've found. The comp (computer section) ofThe Internet FAQ Archivesprovides links to dozens more.But public forums are where the action is. By their nature, FAQs find it hard to include queries that have not been asked before. However, anyone can post a query to a newsgroup or message board, so this is where new problems tend to surface. The disadvantage is that anyone can respond.Usenet used to be the main vehicle for this sort of advice, and some companies still provide support newsgroups, includingMicrosoftandwww.microsoft.com/mac/support/news groups.asp.Others, such as alt.internet.providers.uk.btinternet and btinternet.whinge, are clearly independent. Don't worry if you have never used Outlook Express or Free Agent to subscribe to a newsgroup. Just go to Google again, and click the Groups button. Type in the name of the company or product and Google will list some of the groups that cover it.NTL, for example, brings up ntl. discussion.cable-tv.digital , ntl.support.cablemodems and ntl.feedback.general . Click on one to get a list of message topics, then click a topic to read the thread of questions and responses - and it all happens in your browser. Register with Google Groups and you can post messages, too. Newsgroups are now being challenged by web message boards, which offer immediacy.Post a message and often someone will respond within minutes, even if just to share the pain. There are large collections of message    boards, covering everything from classic games consoles to software design, hosted byCNet,MSN, andTek-Tips, among others.Windows AnnoyancesandWindows-Help.nethave forums for the five main versions of Windows. Apple hostssupport boards, andMacFixIt's forumscan also be useful.The keys to success are providing a full, descriptive subject line ("Help!" will not do), accurate error messages, and being unfailingly polite. It also helps if you describe the steps you have already taken to find an answer. There are also a few specialised sites that provide useful information well beyond the dabbler level.My favourites includePaul Collins's guideto the programs Windows may load when it starts   and Black Viper's guides to the programs that make upWindows 2000and Windows XP. The sites created by MVPs - helpful outsiders "recognised" underMicrosoft's Most Valuable Professional (MVP) programme- are also useful. If all else fails you can, of course, write to Ask Jack. But in many cases, I'll only do the same kind of web search you can now do for yourself.
Two years ago, Margaret Crane and Jon Winet, San Francisco-based net artists, began dreaming of the River Tyne. They had heard that an icon of the industrial age was undergoing a radical change and they wanted to see it.A year later, the pair arrived from the first of many flights to Newcastle City Airport. They had come to make an online documentary - to chronicle a city in the midst of change. What they found was an area starkly divided between an emerging network of cultural industries and a beleaguered working class.Last month, the Baltic Arts Centre finally opened on the Gateshead bank of the Tyne. Its director, Sune Nordgren, describes the &#163;46m institution as an art factory - not a gallery. Baltic is a central part of a plan to regenerate an area once synonymous with coalmines and shipyards, into a place based around service industries and the internet.Crane and Winet have worked together for 15 years. Their last piece, Democracy: The Last Campaign, was an acclaimed online project focusing on the 2000 US presidential elections. Previously, the pair served four years as artists-in-residence at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Centre, one of the birthplaces of the modern computer.While most Geordies are besotted with their arts centre, there are deeper rum blings that art alone cannot replace coal. Locus+, a local commissioning agency, thought the same and invited Crane and Winet to Tyneside to make a record of the city.The result is Monument, a website that wields an array of creative writing, experimental journalism, photography, social anthropology and a peppering of George Orwell. Launched last month, the site, which is continually updated, is played out in multiple browser windows that works like a dysfunctional news website. In the artists' own words, Monument is a "portrait of fragmented threads, constantly changing. No two visits ever the same."Over a year, Crane and Winet shot dozens of short videos at locations around Newcastle and Gateshead. They talked to councillors and asylum seekers, council tenants and writers, asking them what they thought of the cultural institutions taking shape on the banks of the Tyne. They hoped to achieve something like a Road to Wigan Pier for the age of the internet."We are keenly aware, as Americans," explains Winet, "that Newcastle is this huge icon of the industrial age. What we found is something very different. The big industries are gone and the city is suffering massive depopulation. At the same time, there is an immense amount of local pride.""In some ways, the idea of   regeneration is like a talisman of hope," agrees Crane. "I think it may be a bigger idea than the actual projects in many places. We wanted to have a closer look at that."But can new media rescue Newcastle? There is an undeniable buzz to Newcastle and Gateshead. The Tyneside Cinema recently opened its "Mike Figgis" Digital Lounge to give the city's cultural industries their own networking space. Other institutions such as Isis, based in the old infant school in Wallsend, take experimental new media to village fetes in a giant inflatable dome. There's also Norman Foster's new home for the Northern Symphonia, taking shape next to Baltic.On the first floor of the converted flourmill is Baltic's Media Lab. It has already launched several pieces of net art, including Vuk Cosic's delightful The Real Matrix (see link below), and a quick glance at the artists studios shows that the work that will be produced in the factory will be made on computers more often than on easels."Artists are usually last in the pecking order when it comes to new technology," explains Tom Cullen, Baltic's multimedia manager. "Most digital art is expensive to put on, to hire a decent projector in a gallery for three months costs thousands. We think we have a good chance to redress the balance."Baltic has banks of plasma screens and projectors for   local artists to hire. It has a room called The Cube, a 53 square metre "black box" with a sunken floor capable of under-floor projections. The building has wireless internet access and its own computer servers (other galleries rely on ISPs) to ensure curatorial control if things get controversial, says Cullen.Cullen says he shares the concerns of Crane and Winet. "There are many isolated little groups within the region. Until now most have had to survive on the very basics. If they can't get the right support many will simply give up or move elsewhere... Baltic will only work if we can plug into them."Opposite Baltic is the new Slug and Lettuce: a glass-fronted bar connected to the arts centre by Wilkinson Eyre's Millennium Bridge. On hot summer nights, well-dressed Geordies tuck into white wine. One drinker jokes: "If you'd said 10 years ago that Gateshead would have its own Hilton hotel you'd have needed your head examined." Although not everyone shares in the new prosperity, there's little doubt that life by the Tyne is changing. Getting used to it might take a little more time.
Blast itGigablast is yet another new search engine, and shows lots of similarities to the early Google. The beta test version has been developed by Matt Wells, who worked on the Infoseek search engine before writing his own from scratch. It's fast. The main problem is that it fills a hole that is already overfilled. Search-22 may be a more useful bookmark, although it's only a front end to a collection of search and reference sites. From the homepage, you can look up a word or phrase in AltaVista, AllTheWeb, Gigablast, JoeAnt... well, 22 search engines in all, not including Google. Another page links to 22 meta-search engines that in turn search other search engines. But I like the Reference page that includes Infoplease, Xrefer, Dictionary.com. RhymeZone and Quote World in its set of 22.www.gigablast.comwww.search-22.comLife of BrianThe Watford FC message board at Rivals.net, the footie fan site, continues to attract worldwide attention. As a visitor commented, it could end up on Jerry Springer, and one message purports to be from a Sun reporter trying to check the truth of a story. The monster thread was started by Bimbo83, who accused her boyfriend of playing away in Greece, and dropped him. Football365 was first with a T-shirt but now Cafepress is offering a wide range of merchandise, from a wall clock to a tote bag, as well as a selection of tops and mugs. To read the uncensored story, now running at more than 1,000 messages, click on the link below.http://makeashorterlink.com/?K40312551www.cafeshops.com/cpUrbis RomaeOnce upon a time there was a map of ancient Rome that covered a 60 by 45ft wall in the Templum Pacis.   Unfortunately, only a small proportion has survived, and it's broken into 1,186 pieces. The Stanford Digital Forma Urbis Romae Project is now digitising the bits with the idea that it will be easier to fit them together on screen. So far, its test site only has 28 pieces, and the images are copyright Stanford University, so don't think of trying to sell them as a particularly challenging jigsaw.http://formaurbis.stanford.eduIn touchThe Tate Gallery has expanded its website with an animated section on Touch Tours, for the visually impaired, featuring pairs of works by Matisse and Picasso at Tate Modern. The site lets you download a printable Adobe PDF file with raised images and page numbers in Braille.www.tate.org.uk/imapBing bongHaving trouble with your mobile phone? Maybe it just doesn't have enough creative energy and could be improved with a ring tone based on wind chimes. That's probably not one of the suggestions on the Phoneshui site, where you take a quiz to decide which mobile would most enhance your life. However, the Flash site - sponsored by Phones4u.co.uk - doesn't actually tell you the result. It's mailed to you, which is one way to extract a working email address for a hot sales prospect.www.phoneshui.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#183;Egg fried on chip:www.handyscripts.co.uk/trubador_egg.htm&#183;Freedom of information laws worldwide:www.freedominfo.org&#183;Vote in the IMAs:www.internetmovieawards.com&#183;Crop circles with Mel Gibson:http://bventertainment.go.com/movies/signs&#183;Goldmember:www.austinpowers.comSix of the bestTravelOfficial advicewww.fco.gov.uk/travelHealthwww.doh.gov.uk/traveladvicewww.nhsdirect.nhs.ukPassportswww.ukpa.gov.ukVisa infowww.embassy.uk.coAbtawww.abtanet.comLinkshttp://uk.dir.yahoo.com/Recreation/Travel
What technology will you have aboard QneticQ 1?There's the lightweight composite structure platform with an integral chamber, that's pressurised to the equivalent of 15,000 feet. We have pneumatic line technology to operate valves in the top of the balloon - some of which are 1,200 feet from the platform - and microwave transmitters to send TV pictures up to 150 miles and pull-down radiation reflective blinds to eliminate 93% of radiation threat.We'll be wearing full Russian spacesuits designed for use on open decks. AGPS transponderdeveloped to transmit altitude with an accuracy of three metres either side, even at space height of 135,000 feet. There's a three-stage barometrically operating cargo chute system for emergency descent and a solar plane attached to the platform, which will make 28-second circuits of the balloon at a distance of 425 metres with a camera and transmitter on the end of the wing.What are you hoping to find out?The most exciting thing is to find out how the solar plane performs. It's extremely lightweight and has real possibilities as a first stage towards permanent fuelless flight on the edge of space and replacing satellites. Big balloons such as ours could become the delivery system to space.How will you be keeping in contact with earth?Via VHF and UHF radio. We have one channel using aGigawave transmitter, which we (Flying Pictures) use worldwide for live broadcast of sports events from airships. This goes straight to the ship below because its range is around 40 miles. Onward transmission is through satellite. We then have another stream using anAmerican Ecliptic transmitter, which is used on rockets by Nasa.Favourite gadgets?APsion 5mxand aSony PCG-F250 Notebook. My favourite has to be myBreitling emergency watch. If we have to bail out, it will transmit a signal to an aircraft up to 30 miles away.Favourite sites?www.qinetiq.com. Not simply because it is the project sponsor, but because they employ 8,000 scientists, a third of whom have PhDs. The other regular site iswww.metoffice.com. With ballooning, the weather is critical. The UK Met Office is now at the forefront of its profession in the world. With computer advancement , the office can now predict weather for us three days ahead as accurately as they could 15 years ago just one day ahead.The project can be followed onwww.qinetiq1.comVisit:www.flyingpictureslive.com
Hundreds of British webloggers have already entered the contest in the hope of winning a &#163;1000 first prize, or one of five runners-up prizes of &#163;100 each. The judging panel includes well-known figures from the blogging, business and media worlds.You can find details atwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog/bestbritishblog. The closing date for entries is Friday September 6.
