I went to a Nintendo UK event ths afternoon that basically showed most of the Gamecube and DS games that were at E3. The difference this time was that I got to spend a blissful 30 mins withZelda: Twilight Princessrather than the pressurised few moments in LA. This was plenty of time to appreciate the more mature, yet still pleasingly twee in places, action. I also spent time with the highly originalKiller 7, which is out this summer. Nintendo's much maligned Gamecube still has plenty of life left in it. At least for this year anyway.
In our G2 section today, comedian Marcus Brigstoke points out what's disturbing him about the BBC's free giveaway ofevery Beethoven symphony.The problem's a simple one - that it's free."It's free, it's music, I love music - so why am I reluctant to slip it in to my iTunes folder? It's something deep and mysterious in the human psyche, like putting stuff in a skip, then being annoyed if someone takes it. It doesn't make any sense, and yet I still haven't hit the download key. It's not like it's free porn, you know, rigged with some mucky virus that makes pictures of donkeys and German women pop up on the screen every time you log on. Not from the BBC. I mean, I read in the Daily Mail how standards have slipped, but I can't see Radio 3 hiding titty-pics in a Beethoven file."
Sticky wicket: England show the Aussies how it's done. Photograph: Sean Dempsey/PAIn honour of England'scracking cricketing victoryover Australia yesterday, I thought it best to take a look at some of the ways to emulate your heroes on the web. After all, if we wait until the start of the Ashes, we might not have so much to cheer about.So, after hours of painstaking research (cough), here's a list of the best free cricket games you can play online.Most games focus on batting, since it's the bit that's easiest to get stuck into with a bit of fast and furious smacking action. And as if to prove it, first up there's Natwest'scutesy-pie attempt. Your strange little sprite will crack the ball around his garden in an attempt to get the highest score in five overs. Simple, but looks nice.The BBC also wades in to simulate the thud of leather on willow with the somewhat infuriatingLast Man Standing. It's not bad, but can prove mind-bendingly difficult.Stattos might appreciate thisstrategy-based little numberfrom StumpVision, which lets you test yourself at both batting and bowling - unusual to have the choice.And while NPower'sclassic cricket simis still banging around, the best of the bunch has to beStick Cricket, which has a whole slew of great scenarios for budding batsmen to take on.Now if only they had some warm beer and sunshine too...
As an interesting/desperately sad (delete according to personal preference) footnote to the'Will sex in games ever actually be sexy'post I wrote a couple of weeks ago, GTA San Andreas fansite, GTAsanan.com, claims to have discovered anunused sex mini-gamehidden away in the PC version of the blockbusting action adventure. The story was then picked up by UK:Resistance who have apparently seen a video of the scene in action. ThescreenshotsareNOT office friendlyand seem to reveal a sort of rhythm action challenge involving various sexual positions.Yet more evidence to the effect that, no, sex in videogames will never be sexy.
A quick glance at the familiar white wires snaking into the ears of any number of heads in your train carriage could have told you as much, but now it is official. Apple - the company whose mobile music player the iPod has become the commuter's new best friend - is now the fastest-growing brand in the world.While the giants of old, including Coca-Cola, are in decline, Apple is going from strength to strength. According to a survey by the New York-based marketing consulants Vivaldi partners, the computer firm has managed to increase its brand value by 38% over the last four years, the biggest margin of any company within its industry.By contrast, Coca-Cola, long regarded as the world's most valuable brand and a triumph of the admaker's art, declined by 4% annually.Apple's success is partly due to the immense popularity of the iPod and iTunes, its online record store. Vivaldi points out that more than 400m songs have been purchased via its iTunes store. In addition, sales of its computers and software raises Apple's value to &#163;2.9bn ($5.3bn).However, BlackBerry, the fashionable hand-held device that gives access to both phone calls and emails, and Google, whose popular internet search engine has become a part of the lexicon, are close behind, tied in second place with 36% growth.The next three slots also reflect our increasing reliance on technology when it comes to shopping for anything from books and bric-a-brac to information. The websites Amazon, Yahoo and eBay all recording growth in excess of 30%.But Vivaldi argues that its ranking, published in this month's edition of Forbes magazine, is not all down to the fashionability of the internet and our love affair with it."Apple also has tremendous resilience - they seem to have this ability to reinvent themselves every few years," said Jeffrey Parkhurst, Vivaldi's managing director of valuation. "That's what keeps them hot and relevant to their consumer base."Red Bull, with its distinctive narrow cans and sponsorship of extreme-sports and college parties, achieved similarly impressive growth, coming seventh in Vivaldi's rankings. Starbucks, which continued its high street creep by opening four stores a day on average last year, was ranked eighth.Janet Morris, a lecturer at the Marketing Forum college, said the coffee chain's success owed a lot to its style of marketing."Starbucks has achieved a very high level of street penetration and has grasped technology by having wi-fi in it stores, so it's not surprising that it's doing so well," she said.She said the success of Google, Amazon and eBay could be explained in part by their nature, while Apple and BlackBerry had prospered partly because they had excellent products that appealed to consumers."Online companies tend to be very good at targeting their customers and the survey suggests that's true," she said.Other brands that scored well on the chart were Pixar, whose animated film The Incredibles was the bestselling DVD of 2005, MTV, and Harley Davidson, whose 100th anniversary events in 2003 drew 1 million people."Harley Davidson is a good example of a brand that remains incredibly relevant to its consumer base," said Mr Parkhurst. "It's the only brand where a 43-year-old accountant can put on leather, drive down main street and have everyone be afraid of him."Dubbed the Next Generation by Forbes, the hottest-growing brands were selected by chief marketing officers and consumers from more than 5,000 companies across all industries. Vivaldi then whittled the list down to 40 brand-owning companies that beat their peers for earnings growth. By factoring in cash flow and the percentage of business being driven by the brand, Vivaldi produced a top 20 ranking for brand values that had increased most within their respective industries during the past four years.But while the survey suggests that Coca-Cola is not the the force it once was, the carbonated drinks company still enjoys a massive $55bn share of the market, dwarfing that of Apple and the other companies on Vivaldi's chart.That does not disguise the fact, however, that Coca-Cola's expansion is restricted to the drinks industry whereas Apple has been able to turn itself into a lifestyle brand.Morris predicted the domination of the market by technology-based companies. "The trend will get stronger as and more people use the internet to get their product to their customers," she said."
Apple iPods have become the tool of choice for some fraudsters who use them to download vast quantities of corporate information either to sell to rivals or to support their own start-up operations.Anti-fraud experts warned yesterday that the machines, along with other music players, that boast hard drives with up to 20Gbytes of memory, could become widely used by employees to fool security officials and breach data security rules.In one case a recruitment agency found much of its client database had been copied to an iPods's memory and used to defraud the firm.Staff who have been given the sack or missed out on promotions are the most likely to turn to this type of fraud. They may be supported by criminal gangs who use employees as insiders to extract information, but in these cases they are more likely to be disgruntled employees who want to punish their employer.Paul Carratu, president of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, the trade body for fraud investigation firms, said recent cases involving the Ipods highlighted the needto be vigilant. He said employers may believe that a member of staff plugging their Ipod into a workstation is doing something innocent when, in reality, they are trying to defraud the firm."Ipods are not a new toy, but whereas corporates still don't know much about their capabilities, individuals do. In a recent case, after we got a court order, we found the data the employer said was missing on a former employee's iPod," added Mr Carratu.Andrew Clark, head of fraud investigations at KPMG, said data theft was an increasing problem. "Data is valuable and companies don't always realise that. These thefts can happen because there is a reliance on automated processes and there are fewer middle managers after 10 years of de-layering."The National Criminal Intelligence Service points out that fraud cost &#163;14bn last year. It says: "Criminals are becoming increasingly technologically competent ... organised criminals have demonstrated in other areas that they are willing to buy in skills and expertise, or sub-contract to specialists. It is therefore reasonable to assume that their use of hi-tech methods will only increase as banks, businesses and individuals become more reliant on IT and online transactions, and more and more potentially valuable data is stored on networks."
China's communist authorities have intensified their campaign against the party's biggest potential enemy - the internet - with the recruitment of a growing army of secret web commentators, sophisticated new monitoring software and a warning that all bloggers and bulletin board operators must register with the government or be closed down and fined.The escalation of the government's effort to neutralise critical online opinion comes after a series of large anti-Japanese, anti-pollution and anti-corruption protests, many of which were organised or publicised using instant messaging services, chatrooms and text messages.With the number of users forecast to rise above 100 million this year, access to the web is spreading beyond China's well-rewarded middle class and into the more disgruntled factory and farming communities, where young migrant workers are teaching their families about internet cafes.In response, the propaganda departments of provincial and municipal governments have recently been instructed to build teams of internet commentators, whose job is to guide discussion on public bulletin boards away from politically sensitive topics by posting opinions anonymously or under false names.Although advertisements are supposed to have been placed in-house, many details about the part-time political pacifiers have emerged in the domestic media. According to the Southern Weekend newspaper, a team of about 20 commentators has been operating in the city of Suqian, in Jiangsu province, since April."In the information age and the internet age, the most important and critical mission in front of us is how to seize the initiative on internet opinion and how to seize the high point of internet opinion," the paper quoted the deputy director of the local propaganda department, Zhang Fenglin, as saying.Applicants for the job - mostly drawn from the propaganda and police departments - were told they had to understand government policies, know political theory, be politically reliable and understand internet technology. Successful candidates have been offered classes in Marxist theory, propaganda techniques and updates on the development of the internet around the world.A summary of objectives declared that commentators should "be proactive in developing discussion, increase control, accentuate the good, avoid the bad, and use internet debate to our advantage."Reports that at least two other localities have recruited similar teams suggest the strategy is being encouraged by the central government. Few will admit to the practice, but Nanjing officials said the city was hiring 20 online commentators from the ranks of its existing employees."They don't need to give up their current jobs because it is not full time. All they need to do is spend some time every day monitoring internet discussion," said a member of the   propaganda department. "There are commentators like this all over the country. Until now we haven't had detailed instructions about how it works. So nothing is clear yet."Although the existence of an internet police force - estimated at more than 30,000 - has been known for some time, attention has previously focused on their work as censors and monitors. Countless critical comments appear on bulletin boards of major portals such as Sohu and Sina only to be erased minutes, or sometimes just seconds, later. In the most recent case, all postings that blamed corrupt local officials or slow-moving police for the deaths of 88 children in floods last Friday were removed almost as soon as they appeared.But the task of covertly guiding opinion - as in Suqian - has proved controversial for different reasons. "I think Suqian's practice is not proper," said Zhan Jiang, dean of journalism at China Youth University for Political Sciences. "If officials want to guide public opinion they should publish an editorial in the People's Daily under their own names. It is very wrong to anonymously spread government propaganda. Online commentary is a kind of abuse of power."China's leading bloggers were equally scathing. "The government's tactics are too funny. They are actually hiring staff to curse online," said Liu Di, who was arrested last year for comments she posted under her internet moniker Iron Mouse. "But it also shows that the government can find no better way to deal with netizens' discussion. Compared to other media in China, the internet is still the most free. It is powerful among young people no matter whether they are chatting online or playing games. It will be difficult for the government to control."
Inside story: The New Yorker's Seymour Hersh. Photograph: Martin GodwinInvestigative journalist Seymour Hersh won a Pulitzer prize for his expose of theMy Lai massacreduring the Vietnam war, and more recently won plaudits for his revelations about Abu Ghraib. His latest book,Chain of Command, is out now in paperback.This week our very own Hamish Mackintosh asked for his thoughts on technology, the web and how the internet is changing journalism. Just in case you missed it, here it is:Has the word-processor made the writing process easier?The computer has certainly made everything easier, as it's far more fluid and you can move things around. You're more interested in taking a chapter and turning it inside out than you would be with a typewriter. Everybody was worried 25 years ago that kids weren't learning how to write and nobody was communicating any more - then the internet and email started. Now everyone's worried that blogs will drive newspapers out of business, but it's not going to happen.So Dan Gillmor's idea that "we are the media" isn't quite the case yet?The net does one thing great for people like me: it used to be that if I wrote a good hard story for the New Yorker magazine and the New York Times didn't pick it up then we all felt bad. Now the internet is so vibrant that everything's on it on blogs, logs or websites. The blogs are still very undisciplined though and they can be very vicious.No chance of a Seymour Hersh blog then?If I were smart I'd do it but I don't really care. I know a lot of journalists have put up a web page or blog but that's a bit too involved for me. I'm the type of person that when my screen blanks out, I immediately start screaming and dial my youngest son. It's a generational thing. I keep saving my work but I don't want to know anything about the soul of the machine. I just bought a new Dell computer with broadband so I could jump around the net more - I was happy with a 56k modem but everybody laughed at me.Has journalism's role changed in the internet age?There's tremendous disappointment with the American coverage of the war, so when I give talks I tell people to get online and check out your paper, the Telegraph or Der Spiegel - Al-Jazeera has anEnglish page. I gave a talk to thePoynter Foundationrecently, who are a bunch of progressive thinkers trying to work out where to go with the kind of journalism I do, which is expensive, time-consuming and there's worry about sources and diminishing market.Has the net made it harder to cover up stories such as Abu Ghraib?The Bush administration is amazingly competent at doing it. In England, with all the leaks that get out, they're running into big problems, but in America the administration is brutal in dealing with dissent. The big impact of the net is that there's an astonishing amount of information to be accessed by people who know their way. For me, the net is all about information flow, and in the long run it's going to mean better information.How important is an online presence to the New Yorker?I don't know for sure but I think it's a big deal for them. I know when I have a good story going they get about half a million hits a day. They were slow getting into the online business as they only did it about four years ago.Visit:New Yorker.com
I've just seriously dug into the online "game"Second Life, a remarkable tool which seems to span genres of interactivity. At once an online game without the plot-structure, a 3D Multi-User Dungeon and a visual chat room, it has a well-documented history ofintriguingcross-overeconomies. In light of last week'sannouncementabout the case of the Chinese gamer who stabbed another man over the theft of his virtual sword, and subsequentpostabout the relativity of virtual property, I asked Second Life's CEO and Founder Philip Rosedale some questions about the rationale for making their ground-breaking step towards user-ownership, and how that's making leaps towards sci-fi authorNeal Stephenson'sfreaked-outvisionof themetaverse.Second Life famously offers its players total ownership of their in-game creations. Why?We like to think of Second Life as ostensibly as real as a developing nation. What kind of government is there? Would I move there? When we were developing the idea we read a lot of books and were inspired by Hernando DeSoto'sThe Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else.Why is it that Western capitalism sometimes seem to work and sometimes it doesn't? Western capitalists would say that some developing countries have everything associated with Western capitalism, but why do they still have a low GDP? DeSoto concludes that the answer starts at the bottom, not at the top. What it all has to do with is land. The number one creator of new business in the US is second mortgage on property. The fundamental basis of a successful developing nation is property ownership. If people cannot own property, the wheels of western capitalism can't turn from the bottom.How does that Western capitalism translate into Second Life?We launched Second Life without out of world trade and after a few months we looked at it and thought, "We're not doing this right, we're doing this wrong." We started selling land free and clear, and we sold the title, and we made it extremely clear that we were not the owner of the virtual property.USD$.4m a month is traded directly to world markets in Linden Bucks onGaming Open Market. That's USD$.4m redeemed, or Linden Bucks turned into US dollars. In May 2005, the total amount traded in-world was USD$1.47 million. There were 1.3 million transactions between 19,500 unique users.Why is this important?We think there are fundamental elements in successful sites: 1. a tangible sense of community to form into groups and to talk live; 2. a marketplace. There needs to be some sort of an exchange marketplace that allows people to trade with one another. It doesn't have to be valued in US dollars, but there needs to be a marketplace; 3. whatever it is that's being traded and valued must be user-created; 4. the site must be fundamentally unstructured, which allows people to be intellectual and curious. Second Life is magically unstructured, like a park, and therefore users can create their own relationships with it.What do you gain from allowing users to keep their virtual property?We get the content. We allow people to create a world which will be thousands of times more compelling than we could create ourselves. To date there are 10 million things built by users in Second Life. In other games, it's all about getting all of the finite amount of content. Once that's done, players move on. We're continually updating with user-created objects so we don't have to put patches or sequels out.How is value realised in the game?One of the things that's been underscored is the degree to which we value objects to the extent of seeing the amount of creative energies that have gone into them. A Mercedes is valued because of intangibles, not the number of screws and the technology used to put it together. It's its service record. If things have that associated with them, they are real. They don't need to be physically tangible to be real.Scarcity is another way of creating value, but brand, lifestyle and meaning are important as well. Clothing from [in-game clothing designer] Nephilaine Protagonist is highly valued because it's her stuff. I talked with a head guy at Vercace who said to me, "I sell jeans for $5,000. There's no reason for that, but people will pay that much for the pleasure of wearing the brand."Should virtual property be treated as real? It's moot; what's happened in common law is that it's been determined to be real. Case closed.More information on Second Life's andThere.com's in-game branding can be found in Betsy Book's article,Virtual World Business Brands: Entrepreneurship and Identity in Massively Multiplayer Online Gaming Environments.
Our Monday competition - to name the best song about geeks - is still runninghere.There's a fur-tastic prize for the best entry.
I moved house a week or so ago, and one of the first things I did was get broadband up and running. We'd opted to change from our old telecoms provider and go for a cable connection (Telewest Blueyonder) - which now works perfectly, but caused me a few hours of stress before I could get it going with my existing setup.I did a lot of surfing the net (thanks to my neighbour's unsecured wireless connection) to try and find out what the problem was, and there didn't seem to many answers out there: so I thought I'd post my problem - and the solution - here.The network at my old house was run using a slinky Netgear modem and a Belkin wireless router, which worked fine for me and were fairly much plug-and-play. My Powerbook and my desktop PC both used it pretty much consistently, although there were a few teething problems and the installation of Tiger seemed to cause a couple of issues too.When I switched to cable, I had to ditch my trusty modem for a Motorola Surfboard. All went well when I tested the connection over ethernet... but when I connected it to the Belkin router, they didn't get on at all.My router seemed to be broadcasting well - I could *see* the network, and join it... but I couldn't access any internet content. The modem was working fine, so I thought the problem might be with DNS.It wasn't.I tried rebooting the router and modem several times, powering them down and trying to configure them in different ways.Nothing worked.Then it hit me that the problem was, actually, far simpler than I'd thought.It turned out that the Motorola modem didn't recognise the router's MAC address (that'sMedia Access Control. That meant that while the modem was working fine and the router was broadcasting, they weren't actually talking to each other (so the network was devoid of anything).The answer was to clone the MAC address of one of my computers onto the router, thus fooling the modem into talking to it. This was easily done through the router's web-based control panel, and seconds later I was surfing happily.Problem solved!
As administration controller at the London Stock Exchange in the run up to the "Big Bang" in 1986, Ben Mee, who has died of cancer aged 77, masterminded that aspect of the transition to screen-based price information which rendered the trading floor obsolete.Recruited in 1968 to oversee the computerisation of the stock exchange's internal management systems, Ben aggressively recruited about 600 people to implement the transition towards computerisation of trading and settlement. And, belying the name "Big Bang", the change took place gradually .Projects overlapped and one, Talisman - which computerised the settlement process after trading - was the largest and most successful technological innovation ever undertaken by the City. Until Talisman, all the paper and pencil deals made on the trading floor were manually collated the next day in the "settlement room", a labour-intensive, error-prone process, which had been a part of City life for centuries. Member firms grumbled at having to pay for the Talisman service, but it greatly improved their efficiency, and revolutionised stock exchange finances, generating more than half of the exchange's income as soon as it went online in 1979.Ben also turned the Daily Official List from a loss-making, in-house operation into a profitable subscription service. When he retired in 1987, he left behind a different stock exchange, and a team to take over the responsibilities he had shouldered alone.Ben grew up in Denaby Main in South Yorkshire. There, his father was a miner, trade unionist and councillor. Ben noticed the frugality and tightly honed rituals in their two-up, two-down house - it gave his father time to grow vegetables, and implanted in the son an appreciation for solving organisational problems with systems.His family could not afford to send him to university, so after Saint John's Teacher Training College in York, at the age of 19, he began teaching science, mathematics and physical education at his local technical college in Mexborough. He then offered to teach any subject - by taking higher school certificate (A-level) classes at a nearby college, then teaching the subject two weeks behind. Thus students saw him sitting the exams alongside them, and he gained seven A-levels.After 10 years, with a young family, he realised he could not afford to buy a new suit. So he joined the British nuclear weapons research centre at Aldermaston, to work on the earliest mainframe computer. While fascinated by the work, Ben could not reconcile himself to the end product and left after six months.After developing a mechanical device which calculated steel industry optimum production outputs, in 1959 he joined a steel company. There, he worked on a computer that, while occupying two rooms in a manor house near Sheffield, struggled to perform simple arithmetic. Three years later the Australian government paid for him to travel first-class with his family by cruise ship to apply his then-rare knowledge of programming to their 1966 census. On returning to Britain, he became a freelance information systems consultant. Then came the stock exchange.A man of great integrity, he could often surprise with his pithy, black humour, which he never lost throughout his long illness.He is survived by his beloved wife, Amelia, and five children.&#183;Benjamin Mee, information systems expert, born February 28 1928; died April 29 2005
"This guide isn't a substitute for, nor does it constitute, legal advice. Only an attorney who knows the details of your particular situation can provide the kind of advice you need if you're being threatened with a lawsuit. The goal here is to give you a basic roadmap to the legal issues you may confront as a blogger, to let you know you have rights, and to encourage you to blog freely with the knowledge that your legitimate speech is protected," says the Electronic Frontier Foundation's newLegal Guide for Bloggers.Basically it's nine FAQs that cover the main issues from legal liabilities to labor (sic) laws. Yes, it is US-oriented. Your Local Laws May Vary.
Michael Gartenbergfrom Jupiter Research has a nice post, on his blog, aboutthis little gem, based on the Tiffany song, about the great Mac clone debacle. The words include:I think we're a clone now. There's always Michael Dell just 'a hanging around I think we're a clone now. The crash of Intel's stock is the only sound.Look at the way, PowerPC keeps getting faster What can Intel say, They're struck with CISC and so we're Licensing as fast as we can, Trying to obey that Spindler plan. Meeting with OEMs into the night and then we whisper words like "Gates" and "Grove" and they take out their wallet and I sayand later...I think we're a clone now, Pentiums will only sell with a big discount I think we're a clone now, Intel's lost track of P6's transistor count I think we're a clone now, There doesn't seem to Jean Louis around I think we're a clone now, Cause every bit of code is a hand me down I think we're a clone now, The Power Macintosh has the benchmark crown I think we're a clone now, The heat of Pentium warms a mid sized town I think we're a clone now and Apple inventory's finally going downComment:It's always funny after Apple has spent years rubbishing another company -- IBM, Microsoft, Intel -- when they end up turning to that same company to get them out of a hole.
Loic Le Meur is looking for info, and you can Edit This Pagehere.However, if your expertise covers other parts of Europe, thehome pagehas a range of options from the Austrian blogosphere to the Swiss.The information was requested for Loic's talk at theReboot 7conference, which was held over the weekend, but it seems a shame to waste it....
I met today with Tom Steinberg, the director ofMySociety, who was enthusing about the launch of their latest project,Pledgebank(there's a wee news storyhere).Basically, it lets you advertise pledge which you will undertake if enough people join in. This could be a national, international or extremely local thing, and it certainly doesn't have to be political.Current active pledges include:"Nicola will give 1% of my gross annual salary to charity but only if 400 other people will too.""Paul Stacey will clean-up the banks of the River Taff between Western Ave and Cardiff Castle but only if 5 other local people will too.""Councillor Fiona Callison will donate my entire councillor's pay allowance for July 2005 to the charity World Vision but only if 4 Primary Schools in the East Dunbartonshire area of Scotland will twin their school with a school in Africa through BBC World Class Africa""Phil Booth will refuse to register for an ID card and will donate £10 to a legal defence fund but only if 10,000 other people will also make this same pledge."Plaudits to the crew at MySociety, who come up with answers where government initiatives so often fail, and all on tight budgets and short timescales. You'd be hard pressed to think of any organisation doing more to lead the way in citizen participation in Britain.
Musician Brian Eno is among those signing up to a new online service aimed at helping people organise their own petitions and campaigns.Pledgebanksays it can make collective action easier on a local and national level, by letting people publicise their personal campaigns. Pledges take the form of requests for help from like-minded individuals - for example "I will donate 1% of my salary to charity if 100 other people do too" - and can be signed up to using the internet or text message, and the site provides ready-built flyers and material to help gather support.Eno, the former Roxy Music musician, has taken part in the project to try and get people campaigning for Proportional Representation. "Brian Eno will get three friends to sign up to theProportional Representation Groundswell", says his pledge.The Pledgebank site was officially launched today by MySociety, a small organisation which builds websites for civic and communal purposes. The group - assembled by volunteers - has previously launched FaxYourMP, which provides an easy way for people to get in contact their member of parliament, and WriteToThem, which does the same for all Britain's elected politicians."We all know what it is like to feel powerless, that our own actions can't really change the things that we want to change," says Tom Steinberg, the director of MySociety. "PledgeBank is about beating that feeling by connecting you with other people who also want to make a change, but who don't want the personal risk of being the only person to turn up to a meeting or the only person to donate ten pounds to a cause that actually needed a thousand."Users can sign up to keep track of pledges being made in their local area, and are being encouraged to use the site in any way they see fit.  Tasks already completed include lobbying the BBC to release a comedy show on CD and creating homes for stag beetles, as well as the pledge to "engage in earnest conversation with someone whose views I despise to try and understand them more".
A group calling themselves Interpretive Arson have developed 'an adaptation' of popular rhythm action game Dance Dance Revolution, which fires a flamethrower at users when they get the dance moves wrong. Luckily, participants in the daftly namedDance Dance Immolationdon a 'full aluminized proximity suit' before taking part. The game will apparently be taken to the famed (or should that be 'flamed'?)Burning Manevent this year. There are various photos of Dance Dance Immolation (no matter how many times I write it, I still refuse to believe it) in action on the website, although it just looks a few people messing about with propane jets... and cakes.ViaAvant Gaming
Forget the Crazy Frog. The iPod generation is to be given the chance to enjoy a more enriching download diet: Beethoven's entire collection of nine symphonies. Following Radio 3's Beethoven marathon, which ended at midnight on Friday, the BBC is making the complete cycle of the composer's symphonies - more than six hours of listening - available for free.Listeners can visit theRadio 3 websiteand download as mp3 files the complete set performed by the Manchester-basedBBC Philharmonicunder the direction of its principal conductor, Gianandrea Noseda."The download is unprecedented in the music industry," said a spokeswoman. "It offers a unique opportunity for householders the world over to collect their very own portfolio for free."There is no charge, with the orchestra's managers describing the offer as "a gift of music-making to the world".Favourable emails are already pouring in from the US, Canada, Germany, Australia, Argentina and even Mongolia.Noseda and the Philharmonic are halfway through a series of four concerts in which all the symphonies will be performed in what is claimed to be the first complete cycle to have been heard in Manchester for 50 years.The first five have already been recorded at concerts to critical acclaim. The Guardian's Tim Ashley described it as "the most radical and impactive Beethoven to be heard in the UK for some time".Writing of the fifth symphony, he said it was "delivered at breakneck speeds and played with hair-raising precision, was all muscle and sinew, astonishing in its violence, and generating some of the shock its first audiences must have experienced on hearing it".Hilary Finch, writing in the Times, said: "Noseda is deconstructing and reconstructing with energy, diligence and a devilishly daring imagination music which we seem to know least just when we think we know it best."The orchestra will be back in Manchester's Bridgewater Hall this week to play the sixth and seventh symphonies on Thursday, with the eighth and ninth on Sunday. Recordings will be broadcast in the week beginning June 27.
N*E*R*D: Simply trading on the good name of geeks, pff.Ask the average pleb on the street what kind of musics geeks listen to, and you're likely to hear responses like "heavy metal" or "prog rock". Anyone who's spent time lurking round an IT department will probably realise that stereotype's not entirely unfair, but let's forget music for geeks, and instead look at music *about* them.History is full of songs for nerds; from Bad Religion's"I Love My Computer"to the Human League's"Together in Electric Dreams". And that's just the beginning.One classic example that springs to mind is the almost-one-hit-wonder track from Wheatus,"Teenage Dirtbag". It has all the ingredients right there: social awkwardness, Iron Maiden, followed byultimate success. What more does the discerning listener need?This week's competition, then, is toname the best song about geeks.The prize? Nothing less than afurry Chewbacca mobile phone pouch- just likethis one- a piece of truly stupendous Star Wars merchandise that comes to you courtesy of Orange.Leave your suggestions in the comments below, and I'll come up with a winner on Friday.Update:Comments weren't working, but they should be now.
Xbox Live is easily the best way to play console games online. Halo, Doom 3 (co-op) and Pro Evo (when hosting) are just some of Live's highlights. Gamers are covered then, but what about theburgeoningcasual market? Getting regularly pummelled by pre-pubescent US teenagers in Halo 2 (or is that just me?) is unlikely to appeal to people who enjoy puzzles and online board games. But they may be more tempted by Xbox Live Arcade, a collection of casual and retro titles, whichlaunches today. Of course, having to pay for these simple games - 7-10 UKP - may be a bit of a shock to those used to equivalent titles that are free on the web. But with 360 promisingeven more convergence, getting a wider range of people on Live to both play and pay is a wise move by Microsoft. Whether it will be good for inter-family relationships, with all the mum-hogging-the-joypad potential for strife, remains to be seen.
The original Medal of Honor started the trend for visceral WW2 action games with some dramatic levels set on D-Day and the Russian Front. The latest title, European Assault, is out on the 17th June and we havefive copies to give awayon PS2. Think of it as your calling, and indeed, your duty, to enter this comp. Good luck.
I've always had a romantic notion of setting up a book publishing house. The Da Vinci Code, The Little Book of Chavs, My Story (the Paul Gascoigne story) - I defy anyone to buy those great literary works and not immediately fall under publishing's spell.But wait. Because there's a depressing side to publishing. The horrible truth is that, with a few exceptions, publishers are some of the most backward people in the world. Backward in developing new ideas (more Da Vinci clones please!), backward in getting books quickly from manuscript to publication (unless they're about dead popes or people's princesses) and above all, backward in embracing new technology. And so it was last week that a group of German publishers got themselves in a bit of a tizz over Google Print.Google has been acquiring the rights to digitise the back catalogues of most of the world's major book publishers. Once scanned, the digitised text is entered into a huge database - called Google Print - allowing users to search not just the internet but also hundreds of thousands of printed books, too.So if you search Google for information on, for example, "asylum-seeker scaremongering" it will paste a box at the top of your search results recommending that you might like to buy, say, To Hell In A Handcart by Richard Littlejohn. It's great - and it's going to get even greater as Google promises that readers will soon be able to view extracts from books and even browse indexes.Amazon has been digitising books too, allowing customers in the US to browse through the first few pages of new releases before they decide whether to buy.Google and Amazon pay very little to publishers for the rights to scan their titles - instead Google pays a small royalty based on advertising revenue on results pages, while Amazon promises publishers   that allowing readers to try before they buy will improve sales.Everyone's a winner - and yet B&#246;rsenverein - the German book trade association - is so worried by Google and Amazon's dominance of book digitisation that last week it announced plans to set up its own rival mass-scanning scheme. So why are the Germans so worried about Google and Amazon that they're willing to spend millions of euros duplicating work that's already being done, rather than just granting the Americans the scanning rights and enjoying the increased sales?A couple of reasons. First there's growing nervousness among publishing types across Europe about the growing cultural dominance of America. The French are worried that this dominance of the printed word will mean  adieu to  escargots  and pommes frites  in French dictionaries and howdy to les cheeseburgers and freedom fries. But, more important, European publishers are concerned that Google Print is only the beginning of a much more sinister business plan. After all, if Google or Amazon are the only people in the world who have a digital database of printed works from all of the major publishers, just imagine how much control they'll have. Google has already acquired a print-on-demand service, while Amazon is hardly slacking when it comes to selling ebooks.Once they've scanned all of the world's books, what's to stop either company strong-arming publishers into allowing them to distribute printed-on-demand or ebook versions of every book? And so European publishers are trying to beat the Americans at their own game - creating their own projects to scan books. There's just one catch. They're behaving ridiculously. Why spend millions of euros to beat Google when they could spend a few thousand euros to join it?All publishing companies in Germany, France, Britain and beyond need to do is to get together and say the following: "Hello Google and Amazon. Rather than granting you the rights to scan our books, we've decided to scan them ourselves and to make the information available to your technologically-superior database in exchange for a small fee to cover our costs. We'll even let you sell print-on-demand and ebook versions of the books - providing you pay us a royalty for every copy sold, equal to the profit we'd make on a normal retail sale. You'll get a great service for your users, no single company will own all of the scanned works, and we'll all make a load more money."It's the ideal solution - and one that's guaranteed to move the relationship between print and web forwards, not backwards. No wonder the publishing industry hasn't thought of it yet.&#183;Paul Carr is editor in chief of The Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk)
Incorporating two recent and interconnected themes of mine -casual gamingandone-button gaming- comesCowboya new Palm Os game which allows you to lasso various animals while avoiding pesky cacti and, erm, bombs. The interface requires just one button press, as it's all about timing your throw correctly.As far as I'm concerned, there simply have not been enough lasso sims in videogame history. The last I can remember was Sega's fantastic arcade gameJambo Safari, which ran on the Naomi arcade board, a souped-up version of the Dreamcast hardware. I always hoped that the game - which involved driving a jeep around a safari park capturing sick animals for their own good - would make it across to the home console, but it never did. This release has just raked up those old feelings of disappointment once again.As for cowboy games in general, these too have been curiously rare, despite a rich cinematic heritage and a wealth of design possibilities. Here are the six best examples in videogame history...Boot Hill(Midway, 1977) - the arcade classic, Pong meets Space Invaders... with Cowboys!Gunsmoke(Capcom, 1985) - extremely tough vertical scrolling shooter in the style of Commando... with Cowboys!Law of the West- (Accolade, 1985) - Amusing home computer adventure game with a multiple choice conversational interface.Sunset Riders(Konami, 1991) - Typically bright and brash vertical scroller with both walking and horse riding levels.Outlaws(Lucas Arts, 1997) - Underrated spaghetti western-themed FPS.Red Dead Revolver(Rockstar, 2004) - Stylish third-person gunslinger for the PS2 and Xbox.
The New York Times highlighted the problems of handing out free Wi-Fi in an article yesterday (which I'm not going to link to it because it's registration-only). Giving customers free net access is great, say coffee shops, but there are a plethora of surfers who simply turn up and don't buy much:[Seattle coffee shop] Victrola started providing free wireless access two years ago after customers asked for it. As in hundreds of other cafes, the owners hoped it would encourage regulars and infrequent patrons to buy more food and drinks. But there was also a disadvantage, staff members said: the cafe filled with laptop users each weekend, often one to a table meant for four. Some would sit for six to eight hours purchasing a single drink, or nothing at all.What's the answer?Certainly such hotspot hogging is a growing phenomenon, which I've seen in operation around certain places in London and, on a more up-front scale, in California. The obvious answer, though, is not for cafes to stop providing wireless access to customers.It's for cities to offer a wide spread of municipal Wi-Fi networks across swathes of city centres, just like Brighton, just like Bristol, and just likePhiladelphia.Once free wireless internet access is not a scarce commodity, people will begin using it properly and not abusing what is, essentially, the hospitality of shops and businesses.
And for my first trick, a piece of serious journalistic endeavour: bringing you the news we've all been waiting for:Nerds make better lovers.A few days old and from the New York Daily News, but irresistable nonetheless."A nerd is an excellent provider and a guy who puts you first," says E. Jean Carroll, Elle magazine's love and sex advice columnist. "He'll turn out to be a great father and a great husband."Not quite sure their ultrasuccessful geeks (Tiger Woods, David Arquette, Adam Brody) are playing with the same deck of cards as us earthbound pointyheads, but we can all dream. Can't we?PS: One question - does the rule count for female geeks too?
Blimey. You go away for a week or so, and suddenly everything's technology, technology, technology.Apple and Intel, British hackers makingheadlines, actors threatening tostrikeagainst the games industry...Oh well.Back in the saddle, though, and I've just read John Naughton's column in today's Observer -"Is Apple right to cosy up to the enemy?". While I'm not sure of the relative merits of saying Apple's announcement "provoked almost as much speculation as the broadcasts of Osama bin Laden", it's a good run through the issues, even if dedicated followers of the story are more than aware of them.It also uses what I think is one of the more useful comparisons for the computer industry.Apple's position in the PC industry is very like that of BMW in the car business: small market share; innovative and much-admired products; and a fanatically loyal customer base. I don't think I ever met a BMW driver who would willingly change to another marque.And much the same goes for Apple users. For these reasons, the rest of the automobile industry is perpetually fascinated by everything that BMW does. Same goes for Apple. In those terms, the processor decision is analogous to BMW deciding that instead of having its engines made by, say, Mercedes, it would henceforth get them from Ford. And that would be big news in the car business.In fact, the comparison between cars and technology comes in handy quite often - but becomes more difficult if, like me, you don't drive and have absolutely no interest in cars.Tally ho. Back to work, then.
Robert X Cringely is usually good for a laugh, and his latest column,Going for broke, is a humdinger. His theory is that moving to Intel chips is part of a master plan that will result in Intel buying Apple and making Mac OS X available to all its OEMs.That's the story as I see it unfolding. Steve Jobs finally beats Bill Gates. And with the sale of Apple to Intel, Steve accepts the position of CEO of the Pixar/Disney/Sony Media Company.Remember, you read it here first.The column has stimulated some even funnier responses over in the Apple bit ofSlashdot, and even a few modded Insightful.Only one way this would happen... (Score:5, Insightful) by Reality Master 101 (179095) on Thursday June 09, @06:51PM (#12774844) (http://slashdot.org/ | Last Journal: Wednesday February 05, @05:17PM) Is if Jobs was given CEO title of Intel/Apple and a buttload of control. Anything less than that, there is no way Jobs gives up power. Jobs is a control freak -- yeah, like he's going to hand over the keys to Apple and say to Intel, "Have fun with my personality-based cult!"More seriously, one of the bizarre asides from Planet Cringely is this one:Microsoft comes into this because Intel hates Microsoft. It hasn't always been that way, but in recent years Microsoft has abused its relationship with Intel and used AMD as a cudgel against Intel.It's certainly true that Microsoft keeps giving AMD all the helping hands it can. It's believed to be true that, having created 64-bit versions of Windows for both Intel (Itanium) and AMD (64-bit extended), Microsoft declined to do a third for 64-bit Intel x86 that would have enabled Intel to screw AMD, instead of following its lead. But how can anyone be clueless enough to describe this as "abuse"?Of course Microsoft goes out of its way to help non-Intel platforms (and neither Windows NT nor Windows CE started on Intel processors). Intel also goes out of its way to help non-Microsoft operating systems, including Linux. Neither company wants to be completely reliant on the other, and the fact that they don't actually operate as a Wintel hegemony is surely good for consumers.
Gary McKinnon is deemed to be so deviously manipulative at the keyboard that he has been banned from using the internet. He is not even allowed a passport. The peculiar bail conditions imposed this week on the 39-year-old computer systems administrator from Wood Green, north London, suggest that the law enforcement community stands in awe of his technological prowess.Until his next court appearance, due on July 27, the tousle-haired programmer, who is fighting extradition to the United States, has been ordered to stay away from any computer connected to the web.Mr McKinnon has gained international notoriety for his alleged ability to break into scores of sensitive US defence computers, steal secret passwords, sabotage email systems and delete military files. In the hi-tech world of online hacking, however, he is perceived as one of a dying breed of amateur hobbyists - those the Americans deride as "script-kiddies".Despite US prosecution claims that he perpetrated "the biggest military computer hack of all time", Mr McKinnon's supposed achievements are by no means unique. The attempt to extradite him to answer charges in Virginia and New Jersey is far more unusual. Systems run by Nasa, the Pentagon and the Department of Defence have long been hackers' trophy targets. His misfortune, apparently, was to get caught, and to have carried out his explorations shortly after September 11.According to security experts, US military sites are not the most heavily protected on the internet. They rely on the deterrent threat of legal action rather than deploying highly sophisticated software or enforcing best practice among military personnel.Mathew Bevan, another British hacker arrested for breaches of security at Nasa and US Air Force sites, found himself similarly demonised by US lawyers as "the single biggest threat to world security since Adolf Hitler" back in 1994. The case against him eventually collapsed. Like Mr McKinnon, he was also hunting for evidence about UFOs hidden on military installations.Mr Bevan, now 30, is an IT consultant and living in Wiltshire. "The security on US military machines is probably not much better than it was back then," he said. "There were plenty of military machines with sensitive information that had account names with no passwords. Others had been left with the standard default passwords used by the manufacturers."University systems and corporations are much harder to break into than military machines: universities because there are always students testing their skills, and companies because they have shareholders demanding better security."In Britain, the hacking subculture that nurtured Mr McKinnon's talents has been driven underground by diligent enforcement of the Computer Misuse Act, which since 1990 has criminalised those who gain unauthorised access to computer systems.Mr Bevan typifies the career trajectory once pursued by teenage hackers. After years hunched alone over a computer screen, and an infamous brush with the law, he has graduated to running his own company, the Kuji Media Corporation, which offers security and technology advice."Hackers are a dying breed," said Mr Bevan. "Organised criminals have cottoned on to the potential rewards. There's viruses and trojan programs flooding out of places like Russia and Bulgaria these days."I get people asking, 'Why is my machine running slowly?' And when you look, there are 300 viruses, bits of adware &#91;advertising programs&#93; and trojans mucking up the system. Internet service providers should really be doing deals with security firms to provide virus-free connections."Mr Bevan said he spoke to Mr McKinnon in 2002, "after he was first busted"."He's only been selected by US prosecutors because he's an excellent scapegoat. Maybe the amount of recreational hacking is the same, but the volume of people on the net means far more are involved in genuinely nefarious activities.""Pharming", for example, is the latest threat to the integrity of internet banking services. It has emerged from Estonia in the past few months. This cunning electronic fraud may force banks to issue customers with a new generation of identity devices.Unlike "phishing" scams - which rely on the gullibility of those who receive emails urging them to log on to sites purporting to be their online bank and confirm passwords and account details - pharming is more insidious.Customers' computers are infected by a trojan program - either delivered through an innocent-looking email or inadvertently downloaded from a fake advert on the internet. When the user tries to log on to the online account, the hidden program diverts the web browser to a seemingly identical site operated by criminal gangs in eastern Europe. Their electronic identities are captured, then used to empty the accounts."There's discussions about whether banks will eventually have to give out security devices for customers to plug into their computers," said Sandra Quinn of APACS, the banking industry's payments organisation. "Barclays have already carried out trials."Last year, online fraud cost British banks &#163;12m, an increase on previous losses. That figure was dwarfed, however, by the &#163;150m taken via what is known as "card not present" frauds, where goods are purchased over the telephone using stolen credit cards or simply their numbers.The array of online threats grows all the time. Denial of service (DoS) attacks, where firms' email systems are bombarded into overload, are frequently accompanied by blackmail demands for cash to switch off the onslaught. Last year, the bookmaker William Hill was targeted and then received a demand for $50,000 (&#163;28,000)."Bot" programs enable computers across the net to be hijacked by remote users who in effect turn them into "zombie" machines which can be used in DoS attacks. Keylogging programs can infiltrate computers and record the keystrokes customers make in typing in credit card numbers or passwords. The criminals behind these attacks are based mainly in eastern Europe, it is believed, because law enforcement there is relatively slack and there is a plentiful supply of skilled but poorly paid programmers."It's a classic low-risk crime," said Ms Quinn. "We have seen some police action, however, and now we are getting phishing attacks coming from China."Threats have also been made to call-centre staff working in the financial services sector in Britain, in an attempt to force them to record and hand over customer account details. Many companies now prevent staff from using pens or paper when they sit at their screens.The difficulty in penetrating banks has encouraged gangs to combine online techniques with strongarm tactics. The reported theft of computer backup tapes from US financial institutions while in transit to storage facilities has generated concerns about the security of millions of customers' accounts.An attempt earlier this year to steal &#163;220m by electronic transfers from the London headquarters of the Japanese bank Sumitomo was foiled, but it sparked alarm about criminals infiltrating banks to carry out insider robberies."Gary McKinnon appears to be an example of the type of hacking that people have moved away from," said Felicity Bull of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, which investigates major computer crime in Britain. "We know that organised crime is now hiring IT-literate workers."Some law enforcement agencies now question whether the Computer Misuse Act needs to be overhauled, enabling it to be used to prosecute those involved in DoS attacks.In Washington, the secret service is the force responsible for combating online fraud and hacking. "There are still plenty of script-kiddies out there bragging about what they're doing," one agent, Jim Dobson, told the Guardian. Some were still at high school, he said, adding: "There's a huge amount of information out there."Other threats, such as gangs in Russia targeting financial institutions, or those in Asia carrying out intellectual property thefts, have eclipsed the old-style hacker community, he acknowledged.The rise of mobile phone technology has provided fresh opportunities for a new generation of hackers.Meanwhile, wireless computer networks have been found to be particularly vulnerable, said Paul Carratu, whose Surrey firm carries out penetration testing to assess security systems. "People are not using the encryption devices they should."Last month, two British hackers, Jordan Bradley, from Darlington, and Andrew Harvey, from Durham, who belonged to an Anglo-US group called the "Thr34t Krew", pleaded guilty in Newcastle to computer crime offences. The TK worm they released exploited a weakness in web servers and caused up to &#163;5.5m damage to companies using the net. They now face possible prison sentences.It may be too soon to write off the perverse ingenuity of British hackers.The lingo and what to look out forTrojan (horse)An innocent-looking program concealing destructive intentions.PharmingHijacking online bank customers by infecting web browsers. They are redirected to fake internet sites and asked to disclose account details.PhishingSending out emails telling online account customers they must reconfirm IDs and passwords. When they hit reply they are sent to a cloned web page.Key loggingPrograms which record keystrokes and can be used to retrieve credit card and PIN numbers.MalwareUmbrella term for assorted malicious software programs which sabotage your computer.ZombiesOnline computers that have been infected by trojans and can then be remotely controlled to churn out spam emails at targeted sites.BotsPrograms used to infect and control computers which are then turned into zombies.
In the US, girls-only online gaming clan Frag Dolls has been taking on male counterparts since last summer, and having gained sponsorship from European publisher Ubisoft, the people from marketing are looking for fresh-faced (that's "presentable" according to the job description) female gamers in the UK to do the same over here.Enthusiastic players who are proud owners of PlayStation 2, Xbox and a PC, and who possess qualities such as good communications skills and a positive attitude are the main prerequisites you need for the potential to turn pro-game girl - any subsequent breaking down of gender stereotypes within the stultifyingly boysy world of online gaming is purely a bonus. If you've got the right credentials and chromosome configuration, you can apply by visitingwww.fragdolls.co.uk.
7 SinsPC, PS2Holding down a career while balancing your anger, violence and lust is a testing proposition in 7 Sins, whose protagonist is only ever a couple of stray comments from emotional breakdown. And it's no wonder, with mini-games including breast fondling and peeing into the boss's pot plant as ways of letting off steam after a typical interaction with another character. This interaction entails working out whether they respond best to flattery, buffoonery or any of a range of very strangely translated comments. With humour that would fall off the puerility scale of a 12-year-old, this plays like a German videogame programmer's idea of what hedonism may or may not be about.&#183;Digital Jesters, &pound;20-&pound;30Medal Of Honor: European AssaultGamecube, PS2, XboxDespite inspiring the entire Nazi-blasting genre, recent episodes in the Medal Of Honor series have been disappointing, failing to compete with upstarts like the Call Of Duty franchise or the even newer Brothers In Arms: Road To Hill 30. Following the exploits of an American soldier seconded to the English secret service, European Assault's exploration-friendly levels amount to interactive shooting galleries as enemies pop-up from behind cover. And great fun it is, aided by regular checkpoints and a difficulty level that gets really nasty once you reach the Russian front. If you like period weaponry and blowing up virtual Nazi secret weapons, prepare for your very own private VE-Day.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;40
MondayMMOGs + Orkut/Friendster = the ultimate in social software or an in-game nuisance?TuesdayBlack &amp; White: war immigration and the next three games in the seriesSize matters(Ancient) Empire strikes backWarcraft gets seriousWednesdayCheltenham Science FestivalCasual gaming: the new hardcoreTrump on your phoneHalo movieCheltenham(redux)ThursdayChinese player gets suspended death sentence for stabbing a player who stole his virtual swordThe gang's all hereThis week's reviewsFridaySingle-switch games compo winner announcedXbox 360: better because it's unified?Gizza chance
I walked past theGizmondoshop in London this afternoon. It was dark and very quiet, the salespeople standing around comparing the shine of their suits. Other shops on Regent Street were fairly empty too, but it doesn't stop me worrying about the Giz. There's no doubt that it packs a lot in, with the GPS especially interesting, but when it comes to gaming there is nothing that appeals (exceptthis). Summer is the last chance for Gizmondo to stack a claim before PSP arrives, but is anyone listening? I've not seen a Giz on a train or anywhere else in public while import PSP's are constantly visible. Time is running out for the Gizmondo - can it survive?
There's a techy but readableinterviewwith ATI 'evangelist' Richard Huddy over on bit-tech.net. Huddy claims that, although PS3 seems more powerful on paper, developers will get a better performance out Xbox 360 because of its more unified architecture:"The PS3 does appear to have a huge amount of CPU power with the seven Cell cores. The problem they have is that CPU power isn't really what developer's need – the bottleneck is really the graphics. Everybody is going multi-threaded and multi-core – the Xbox 360 has three PowerPC cores, AMD and Intel both have dual-core chips, so everyone is having to learn how to write this stuff. But writing multi-threaded apps for two or three cores is difficult. Doing it for seven separate cores, when the main core has a slightly different feature-set from the other six, is very, very difficult."Of course, someone from the Sony camp is bound to counter claim over the coming weeks, prompting a counter counter claim from Microsoft and so on. But there is a logical argument here, and it's something a lot of developers seem to agree with. When I spoke to Peter Molyneux last week he was saying there's no doubt PS3 has the greater 'nuggets of power' (sounds like the sort of special ability you may find in an adult RPG), IF developers are willing and able to really exploit the hardware.But given the larger teams, the bigger budgets, the tighter development schedules, are most studios going to have the time to blast open the power of this idiosyncratic machine?Update:In the interests of impartiality,here'sKutaragi having a good old swing at Microsoft. Let's hope these two don't meet in the queue at some late night kebab shop!ViaGamesindustry.biz
"Siemens has paid BenQ to take on its loss-making mobile division. Under the terms of the agreement the German company will pay BenQ €250m to take the division off its hands," reportsVNUnet."A Siemens spokesperson said that the money will be ring fenced for use within the mobile division, and that Siemens has also agreed to spend €50m buying BenQ shares."The deal ... will make BenQ the world's fourth biggest mobile handset manufacturer."
ThinkSecretsays: "Individuals attending Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference have submitted Xbench benchmark results from Apple's Pentium 4-based Power Mac systems. The benchmarks do not reflect native performance of the 3.6GHz systems, however, but rather provide an indication of how PowerPC-compiled applications will run under Rosetta on Intel-based systems."Overall, the Intel Mac are scoring between 65 and 70 with Xbench, a far cry from the 200+ scores higher-end G5 systems reach. The CPU test is landing in the high teens compared with scores of 100 to 200 for G5 systems, but that appears to be primarily due to lackluster FPU scores. According to a recent Macworld story, Rosetta does not support AltiVec instructions, which substanties the results. The GCD Loop score for the Intel Mac, part of the CPU test, is a respectable 110, compared to dual-2.5GHz G5 Macs that score about 140.The Intel Mac performed substantially less well than the dual-2.5GHz G5 at Thread test, scoring an 82 compared to 225. In the Computation Thread test the Intel Mac scored a respectable 110 compared to 155 in the G5, but the G5 blew the doors of the Intel Mac in the Lock Contention test, scoring a 420 to the Intel Mac's 66.And so on....
"A Shanghai online game player who stabbed a competitor to death for selling his cyber-sword has been given a suspended death sentence, which in effect means life imprisonment, state media said on Wednesday. The case had created a dilemma in China where no law exists for the ownership of virtual weapons," reportsReuters."Qiu Chengwei, 41, stabbed competitor Zhu Caoyuan in the chest after he was told Zhu had sold his dragon sabre, used in the popular online game, Legend of Mir 3, the China Daily said.Comment:Qui had gone to the police to report the theft but was told the weapon was not real property protected by law.
"On a chilly Chicago afternoon in early May, environmental activists sauntered into the Eddie Bauer store on Michigan Avenue, headed to the broad storefront windows opening out on the Magnificent Mile and proceeded to take off their clothes," reportsWired News.The strip show aimed to expose more than skin: Activists hoped to lay bare growing allegations of the toxic dangers of nanotechnology. The demonstrators bore the message in slogans painted on their bodies, proclaiming "Eddie Bauer hazard" and "Expose the truth about nanotech," among other things, in light of the clothing company's embrace of nanotech in its recent line of stain-resistant "nanopants."The Eddie Bauer protest highlights a growing movement aimed at probing the potential health risks of nanotechnology, which is finding its way into commercial products despite scant research into its long-term effects. While still nascent, the backlash recalls other environmental challenges to new technologies, notably genetically modified foods, which have spawned grass-roots opposition movements amid fierce denials from companies that their products are harmful.Comment:The protest group is called THONG (Topless Humans Organized For Natural Genetics), which at least shows a sense of humour....
Barrie fromOneSwitchhas emailed to let me know that the winner for the single-switch game designcompetitionwill be announced tomorrow. I'll be away, but in the meantime, check out thelistof entries on RetroRemakes. It's extensive!
Who in their right mind would buy shares in a company at a price equivalent to 25 times its annual sales? For the past century of stock market investment, 25 times post-tax profits has been regarded as expensive. Here we're talking 25 times  sales.Think about it. Before a company converts any of its top-line income into bottom-line profit, it must fund the cost of its offices and staff, pay taxes and ensure it exists in a decade's time by investing in new products, some of which will inevitably fail. So a price of 25 times sales must be madness, right?Not, apparently, in the case of Google. The search engine floated at $85-a-share last August but has behaved like a runaway train since. The price climbed 50% from late April alone and, at $285, the company is now worth more than $80bn (&#163;44bn). But its revenues in 2004 amounted to just $3.2bn.This year it might achieve $5.5bn, yet analysts at CSFB reckon $350 is a reasonable target for the shares and Smith Barney thinks $360, at which point Google would be worth more than the pleasingly round figure of $100bn.Just seven years old, this week it overtook Time Warner as the world's most valuable media company. Or look at it this way: Google is worth more than the combined value of four of America's most established and successful media businesses: News Corporation, Clear Channel, Tribune and the Washington Post group. That quartet together would be a ridiculously dominant force across US television, radio and newspapers; they would never be allowed to combine.Wall Street's love of Google seems to have two sources. First, revenues and profits are rising steeply, faster even than expected. Second, the business is clearly a creation of genius: an information processor that is at the heart of the most rapid changes in the way modern economies operate.Its trick was to position itself as a way for corporate advertisers to reach potential consumers in a more precise manner than in the past - every little click on those highly targeted adverts earns money for the company. It's all done without employing expensive salesmen. Instead, Google holds an electronic auction to get the space next to, say, the words "car insurance". Low overheads mean operating margins run at about 40%.Impressive, certainly, but the game is young. Google has yet to prove it can sustain those margins, let alone keep revenues rising at a rate of 40%-plus a year, as Wall Street is expecting. In any industry, from metal-bashing to music publishing, a combination of high margins and booming sales attracts competition. Eventually, rates of return on capital settle down.In Google's case, its share of online searches is already falling (although, to be fair, it is still more than 50%) and margins seem to be contracting (though, again, from high levels) - and all before the competition reacts properly.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has vowed that "we will catch up and we will surpass Google" - a serious threat when made by the world's biggest and most successful technology company.Then there is Yahoo!, which is engaged in a bitter tit-for-tat battle with Google to create fresher and more innovative products and features. From the Google stable have come Google News, which aggregates news services; Froogle, a shopping search engine, and Local, a souped-up directory inquiries with maps.Google's biggest launch will be Gmail, already available to a few thousand test users around the world. It is intended to be an email service that doubles as a storage facility for every aspect of the user's online life - the free memory space is so large that nothing need be deleted.Test users, who are mostly tech enthusiasts, love the speed of the system but the rest of us may object to receiving subtle adverts personalised according to the contents of the files you choose to keep. Even if the Big Brother worries can be overcome, the key feature (the huge data storage) is hardly capable of being trademarked.None of which is to deny Google's innovation and technical brilliance but, ultimately, it is a company selling a form of advertising space. Corporates are spending more of their advertising budgets on the web but there is a natural level of saturation and of return on capital. If the returns are excessive for too long, competition will arrive in droves. That is the way the world works and Google, as market leader but not a monopoly, is not exempt.Yet the share price seems to imply the business can continue to grow at the current rate well into the next decade. Maybe it will stun us all and do so, but it is ridiculous to price the shares as if it had already been achieved.It is bubble-like thinking that ignores the fact that companies rise and fall. Google did not exist eight years ago. Its conqueror may not be Microsoft but a start-up that nobody has yet heard of. Alternatively, old-media titans such as News Corporation and Clear Channel may find a way to claw back advertising revenues. A tougher stance on copyright would seem to be a fertile route.During the dotcom madness, Sun Microsystems traded at $64, or 10 times its annual revenues. Anybody thinking of buying Google at 25 times should listen to Sun chief executive Scott McNealy's post-crash analysis of the stupidity of his own shareholders. In 2002, he said at an investor conference: "At 10 times revenues, to give you a 10-year payback, I have to pay you 100% of revenues for 10 straight years in dividends. That assumes I can get that by my shareholders. That assumes I have zero cost of goods sold, which is very hard for a computer company."That assumes zero expenses, which is really hard with 39,000 employees. That assumes I pay no taxes, which is very hard. And that assumes you pay no taxes on your dividends, which is kind of illegal. And that assumes with zero R&amp;D for the next 10 years, I can maintain the current revenue run rate."Now, having done that, would any of you like to buy my stock at $64? Do you realise how ridiculous those basic assumptions are? You don't need any transparency. You don't need any footnotes. What were you thinking?"That same thinking, though, seems to be alive and kicking among Google investors.
Sex gets no mention in a new survey of favourite free treats. This is strange: you would have thought someone would have included it because, unless you are a kerb crawler, it usually costs nothing.The closest to the sensual in results published yesterday is Boots' health and beauty magazine, a journal not usually known for its erotic charge.It could be that those surveyed were too busy playing with their keyboards to play with each other. MSN, an instant messaging service (email in real time: I write, you read, with no intervening cyberspace delay) posed the questions and 2,000 of its subscribers replied.So it is no surprise that their favourite free thing turns out to be instant messaging; they also like emailing friends.MSN's subscribers sound a funny lot: no-cost joys include playing in the snow, watching Christmas lights being turned on, gazing at Lake District landscapes or hanging around on Bournemouth beach."Instant messaging is quite important to the people who use it," said a spokesman when asked if the result was a fix. "It enables them to communicate instantly with friends and family over large distances."MSN asked for nominations in several categories. They were told that the best free view is of Buttermere in Cumbria; best free attraction is the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben; best free media is BBC news online; and best free outdoor space is Hyde Park in London. (Have they seen the Scottish highlands?)This metropolitan bias becomes overwhelming in the full results: free delights include Parliament Hill Fields, the view from the South Bank and from the Oxo tower, Tate Modern, the changing of the guard, Portobello Road market, Evening Standard Lite, Ms London magazine, the Notting Hill carnival, Gay Pride, Kensington Gardens and a walk on Hampstead Heath.Some respondents even listed watching a debate in the House of Commons. And what are we to make of the sad person(s) who nominated the David Beckham trail, which takes in the joys of Walthamstow, including Whipps Cross hospital where the soccer hero was born?Regional pleasures include beaches in Cornwall, south Wales, Brighton and West Wittering; visual glories include Derwentwater (the Lake District again), the great storm beach at Dorset's Chesil Bank, the view of Salisbury cathedral, Whitby Abbey, Beachy Head, Ben Nevis and the North York moors; places include Longleat, York's national railway museum and Castle Howard's stable courtyard.Salford museum and art gallery wins a mention; the Peak District is represented only by the most unrepresentative Carsington Water.Favourite free out-of-London events are Edinburgh's hogmanay and its festival-time street entertainment, the politically incorrect bonfire at Lewes, East Sussex, and - perhaps nominated by a distant native son who misses his float - carnivals in Somerset.Top 101Instant messaging2Emailing friends3Playing in the snow4Radio One Big Weekend5Christmas lights being switched on6Buttermere, Lake District7Derwentwater, Lake District8Notting Hill Carnival9Rambling on North York moors10Bournemouth beach
Cars, fantasy, 50's Americana - all bases are covered inthis week's reviews. First up is Juiced, the street racing game that will be familiar to Need for Speed and Midnight Club aficionados. A title without any ride-pimping isGuild Wars, the game I reviewed. Actually, when it comes to MMORPG's you never get a definitive review - a work-in-progress is the best you can hope for. This is my excuse for the lengthy delay between the release date and review. Anyway, to sum up - lots to like, not as life-ending as WoW and worth a look. And then there isDestroy All Humans- a rather lovely pastiche of B-movie sci-fi. Mike Anderiesz sums it up perfectly. "Destroy All Humans a flawed but fun-loving game with a script crammed with in-jokes at the expense of 50s Americana."
Here's a new screenshot from gangsta adventure 25 to Life, due for release on PC, Xbox and PS2 in September. As you can see it features a room full of people presumably gunned to death by the young black man in the foreground, scowling menacingly, shotgun in hand. You'll find very similar scenes in all the other identikit gangsta games due out this year - 50 Cent: Bulletproof, Crime Life: Gang Wars, Fear and Respect, Final Fight: Street Wise (a beat 'em up, but still set within the same Menace II Society milieu)… there are others but I became mentally drained trying to remember them.I don't think I saw one review of this year's E3 exhibition that didn't mourn the frankly embarrassing glut of 'me too' urban blasters, with their soulless appropriation of tired gangsta rap clichés. It will be interesting to see how consumers react – will they lap up these conceptually bankrupt GTA hangers-on, or will they tire of so many teenagers in gold jewellery and street wear blowing each other away for no reason? I hope it's the latter. Wannabe titles are inevitable, of course – the same thing happens all the time in the movies. The difference is, in the movies, there are plenty of images to counteract the negative stereotypes. I'm not sure that's the case here.Oh well, it is possible that the industry has worked through its violent little ghetto fantasies now. And perhaps those videogame executives currently squirming in their seats with excitement at the prospect of some tasty tabloid coverage, will eventually realise that there will be no moral backlash, no histrionic tabloid outcry. Manhunt shifted the goalposts into immeasurably darker territory. Gangsta crap is yesterday's news. You never know – some good may come of this.
This week's printed Online section is now onlineherewith links. Highlights include Danny Bradbury's cover story onmashingand SA Mathieson onroad-charging.Other tips: (1) refresh this page or you may not have the latest version -- in which case are not reading this but it's a good tip for next time, OK? (2) There's a list of Onlineblog categories from Apple to Wireless at the bottom of the right-hand column --&gt;. Clicking on, say, Apple will get you all the Apple goes Intel posts.
"Why buy a Mac now? That's one of the many questions we're left with in the wake of Monday's Apple-Intel announcement -- one unanswered by the company's "but customers love our products" bloviating. I can't imagine the Mac faithful will rush out to buy new Macs knowing that the first Intel models will arrive at market in 2006. Instead, they'll pass the next year or so watching in dismay as their G5 towers and G4 PowerBooks depreciate in advance of the architecture change until they're not even worth enough to finance an Apple Care policy on a new machine," says a post atGood Morning Silicon Valley.For an example, look no further than our friend Michael Bazeley at SiliconBeat, whose brand new PowerBook was delivered two hours after Steve Jobs' speech: "Had we known what we know today, we probably would have invested much less in our newest computer, perhaps buying a far less-expensive iBook laptop or even a used Powerbook to see us through the next couple of years (Osborne Effect, anyone?). It was hard enough to justify the Powerbook's premium pricing to our iBook-toting wife. But now, knowing that its days are officially numbered? Ouch."Comment:The late Adam Osborne, a delightful chap, became famous for pre-announcing a system he couldn't deliver, killing sales of the one he could. Whether this will be a problem for Apple is, at this stage, anyone's guess.Either way, it's been very interesting watching the reactions of the Mac fanboys, who appear to get their instructions directly from His Holy Steveness. Last week, Macs were far better than PCs because (among other things) the PowerPC chip was a far better processor than any of that Intel rubbish. This week, the processor doesn't matter. Next year, I expect they will be arguing that Intel chips really are vastly superior. (Insert Joy of Tech cartoonhere.)"Think different" (sic) seems to mean "Think what Steve Jobs tells you to think."
The BBCreportsthat Qui Chengwei has been sentenced by a Shanghai court to life for thefatal stabbingof Zhu Caoyuan, a fellow player who borrowed a valuable in-game sword, sold it for £480 of real-world money and ran.In a fit of synchronicity, I've just finished a feature for theOnlinesection on the relativity of virtual trade and in the process askedRen Reynolds, resident philosopher at virtual worlds forumTerra Novafor his views on virtual property.Murdering someone for stealing a virtual sword in the massively multiplayer gameLegend of Mir 3is extreme, yet there is no doubt that virtual item trade is unfathomably valuable. Recent estimates indicate that the value of real-money transactions outside of the game world, via online auction sites eBay and others, is approximately US$100 million to US$1 billion. When it comes to less-aggressive examples of virtual property ownership, like the case ofDavid Storeyand hisUSD$26,500 "Treasure Island"inProject Entropia, Reynolds argues that the perceived value of virtual property is relative.Why is virtual stuff perceived as so valuable?Virtual worlds are largely what people perceive them to be. So, for example, there's a sphere in which I play a role which is valuable, whether I'm a mage in a virtual world or a consultant offline.Isn't something that's arguably "not real" an obvious limitation to its value?Intangible goods are not actually new; copyright law has been around for centuries. People do embrace virtual property; it's just these specific types of virtual goods that people don't embrace.Currency is only the tangible representation of value. The pound coin doesn't actually mean anything except what you think it means, and your money is just a bunch of ones and zeroes in a database in a bank. It actually has no value. It's the same withEverQuestmoney; it's a bunch of ones and zeroes in a database.Most real currencies are backed with economies which we think will have longevity, but if you look at a country that has a high inflation, like Argentina had in 2001, would you rather be paid inEverQuestgold or Argentinean pesos? At that time, I'd have rather traded inEverQuestgold; it had a much stronger economic backing.So what can be considered property?There are a number of theories about what property is. The most appropriate is that property is a way of ordering social relations. For the most part, property is an exclusive right in that what property does is that it gives me the social justification that I need to say to you that you can't touch my thing, whatever that thing is. That's really all that property is.Another example is that in the West human organs aren't property. It's an object that's very physical but isn't owned in the same way as one can own a brick; I can't legally sell my kidneys on eBay. The idea of property isn't anything to with do with physical properties; it's to do with social order.People get alarmed about this sort of thing because people have rather cosy ideas about what property is. These ideas tend to be reinforced when property has physicality. For example, I can say this is my brick because I can touch it and take it from you and run away. A lot of these virtual property discussions challenge these notions. An Englishman's home is his castle, but the government can still come along and say it's going to forcibly destroy it to make way for an extension of the Motorway. People don't like to think of those limitations to their ownership.Has there been any effect in "meat" space because of the virtual-world economy?You're getting a growing distortion of the economy. Part of a trivial economy is draining into virtual worlds. 40 hours a week, players' productive work is being put into economies that are not recognised by tax authorities or the GDP. Bits of the world recognise virtual property as something that has economic value and other bits don't. Something has to change there.What's paved the way to allow the trade of virtual items to come about?The major thing is in the west a shift from a tangible manual economy, rooted in Protestant Work Ethic, where you till the fields and you earn and you buy, and what you buy has value because you earned it. This is slipping away from us as more and more things become intangible. The biggest single economies in our market are banking and leisure. We're becoming a service property marketplace. Is this as good as a manufacturing economy? It doesn't have the moral solidity in a way.You can kind of see that shift in ethical terms. People would think that stealing an album in a shop is immoral, but stealing an mp3 isn't. The idea of property has become more intangible.There are lots of social fears that encircle the virtual world properties. What would a UK be like if our chief industry was making things in virtual worlds? Would that be a country to be proud of? We probably wouldn't think much of ourselves.That's because the idea of gameplay challenges idea of work. The PWE says that work isn't something you're supposed to enjoy. If you look at the gameplay in some of these products, it seems too superficially enjoyable to be work, but 99% of it is clicking repeatedly. Click-slavery.How will online goods develop a mass-perception of real-world value?It's simply generational. If you look at teenagers, they're entirely comfortable with multiple pseudononymous identity: they're completely comfortable having a name on e-mail, SMS, Instant Messaging services, all different pseudonyms for different aspects of themselves. This population understands the value of downloading ringtones, screen savers and MP3s. We simply have to wait for people our age or just a bit older to die; paradigm change comes with death.And on that cheerful note, expect more virtual world interviews to be posted over the next week, including one with "Treasure Island" owner David Storey.
"The game designers across the nation are playing is: can they design a logo and get it approved without the client realising it's a big spurting penis?" saysB3TA."We asked our readers to send in the best cock logos from around the world for our team of experts to evaluate. Now we present to you the very cream of the cocks...."
TheMercury Newstracks salary, bonuses, options gains and other forms of pay collected by local executives, and its latest What the Boss Makes reveals that the valley's top executives saw their pay rise 57% last year to a collective $2.1 billion. The report says:Topping the 2004 list was Yahoo's turnaround kid, Chief Executive Terry Semel, whose $230.6 million in compensation vaulted him into the record books with the third-biggest annual pay package in valley history. Nearly all of his compensation came from exercising options granted when he took over the foundering Internet company in mid-2001.Semel was one of three Yahooligans in 2004's top 10, each benefiting as Yahoo's revenue and stock price soared on a resurgence in online advertising. Farzad Nazem, Yahoo's chief technology officer since 1997, came in as runner-up to Semel with $63.2 million. And Susan Decker, chief financial officer since mid-2000, ranked No. 8 last year with $31.0 million in pay.In third place with $46.4 million was Maynard Webb, chief operating officer of online auctioneer eBay, another Internet survivor with a winning business model. Oracle's swashbuckling chief executive, Larry Ellison, came in fourth with $45.8 million, including nearly $42 million in option gains and the third-largest bonus of all the executives, $3.2 million. Oracle said the bonus was a reward for improving operating profits.
"Yahoo! and Sprint PCS said today they have introduced a wireless service for cheap access to e-mail on mobile phones. The two companies announced they have teamed with a privately held wireless-messaging company called Seven to offer Yahoo! Mail for Mobile. The service will allow existing U.S. customers of Yahoo!'s e-mail service to access their messages wirelessly on several wireless phones carried by Sprint. The service will cost $2.99 per month and is available nationwide starting today," reportsForbes."The service gives customers an alternative to more expensive wireless e-mail products like the BlackBerry from Research In Motion. While the service is compatible with phones from Samsung and Sanyo, which don't have keyboard-like interfaces, it also will work with PalmOne's Treo smartphones, which have thumb-operated keyboards similar to the BlackBerry."
Can you tell the difference between a real email from PayPal, warning you that your credit card is about to expire, and a fake email asking for your bank account details? It is getting increasingly difficult, and a mistake could have unfortunate financial consequences. But Microsoft is working on an open system that could help:InfoCard. It is like keeping several credit cards in your wallet, along with your business card, your driving licence and a few membership cards; you can pick which to use if you need to prove who you are.With InfoCard, the different cards have different amounts of information about your identity: one might have details of where you work, another could have your address or credit card details. And you know who is asking for the information.Criminals are now using at least two techniques to steal ID: phishing and pharming. Phishing emails lure users to fake copies of banking and shopping websites where they type in their account details; these are used to break into accounts on the real site. Pharming uses viruses to redirect your web browser to fake sites.But even if you go to what looks like a legitimate site, how do you know you are safe? Microsoft's identity architect,Kim Cameron, says leaving the security interface up to individual websites is like "sheep going to a sheep farm operated by wolves: when you visit an evil site, you put yourself into a user experience 100% controlled by those assaulting you".The fundamental problem, says Cameron, isn't poor website security or naive users. It is that the net was not designed to cope with the question of who's who online. It has no framework for dealing with identity."In the early days, people improvised to get by: we ended up with a patchwork of ad hoc solutions," he says. "But, unfortunately, no one can know for sure what's going on in any given interaction because every part of the patchwork behaves differently. What is safe and what is dangerous? What is real and what is scam? Who are you giving your information to when you type it into a browser? How do you know whether it is being intercepted? You have no way to evaluate the risks you are taking."Improving site security with a better password system, or a toolbar that checks you are at the right site, can't fix a general security problem. "There are excellent people working on these things, but they can't counter current threats without changing the way computers behave in a distributed fashion," Cameron says. "We need to work together."Cameron's solution is an identity metasystem based on open Web Services (WS-*) standards, especially WS-Trust, which allows systems to securely "trade" one kind of security token for another, and the seven "laws of identity" he has thrashed out on his blog. The laws are about privacy and consent, disclosing as little information as possible and only for a good reason, putting the user in the driving seat (because otherwise people will ignore systems they don't like), and promoting multiple identity technologies run by multiple identity providers.Cameron thinks any security architecture has to follow these principles if it is to succeed, but he isn't suggesting a single architecture, or a single identity system. He wants to keep existing identity systems, whether that's Active Directory or the Liberty Alliance standards, fit them together, and give them a consistent user interface. That way, you won't have to remember the quirks of individual sites to know you are in a safe place.Unlike Passport, this isn't a system that Microsoft would run, or charge for, and it holds no personal information. Instead, websites plug their identity systems into the metasystem. John Shewchuk, an architect in Microsoft's distributed systems group, says: "Just like we put an abstraction over &#91;a&#93; file system, so we could have different kinds of hard drives, the identity metasystem bumps up the abstraction, so you can plug in lots of different kinds of systems. In the first version, InfoCard supports usernames and passwords, X.509 smart cards and other kinds of technologies, all in an integrated package."When you visit a website to buy a book or check your bank statement, or post a comment to a message board, you always see the same Identity Selector interface: on Windows, that is InfoCard. However, you won't provide the same information to every site. You could use an official ID issued by a government site or your ISP or your company, or an identity you have created yourself. You simply pick which InfoCard to provide. You also get to see the identity of the site you are visiting.Microsoft isn't dictating the look of the InfoCards or the information on them. However, it does insist that logos are cryptographically verified, so users can be sure they are not forged.For the system to work, it needs to cover more than just Windows. There will have to be Identity Selectors for Linux, Macintosh, mobile phones and any other devices used to browse securely. Microsoft has already demonstrated InfoCard working with an open source Java implementation on Linux, which gives Cameron hope that the industry will see this as more than just Passport 2."To me," he says, "it demonstrates that innovative people can get into this and that it can truly be a cross-platform solution that transcends the usual faultlines of the industry."LinksMicrosoft's Vision for an Identity Metasystemmicrosoft.comLaws of Identity white papermicrosoft.comKim Cameron's Identity blogwww.identityblog.com
