OK, when I was driving a Renault Clio the World Cup happened to be on. And to take the minor coincidence a&nbsp;little further, the World Cup was on and France generously made their self-inflicted implosion a global soap opera. But so what? These two events have nothing in common.Therefore, what I'm not going to do is pick out the name of Thierry Henry, whose infamousdouble handballgot the French to South Africa in the first place. Because that's just a gloating cheap shot that has no bearing on the new Renault Clio, the car for which Henry so memorably fronted anadvertising campaignsome years back.And I'm not going to pose the question of what happened to the French team's, and in particular Henry's, va-va-voom. That would be plain childish. So let's just accept that the French and Henry suffered a World Cup of such disastrous proportions that it almost obscured England's pathetic failure, and move on to the car review.Except, of course, it's not that simple. Car fanatics raved about the previous Clio Renaultsport, the 197, the way football fanatics once raved about Henry. And the word on the 200 update is that it's even more worthy of fanaticism. Hatches, they say, don't come much hotter. It's like Henry in his pomp, only without the shoulder shrugs and glaring sulks.And, what's more, it's got new wheels. Yes, that's true, even if&nbsp;they&nbsp;do rather resemble those temporary wheels with which cars are now routinely issued instead of a&nbsp;real spare. Although apparently the temporary-looking wheels are hot, too. It's also got three horses' worth of extra power, improved torque and groovier aerodynamics, with a&nbsp;funky new front. Everything about the cockpit, from the metal pedals to the unfussy dashboard, roars urgency.So, all in all, I was looking at a&nbsp;major motoring experience, the kind of thing that I had not enjoyed since a civil enforcement officer (sic) refrained from issuing me with a&nbsp;parking ticket because I was driving a Ford Focus RS.Yet for reasons that remain not entirely clear, it never happened. For such a small car, the Clio seemed heavy and cumbersome. And while you could feel its power, it wasn't that straightforward to access it. After driving round the streets for a&nbsp;few days, I diagnosed the problem. I&nbsp;was driving round the streets – a cardinal error for the true car fanatic.I should have been on a track, where its robust suspension and flexibility in corners could be fully appreciated. Instead I was busy avoiding speed bumps, potholes and civil enforcement officers – the whole obstacle course of modern urban driving. And in that milieu, where most of us spend most of our driving time, the Clio 200 seemed about as happy as Henry did on the bench in South Africa.Renault Clio Renaultsport 200Price£17,710Top speed141mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9 secondsAverage consumption34.4mpgCO2 emissions195g/kmEco rating4.5/10In a wordTrack star
What doStephen Fry,David Hockney, Duncan Bannatyne andJustin Bieber, not to mention a growing minority of readers of this newspaper, have in common? As iPad owners they're all part of a "selfish elite", finds one US company.MyType, a Facebook application which enables users to answer quizzes to determine their personality type, surveyed 20,000 people to try to determine what kind of people owned an iPad.The answer, it turns out, is pretty straightforward. Horrible people."iPad owners are an elite bunch,"said MyType on its website. "They're wealthy, highly educated and sophisticated. They value power and achievement much more than others. They're also selfish, scoring low on measures of kindness and altruism."The firm surveyed the attitudes of more than 20,000 Facebook users towards the iPad, while also "determining" personalities and values. Of those who replied, 3% planned to buy, or had bought, an iPad. MyType then studied the personality traits of this group.MyType claimed that people within the "selfish elites" group – wealthy, highly educated, sophisticated but lacking in kindness and altruism – were six times more likely to be an iPad owner than the average person. It added: "Those who identified lust as their biggest sin are 70% more likely [to own an iPad], while self-professed gluttons are 88% more likely."But John Grohol, founder of thePsych Central psychology website, responded in a blog saying the surveyors did not "know the first thing about reporting statistics, or basic methodology in its own research".  He added: "They tried to summarise a bunch of disparate traits into catchy marketing phrases to make news headlines – phrases that were neither particularly accurate nor particularly scientifically valid."MyType said its data was "collected with reasonable rigour" but not without spin. "Any interpretation … is clearly subjective. MyType made an honest effort to tease out the main themes of the data – but feel free to come to your own conclusions."
The government has ruled out scrapping the use of Internet Explorer 6 on department computers, saying it will persevere with the bullet-riddled browser despite itshigh-profile vulnerabilities.Respondingtoan online petitionwith more than 6,000 signatures urging government departments to upgrade away from IE6, the government said such a move would be "a very large operation" potentially at "significant potential cost to the taxpayer"."It is therefore more cost-effective in many cases to continue to use IE6 and rely on other measures, such as firewalls and malware-scanning software, to further protect public sector internet users," reads the statement.The petition, set up by Dan Frydman, director ofInigo Media, launched the day after Googleannounced it would be phasing out supportfor the Microsoft browser after the company's corporate network was broken into by Chinese hackers using a vulnerability in IE6. The (pre-election) cabinet office signalled its intention to stick with IE6 in January this year, despitegovernments in both France and Germany advising people to stop using it.Frydman responded to today's government decision onhis blog, expressing disappointment that the possibility of an upgrade across any department was ruled out so off-handedly. "What I was looking for was a recommendation to upgrade away from IE6," he says. "A recommendation isn't hard, it's cheap and easy and isn't an admission of guilt. It puts the onus on the government departments to modernise, to innovate and to take care of [on] their own."There's not a chance that we can always get what we want. Sometimes we just need to get what we can. Recommending the move would have been great. Not recommending it is short-sighted and diminishes ambition just at the time when we need it."Microsoft sought to play down IE6 security shortcomings in ablog postback in January, days beforereleasing a patch to solve the issue. In the meantime, the Twittersphere iskeeping the heat onthe browser nearingits 10th anniversary.
Ivy Bean, who has died aged 104, became an internet personality after moving into a residential care home in Bradford. She gained a&nbsp;fanbase on&nbsp;the social networking sites Facebook and Twitter with her tales of daytime television viewing, rare and relished trips out and fish and chip lunches on a Friday, as well as complaints of ailments and memories of lost friends.Her newfound fame meant that her existence soon became anything but ordinary. Ivy was a fan of the pop star Peter Andre, and Twitter enabled her to make his acquaintance. Andre was so taken by their friendship that he telephoned and visited her. Earlier this year, she also met Gordon and Sarah Brown.I went to interview Ivy last year, and was struck by her positivity and love of life, which radiated in her presence at the home, Hillside Manor, as much as in her frequent updates on Twitter and Facebook. She posted more than 1,000tweets, which ranged from the mundane ("me and my friend mabel are going to have a game of connect 4") to the hilarious ("ive been shopping to&nbsp;marks and spencers and bought a&nbsp;new handbag...nobody recognised me for a change i thought i might get mobbed like at asda"). They were often affectionate: "i wish i could make all my followers a cup of tea to&nbsp;say thank you for taking time out to send me lovely messages."She was born Ivy Asquith, one of&nbsp;eight children in her family. She left James Street school in Thornton, West Yorkshire, at the age of 14 to&nbsp;work in a local mill. She married Harold Bean, an army cook. After the second world war they worked in service at the Northampton home of&nbsp;Lord and Lady Guinness. She usually worked in the kitchens, and told me about her terror the first time she was in the same room as the&nbsp;family.Ivy and Harold later returned to Bradford, and eventually settled on Harrogate Road, where Ivy had grown up. She continued to work in service and then in an office. She&nbsp;retired aged 73, shortly after Harold's death.It was not until Ivy moved to Hillside Manor aged 101 that she gained fame, after an IT company helped her and other residents to get online. She quickly gained the maximum number of friends possible onFacebook, and so switched to Twitter, where she gained more than 50,000 followers. She brought a life-affirming joy to&nbsp;many, and proved that old age need not necessarily mean fading quietly away.Ivy is survived by her daughter, Sandra, two grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
GetJar, the world's largest independent mobile app store, is now generating more than 3m downloads a day, continuing its fast-paced upward trajectory.Last month the Lithuania-based company hit 1bn app downloads and, more sigificant to the company's future,secured $11m in a second round of funding from venture capital firm Accel Partners.Unlike Apple's App Store, the world's largest mobile app marketplace, GetJar hosts applications for a number of platforms and devices, all free of charge. It is currently the second largest app store, ahead of Nokia's Ovi Store and the Android Market.Apple's App Store hit the 2bn downloads mark way back in September last year just over a year after its launch. GetJar's rise has been much less meteoric – the four-year-old open-market store reaching 1bn downloads last month.Patrick Mork, GetJar's chief marketing officer, offers an insight into the patterns starting to emerge as the downloads clock up: "Android wasn't even a part of our business last year. Today, it's the second most popular platform developers are submitting on when uploading content to GetJar and we have at least three devices in our top 20 list of devices in the US that are Android-powered."We see Indian consumers downloading more productivity applications that enhance the usage of their phone compared to Americans, for example. And English consumers downloading more entertainment apps than  Indians. Religious apps are popular in the Middle East."A report by telecoms analysis firmJuniper Researchreleased last weekpredictedthat more than 25bn "consumer-oriented handset downloads" would be downloaded in 2015, compared with 2.6bn in 2009.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I'm going to choose an iPhone app, and it's called Hipstermatic. It's a camera app that lets you have different lenses and film stock and flashes, and it processes the shot in difference ways depending on the combinations that you use. And it processes them in such a way that the photographs look amazing. It's relit the photography fire within me – it's made me start taking photographs again.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it a lot, actually – I use it every day. I used it yesterday evening to take a shot of my wife standing next to a fake Banksy in Primrose Hill.What additional features would you add if you could?What I would really love to do is to take it from the iPhone and develop it as a standalone camera, with all the same features. It would be an absolute hit.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I guess most things are going to be obsolete in 10 years' time, but the nice thing is that it's already quite retro.What always frustrates you about technology in general?To be honest, it's the fact that when you buy it, it looks so beautiful and desirable – and yet deep down you know that six weeks later something better is going to appear.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Yes – it's the Wii. It drives me nuts, it's oversold for what it does; it's so slow and the controller is so imprecise. Every time I play it, I end up shouting at the TV. All game consoles offer such amazing things, but fail to deliver. They haven't really moved that far since Asteroids.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Definitely to visit YouTube and see what the real nerds can do with it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I guess I am a trainee nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I guess that was probably my Mac Quadra tower, filled with the works. It was the fastest, sleekest and most modern thing in the world … for about six weeks.Mac or PC, and why?For me Mac. I've always been Mac, I had the very first one and I've got the very latest laptop now and I've had every single one in between. To be honest, using a PC for me is like trying to learn Klingon – I just can't do it.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download now – I got rid of my CDs and DVDs a long time ago. Everything's on the computer now. My little boy, who's seven, watched The Simpsons on DVD, but everything else is downloaded.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think yes, they're a good idea. They've been promising us robots since the 1950s, and we've still not got there yet, so yes, robots please.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A robot butler, please. And a helicopter.•Heaven 17's Penthouse And Pavement 30th anniversary UK Tour stars at the Edinburgh picture house on 22 November 22nd, then continues nationwide until 1 December
These days, titles like Guitar Hero and Rock Band have vast collections of compatible tracks, allowing you to play along with just about any favourite rock song you can remember while drunk at three in the morning holding a guitar controller in one hand and a luke warm bottle of San Miguel in the other. Well,almostany favourite rock song.If, however, you fancy strumming along to, say, Street Spirit by Radiohead, or Whole Lotta Love by Led Zeppelin, or One by U2, you'll be out of luck (unless I've missed something) – none of them are available in either Activision's or EA's roster of tracks.So the question is – what are the best guitar tracksneverto have appeared officially in a big music game? You don't need to have complete recall of every track available for Rock Band and Guitar Hero – just let us know the one's you don'tthinkyou've seen; we'll sort them all out. And they can't be too obscure. Think neglected classics and modern crowd-pleasers, rather than that Jizard Lizard b-side you once heard John Peel play.And for once, your Friday Question inputactually matters. Because we're working on something of a surprise – an exclusive little treat for Guardian readers; something that's never been done before. I can't say any more because I'm embargoed up to my eyeballs. Just get your suggestions in and let's see how this goes...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•Yell goes online to alleviate revenue pressure &gt;&gt; Financial TimesYell reports 10.6% drop in first-quarter organice revenues.•The Algorithm Ate My Lunch: Responding to Catastrophic Ranking Changes &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandHow Google's 'Mayday' algorithm rejig affected some websites.•Ballmer Gives All Microsoft Interns Free Windows Phone 7 Phones, Too &gt;&gt; GizmodoApparently.•RIM Buys â€œBlackPad.comâ€, Presumably As A Home For The BlackBerry Tablet &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIt's all go at RIM – now buying BlackPad.com...•Facebook Wins Patent Lawsuit &gt;&gt; All FacebookAll Facebook has the story: 'A Delaware court has knocked down a claim against Facebook for patent violation made by little-known software company Leader Technologies.'•RIM and AT&amp;T Are Holding A Joint Event Next Week &gt;&gt; GizmodoLaunch of the BlackBerry 9800..?•Nintendo issues a 3DS release date date &gt;&gt; EngadgetSaid release date date is September 29.•CRAZY: Apple Ships More Mobile Phones Than Motorola For The Second Quarter In A Row &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSays Business Insider: 'Apple is completely humiliating the legacy mobile industry when it comes to profiting from mobile phone sales. But it's also now starting to beat some of the old guard in quarterly unit shipments, too'•The Inside Story: Flipboard's Crazy Launch And Its Plan To Save Media &gt;&gt; Business InsiderFlipboard chief executive speaks to BI about future plans.•Over 1m Android Users' Details Were Compromised Thanks to a Malicious App &gt;&gt; GizmodoTelecoms security company Lookout says Jackeey Wallpaper app was sending user information to a Chinese website.•It is over for Google, says Fortune, which notes the company "is transitioning from a growth company to -- and there... &gt;&gt; Business InsiderBiiig double by-line type on Google in the short-to-medium term.
One of the most awesome things about the explosion of DLC on current gen consoles, apart from the influx of classic arcade remakes, is the influx of 2D platform adventures. There's Shadow Complex, Limbo, Braid and N+, withComic JumperandRayman Originson the way. And soon to be joining this elite cabal will be Explodemon! from London-based indie developer,Curve Studios.Officially unveiled today and heading for the PlayStation Network, it's described as a 2.5D action platformer, inspired by classic SNES titles. You play a malfunctioning robot who must save the planet of Nibia from evil Vortex forces. This is achieved though the usual platforming channels: leaping through the air, combatting enemies and solving physics-based puzzles. The eponymous lead character also has the ability to self-destruct at will, taking a multiude of space scum out with him. Yep, it does sound like'Splosion Man, but Curve are adamant that they thought of the gameagesago. Apparently, they even had an XBLA slot ready for it before Twisted Pixel's similar blow-'em-up arrived, but then got sidetracked by other projects.Anyway, it's coming this winter and the team has listed a host of intriguing influences including cult shooters Bangai-O and Gunstar Heroes as well as the excellent GBC adventure Astro Boy: Omega Factor by Treasure and Pulseman, an obscure Mega Drive platformer from the makers of Pokemon. Any game that can combine just two of those into a downloadable title is worth a look as far as we're concerned...There's no website yet, but you can followthe studio's Twitter feedfor more info.
Okay, get your calculators out, it's financial results time! The latest fiscal quarter figures are seeping in, with several major companies handing over their results in the last 24 hours. First up, it's good-ish news for Sony. The PlayStation arm of its business has reduced operating losses to 3.8 billion yen (£27.9 million) for the quarter ended June 30. That doesn't sound amazing, but it's down from losses of 36.7 billion yen (£269 million). During the quarter, Sony also shifted 2.4 million PlayStation 3 consoles. So a big pat on the back, there.Okay, things get a bit more bleak moving on to Nintendo. The Wii maker recorded a net loss of 25.2 billion yen (£185 million), compared with a profit of 42.3 billion yen this time last year. Sales of the DS dropped from six million this quarter last year to 3.15 million, but the company is shifting more Wii units – 3.04 million up from 2.2 million. Nintendo mumbled something about the rise in value of the yen compared to falling euro and dollar, and promised to make a profit over the full year. Must try harder.Finally, Capcom has had a stinker. Its profits for the quarter were down a gargantuan 90 per cent, from 2.2 billion yen (£16 million) to 213 million yen (£1.5 million). Medicocre sales of Lost Planet 2, Monster Hunter Tri and Ghost Trick were to blame, as well as that thing about the yen being strong. See me after class.So yes, that'll be the video game industry seemingly putting the 'recession' back into 'recession-proof'.You can find more coherent reports on all this atCNET,Gamesindustry.biz andMCV.
What is it?Samsung Wave GT-S8500 – the first device to run Samsung operating system Bada.Category:Hardware and software, given the newsworthy nature of operating systems these days.You'd use it for...On the move, personal or business. It's not going to intrude on BlackBerry's ground as leading high-performance business mobile device, but the Wave sits happily as a phone suited to staying up to speed while on the move.First impressions: what is it like to look at, to hold, to use?Perfectly good look and feel to the phone, a sturdy but slender shell encasing a fairly high-spec bit of mobile kit. It's when you activate the screen things start to go downhill.The home screen – quite separate from the screen of apps – has six iterations as you swipe your finger right-to-left, inching across a background of some picturesque eastern European town square.Each of these five modules is for housing a quick access single widget – but the access isn't so quick after four or five swipes of the finger. Navigating from the home screen to your downloaded apps directory takes another click. Granted, the software is snappy and quickly responsive, but these things all pile up in the "pointless" file.And you can't swipe up to the URL bar in the browser, forcing you instead to press an on-screen button. Seems needless.What does it really do well?Mobile internet has a well-suited clean font, made all the more appealing by the crisp super AMOLED screen. Put the Wave side by side with an iPhone 4 and a 3G – you'll see the difference. FYI: guardian.co.uk looks better on a Wave than a 3G.Keyboard keys appear far too close together, but typing seems to work fine if not more usable than on the iPhone. When browsing the web, pinching zooms are clunky and not instantly responsive.Video playback is impressive, on the eyes and the ears. Creating media is a good experience too, the 5MP camera shooting strong video and stills taking allowing nifty features like user-directed focus.What's the cost?Around £300 sim-free; a 24-month contract with free handset will set you back between £25-£45 per month.What's it up against?A smartphone market with less wiggle room than the App Store. It's a relatively ruthless market out there for high-end devices, software increasing in consumer importance at a rate of knots.With Bada, Samsung is late to the party and forgot to invite its marketing muscle. For this reason alone, Wave falls short of the majority of recently released Android devices – Samsung has plenty of work to do before the release of Bada-powered Wave 2.Blind us with the tech specs, then:Quite a few headline tech specs come with the Wave: the 5MP video/still camera will draw the punters – 5x zoom for stills and 720p video recording make the feature more than adequate; the Super AMOLED screen is a turn on, but likely only to the techies.As light as any iPhone, the Wave is slimmer but only by a stitch. At 3.3 inch, the Wave screen limits its viability as a comfortable-to-use mobile internet device. With 2GB internal memory as standard, most users will require a MicroSD card (up to 32GB capacity).What's it good for?Taking and sharing decent quality stills. It would be good for accomplishing tasks quickly if there weren't so many naggingly bad points of user experience making pretty much any task an exertion.What are its failings?One word: Bada. A few more words: the cramped feeling while using SMS, the uneconomical use of the 3.3 inch screen made worse by the majority of the screen having a black (or very dark) background even when running apps.Will I have to read the manual?Does anyone still read manuals? If new to Samsung, you may need to Google "Help! I've accidentally locked my Samsung Wave – what now?"How long is the battery life?With its 3G signal sensor turned off, the battery will last you more than 24 hours from full – more than can be said for any iPhone before 4.What's its USP?The Wave's USP would have to be the Super AMOLED screen which, on this score alone, puts it near top of the class for smartphones. That said, I don't know one single person who's been sold a phone on screen specifications – and it's not great marketing fodder either.Rating out of 10:6.5Finally, is it worth it – yes or no?Not at the current price. There are countless devices (and countless yet to be released) doing a better job and with a better operating system. Don't hold out for the Wave 2.
There is a possibility that, one day, developers will run out of arcade classics to update for Xbox Live re-release. Clearly, it's not something we'll have to worry about ourselves, but we may have to break it gently to our grandchildren. For now, though, we can enjoy Hydro Thunder Hurricane, a rollicking remake of the cult Midway speedboat racer, which is utterly unapologetic about its hardcore coin-op roots.The setup is simple. You race a series of progressively faster and more unstable boats through eight increasingly insane water circuits. Swishing over power-ups earns you a boost to your power, while discovering hidden shortcuts allows you to sneak ahead of the other 15 competitors. There's a basic race mode, but players can also take on extra timed challenges – such as Gauntlet, which fills each circuit exploding barrels.After a few seconds of sloshing about, some gamers will write this off as shallow, but they are wrong, wrong, wrong. The handling mechanic is utterly artificial, the water effects gloopy and inconsistent, but Hurricane is frenetic, sweaty-handed and challenging stuff, requiring reflexes and timing bordering on the inhuman. The environments are essentially theme park rides designed by maniacs: Monster Island has you slaloming through jungle swamps as giant aquatic beasts blast from the water, while Storming Asgard involves jetting through a citadel while gigantic statues of Norse gods chop at you with axes. But they all reward skilled racing, and will have a certain type of player coming back over and over again to shave micro-seconds off their times (or to beat the best performances of their Xbox Live friends, displayed on the menu before each race).Complete with histrionic voice acting, echoing sound effects and relentless eye-gouging visuals, Hydro Thunder Hurricane also pays perfect presentational homage to its daft predecessor. Some will tire of its constant shouting and its endless demands – and admittedly, this gameisvery much like shovelling sherbert and Red Bull into the mouth of a hyperactive teenager, then taking them out on a paddle boat ride. But it's also wonderfully designed, and with a great multiplayer mode to boot, it's a steal for anyone who so much as set foot inside a nineties arcade.
Ever wondered what it's like to be an internet company operating multiple products built on the philosophy of openness and sharing?This map of lawsuits faced by Google shows just what comes with video-sharing sites, street mapping services and internet search.Competitive analysis firmAqute Intelligenceare behind the map, referencing each litigation placemark to a news article.The Aqute research director, James Macaonghus, explains the motives behind the map: "We created this map a couple of weeks ago. There's a few countries where the services have been blocked so they're blank."The point we're trying to make is that as Google gets more powerful it's coming up against more legislature and they've got a lot of balls to juggle at the same time. We'll update on a regular basis and keep up as long as the issues keep arising."Of course, the map does not take into accountinvestigations by information officersin the UK, New Zealand, Australia, Germany, Canada, the Czech Republic and Italy. And it should be remembered that legal action ispar for the coursefor most multinational technology giants.
Anyone unlucky enough to commute will know that dead tree media still rule the roost, as least on the nation's public transport. Butebookreaders, including the odd iPad, are starting to creep in, along with mobiles, games consoles and even DVD players on long journeys.There's a deep-seated resistance to digital versions of a centuries old traditional of printed books, which have rightly enchanted, educated and enlightened readers since movable type. So what will it take for ebooks to become mainstream?Photo bycloudsoupon Flickr.Some rights reservedThere aredozensof ebook readers on the market, all largely comparable in size and offering from the lesser know Astak, Kobo and Alex readers to the Kindle, Nook and Apple iPad.Amazon's launch todayof a smaller, cheaper Kindle is significant for two reasons: firstly, it pushes arguably the most popular ebook reader towards a more mainstream audience by making it more affordable.Secondly, it's a sign of Amazon's increasingly aggressive strategy in competing with the iPad, which has stolen much of the spotlight in the ebooks debate (even though books are just one function of the iPad) because of its colour touchscreen. The iPad remains a more exclusive product for a wealthier section of the market, with ebook prices to match – but it is also a notebook, and so has an LCD screen that is much harder on the eyes than sympathetic electronic ink.For once, Apple is swimming uphill in the ebooks space with a publishing industry largely cautious of the format; it has seen the impact of Apple's iPod on the music space, and other limbs of the industry are  concerned the ambitions of Google's ongoing books project.Amazon, meanwhile, is keen to push Kindle as themass-market alternativewith 400,000 ebooks on sale at what it claims are the lowest prices. Digital books are a natural extension for Amazon, which can more easily 'escalate' its web-familiar customers to digital versions of books.This all explains Amazon's slightly dubious claim to havesold more ebooks than physical books, withlittle evidenceoffered – perhaps designed as a prelude to the new Kindle announcement.eBook manufacturers, noted Gartner analystAllen Weinerlast month, are increasingly adopting the strategy of having their device, brand and books on as many platforms as possible – a strategy Amazon has taken with Kindle apps for competing devices. And this could be the key to making the device more mainstream."The strategy of having your reading platform's interface/app on as many devices as possible as well as some in OEM [original equipment manufacturer] deals (such as Barnes &amp; Noble on the Pandigital Novel) seems to be picking up steam. Making money from sales of your own device, books sold on your own device, and books sold on other devices may define not only the ebook retailing space but also begin to reveal who is in the hardware space for the long haul and who is just looking for a means to showcase their platform."So mainstream? Not yet. But Amazon's move to offer a cheaper Kindle does make ebooks just slightly more accessible to slightly more people. For students with dull, bulky textbooks, ebooks are very practical. But for the public at large, ebook readers remain a novelty.
System Restore used to work OK, but now it only creates a restore point for the current day. A new one is created the next day, but the previous day's restore point is gone. My C drive has 12.3GB of free space and system restore is set at 12% of disk space.Arthur WhitemoreSystem Restore mainly keeps track of changes made to your PC, including the Registry, so that you can go back to an earlier state if you run into a problem. You can see if there are earlier restore points because the calendar dates show up in bold. If you can't see any, try restarting your PC in Safe Mode. This loads a sort of "bare bones" Windows, which might not include the program that is stopping System Restore from working. This could be a virus or an anti-virus program. It's not too surprising if an anti-virus program tries to prevent changes to system files.If System Restore does work correctly in Safe Mode, then your next challenge will be to find out what's stopping it. Running MBAM (Malwarebytes Anti-Malware) would be a good start. If it's neither a virus nor an anti-virus program, you could try eliminating start-up programs. While you can use Windows'msconfigfor this,AnVir Task Manager Freeis worth a go.Of course, the most common reason for System Restore to stop working is that you have run out of disk space. There is a Microsoft Support page for this:System Restore "restore points" are missing or deleted. There's also a more useful document:Troubleshooting steps for issues when you try to use the System Restore tool in Windows XP.System Restore typically takes up 200MB to 400MB on home PCs, so you should have enough space (12% of 12.3GB is roughly 1.5GB). However, you can look to see how much space it is taking up. To do this, you must be able to see hidden files and folders. To enable this, open Windows Explorer, go to the Tools menu, select Folder Options and go to the View tab. The Advanced settings option has a section for Hidden files and folders. Put a check next to "Show hidden files and folders" and clear the checkbox for "Hide protected operating system files". Click OK to exit.Now go to your C drive and double-click the System Volume Information folder. Right-click on the "_restore" directory and select Properties to find out how much space System Restore is using. Turning off System Restore should empty it, and with luck you can start again from scratch.I don't know of any free programs that do exactly the same job as System Restore. However,Erunt(Emergency Recovery Utility NT) will back up and restore a copy of Windows XP's registry. There's also ImageLAN'sConfigSafe, which takes snapshots of your system configuration. This is better than System Restore, but it's a commercial program. I used it for many years because it came free with IBM ThinkPad laptops.
The Information Commissioner has ruled that Google is unlikely to have collected "significant amounts of personal data" with its StreetView mapping cars.The decision was described by privacy campaignersBig Brother Watchas "farcical".The independent information watchdog has been looking at the data collected by Google to see whether it infringes personal privacy, and has now judged that there is "no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment".In a statement to the press, the Information Commissioner's Office said: "While Google considered it unlikely that it had collected anything other than fragments of content, we wanted to make our own judgment as to the likelihood that significant personal data had been retained and, if so, the extent of any intrusion."The information we saw does not include meaningful personal details that could be linked to an identifiable person. As we have only seen samples of the records collected in the UK we recognise that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals."However, on the basis of the samples we saw we are satisfied so far that it is unlikely that Google will have captured significant amounts of personal data."There is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment. Nevertheless it was wrong to collect the information. We will be alerting Privacy International and others who have complained to us of our position. The Information Commissioner is taking a responsible and proportionate approach to this case. However, we remain vigilant and will be reviewing any relevant findings and evidence from our international counterparts' investigations."Google is facing investigations around the world –including in the UK– for its interception of personal data about home wireless networks, taken from the company's StreetView mapping cars. The search giant admitted to inadvertently intercepting extracts of personal data in May.The Big Brother Watch director, Alex Deane, described the findings as a "whitewash". Speaking to the Guardian, he said: "This decision is little short of farcical. Information commissioners all around the world are investigating Google's Wi-Fi intrusion. In Britain alone, our commissioner has whitewashed the company's wrongdoing."The Metropolitan police are currently investigating Google over this very issue. If the allegations against Google merit an investigation by the police, who have to consider the criminal standard of fault, how can those allegations not be said to merit an investigation by the ICO?"The ICO has really let British people down. We deserve better from those who are given the responsibility of protecting our privacy."The ICO came in for criticism earlier this month from the pressure group Privacy International, which requested an investigation into Google's actions by the Metropolitan police. Speaking ata public debate on Google and privacy, the Privacy International director, Simon Davies, accused the office of being "both spineless and gutless" inits approachto the issue.Google was unavailable for comment when contacted.
When the personal details of 100 million Facebook users were dumped on P2P file-sharing service BitTorrent alongside pirated music, bulk credit card details and the odd bit of legal content, they was understandable panic.The real story was a little more curious. It was Canadian security researcher Ron Bowes who downloaded the data - 2.8Gb of it - by creating a crawler script to pluck information from Facebook's open access directory. Butall of this data is already publicly availablefrom any Facebook user who  hasnotopted to hide their profile from search results.Photo byaralbalkanon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe data Bowes pulled included account names, profile URL and contact details - and also the names of those users' friends, even if they have chosennotto be listed in search engine results.While alarming that Facebook's information should be harvested in this way, it is not illegal. Rather, it is a useful exercise in reminding people what 'public' really means, and that once your information is out there, you don't have any say over what happens to it.It also opens the debate on openess, because until the majority understands the implications of being 'open', it may be wise to adopt 'opt-in openness'. That won't be popular with sites, who get faster take-up if friends can find each other more easily. But there is a price to pay for that.So why did Bowes do it, and how?He wanted to contribute to the open source Ncrack project, which is testing 'brute-force' login attacks. The data he'd collected from Facebook might be useful for other researchers, he thought, so he put it on BitTorrent. It has subsequently been downloaded several hundred times, and is also on Pirate Bay.Bowes original interest was in spidering the site for data on the most popular names,Ars Technicaexplains. While that doesn't pose any risk to Facebook users, it could become the basis for automated cracking software that would target common usernames. Because Facebook is global, that makes it a more efficient target than a country-specific census, for example. Bowes found the top three usernames were jsmith with 129,369, ssmith with 79,365 and skhan with 77,713."As I thought more about it, and talked to other people, I realised that this is a scary privacy issue," said Bowes in a (cached)blog post. "I can find the name of pretty much every person on Facebook. Facebook helpfully informs you that "[a]nyone can opt out of appearing here by changing their Search privacy settings" - but that doesn't help much anymore considering I already have them all (and you will too, when you download the torrent). Suckers!"Facebook has insisted that no private data was compromised. "People who use Facebook own their information and have the right to share only what they want, with whom they want, and when they want," it said in a rather defensive-sounding statement. "In this case, information that people have agreed to make public was collected by a single researcher and already exists in Google, Bing, other search engines, as well as on Facebook. Similar to the white pages of the phone book, this is the information available to enable people to find each other, which is the reason people join Facebook."Bowes has said that he wanted to raise awareness of the "scary privacy issue" of public data being used in this way, but even he must be surprised by the response. And how many times has this happened before, on any profile-hosting sites, without any of us hearing about it?Don't think for a minute, by the way, that the cute kitten name that's your top secret password is anything like secure. Just a glance at the software on offer on a site likebrothersoft.com(Brothersoft offers search results for 'hacking Facebook paswords' rather than actual downloads, but say they have now deleted that search page)will give you a minute window into the vast and subterranean hacking industry. But remember,don't have nightmares...
Amazon unveiled two lighter, more advanced versions of the Kindle e-reader today, alongside a new UK ebook store that it claimed will send sales of the device soaring in Britain.Faced with growing competition in the e-reader market, Amazon has redesigned the device and has made it availabledirectly from its UK sitefor the first time.In another change, Amazon also announced that the new Kindle will be available with just Wi-Fi connectivity, rather than using a 3G mobile connection to download electronic books.Steve Kessel, the vice president of Kindle, told guardian.co.uk that the new versions were a significant advance that should see many more people buying the device, although he declined to give sales targets.According to Amazon the new Kindle has 50% better contrast than previous models. It is 21% smaller and 15% lighter – weighing less than 250 grams – and like other models it has a six-inch screen. Its battery will now last for a month on a single charge if the wireless connectivity is switched off, and the capacity has been doubled to allow users to hold up to 3,500 books at any one time.The Wi-Fi model will cost £109 ($170 at today's exchange rate) in the UK, while the same product will be on sale for $139 to US shoppers. The version that supports both 3G – over Vodafone's network – and Wi-Fi will cost £149 ($232) in the UK, but is priced at $189 in America."We think that the combination of the £109 and £149 Kindles, and the UK book store, mean this will be a tipping point in the UK," said Kessel.The new UK e-book store will run on Amazon.co.uk, and include 400,000 books including titles by a wide range of writers including Stephenie Meyer, John Grisham, Stephen King and Stieg Larsson – author of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo – who yesterday became the first writer to sell 1m ebooks through Amazon. It will also offer digital versions of newspapers and magazines."The new UK Kindle store will offer the largest selection of the books in the market, at the lowest prices," Kessel pledged.He denied that Amazon had been rushed into launching a new Kindle because of the early success of Apple's iPad tablet computer, insisting that the two products served different markets."This has been in the works for a while … Since the iPad launched, sales of the Kindle have accelerated."Amazon said that Kindle has been its best-selling item for the last two years but remains cagey about exactly many it has sold, with Kessel saying that "millions" had been bought. The company recently cut the US price of Kindle from $259 to $189.Previously UK shoppers could order a Kindle from Amazon.com, but had to payshipping charges and other feeson top of the official price.Rumours that a new Kindle was imminent took off yesterday, after an 'out of stock' sign went up on Amazon.com's Kindle page. The company isaccepting pre-orders for these new models from today, and plans to start delivering on 27 August.Amazon launched the original Kindle in the US in November 2007, and followed up with the Kindle 2 and then the Kindle DX. It said that today's new model would not be marketed as the Kindle 3, and would instead be known either as Kindle or "Kindle Latest Generation".Many other manufacturers now offer their own ebook readers. Barnes &amp; Noble sells the Nook at $199 in the US, with a Wi-Fi only version for $149. Borders Group offers the Kobo e-Reader for $149, whilethe Sony Reader Daily Edition costs $250.
Facing steep competition from Apple's iPad, which can do just about everything a computer can in addition to displaying books, Amazon (NSDQ: AMZN) has decided to evolve the latest Kindle into an even better single-purpose device for less than the cost of an iPod. The new Kindle is an improvement in just about every single way: It is sleeker, lighter, faster while also offering better contrast, more storage and up to one month of battery life on a single charge. The device comes equipped with Wi-Fi and free 3G service for $189 and will be available August 27. The Kindle Wi-Fi-only option will cost $139.Photo bybfishadowon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe new Kindle line-up piggy-backs on a number of recent Amazon accomplishments. Amazon said over the past 12 months, customers spent more than $1 billion via mobile devices, including sales by Kindle. Yesterday, it was reported that the Kindle was sold-out, and Stieg Larsson, the author of "The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo," became the first author to sell more than 1m Kindle ebooks.An unspecified "millions" of people have already purchased a Kindle, making it the No. 1 bestselling item on Amazon.com for two years running. But with improved technology, and a lower price point, Amazon's chief executive Jeff Bezos said he's hoping that "many people are going to buy multiple units for the home and family". Amazon's new price points are nearing lows in the ereader world. Last month, Barnes &amp; Noble (NYSE: BKS) lowered the price of its 3G Nook to $199 and its WiFi version to $149. For comparison, a the lowest end iPad and iPod Touch cost $500 and $200, respectively.The two devices are available for pre-order atamazon.com/kindle3Gandamazon.com/kindleWi-Fistarting today when the announcement will be officially made. It will be available to customers in more than 140 countries on August 27. (Press release viaEngadget.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Yes, it's only a teaser but I'm looking forward to Dungeon Siege 3. Mainly, it has to be said, because it is coming out on 360 and PS3 - formats that would seem to be perfect for a game like this, especially when playing online. Anyway, what do you think? Looking forward to Dungeon Siege 3?
Although he died in 1955, American lecturer Dale Breckenridge Carnegie could well have been talking about defeating Ruby Weapon in Final Fantasy VII when he delivered this, one of his most famous quotes."Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all."Inspiring stuff. And it's something that anyone who's ever encountered a particularly fiendish challenge in a video game could easily relate to. For a leisure activity, gaming can be surprisingly stressful - and rewarding when we get it right. How many of us have been willing to try hundreds of times to make one particular jump, or shave one extra second off a lap?I particularly remember the two optional bosses in Final Fantasy VII as a couple of toughest challenges I've faced. Sadly, despite slaying the Emerald the Ruby always stayed out of my grasp. Even Knights of the Round couldn't save me.Nowadays the challenges are a little different to those we encountered in our childhood, before save games and internet walkthroughs made life so much easier. Nevertheless, the level of skill required at the highest level of online gaming is probably much higher than anything we've seen before.It seems a shame, then, that - for something we devote a great deal of time and effort to - there aren't many forums (well, aside from actual gaming forums) for sharing our achievements in a world that largely percieves gaming as a waste of time.Get promoted to the third division of the 2010 Fifa World Cup online league, and no-one seems to care. Get promoted at work, and, infuriatingly, suddenly friends and relatives are all ears. Hopefully this thread can partially correct this.The first game I finished on the NES, and a rather tricky one to boot, Batman, stands out as a particularly memorable achievement. My fondest Football Manager (then Championship Manager) games also stand out, winning the Champions League with Vauxhall Motors and Rushden and Diamonds in the early-noughties editions. More recently, defeating Benezia early-on in Mass Effect was something that took me a good twenty-plus attempts.It could actually be a huge score I achieved inLittle Master Cricketthat I'm most please with, looking back. By getting close to 3000 (if I remember correctly) I managed to sail past my friends, and the few other high scores I could find posted online, by some distance. It's good to know you've been blessed with a rare talent in something utterly redundant.So, what are your most cherished gaming achievements from the past or present? A Tetris high score? Or your first nuke on Modern Warfare 2?
The High Court in London has ruled that so called 'game copier' chips, which allow Nintendo DS owners to run pirated games, are to become illegal in the UK. The judgement against Playables Limited means that the devices cannot be imported into, marketed or sold in Britain. Game copiers, also known simply as storage devices, fit into the DS cartridge slot and bypass the security systems; this allows users to insert memory cards which can be loaded with pirated games downloaded from the internet.The chips are often advertised as 'back up' devices, as owners can also save their own DS games onto cards – although this apparently legitmate practise was always a murky and legally ambiguous justification. They can also be used to play video files and MP3s on a DS, and are utilised by 'homebrew' coders to run home-made games and applications. Indeed, it was homebrew programming that Playables Limited cited to defend its products. The appeal, however, was rejected.Earlier this year Nintendo blamed a 50% fall in Nintendo DS software sales on piracy. And in June, Japan's Computer Entertainment Supplier's Associationproduced a top 20 listof the most pirated DS games. The total illegal download figures came in at over 19 million, costing publishers 86 billion Yen.The problem, of course, is that the sale of similar storage devices is rife on the web – and not just for the DS: there are mod chips available for most current consoles, which all perform a similar function. Nintendo claims that over 100,000 game copying devices have been seized since 2009. This is likely to be a fraction of those coming in to the country.So, do YOU own a game copying device? How do you use yours?
As the world's military forcesbecome increasingly vulnerableto attacks from cyberspace, a growth area is opening up in digital employment.China has set up its firstmilitary cyber-crime departmentjust months after the United States announced the opening ofa new Pentagon "cyber command"to deal specifically with this threat. But it's not just governments bolstering their online armoury – private companies too are waking up to the threat.Now the UK has moved to secure the future of the digital space in both the public and private sector with a national hunt for future cyber-security professionals. TheCyber Security Challengeopened earlier this week, with more than 2,000 applicants already vying for the title of UK Cyber Security Champion.Opening the competition, Baroness Neville-Jones, minister of security, said cyber security will only become more important as online access becomes increasingly woven into the fabric of society, pointing to a worrying shortage of professionals currently working in this sector: "It is already integral to the running of our economy, to our security and the organisation of ordinary daily life."Currently defending all of our interests in cyberspace is a relatively small cadre of talented and highly skilled public and private sector cyber-security professionals. These people are very valuable to us but we do not have enough of them."For far too long cyber-security has been seen as a rather techy activity, only to be called upon or invested in after accident or loss. Well, we have had some of those and we should now know better."Ciaran Rafferty, UK manager of Sophos – one of the software security companies involved in the initiative – emphasised the dangers that lie ahead if the UK doesn't act quickly in getting more bodies into the online security space."In 2009, the FBI stated that there was more money being made by bad guys in the malware domain than there is in drug trafficking worldwide," he said."There is a fast-growing threat around malware, and the bad guys are building up a presence. The challenge is that it's an unknown unknown – the bad guys are getting really, really organised in how they target companies."We need to find people to get into this market so that we can recruit into the private sector – five years on from now this is still going to be a growing market."Cyber-security is quickly becoming a permanent fixture of boardroom conversations, Rafferty added – Neville-Jones had said earlier that the subject should be taught in schools.Two separate competitions are under way, thoughentrants on Facebookare claiming to have already cracked one. Participants will first compete in a virtual competition before the most successful competitors go through to a face-to-face playoff round. Two more rounds of competitions follow, including a challenge to identify security flaws on dummy websites.From there, the most impressive cyber-warriors will be invited to a masterclass where they will compete in a simulated real-world environment against fellow participants. The challenge will be run on several dates between September and December, with the Cyber Security Champion crowned early next year.There are more than 30 prizes on offer, including bursaries for university courses, places on leading private-sector training courses, access to experts, and membership of professional bodies. Some may even bag job offers.Judy Baker, director of the challenge, said it's about time the UK had a competition that is both fun and highly pertinent. "We're suddenly increasingly dependent on all of our technologies," she said. "The way that we have a convergence of technologies and the way that technology is becoming increasingly interdependent means that the impact of attacks and the impact of damage is much greater than it ever used to be."We have a need now, which is completely different from what it used to be, and we have a rate of change that there's no comparison at all to what it used to be. So you need new people."We found immediately there was an appetite for this in the UK. It was no surprise as we already had UK candidates signing in on the US competitions. We did a survey and found that 90% of the companies we surveyed had difficulty recruiting the skills they needed and nearly 60% said over the next five years they were going to have more jobs in that space. There's less people in the current shortage and an increase in demand. There was a problem and something that needed to be addressed there."Anyone interested in taking part canregister onlineto enter.
A software company that won a patent injunction against Microsoft has had the patent confirmed in the US.The company, i4i, which is based in Toronto and has 30 staff, won an injunction in Texas  last year preventing Microsoft from selling copies of Word 2003 that infringed its 1998 patent on custom XML. Jurors ruled that Microsoft should pay i4i $290m (£186m) – the technology giant is appealing against the decision.Now i4i has had its Patent No 5,787,499 reaffirmed by US Patent and Trademark Office.Speaking to the Guardian, i4i chairman Loudon Owen said: "It's been a long haul this far. Having your patent put into re-examination is akin to having one of your most prized possessions put up for questioning. It's been a very, very long haul."The office look at every nook and cranny of the patent and it really does narrow down the number of issues [i4i face in relation to XML infringement]."Owen reiterated the company's pledge to vigorously defend the XML feature against possible patent-infringing software, but said the most important thing is that i4i continues to grow as a company.In March, the federal court of appealrejectedMicrosoft's petition for a rehearing, saying it had "wilfully infringed" i4i's XML patent. Microsoft has until 27 August to apply for a petition to appeal against the ruling at the supreme court, having previously asked for an extended deadline.Is this three strikes and you're out then for Microsoft? "You never know how many strikes there are," said Owen. "The next step they've signalled is to apply to the supreme court for a petition to appeal."There's one step left and that's the applications to the supreme court and they take about 1% of cases. It means our odds are statistically good. We've won thus far and the patent has been confirmed now – we're confident we'll continue to prevail."In a statement to the press, Microsoft public affairs director Kevin Kutz said: "We continue to believe there are important matters of patent law that still need to be properly addressed and we are considering our options going forward."
While Facebook hogs the social networking limelight, LinkedIn has been quietly and effectively expanding its audience and building revenues.Photo bysmi23leon Flickr.Some rights reservedBloombergsays today that a $20m investment by the Tiger Global Management hedge fund now values the professional social networking site at $2.26bn. Tiger Global's investment gives it a 1% stake and a low risk, pre-IPO investment that they will probably trade up, said Ted Hollifield of law firmDorsey &amp; Whitney.There's no date yet for the LinkedIn IPO, but it is expected soon.
It's been a long time since gamers werethisexcited about a real-time strategy title – but thenStarcraft 2: Wings of Libertyis no ordinary RTS. Several years in the making, Blizzard's sci-fi battle sim is the follow-up to one of the most popular PC titles of all time. The original Starcraft shifted 11 million copies following its launch in 1998 and is widely considered to be among the finest RTS titles of all time, alongside the likes of Command and Conquer and Total Annihilation. It has also effectively become the national sport of South Korea where tournaments are televised and star players are exalted as heroes.Starcraft 2 toys very little with the fundamentals laid down by its predecessor: three races – the Protoss, the Terrans, and the Zerg – fight to the death on a series of inhospitable alien worlds. The player uses local resources to build a variety of battle units, which are then deployed into the battlefield. The sequel, naturally, provides a host of new war machines to play with, as well as massively upgraded visuals and a totally reworked multiplayer system, based around Blizzard's Battle.net online gaming infrastructure.Reviews are just coming in now – game critics were not given early code, and have only been able to access the finished version since its official launch. Blizzard's idea is that reviewers experience the game – which is geared mostly around multiplayer combat – in the same way, and at the same time, as paying customers.At the moment, forum posts, Metacritic reader reviews and Amazon customer comments are largely ecstatically positive, with gamers praising the perfect balancing of the differently skilled races, as well as the smooth learning curve of the single-player missions, which provide mini-games and sub-quests to add variety and to introduce new gaming mechanics.However, there have been complaints that there's no local area network (LAN) support, so players are unable to set-up and carry out their own 'offline' micro-tournaments. This won't affect most customers, but it was always a popular feature when the original rush of RTS titles appeared in the nineties (Update:and as one comment below points out correctly, it's still a popular lag-free option today.)Some purchasers have also refered to this release as 'a third of a game', referencing the fact that the boxed copy includes only the Terran single-player campaign: comparable solo modes for the other races will arrive as two separate expansion packs subtitled, Heart of the Swarm and Legacy of the Void. However, whatever your views on episodic content (and it's similar to Valve's roll-out of Half-Life 2, which received a series of expansion pack follow-ups) this has always been part of the release plan, so no one should be surprised – plus, the Terran campaign is a hefty 30 missions long. Meanwhile, careless typists are discovering to their cost that once you've chosen a Starcraft 2 username, you're stuck with it – there's no option to change it.But really, this is a true event launch for PC/Mac gaming, and it's been accompanied by the sort of frenzied excitement and midnight shop opening madness that we tend to now associate with the big console releases.The question is, have you bought it – and what do YOU think?
Twitter visualisations come in many forms, butIS Paradeis arguably the most inventive yet.Start a 'parade' of tweets across your csreen either by keyword, or by Twitter ID. Use your own Twitter ID and you'll see a parade of your own followers, which is a bit of an ego boost at least...You can set up your own real-time parade by getting friends to tweet the same keyword, and then setting up a parade to follow it. Not the most fuctional Twitter tool yet, but it does draw you in. All done by a Japanese agency to promote Sharp's newIS seriesAndroid netbook/smartphone.
With the exception of Duke Nukem Forever, this is surely the longest we've ever had to wait for a video game sequel.The original Starcraft came out in 1998, long after Command &amp; Conquer, and it quickly captured a massive fan base by virtue of featuring three very different playable races rather than the usual two. This was a far cry from the formula of simply replacing Allied buildings, units and characters with Soviet or Chinese ones to differentiate between campaigns.Twelve years on, much has changed. Starcraft II looks amazing, and every level is crammed with detail – from clunking cranes to bubbling lava and passing wildlife – which all adds to a palpable realism that makes the likes of Command &amp; Conquer 4 seem sterile and bland. There are also interactive cut-scenes, set in various space stations or bars where the Firefly-style steam-punk characters interact; or you can hire mercenaries, play arcade games and choose between weapon upgrades, including those of the other two alien races.The one thing that hasn't changed is that perfect balance between the capabilities of these races, weapons and strategies. In the levels where you're up against both alien enemies, you have to think hard about which defenses to deploy and which units to target first in the frantic firefights that ensure.Crucially, Starcraft II has been designed as an online game, so much so that you can't play it at all unless you're logged into your Battle Net account. Online is also the only place you can fully explore the capabilities of all three races, either in co-op mode or up to eight-player skirmishes, which also explains the basic look and feel of the game. The close-in perspective, with levels crammed with choke-points rather than the vast open spaces of the original, makes for a more frantic, linear experience that single players will find restrictive.Take it online, however, and a different set of maps ensures skirmishes as compelling as most FPSs, with automatic searches for fellow players taking less than two minutes and a useful non-ranking phase to determine your abilities for future match-ups. We'll see how the new Battle Net 2 pans out over the next few weeks, but the early signs for a busy and highly competitive community are promising.Undoubtedly, single players will bemoan the rush-focused dynamic of the online game and cheated at having to wait another year or so for proper AI storylines/campaigns for the other two races. It's also a shame that LAN games are no longer supported in favour of allowing you to team up with your mates through Battle Net. However, none of this should detract from a game that is amazing to look at, riveting to play and, once the online culture takes root, another landmark that will redefine the RTS for years to come.
Facebook: it's the world's biggest website, by some calculations, and fast overtaking Google as the technology poster child of our time. But don't underestimate Google, which is reportedly working on a new social networking project to try and rival Facebook's domination in the space.Social networking is one area where Google has failed to get traction, at least in the English-speaking world. It owns Orkut, which is big in Brazil and India - but where Facebook is starting to close in on their market share, according tocomScore. Buzz, Wave, Friend Connect - none have quite made the impact Google would have liked, though worthwhile experiments. So what's next?Photo byAaron Escobar ♦ (the spaniard)™on Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle has been talking to games firms about integrating their games as just one part of a new social networking service, reports theWall Street Journal. Disney's newly acquired Playdom, Electronic Art's reasonably newly acquired Playfish and Zynga have all been approached; and if the latter looks ripe for acquisition, you won't be surprised that Google recently invested a significant chunk in the firm.Chief executive Eric Schmidt would not comment on the service this week but said "the world doesn't need a copy" of Facebook. The world might not need that, but what Google needs is a copy of the most advertiser-friendly parts of that and, as the Zynga investment shows, Google is keen to move in on one of the web's hottest - and most profitable - growing markets of casual gaming. As WSJ says, a Google offering would also be good news for developers worrying over over-dependence on Facebook.Games are an important traffic generator which substantially increase the amount of time users spend on sites - ultimately good for the host site because of associated advertising and the developer, who. with the right game can attract a large audience. But as Facebook's audience and its advertising network continues to grow, it presents an increasingly serious threat to Google.Expect relations to grow more aggressive between the two.
This week we find out what has happened to the startup companies that we've profiled in the Elevator Pitch over the past three years, such as Moo.com and Nestoria. Charles Arthur talks to the man who put the "e" into e-democracy – Steven Clift – about whether we should be forced to use our real names online. Plus Meg Pickard  talks about anonymity and web publishing – is it a good thing?Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBloatware creeps into Android phones &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThis is about the US - though we've spied some on UK ones already. What's the worst example?PlaqueGuide London &gt;&gt; PlaqueGuideNeed to find a blue plaque (you know, the places where famous people lived or did things?) here you go. Founder David Coughlan is a GeoVation finalist from the GeoVation awards sponsored by the Ordnance Survey.Photo byAndyRobon Flickr.Some rights reservedWhy Secunia's vulnerability report highlights Apple over Microsoft &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"Secunia's vulnerability counts reset when Microsoft changes the name of its product, but continue to accumulate for Apple because the company hasn't rebranded Mac OS X since 2003, when Secunia began keeping track. Browsing Secunia's database, it appears Mac OS X has suffered from hundreds of vulnerabilities while Microsoft's Windows has racked up far fewer, but that's only because Microsoft's regular rebranding efforts reset Secunia's clocks." Ah. Plus it doesn't distinguish between really dangerous vulnerabilities and trivial ones. Will this stop people writing about Secunia?Online Communities: mapping the web's social networks (note: old) &gt;&gt; xkcdYou can tell roughly how old it is by comparing the sizes of Facebook and MySpace.Apple Magic Trackpad official, shipping now for $69 &gt;&gt; EngadgetWe knew it was coming, so here it is. Officially.Chatroulette To Log IP Addresses, Take Screenshots &gt;&gt; SlashdotYour mobile app is spying on you &gt;&gt; VentureBeatAre Location-Based Services All Hype? &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebBing Is The Biggest Loser In Yahoo Japan's New Google Deal &gt;&gt; Business InsiderGoogle Maps for Android updated to 4.4, adds dedicated 'Places' for searching nearby &gt;&gt; EngadgetGoogle Nabs Patent To Monitor Your Cursor Movement &gt;&gt; SlashdotYahoo: Pageviews Aren't As Low As ComScore Said &gt;&gt; paidContentDigg Vs. Reddit: The Infographic &gt;&gt; TechCrunchYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious• This article was amended on 28 July 2010. The original said Plaqueguide was 'an implementation of one of the ideas from the showusabetterway.com competition started by Tom Watson MP.' This has been corrected.
It sounds like a Fellowship of the Ring for the internet age – a carefully chosen alliance of technology warriors, safeguarding a mythical key that could one day shut down the  internet. According to yesterday's news reports, these keyholders will share responsibility for "rebooting the web" in the event of a catastrophic global meltdown.Bath technologist Paul Kane – one of the individuals in the "chain of trust" – spent about 15 minutes revelling in his new-found fame before having to set the record straight. "It's just not as sexy as that," he says, in  between TV interviews and a chat with Eddie Mair on Radio 4.Kane, who is chief executive of a Bath-based tech firm calledCommunityDNS, is part of a team that has spent 10 years working on a security system (DNSSEC) that companies can use to make their sites safer.To demonstrate how secure their technology is, the launch included the coronation of seven "keyholders". In the event of a terrorist attack or major disaster, five of those keyholders would meet in a secure location in  the US to restart the system.So would that giant ctrl+alt+delete reboot the whole internet? "Nope," says Kane – only the small proportion of internet sites using DNSSEC. "The rest of the internet would continue to function as normal."And it's not actually a key – it's a swipe card. And technically, just one fifth of a key. "Yes. I have a fragment of the key," says Kane, whose enthusiasm for dumbing down his hard work is clearly starting to wane.Is there a chance that this system could be extended to the whole internet – one key to rule them all? "Never. Even if there was such a key, it would trigger the balkanisation of the internet," says Kane. "The EU wouldn't want the US to have it, the Middle East wouldn't want the EU to have it, the US wouldn't want anyone to have it."
Apple's new Magic Trackpad replaces the mouseThe first whiff of an Apple trackpad was as far back as 2008, with a fresh bout of enthusiasm when the patent application was unearthedearlier this summer. Now the rumour has become a reality with the first Magic Trackpads released for sale through the Apple Store.Why yet more fuss for yet another Apple product? Because it symbolises the end of an era - the end of the mouse. As ever, Apple's brilliance is in refining consumer electronics to a form factor usable by the mainstream; the trackpad indicates the much needed death of the RSI-inducing mouse, another piece of hardware that Apple didn't invent,but did popularise.Magic trackpads are £59, wireless, 80% bigger than the trackpads on a MacBook Pro and work from 10 metres away.Eventually, a touchpad could replace both keyboard and mouse through a touchscreen interface. Controls would be context specific, much like the menu on the iPad or iPhone, so you only need to see the controls relevant to the application you're using whether that's a full scientific keyboard, larger buttons for users with impaired vision or a Wacom-like pad for graphics work.Give it three years, and touch pads will be the norm. So we can expect a whole new form of RSI, maybe.
Two software security companies today released temporary security patches for the Windows 'zero-day' vulnerability affecting all versions of the Microsoft operating system back to Windows 2000.The security flaw –acknowledged by Microsoft–  can affect someone who simply opens a desktop folder containing an "infected" .LNK extension. Microsoft had rushed outa workaroundfor the problem, but the fix automatically disabled the displaying of desktop shortcut files.Now security companies G Data and Sophos have separately released potential fixes to the vulnerability.G Data's 'LNK Checker' blocks the automatic execution of malicious files, displaying uninfected shortcut icons as normal, replacing with a red warning signal icon if infected. The LNK Checker is availableherefor free.The SophosWindows Shortcut Exploit Protection Toolwill notify users when it detects an infected link, blocking the potential malware from running.Ralf Benzmueller, head of G Data SecurityLabs, said: "This recent security flaw gives cyber-criminals a wide range of new possibilities to infect a PC. They only need to make sure that a .LNK file is displayed on the computer. The file which the link refers to does not necessarily need to be on the computer – it can even be on the internet.""Not only users of memory sticks are affected. In a company's IT network, for example, it is enough to save a primed and infected file on the network drive. Even basic software, like word processing programs and email clients, provide the possibility to display shortcuts. The potential for abuse is enormous. We expect that this vulnerability will be massively exploited shortly."All versions of Microsoft Windows from Windows 7 back to Windows 2000 are affected by the vulnerability. Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos, commented: "The threat from the exploit is high as all a user has to do is open a device or folder – without clicking any icons – and the exploit will automatically run. With an additional variant of the malware already on the loose, the potential for this exploit to become more widespread is growing rapidly."Microsoft has a policy of not condoning third-party tools such as those from G Labs and Sophos, and that it will release a security update for the problem in the near future.Are you planning to use the new security tools? Let us know how you get on.
The launch of the iPad and the general success of mobile device app stores has created a buzzword frenzy for "curated" computing – computing experiences where software and wallpaper and attendant foofaraw for your device are hand-picked for your pleasure.In theory, this creates an aesthetically uniform, and above allsafeand easy, computing environment, as the curators see to it that only the very prettiest, easiest-to-use and most virus-free apps show up in the store.I'm all for it. After all, I've spent the past 10 years co-curatingBoing Boing, a place where my business-partners and I pick the websites that interest us the most and assemble them into a kind of deep, wide, searchable catalogue of things that you should know, do, and marvel at.We've recently launched a store, the Boing Boing Bazaar, consisting of the most interesting inventions, clothing, gadgets, decor, and assorted gubbins that our readers have created, as picked by us. My Twitter account mostly consists of retweets from other twitterers – my collection of the best tweets I've seen today. I am a born curator, and have spent my life amassing collections and showing them off.But there's something important to note about all these curatorial roles I enjoy: none of them are coercive. No one forces you to read Boing Boing, and if you do, there's nothing that prevents you from reading another weblog (or a couple hundred other weblogs). Order as many gizmos as you'd like from the Boing Boing Bazaar, we'll never tell you that you can't fill your knick-knack shelves from anyone else's curatedwunderkammer. Follow me on Twitter if it pleases you, and feel free to follow anyone else you find interesting.The beauty of noncoercive curation is that there are so many reasons we value things, it's really impossible to imagine that any one place will serve as a one-stop shop for our needs.Two categories in particular won't ever be fulfilled by a curator: first, the personal. No curator is likely to post pictures of my family, videos of my daughter, notes from my wife, stories I wrote in my adolescence that my mum's recovered from a carton in the basement.My own mediascape includes lots of this stuff, and it is every bit as compelling and fulfilling as the slickest, most artistic works that show up in the professional streams. I don't care that the images are overexposed or badly framed, that the audio is poor quality, that I can barely read my 14-year-old self's handwriting. The things I made with my own hands and the things that represent my relationships with my community and loved ones are critical to my identity, and I won't trade them for anything.Second, the tailored. I have loads of little scripts, programs, systems, files and such that make perfect sense to me, even though they're far from elegant or perfect. There's the script I use for resizing and uploading images to Boing Boing, the shelf I use to organise my to-be-read pile, the carefully-built mail rules that filter out spam and trolls and make sure I see the important stuff. I am a market of one: no one wants to make a commercial proposition out of filling my needs, and if they did, your average curator would be nuts to put something so tightly optimised for my needs into the public sphere, where it would be so much clutter. But again, these are the nuts and bolts that hold my life together and I can't live without them.In a noncoercive curatorial world, these categories can peacefully coexist with curated spaces. There are hundreds of places where I can find recommendations and lists and reviews and packages of software for my computer (Ubuntu, the version of GNU/Linux I use, has its own very good software store). I can use as many or as few of these curators as I'd like, and what's more, I can add in things that matter to me because they exactly suit my needs or fulfil some sentimental niche in my life.But I fear that when analysts slaver over "curated" computing, it's because they mean "monopoly" computing – computing environments like the iPad where all your apps have to be pre-approved by a single curating entity, one who uses the excuse of safety and consistency to justify this outrageous power grab. Of course, these curators are neither a guarantee of safety, nor of quality: continuous revelations about malicious software and capricious, inconsistent criteria for evaluating software put the lie to this. Even without them, it's pretty implausible to think that an app store with hundreds of thousands (if not millions) of programs could be blindly trusted to be free from bugs, malware, and poor aesthetic choices.No, the only real reason to adopt coercive curation is to attain a monopoly over a platform – to be able to shut out competitors, extract high rents on publishers whose materials are sold in your store, and sell a pipe dream of safety and beauty that you can't deliver, at the cost of homely, handmade, personal media that define us and fill us with delight.
Playstation owners won't have failed to notice the hype around 3D andMove. The latter is – of course - Sony's answer to the Wii. A handheld motion controller and camera system that promises to offer greater control and gaming opportunities, Move will be big news this Christmas. Meanwhile 3D is seen as a hugely important part of Sony's future. The PS3 is already 3D enabled – complete with some games too, luckily – and 3D TVs are in the marketplace. I recently took a look at both Move and some of Sony's upcoming 3D-enabled games – including Killzone 3 and Gran Turismo 5.Killzone was the most impressive game shown. The first section was an on-rails airborne shooter that saw you taking out the well-armed Helghast enemies. Cue plenty of manic blasting complete with some lovely visual effects on the gun (lining up the sights looks great). The action sees you blasting weak structural points – handily in blue - and generally feeling a little like you are on a roller coaster. In your face and over the top for sure but the 3D definitely added something. The on-foot level shown only improved on this sense of space. For a start taking out enemies in the traditional cover and shoot manner was far more tense than normal and felt like you had something to lose. The highlight was a firefight with three winged goons swooping in for attack. As the first PS3 game to be built from the ground up in 3D the firing of rockets to make you duck will certainly be joined by more unsubtle but exciting moments when the game arrives next year.Next up was Gran Turismo 5. The key improvement here was the in-car view. Previously one for die hard petrolheads/masochists only the in-car view now feels "right". You get a sense of depth between your hands and the steering wheel while the bonnet image making judging distances that much easier. This doesn't – judging by my brief play – make the game any easier to play. GT is still one for the gamer who takes their virtual driving very very seriously. But 3D did make the game feel even more realistic, especially as damage is now taken.A number of PSN games are available in 3D already. I tried Super Stardust HD. The rotating globe looked marvellously sci-fi and certainly added some glamour to the pretty but basic Asteroids action. You wouldn't want to upgrade your telly just to play Super Stardust but when you do you'll probably be showing this one off.After an hour or so play on 3D I wasn't suffering the headaches I did when trying the Avatar game earlier in the year. I probably needed to blink a few more times though – Killzone especially was totally in your face.  3D may be in its infancy but the PS3 is ready and waiting for when you are.The other area of importance for Playstation is motion control – Move.  I got a play with the system and was pleasantly surprised. I was expecting a slightly sexier Wii but Move felt much more subtle and ambitious than Nintendo's aging console. Playing Table Tennis I made the apparently common mistake of assuming it would be like the tennis on Wii Sports – ie not very responsive. But Move is realistic and requires you to tilt your wrist like a pro.A quick go on a couple of mini games confirmed the appeal of the Move. A colouring one will appeal to young children. The frantic bug bashing title will appeal to all, at least in the short-term. Both though felt reminiscent of the Eyetoy and you can expect to see more advanced stuff coming through. One of these would be SOCOM 4 – sadly I didn't see this - although you will need the navigational controller for this.Overall Move felt like a good halfway house between Wii and Kinect. The tactile feedback from actually holding a controller is an easier initial sell than the hands-free Kinect. Also Move felt like a big step up from Wii in terms of response and control. Move may not be as potentially revolutionary as Kinect in the long-run, but it could well end up being the easier sell to the mass market.3D is the mid-term future, Move is coming in October. Both are important for Playstation (especially 3D for Sony as a whole) but what do you think? Tempted by Move? Saving up for a 3D TV?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.Photo byaresjobergon Flickr.Some rights reservedWho will be the billionaires in the new app economy? &gt;&gt; Wired UKUnnamed HTC Smartphone Shown Running Windows Phone 7, Sans Sense UI &gt;&gt; GizmodoHTC makes Super LCD screens for Desire and Nexus One official &gt;&gt; EngadgetMobiola Headset iPhone App Lets You Record Skype Calls &gt;&gt; GizmodoA Complete Guide To Tumblr &gt;&gt; SmashingMagazine50 Useful Tools and Resources For Web Designers &gt;&gt; SmashingMagazineRuling Allows 'Jailbreaking' of iPhones &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comCP Design's iPhone Game Pad prototype does Donkey Kong Country right &gt;&gt; EngadgetIn addition to new Macs, Apple could be announcing a new 27-inch 16:9 cinema display tomorrow, John Gruber hints &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderGoogle's Mobile Music Store Could Launch This Winter &gt;&gt; paidContent.orgReport: The 3 Biggest Enterprise Website Malware Vulnerabilities &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebAT&amp;T Expands Free Wi-Fi Program to Alleviate Data Congestion &gt;&gt; MashableConvert Flash to HMTL/Javascript &gt;&gt; SmokescreenShowing how you can make those ads that you thought were Flash-only run in HTML5 plus Javascript on a number of browsers.Android's ascent in China might not elevate Google &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"[what] the Chinese mobile industry is doing with iPhone [is]... They are creating a completely distinct third-party Android software ecosystem that is independent from Google and they are building a heavily-customized userspace stack that integrates with completely different Web services and allows them to deliver the kind of user experience that they want."Nokia: a tale of two analyses &gt;&gt; HackingCough"...anyone who describes the N93 as a 'superphone' has to be a bit deluded. I used to use one. It was a perfectly good phone. But, frankly, saddled with Symbian with S60 layered on top, it was a usability nightmare. Yes, you could surf the web with it, send emails and download applications. But it was all so much trouble. The iPhone environment may be more restrictive and lack the proper multitasking of Symbian - but that didn't matter when I found the iPhone to have simply better utility."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Leo Hickman and the Guardian deserve to be congratulated for drawing attention to the emergence of a whole raft of internet-based personal location services (How I became a Foursquare cyberstalker, G2, 23 July). As Hickman showed, this new breed of online applications has the potential to be truly spooky.Anyone collecting or broadcasting data about someone else's physical whereabouts should be obliged to observe the very highest standards of data security, yet Hickman's piece reveals some extremely slipshod work. However, the otherwise excellent story overlooked one angle. Because every location service I know of, including Foursquare, is paid for by advertising it means the apps are free to the end user, available for download by anyone who can click a mouse. That includes children. Ofcom's research has shown that around one in five children between the ages of eight and 12 are already getting away with lying about their age to create profiles on Facebook, MySpace or Bebo. Can we look forward to one in five children blithely linking location services to their social networking profiles, adding yet another and qualitatively new layer of risk? I suspect other stalkers who will surely follow in Hickman's steps will not have the same benign intent.Just because a thing becomes technically possible it does not mean every online business should stampede towards it, and indeed some are not doing so. More credit to them. There is or ought to be an ethical dimension to business. Google and Yahoo should give a lead and immediately drop their personal location products (Latitude and FireEagle) and promise not to reintroduce them until they have a way of keeping kids off the premises.John CarrSecretary,Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety
Nokia has launched  the C6 in the UK, and it is now available sim-free atthe manufacturer's online shop.On the day sales of Android phones are reported to haverisen by more than 300% this year, the Finnish handset maker is hoping its new device will slow the decline in market share for its Symbian operating system.The touchscreen Nokia C6 has a 3.2-inch display, a slide-out QWERTY keyboard and a 5MP camera that offers stills and video recording. There's 200MB of internal memory, expandable up to 16GB with a MicroSD card. The C6 internet browser has Flash video support.Vodafone, T-Mobile and Carphone Warehouse will be selling the device from this month, with further operators set to be announced in the near future. Sim-free, the device is available for £289.Earlier this month Gartner analyst Nick Jones painteda bleak picturefor the future of the Symbian operating system, which runs on the C6.Despite being used by the majority of the world's smartphones – andgoing open sourcein February this year – the software has struggled to keep up to the pace of change being forced by BlackBerry maker RIM, Google's Android and Apple.Last week Nokia recorded a profits slump of 40% in the second quarter of 2010, compared with a year ago. The company isreportedlylooking for a replacement for chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, after two profit warnings in the past three months made its its share price fall by 25%. Despite this, Nokia remains the world's largest phone-maker and has the largest market share in smartphones at about 41%.Are you planning on plumping for a C6? What's the biggest driver for you? And, say you were appointed as Nokia chief executive, how would you fire up the old beast?
Sales of Android phones have risen by more than 300% from the beginning of 2010, with one in 10 contract handsets sold in the UK now running Google's mobile operating system.Android's share of the UK mobile contract market grew by 10.2 percentage points from the first quarter of 2010 to the second quarter, from 3% to 13.2%, new figures fromretail watcher GfKshow.From the beginning of 2010, most of the UK's major mobile operators have started selling a number of hotly-anticipated mobile devices running Google's Linux-based software. The HTC Desire and HTC Legend are among other devices lauded by critics.Just last week, Samsung launcheda direct marketing challengeto the Apple iPhone with its Android-powered Galaxy S device.Many mobile operators were unable to keep up with demand for the HTC Desire when it launched in the UK in April this year. HTC, the Taiwanese manufacturer of many devices running Android, posted a 41% global sales increase for the first six months of 2010, with figures from April, May and June reflecting record sales,according to the company.In the same period, mobile devices running "advanced" operating systems – defined as those able to run independent compatible applications – grew in the contract market from 55% to 66.7%. Figures available from June show mobiles with advanced operating systems now representing 73.5% of the contract market."The figures suggest an increasing number of consumers are now asking for Android handsets by name," said GfK analyst Megan Baldock. "Operating systems are no longer simply a by-product but a key selling point in their own right."
Three years ago Janey Walker, then head of education commissioning at Channel 4, came to an important realisation. At the time, the channel was broadcasting its education content as part of the morning schedule and most of it was going out during term time. Challenging and confrontational programmes like Crip on a Trip and Gay to Z were being aimed straight at teenagers – but the teenagers were at school missing it all.Meanwhile, this fickle target audience was beginning to watch less broadcast television anyway. Alternative entertainment options like mobile phones, games and social networking were drawing young audiences away from terrestrial TV. Sticking out a few edgy documentaries during school time just wasn't cutting it anymore.So Walker decided to switch her budget to the online space, where she could reach teenagers whenever they were available. She also employed two multiplatform commissioners: Matt Locke, to handle digital TV projects, and Alice Taylor, previously Vice President of Digital Content for BBC Worldwide. Taylor is a keen gamer withan excellent blogon games theory, and her remit was to transfer a substantial part of the channel's annual £6m budget to interactive and online projects."We don't do standard curriculum, we don't do key stages, it's a lot more zeitgeist-y than that," she explains. "We generally look at what gets you from 14 to19 in one piece. So big themes that started in 2009 are things like privacy and security while online – and offline as well, actually. Financial management is going to be big next year. We look at careers, citizenship, I want to explore belief and death. It's fun, broad themes."The results so far have been polished, entertaining and, yes, even educational. Browser-based games likeBow Street Runner(about London's early police force),1066andTrafalgar Origins, have dealt with historical themes, whileSmokescreen, last year's award-winning interactive drama, was a darker look at the dangers of social networking sites. It's a broad remit, but then as Taylor points out, it's a broad audience: "the content depends on what we're trying to achieve and who we're trying to reach with it.14-year-old boys and 19-year-old girls don't have much in common. While we commission for teens over the portfolio, each project is usually quite tailored to a particular sub-group."Taylor's skill has been in tracking down and working with a new generation of mostly British 'digital creative agencies' – an emerging strata of development studios specialising in online, social and cross-platform games, often for commercial partners. "Our original supplier list was all TV companies, some of whom wanted to get into multiplatform, so a few there still pitch us. But we had to go out and talk to lots of digital and games agencies, to let them know we had money to spend on internet-native projects. I kicked off the games element with Bow Street Runner from Littleloud, who I'd had my eye on for a while from a distance. We go to lots of conferences, gatherings and events where we scout about for people doing interesting things. I spend Fridays scooting around the internet looking for good new work. We do open briefs once a year, where anyone keeping an eye on what we do can pitch in: details of those are onChannel 4's commissioning site."It helps if they've recently produced something astounding that we like: that tends to get them into our radar in the first place. But sometimes too we give startups a break, or work with people trying out a new direction; sometimes it's just down to timing! Other times, it's a technology specialism thing:Littleloudare rapidly becoming the agency of choice for AV games, for instance (ones with real actors in);Preloadedare flash experts, and wemeanexperts. We areBeatnik Games' first client, and we helped Six To Start get off the ground, dittoZombie Cow…"It's the Zombie Cow project that may stoke up the most interest when it's released online next Thursday. Last year, Taylor approached this tiny indie developer, known for witty, surreal titles like Gibbage and Ben There, Dan That, to create a game about sexually transmitted infections. Zombie Cow founder Dan Marshall readily agreed. "Dan emailed me and asked me to blog about Ben There Dan That, which I'd already played," explains Taylor about the commissioning process. "So I asked him whether he'd be interested in doing a 'little project' for us. You should have seen his face when I told him it was either politics or sex education…"Privatesis, we can say with some certainty, not about politics. It is a 3D platformer/twin-stick shooter set in and around a pubic region. The player controls a squad of three condom-hatted soldiers – the eponymous privates – who must clear each area of viruses, bacteria and other organic nasties. "In terms of gameplay, it feels a little bit like a more squelchy Contra or Gunstar Heroes," says Dan. "You've got one gun with four different firing modes – enemies are only susceptible to the appropriate gun type, be that Anti-Viral for Viruses, Antibiotics for Bacteria, that sort of thing. So you'll need to pay attention to what you're fighting, because there's no use shooting Herpes with anything but your Anti-Viral gun."Asthe trailerjoyfully reveals, the game is filled with daft, knockabout humour, revelling in the British love of sexual and scatological slang – an interactive take on the Young Ones for the Skins generation. But what Privates also represents, in just about the most flagrant sense possible, is the comfortable transference of indie gaming anarchy into a mainstream TV channel's educational remit. Zombie Cow is a classic bedroom coding outfit, a loose collective of like-minded programmers and artists, used to putting out their games online for a small but dedicated audience. Britain has dozens of these often one-man operations, creating weird, imaginative and confrontational titles, like Robert Fearon'sWar Twatand Charlie Knight'sScoregasm. It's an underground gaming culture that has so far sat out of sight, existing quietly alongside the mainstream games industry.Marshall readily concedes that Zombie Cow is not the sort of company you'd readily associate with a national media commission. "For previous games it's been ramshackle meetings in pubs, followed by me swearing at a monitor, bashing at a keyboard with my big Neanderthal fists and getting very grumpy indeed until things worked," he says. "I am not a natural coder.""Fortunately, Privates has been completely unique – I'm in the very lucky position to have brought in a couple of top-notch guys doing all the hard and important work. Chris Simpson (the coder) and Andy Hodgetts (the artist) are up in Hartlepool slaving away making all the magic happen. They both come from a Triple A background, with many years experience behind them, which is why everything looks blisteringly brilliant."It does look impressive, but you can imagine the Daily Mail headlines – the paper's least favourite TV channel teaching teens about sex via an explicit shoot-'em-up. But Taylor and co are prepared for this. Back in 2008, the channel devised a sort ofeducation mission statement, in which it listed its core values as: do it first, make trouble, inspire change. Well, trouble could be on its way.But, of course, this department also knows its audience. "We have a completely awesome research team," says Taylor. "We get solid data all the time on hours of TV a day, which mobiles they're carrying, how much time they spend online, how much they love games (a LOT). We often have teenage work experience kids in the office, and they tell us what they think of our projects. All our projects are tested with teenagers, in schools or focus groups or feedback groups, so the developers can keep an eye on whether the end product is going to appeal to the target end user."Alongside sex, politics is also receiving the gaming treatment. Another major project, launching online this Thursday, deals with a less obvious area of teen life: civil liberties.The Curfewis a futuristic adventure set in an Orwellian Britain where the population is locked in to their homes every night. You play a protestor holding a key piece of data that could bring down this totalitarian regime – but you need to converse with other desperate characters and work out who you can trust. Produced as a Flash game by Littleloud, it's written by games journalist and Marvel comic scribe Kieron Gillen – and as Taylor points out, it's not a complete sci-fi fantasy:"The Curfew grew from the actual UK curfew on teens that most people probably aren't aware of: if you're under 16 and out after 9pm, the police can send you home pretty much at their discretion. Teens are often treated like criminals in this country, penalised just for being young. We want teens to wake up to the idea that the government is supposed to represent citizens, not control them, and for these teens to engage more with politics. The Curfew is a fantasy, but built out from actual governmental acts and decisions of the recent years. Maybe it'll inspire some to help change the country a bit for the better.'"Channel 4 has several more intriguing game projects lined up for this year including Cover Girl about airbrushing and image manipulation, and Codename: Afterlife, a "MiniMO" (minimally-multiplayer online game) about death and philosophy. And Taylor is still trawling those conferences and game events looking for the emerging stars of the indie scene – she was at the Develop conference in Brighton last week, no doubt checking out that town's growing array of miniature dev studios. "I have no idea how it works 'up top', but I love the fact that Channel 4 seem to be completely open to format, platform, size and scope," says Marshall. "It means that creative, interesting, funky ideas are getting through, and not getting restricted or confined to only using Unity or Flash for example. As a result they're doing some amazing things with some amazing indies."And certainly, at the heart of this whole project is the intersection between indie culture and mainstream media. It'll be interesting to see where this goes, and how the parties will deal with popular interest beyond the target audience. With Privates on the verge of launching, I ask Dan Marshall whether he'sreallyprepared for the potential tabloid storm. "Anything that gets the word out and gets people playing it can only be a good thing, " he ventures. "And besides, surely no one can get too indignant about a violent video game that largely takes place inside a vagina?… No you're right, I'm completely unprepared."The Curfew is released online this Thursday – there's a trailerhere. Privates is out on August 5.
UK top 10 games chart, week ending July 24 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (5)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (30)PS3 (25)Xbox 360 (20)Wii (20)22 (4)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)103 (2)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)44 (3)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (30)Xbox 360 (26)DS (25)PS3 (18)55 (8)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (42)Wii (13)46 (7)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)77 (6)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (36)PSP (12)Wii (8)138 (10)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)339 (–)Dragon Quest Ix: Sentinels Starry Skies(12+)DS (100)110 (1)Crackdown 2(15+)Xbox 360 (100)3Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Profits in the digital space are "sparse," the chief executive of HMVsaid earlier this month, lamenting "widespread competition from the free illegal market". But the UK's leading entertainment retailer is today stepping up its digital offering, a joint venture with digital music company 7digital.Today marks the full launch of HMV's music download service,hmvdigital. Boasting a catalogue of 10m songs, hmvdigital is being billed as a genuine rival for the Apple iTunes digital download crown.Photo byBeverly &amp; Packon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe current iteration of thehmvdigital.comhas been in beta testing since March this year and was built by7digital, the company HMVbought a 50% stake in last September. Early hmvdigital customers may be entitled to a limited number of free downloads, all top 40 chart singles are downloadable for an introductory price of 40p per track, and chart albums are retailing at a discounted price of £4.99.The store will synchronise with iTunes, Windows Media Player and be compatible on PC and Mac computers. Many tracks are available at the highest-quality MP3 compression of 320kbps.HMV Group announced profits of about 18% last year, a result of the brand finding revenue streams in live music, merchandise and fashion. As a backdrop to this, shares in the multiplatform retailerhalved in price in the past 12 months, indicative of a market where CD sales slumped by 8.5% and the home entertainment market fell 10%.Sarah Hughes, HMV's head of online and digital, said the website is "a world class download store that reflects both HMV's music retailing heritage and our strategy to be a broad-based entertainment brand."With so many innovative and wonderful features, it offers a truly intuitive and engaging customer experience that I very much hope will lead to HMV becoming a bigger player in the burgeoning digital market."Digital downloads grew by 48% in 2009, according toresearch by analysis company Forrester, but download revenues were still just 21% of CD sales.
The Royal family has launched a Flickr account (pro!) with 600 official photos, some dating back toQueen Victoria's reign.The Queen has made quite an effort in social media of late, with aTwitteraccount,YouTubeaccount - though it has to be said this isn't a textbook example of using social media to engage an audience being, as it is, entirely one way, comments disabled, the works. The Royal Family also revamped its own (really quite impressive) website last year andcalled in at Googlethe year before that.The Flickr addition, however, is by far the most useful of these token projects, putting some fascinating and unique photographs into the public realm. Curiously, the embedding function has been partly disabled, though officials toldAPthat the public could embed the photos on blogs and on social media sites.
My gaming time was spent - as it has been for the last couple of weeks - on Xbox Live Arcade. Deathspank and Limbo mainly but also water racing game Hydro Thunder Hurricane. More thoughts on the latter soon. What has become obvious is that download games are often every bit as polished as their full-priced competitors. The downside is that prices seem to have risen. 1200 MS points (about a tenner) used to be a relatively rare price point but now it seems to be the going rate.Anyway, what did you play this weekend?
