Google has added a mini-feature to Gmail. According to aGoogle blog post, "Starting this week, you can see headlines from your favorite blogs and news sites right above your Inbox. Gmail tips and relevant text ads appear from time to time as well."If you click Settings, you can select Web Clips then simply add your RSS feeds. Maybe. My Gmail box doesn't have this feature yet, so perhaps it's being rolled out in stages....Update:Many thanks to Barry Frost for the comment below: he's right. I just had to change the language setting to English (US) to get the RSS feed working. This appears in one line above the mail app (above Archive/Report Spam etc) with arrows to scroll through the results. It's non-intrusive and looks mostly harmless, but it's feeding me some results that are two or three days old.
Heather Kelley is a genius. As well as being a game designer on Thief: Deadly Shadows, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory and other games including a forthcoming undisclosed PSP title, she's also active in the women in games movement and Chair of the IGDA'sWomen in GamesSIG. In her spare time (cough), she's managed to concoct an award-winning game idea that teaches women the finer points of female sexual arousal.Lapis is only ademoat the moment, but after the honours were bestowed upon her at theMontreal Games Summitlast month, the idea is to take the title to the Nintendo DS handheld, where the stylus and microphone can be used to stimulate the nose and tail of a digital bunny rabbit as it spirals towards firework-flavoured ecstasy. This is undoubtably the best female orgasm simulator that gamesblog has had the pleasure to play with (although please note that neither Greg nor Keith decided to touch this story with a 10-foot pole).Before the description gets out of control, here's the low-down from Heather's site:Depending on how you touch the bunny, it reacts to being touched.Players manipulate the creature (bunny) on the touchscreen, which gives them magical energy to flyYou can touch the bunny in different ways – stroking, scratching, tickling, etcAlso can use the microphone to talk, sing to, blow on the fur…The bunnies are analogous to female anatomy… not literal looking, but evocative ...Many of the visuals of the game levels were taken from interviews with actual women about their surprising fantasies and thoughts during arousal and orgasm. Others are my own concoction - nonsensical cuteness and whimsy, or psychological symbology, intended to appeal to the female target audience and to reflect the fascinating, unpredictable synesthesia that can occur during female sexual arousalMmmmm, cupcakes.Also worthwhile is thepresentationwhich accompanies the demo. It delves into the process Heather went through in order to create the game, including rejected ideas (Left Hand of Darkness 1 &amp; 2, Feeling around in the Dark) and her personal challenges (Reaching a New Market and Improve Actual Sex).The hope is that the game would entertain females - without them ever needing to understand the sex metaphor. But at some point when they did start figuring out the connection to their own sexuality and pleasure, they would have learned some ideas and techniques behind sexual satisfactionYou can read an interview with Heatherhere, at the IGDA's Sex in Games SIG.A great insight from that article:Did working on a sexually-themed design change any preconceptions you had about sexually themed games?It changed my preconception that sex-related games need to be about intercourse. My as-yet-unchanged preconception is that a game like the one I designed could never get funded, distributed, or properly marketed, but I welcome someone to change that one too!Too true on both accounts. Congrats to Heather, albeit belatedly, for creating a game with sex that's whimsical and female-friendly!ThanksJack!
Electronic Arts has been poking around the mobile games industry for a couple of years, but finally the company has committed in typically extravagant fashion - by putting in a successful $680m bid for US mobile content publisher and developer,Jamdat. You can get the full financial storyherebut, in brief, EA is paying $27 per share for its latest acquisition and plans to publish around 50 mobile titles in the year following the deal.Jamdat is, by mobile gaming standards, an industry veteran, formed back in March 2000 by two ex-Activision execs, Scott Lahman and Zack Norman. It's certainly one of the key publishers in the global business holding licenses to Tetris, Lord of the Rings, SOCOM, Tony Hawk's and Doom among others. Hmm, what will happen to all those Activision IPs now?Another question is, where does this leaveI-play, the UK mobile publisher that entered into astrategic partnershipwith EA last year and has co-published and distributed a number of key EA licenses such as Tiger Woods, FIFA and The Sims.So, anyway, is this another sign that:a) Mobile gaming is gaining increasing acceptance and importance? b) EA justreallyenjoys buying stuff, and, you know, that $680m was burning a hole in its pocket?Thanks toIndoctrimat
A story headlinedIs the PowerPC due for a second wind?might sound boring but, asPaul Thurrotthas pointed out, this interview with Freescale contains some interesting tidbits. For example, we learn that Freescale Semiconductor's chief executive Michel Mayer isn't too sad about losing Apple's PC business:Desktop is a very small piece of our business, and it's going away. Our only customer is Apple (for laptops), and they are switching to Intel sometime next year. We were not happy to lose a customer, but frankly, with all of the growth opportunities that we have in front of us, it was not a good use of our resources to try to defend half a percent market share, which is how much desktop we have against Intel.OK, Intel has the PC, that's fine. There are so many opportunities outside the PC that it's much better using our resources to try to go into spaces where we are really leaders.After a para about innovation moving from the PC to other devices, the interview continues:Weren't you there during the discussions when IBM convinced Apple to adopt the G5?Mayer: In my previous job, I ran IBM's semiconductor business. So I've seen both sides of the Apple story, because I sold the G5 to Steve (Jobs) the first time he wanted to move to Intel.Five years ago?Mayer: Yeah, that's about right. So I sold the G5. First I told IBM that we needed to do it, and then I sold it to Apple that the G5 was good and it was going to be the follow-on of the PowerPC road map for the desktop. It worked pretty well. And then IBM decided not to take the G5 into the laptop and decided to really focus its chip business on the game consoles.Hence Jobs's statement that"Intel has the strongest processor roadmap by far". Indeed, any road map would look better than no road map.Comment:Thus ends, somewhat sadly, theApple-IBM alliancethat was dubbed The Deal of the Century, partly because Apple did a U-turn to join up with the evil empire it had attacked in its famous 1984-85 SuperBowl adverts.As a refresher, the deal involved the development of a single-chip version of IBM's Power architecture (with Motorola), integrating Macs into IBM enterprise networks (to make them appeal to big businesses), developing the PowerOpen operating system combining IBM's AIX Unix with Mac OS, and jointly forming two companies, Taligent and Kaleida, to develop software for the future. Both went down at an estimated cost of around $500 million.Apple, IBM and Motorola also spent fortunes developing acommon hardware reference platform (CHRP), that was supposed to run multiple operating systems (Mac OS, AIX, OS/2, Windows NT, Solaris etc) and drive Intel PCs off the market.
Yahoo Answershas just gone live in beta test form, wearing an odd green livery. It invites users to "Share what you know. Answer open questions" in a wide range of categories from Arts &amp; Humanities to Travel. Gary Price at Search Engine Watch has anintroduction.
Two very welcome racing game announcements today - Codemasters has provided a February 24 launch date for TOCA Race Driver 3, the latest title in the company's excellent multi-event series. Featuring 80 international racing circuits, 43 locations, 13 countries and over 120 championships it's another more-than-generous motoring buffet."From the most prestigious circuits in Europe, including the UK's iconic Silverstone, Germany's demanding Hockenheim with its gladiatorial stadium section, and the dramatic drops and rises of Belgium's historic Spa-Francorchamps as it blasts through the Ardennes forest, TOCA Race Driver 3 will also take you to Australia's V8 championship venues, the raceways of the US and the latest tracks on the global racing map: Shanghai International, Bahrain International and Istanbul Park," says the press release.It'll arrive on Xbox, PS2 and PC. More details at theofficial site.And if that isn't mouth-watering enough, Sega and UK developer Sumo have announced OutRun 2006: Coast 2 Coast, out in March 2006 on PS2, PSP and PC. In a lovely, lyrical press release, Sega proclaims..."The enchanting draw of the open road has never been so appealing with the choice of one of 12 fully licensed Ferrari models, featuring the all-new F430 and the dazzling Superamerica. Gamers will feel the throaty whine and that distinctive Ferrari exhaust tone as they power their way across 30 glorious stages from the best of the OutRun2 original, and the new OutRun2 SP arcade experience. Race from coast to glorious coast with a fresh new mission structure, a license mode and online play with up to 6 players for a thrilling head-to-head journey."Sumo's OutRun 2 title is one of Xbox's unsung heroes - an absolute must for anyone who remembers pumping 30p a time into those hydraulic OutRun cabinets (this was back when 30p a go was a lot of money for an arcade game). The 2006 Coast 2 Coast instalment is made even more enticing by a PS2-to-PSP link-up feature, which will unlock new content in both versions.
Government websites usually become famous for being too popular. Last month, for example, the Most Wanted website (www.crimestoppers-uk.org/wanted), assembled by police forces and hosted by the charity Crimestoppers, was overwhelmed by demand on its launch day. In January, a surge of people filing last-minute tax returns online crippled the Inland Revenue's site. And in 2002, the Public Records Office shut the 1901 Census website (www.census.pro.gov.uk) for 10 months after being swamped by more visitors in an hour than had been expected per day.While such incidents receive a huge amount of attention - the census website failure is the subject of a 36-page report by the National Audit Office - they are not typical. Instead, there is a vast hinterland of taxpayer-funded public service sites sitting virtually unnoticed in cyberspace. A recent series of parliamentary questions reveals that one government site had just 77 unique visitors last year; several others only a few hundred. And to top it all, no one knows how much they cost to run.Take the Home Office's Ask the Football Fans site, set up after Euro 2000 to investigate football violence. Five years on, it's still on the web, atwww.ask-the-football-fans.gov.uk. And does anyone visit it? Not often - it attracted just 867 visits last year, Charles Clarke, the home secretary, revealed last month in response to a question by Sarah Teather, Liberal Democrat MP for Brent East.Her Majesty's Government has a substantial empire on the web. Clarke's department alone is responsible for 36 sites, on everything from labour migration (www.workingintheuk.gov.uk, 3.7m visits) to preventing car theft (www.secureyourmotor.gov.uk, 62,000 visits). His reply suggested some embarrassment at the figures: he could not say how much the sites cost to run, and in any case, "we are aiming to consolidate our sites so that more information is accessible on our central sites".Other questions by Teather revealed that the Department for Constitutional Affairs runs 33 sites, including the Hutton Inquiry (www.the-hutton-inquiry.org.uk, 180,000 visits), the Land Registry (www.landreg.gov.uk, 2.8m visits) and the tribunals review (www.tribunals-review.org.uk, just over 4,000).The Department for Culture, Media and Sport is responsible for 11 websites, including what may be the least-visited on the web. UK World Heritage Sites (www.ukworldheritage.org.uk) managed just 77 unique visitors last year, Richard Caborn, the minister responsible, told parliament. The site's top news item announces a seminar taking place in May this year. Another site, Agora (www.agora.culture.gov.uk), supposed to help the department and its sponsored bodies communicate, had 457 visits last year. Together, the department's 11 sites cost &pound;43,000 in the financial year 2004-05, Caborn said.At the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, the minister Jim Knight gave a more politically canny reply. The department directly operates "a number of websites", including the Defra site (www.defra.gov.uk) and the home of sustainable development (www.sustainable-development.gov.uk), but details on other sites are "not held centrally ... and could not be obtained without incurring disproportionate cost".Teather's questions revealed that the costs of running a government website often bear little relationship to the number of users. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister's central site,www.odpm.gov.ukcosts &pound;228,000 a year, and attracts 434,000 visitors a month (a cost of about 4p per visitor per year); its local government site,www.info4local.gov.uk, costs almost the same, &pound;241,000 a year, but attracts just under 20,000 visitors a month, or nearly &pound;1 per visitor per year.Teather describes the government's web presence as an "embarrassment", saying its approach reflects "a typical Whitehall tick-box mentality" whose effect negates the point of e-government - the very thing the sites are meant to promote and represent. "With every new initiative comes a website, with little thought seemingly spared to 'will anybody look at this?'," she says.Perhaps as a result of the race to e-government - whose starting gun was fired in September 2000 when prime minister Tony Blair announced that "by 2005 at the latest, all government services will be online" - no one seems to know how many government sites are on the web.At the last count, the Cabinet Office e-Government Unit, which is responsible for the .gov.uk domain, had approved 3,419 .gov.uk names. But not all are in use. Jim Murphy, the minister responsible for e-government, told parliament earlier this year that the Cabinet Office does not hold figures on the number of .gov websites, nor on the number of civil servants employed to run them.The "transformational government" IT strategy (cio.gov.uk/transformational_ government/strategy/) published last month - and announced, again, by Tony Blair, who called it "a strategy on how we can use technology to transform government services" - puts the total number of sites at "more than 2,500". This may be an underestimate, as it does not count the large number of.nhs.uk and .ac.uk domain names, or sites such as the drugs information resource www.talktofrank.com, which deliberately conceals its Home Office origins from its target teenage audience.Teather is unimpressed. "Instead of a clear and precise structure, government websites look like a ball of string with neverending trails and threads seemingly leading to nowhere. There has to be an approach to the websites that envisages a total package, where information is clearly provided and easy to follow," she says. "At the moment, government websites look like they are specifically designed to make government more opaque, rather than more open and accessible."The government responds that creating openness and accessibility, rather than opacity, is exactly what it is doing. The new strategy proposes that government's web presence be "rationalised", to cut the number of sites and make them more consistent in look and feel. Over time, citizens' dealings with government will converge on the Directgov portal (www.direct.gov.uk) run by the Cabinet Office, the strategy says. "Service-specific or standalone solutions will phased out."Early next year, a &pound;5m advertising campaign under the slogan "Lose the queues" will try to persuade people across the country to go online to contact government. But the Cabinet Office may find it difficult to turn the tide. Over the past decade, hardly a month has gone by without some new government-run or sponsored site appearing. Last month, Defra added to the list by announcing the Central Point on Expertise on Timber Procurement atwww.proforest.net/cpet. Its worthy purpose is to guide public bodies to buy timber only from sustainable resources.However, some e-government experts say that Whitehall should resist the urge to rationalise the web. Helen Margetts, professor of e-government at Oxford university, says that diversity is part of the web's culture - and in the Google age, users don't need central government portals to show them where to go. "You can't tidy up the internet like a child's bedroom," she says.Yet even the author of the transformational government strategy, Ian Watmore, the government's chief information officer, is not immune from web-creep. One of his first acts on creating a council of chief information officers was to set up a website to publicise their work (www.cio.gov.uk). So far, there's no word on how many visitors it has attracted - nor at what cost.Visitors to government websites, % of populationFinland:62European average:45UK:31Most popular government websites vs comparable commercial sites, unique visitors in OctoberDVLA:938,000AA:2,523,000HM Revenue and Customs:716,000Money Supermarket:813,000Directgov portal:617,000MSN portal:15,434,000Meteorological Office:426,000Weather Channel:957,000Birmingham City Council:335,000Upmystreet.com:1,100,000&#183;Source: Nielsen/Netratings&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday December 9 2005Our article below said in error that unregistered users are to be prevented from editing pages when it is only the creation of new pages that will be restricted to registered contributors.The online encyclopedia Wikipedia has been forced to change the way it operates after claims it had become a breeding ground for "false and malicious" information. After a week of blunders, the operators of the site - which allows anyone to write and edit articles - are banning anonymous users from creating new entries."Just recently we've instituted changes," said Jimmy Wales, Wikipedia's founder. These would give the site's 600 volunteer editors a better chance of catching and removing offensive material. "The idea is basically to slow down the pace of new page creation."The furore began last week when a journalist, John Seigenthaler, a former assistant to the former US attorney general Robert Kennedy, attacked Wikipedia in a scathing editorial in the newspaper USA Today. He was angered by an entry insinuating he had been involved in political killings. "For a brief time, he was thought to have been directly involved in the Kennedy assassinations of both John and his brother, Bobby," said the unedited biography. "Nothing was ever proven."Seigenthaler contacted Mr Wales to get it removed. "At the age of 78, I thought I was beyond surprise or hurt at anything negative said about me. I was wrong," he wrote. "For four months Wikipedia depicted me as a suspected assassin."Concerns were echoed by other critics, as the former MTV presenter Adam Curry, now a dotcom entrepreneur living in Surrey, was accused of "vanity editing" an entry. Mr Wales admitted there were problems with the system but said readers should be more sceptical."You should take Wikipedia with a grain of salt," he said. "It's a work in process."The website has grown rapidly since its inception four years ago. Users are free to rewrite information, overseen by volunteer editors, based on the assumption that the wisdom of the many is more accurate than the wisdom of the few. There are now more than 850,000 articles in English alone, but while Wikipedia has been lauded for pioneering internet-based knowledge, cynics are concerned. "The real story is why would anyone presume anything written in there is accurate," said Michael Gartenberg, of Jupiter Research. "Where's the accountability?"Registering users could result in court actions. In the long term, administrators plan to "lock down" articles that have achieved a recognisable level of accuracy.
Your responses to mybloglast week suggested it was popular, but Nintendohave announcedthat 200,000 unique users have logged on to their wi-fi service since its recent launch. How high this number would have been without the router and other connection issues that have dogged the service remains to be seen. But get it up and running and online DS gaming is marvellous. The big draw at the moment is, obviously, Mario Kart DS, which reminds me. If someone can dig out all the friends codes fromhereand post it as one entry in the comments, I'll try and make it sticky for a while so that we can start organising the Gamesblog Cup/League/thing.
Of all the myths that have grown up around open source software, perhaps the most pervasive is Eric Raymond's aphorism that "Many eyes make bugs shallow", suggesting that if lots of people can view a program's source code, they will find and fix its errors more quickly than commercial products whose code is jealously guarded. The only problem with this is that it's not true - certainly not in one of the flagship projects of open source, OpenOffice.This project is most often quoted as the threat to Microsoft's cash-generating Office suite. The free suite comprises a word processor, spreadsheet and presentation program; and graphics, equation editor and database programs if you want.OpenOffice is the only free and open source product competitive with Office, able to read and write Microsoft format documents almost flawlessly. For GNU/Linux desktop users, it is the only way to communicate in the universe of business. But it also vividly demonstrates the limitations of open source as a way of producing software, and its futility as an ideology.I like OpenOffice. I used it long before it was usable, out of a mixture of perversity, stinginess, and vague anti-Microsoft sentiment. When I started writing books, I had Microsoft Word 97, which could not print a 60,000-word manuscript without crashing. I have written numerous macros (which automate less obvious, or screamingly obvious, tasks), including the word count for version 1. I have done quality assurance work, submitting reports on bugs and testing those reported by others. So I know something about the open source "community" and the enormous gap between myth and reality.Improbable assumptionsThe reality is that any computer user probably depends on open source programs every time they look up anything on the net. But they don't know that, and they don't have to.The myth of open source rests on two improbable assumptions. The first is that a significant proportion of users can fix bugs. That is true at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where the concept of free software was first formalised in the 1980s by Richard Stallman and others, and it is true in some of the geekier corners of the internet. But on programs intended for use by the non-programming public, it's a very different story.This is important because of the second crucial false assumption: that even if not all users can fix a bug, they can help find them. They can't. Most users just think: "The computer isn't doing what I want."Big commercial software companies know this well. When developing products for the public, they spend a lot of money on usability testing to find out what users expect from software, and how to meet those expectations. Companies lose from user dissatisfaction in a way open source software doesn't, and so have an incentive to avoid errors in the first place: the number of calls to a support desk grows exponentially with the number of bugs and users. Where's the support desk for OpenOffice?Despite the open source rhetoric, OpenOffice actually started as a commercial product - StarOffice, from Germany's StarDivision - before being bought in October 1999 by Sun Microsystems. Almost all the work on it is now done by about 100 full-time Sun programmers. That is a tiny fraction of the armies Microsoft or Google can deploy to solve a problem.But what about the innumerable volunteers who can download the code and fix what they like? They take one look at the effort involved and run. OpenOffice is an extremely complex mountain of source code. As far as I know, in the five years it has been available as open source, not one contribution to the program has come from amateurs. The outsiders who have provided input have been full-time professionals employed by Linux companies to help make the software credible.There has been a lot of volunteer effort, but it has gone into support. Without the efforts of French and Italian volunteers, it would be more or less impossible for anyone to write macros. Some volunteer energy goes into localisation efforts: the suite is available in practically every language, and four or five people put in a real effort to help puzzled users on the internet, but the overwhelming energy seems to go into filling the blogosphere with remarks about the merits of open source software and getting outraged about inconvenient facts.Kindergarten noiseFor example, just before version 2 was released, a Ziff-Davis blog (blogs.zdnet.com/Ou/?p=120) pointed out that OpenOffice is bigger, less efficient, and much slower than MS Office (tinyurl.com/4evmt). Large spreadsheets take more than 100 times as long to load. Some of this is a result of inefficient code, and some the result of an inefficient storage system; the figures are undeniable and not disputed by Sun developers, but the shrieks of outrage in the comments would be alarming even in a kindergarten.So why is OpenOffice so dire? The project claims more than 50m downloads of the software, so let's assume that 50m people have tried it at least once.More than 50,000 bugs have been reported. And how many have been fixed by open source's uniquely efficient processes? According to the (public) bugs database, at last count, there were more than 6,000 unfixed bugs, and more than 5,000 feature requests. While the number of bugs discovered seems to rise with the number of users, the number of fixes doesn't, and the number of fixers certainly doesn't. Only about 500 people have signed the legalese that would enable them to submit code to the project; since you need to do this even to make changes to the website, that will translate to far fewer than 500 volunteers submitting real code. A reasonable guess would be 50, or even five.Meanwhile, there are some simple, hugely irritating bugs that are four years old. Two obvious ones: notes (or comments, as Word users call them) don't have word wrap; and spaces typed at the end of a line won't show. It's not many eyes making bugs shallow; more like many eyes making bugs invisible.Most software has similar irritations. But complex open source projects seem uniquely badly placed to fix them. They rely on a very small group of programmers relative to the user base, and who have no direct incentive to work on the bugs that are important to users.Perhaps like Microsoft Windows, which took many goes to hit its stride, OpenOffice 3.1 will be a world beater. But if it is, it will have nothing to do with the fact that any user can, in theory, fix things they don't like. It will be because large companies such as Sun, Google, and IBM have decided that open source is the cheapest way to gang up on Microsoft, because it means they need spend nothing on support.But, for what it's worth, I still think OpenOffice may be better for books than Microsoft Word.&#183;Andrew Brown is the author of In The Beginning Was The Worm. His blog is atwww.thewormbook.com/helmintholog/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Around now, at a press conference in London, Creative chief executive Sim Wong Hoo is launching the Zen Vision: M portable MP3 player. As you can see from the pics, it bears some resemblance to another company's recent products. But Sim Wong Hoo is not being apologetic. He "told the BBC he plans to 'pursue aggressively' a US patent it owns on a system used to navigate music on digital players," according tothe BBC News website, and reckons the Vision M is more powerful:"We are focused on the technology," he said. "This is still a technology marketplace.""This is the key difference between a technology company and a branding company."The Vision M has a built in FM tuner and voice recording, plus support for video formats such as MPEG-4, WMV, DivX and XviD, so there are certainly reasons to prefer it to an iPod. But Creative could be wrong about it being a technology market....
I am increasingly playing music on my PC for choice and convenience. Now I want to listen to it downstairs in a separate room without cabling. Is there, essentially, a remote control for Windows Media Player? I could use an MP3 player but that would limit my choices. Peter StanleyThe simple answer is to buy a SlimDevices Squeezebox 3 (www.slimdevices.com). This is a Wi-Fi device supporting 802.11g with a nice visual display and a simple remote control. It streams MP3, WMA, AAC, Ogg Vorbis and FLAC lossless audio files, plus MP2 and internet radio. (There's also a wired Ethernet version.) The RCA phono connectors, S/P-DIF, optical TOSlink and coax connections mean you should be able to plug it into any hi-fi or home cinema system. It works with Windows XP/2000/NT, Mac OS X and Linux, and is reasonably priced. SlimDevices pioneered this market with the SLIMP3. With the Squeezebox now up to version 3, it should have had time to iron out most of the kinks.The complicated answer is that there are lots of ways of doing the job. Devices include the Philips MCW770 Wireless PC-Link, D-Link's DSM-320 Wireless Media Player and DSM-520 MediaLounge, the Buffalo Linktheater High-Definition Wireless Media Player, Roku's SoundBridge, Creative's SoundBlaster Wireless Music Receiver, the Bluewalker Wireless Hi-Fi Link, Apple's Airport Express, Pinnacle's Show Center and Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console.Searching for "digital audio receiver" and "wireless media player" will give you an idea of the range available. Some devices stream MPeg and other types of video, as well as music files. However, I think only the somewhat limited Airport Express will stream protected music from the iTunes Music Store.One attractive (but relatively expensive) option is the Buffalo PC-P3LWG/DVD wireless media player, which has 802.11g Wi-Fi plus a built in DVD player that supports HDTV (720p and 1080i formats). You can stick this under your TV set, it has a USB port for digital cameras and thumb-drives etc, and it also connects to your PC. If you have an Xbox 360 plugged into your TV, this can also stream media from a Windows Media Center PC. Many similar products will no doubt follow.So, something may meet your needs better than a Squeezebox, but it may not be easy to find it.Update:I wasn't trying to provide a complete list of products above, but some idea of the range of ways of tackling the problem. One I missed wasSonos Digital Music System, which works as a standalone product and creates its own wireless network. You don't need a PC to use one, but if you have a PC with a Wi-Fi connection, the Sonos will use it as a source.
I am a happy Windows 98SE user, but no one seems to do internet telephony except for XP -- or have I missed a trick? CPCPMost of the old instant messaging programs do VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) between IM users, and most can do it with Windows 98/SE, as well as XP. Examples include Yahoo Messenger with Voice, MSN Messenger, and AOL's AIM and ICQ. These also let you share photos and add a webcam for video chat. The drawback is that usually you can only talk to people on the same messaging service. New VoIP programs such as Skype and Google Talk require Windows 2000 or XP, but Vonage, for example, works with "Windows 98 SE &amp; above". Skype also works with Mac OS X, Linux and Windows CE.Update: Skype may work on Windows 98/SE/Me butSkype says: "Because it hasn't been fully tested, we have not yet certified Skype for use with these operating systems."
After more than 200 responses to our poll on thegreatest geek movies, the votes have all been cast and the survey is closed.But who won?After frenzied voting, the cinematic masterpiece which emerged on top of the heap was Ridley Scott'sBlade Runner. Close behind came 2001: A Space Odyssey, followed by the double whammy of Star Wars and The Empire Strikes Back.The Matrix only came in at No 5 - somewhat surprisingly, considering it was the early favourite - and was beaten by Peter Sellers classic Dr Strangelove. The rest of the top 10 was filled out by Twelve Monkeys, Lord of the Rings, Aliens, Donnie Darko, and The Terminator.Here's the same information in a handy list:1.Bladerunner2.20013.Star Wars/ESB4.Dr Strangelove5.The Matrix6.Twelve Monkeys7.Lord of the Rings8.Aliens9.Donnie Darko10.The TerminatorSo why did Blade Runner emerge victorious? Well, in my view, it's got everything. There's a coherent world view. Geeks are on-screen and off - Ridley Scott already had previous thanks to Alien, and the script is based on Philip K Dick's novel. Plus it's got robots (alright, replicants), and gadgetry that looks like it could actually work.And in a list dominated by science fiction, this dystopian vision has probably had more of an artistic influence on that genre than any other film over the past 20 years.Interestingly, when our science writers asked the great and good what thebest science fiction film of all timewas, the top three came outexactly the same. At the time, one of the wonks on the panel, Stephen Minger from King's College London, said "It was so far ahead of its time and the whole premise of the story - what is it to be human and who are we, where do we come from - it's the age-old questions." I think we can safely say that it remains the case.So thanks for all your help, your votes and your input: now go and watch some movies.
Jesper Juul, famous for being the first person to complete a PhD in computer games (at Copenhagen'sITU), has released his hotly anticipated games theory readerHalf-Real, which covers the various debates in the academic games world, focussing on the imporant issues inLudology.From the blurb:A video game is half-real: we play by real rules while imagining a fictional world. We win or lose the game in the real world but we slay a dragon (for example) only in the world of the game. In this thought-provoking study, Jesper Juul examines the constantly evolving tension between rules and fiction in video games. Discussing games from Pong to The Legend of Zelda, from chess to Grand Theft Auto, he shows how video games are both a departure from and a development of traditional non-electronic games. The book combines perspectives from such fields as literary and film theory, computer science, psychology, economic game theory, and game studies, to outline a theory of what video games are, how they work with the player, how they have developed historically, and why they are fun to play.I've not read it yet, so can't yet comment, but it could be the perfect stocking stuffer for your games-thinker friends.
A huge range of delights for you in this week's Technology supplement...The websites nobody wantsThough the number of government sites is growing - against official policy - some attract barely any visitors. One saw just 77 people last year.Michael Crossinvestigates.Read your mobile like an open bookVictor Keegan:Would you read a book on your mobile? It's surprisingly quick - a word at a time whizzing past on the screen. Could this be the way to the real e-book?Television on your own termsVideo-on-demand - which lets viewers watch what they want, when they want - is catching on. But it's the cable companies providing it, not - as you might have thought - the computer companies and ISPs. Presently the cable companies have the lion's share, and it looks as though the computer companies will get the crumbs. ByCharles Arthur.If this suite's a success, why is it so buggy?Andrew Brownexplains how the OpenOffice project vividly illustrates the limitations of open source as a way of producing software - and people's refusal to deal with the evidence, rather than the myths, when considering what's better.A file format that's worth keeping - foreverMicrosoft is racing to have Open XML made a standard. But would an open rival be better overall, asksJack Schofield.With the public in charge, reality rulesGamesblog:Community is an essential aspect in the race for the throne for the next generation of home consoles, saysAleks Krotoski.TechnobileThe always-connected wireless world of television advertisements is just the land of make-believe. Have you ever tried, for instance, to connect to the Web in a country where you don't have a phone acccount?(Have you got some Technobile in you? Send it totech@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.)A pan-European ID card will make a bad idea even worseMichael Cross:At a time when it is trying to persuade the British public of the merits of a national identity card, the government needs proposals for a European ID card like it needs an outbreak of bird flu. Unfortunately, that's just what it's got (the proposals, not the flu.)The price of full feedsUnwanted advertisements and commercial pressure are forcing some bloggers to offer just partial feeds of their postings. Find out why Good Morning Silicon Valley's blog was shortened abruptly one day, and whether full feeds are ever coming back. ByMike Butcher.Read this week's letters &amp; blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk. When you do, please include your address and telephone number.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. See theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.InnovationsToshiba TS 803It's hard to get excited about a mobile that's more about sound than style.Pulsar 590ABluetooth headphones to listen to your phone and MP3 player are a good start.Reddit.comA new website makes it easier to sift the mountains of news content online - and learns what you like.OpTagA radio-tagged boarding pass could cut flight delays by tracking passengers around the airport.
In today's main paper, Jonathan Watts has interviewed Robin Li,The man behind China's answer to Google, in Beijing. China's answer to Google is, of course, the search engine,Baidu.com."Since he entered the business four years ago, Baidu has rapidly overtaken Google and Yahoo! as the leading Chinese search engine. It is easily China's most popular navigation site - its directory of a billion web pages is used by 90m people a day out of an online population of 100m."
He is the man who beat Google to dominate the world's fastest-growing internet market, and he has done it by building a search engine with a distinctly Chinese character.Robin Li 's Baidu.com is a search engine that is weak on piracy and strong on censorship. It is very much in keeping with a country that mixes ultra- capitalist economics with authoritarian communist politics.To his many domestic admirers, the multimillionaire pin-up is a model internet entrepreneur who has beaten off some of the world's most powerful multinationals. But his detractors, particularly in the global entertainment industry, accuse him of being the navigator-in-chief for an armada of online music pirates.The 37-year-old founder and chief executive says he does not have much time either for plaudits or criticism. He is too busy trying to keep ahead of the rapid changes in the Chinese internet and building an empire that may one day, he predicts, pose a challenge to Bill Gates' Microsoft.That may sound ambitious for a company that few people outside China have heard of, but Li has already come a long way in a very short space of time. Since he entered the business four years ago, Baidu has rapidly overtaken Google and Yahoo! as the leading Chinese search engine. It is easily China's most popular navigation site - its directory of a billion web pages is used by 90m people a day out of an online population of 100m.International investors are so excited that when the firm listed on Nasdaq in August, it created a frenzy not seen since the height of the dotcom bubble. The value of the company quadrupled in 24 hours. Li is now reputedly worth $600m (&pound;350m). "It was a surprise to me. I didn't expect this kind of performance," Li says. "But to me it was a branding event. It educated the market. More people now realise that Baidu is the biggest search engine in China."Li knows the big IT players in the United States. A native of Shanxi province to the west of Beijing, in 1991 he went to the US for postgraduate study and worked for Dow Jones in New Jersey and then Infoseek in Silicon Valley. Having seen the internet at first hand on both sides of the Pacific, he says there are major cultural differences that make it difficult for a foreign firm - no matter how wealthy - to make inroads in China. The country's top three portals are all Chinese, even though Yahoo! has been trying for seven years to establish a presence. The two big online game firms, Shanda and Netease, are also Chinese. Li says the same home advantage applies to the search engine business."The market has exploded in a very short time," he says. "User information needs to change very quickly. Because we were local and focused we were able to catch the changes quickly. We understand the Chinese language and culture better."Tiananmen SquareAsked to illustrate the differences, Li says his firm's search engine can distinguish between two-character and three-character Chinese names so that its results are more relevant than those of its rivals. It has also created chatrooms related to the most common inquiries so that everyone who looks for the name of a pop star gets the chance to share opinions as well as find related sites.Critics say these are minor adjustments to a design and business model that is largely a copy of Google. The reason for Baidu's success, they argue, is that it collaborates with the communist authorities on censoring sensitive political information more than its rivals do and is less stringent in blocking access to sites that offer pirate film and music downloads. Look for the name of dissident writer Lu Xiaobo or references to the Tiananmen Square massacre on Baidu and no information appears. But search for Radiohead or Britney Spears and Baidu offers a specific MP3 channel that directs you towards pirate downloads of every song the band and singer have ever made. The record company EMI successfully sued Baidu in Beijing this week over this MP3 service - which accounts for 20% of Baidu's traffic - but Li said his company would appeal."You have to understand we are a search engine. We do not host any content. We just point people to information that is publicly available. So we are not infringing any copyrights." He says Baidu blocks sites that are proved to contain pirated information, but he is unwilling to comply with record companies' requests that even queries be taken out of the directory. "We list 1 billion pages, we cannot go through every one and find out if it is pirated," he says.However, it appears to be easier for Baidu, as well as its rivals Google and Yahoo!, to block references to sensitive political information. "As a locally operated company we need to obey the Chinese law. If the law determines that certain information is illegal, we need to remove it from our index," Li says.In this respect, Baidu is very much a mirror of modern China: passive pirated entertainment is encouraged, politically sensitive information and criticism are heavily restricted. But Li says this is as much about demographics as politics."One of the big differences in the Chinese internet is that the majority of users are much younger than in the US or UK. If you only count people under 30, we probably have the largest internet population in the world. If a teenager goes online it is most likely they will play some sort of game rather than look for information."But even with the restrictions and the focus on entertainment, he says China is gradually being transformed. "People can get information - on entertainment, politics, finance - much easier than before. That will change the way people do business, the way people live."BubbleLi is in a powerful position, but it has not been plain sailing. True to the roller-coaster history of the dotcom market, Baidu's share price surged from the initial float price of $27 to a giddy $154 before plunging back down below $70, despite reporting a year-on-year tripling of quarterly profits, and more recently nudging upwards again.Comparisons have been drawn with the US dotcom bubble five years ago, but Li says the big difference now is that the Chinese companies listed on Nasdaq are making profits. "It is a young industry. There are risks so it is natural that some people will lose money. It doesn't mean there is a bubble," he says. "The internet population is going up and up. I am confident that this will be a huge market."He says Baidu is only now starting to hit its stride. "We are still in a very early stage of the game. We want to invest aggressively to make sure that we become the most dominant player in the most profitable area of the internet in China," he says. "Considering the fact that we are competing with some of the most powerful technology companies in the world, it is not an easy job."One of the big differences between the internet in China and elsewhere, he says, is the proportion of users to the overall population. From 22m five years ago at the start of 2001 it has grown to 100m and is expected to reach 120m by the end of this year."Although 100m is a huge number, it is less than 10% of the population of this country, so the network effect is not fully developed yet," Li says. "There is a lot of room to grow. That is why I am more focused on long-term investment than short-term profits."The number of businesses using the internet to advertise and sell is even smaller. Baidu's $1.1m quarterly profit was tiny compared with its giant rivals, which are pulling in revenue from the more lucrative English-language segment of the web. By one estimate, the entire Chinese search engine market was worth just $151m last year, compared with more than $4bn in the US. But speculation is reaping rewards. Li boasts that Baidu's initial investors, who paid 25 cents a share, have probably made the best return on any private investment deals ever made in Asia.But competition is hotting up. This year Yahoo! has invested $1bn in a 40% stake in the Chinese online retailer Alibaba and Microsoft has launched a Chinese web portal through a joint venture with Shanghai Alliance Investment, the state-owned investment firm. Google has also begun recruiting high-profile senior executives from rival companies to run its business in China. Asked about rumours that it has also offered to buy Baidu, Li pauses before replying: "I cannot comment at this time."He could certainly become a great deal richer if he sold up. But Li appears to have larger ambitions. Asked about Bill Gates' recent comment that Google is becoming more influential, Li says the Microsoft chairman should watch out for the challenge from China."If he is worried about Google he will probably be more worried about Baidu somewhere down the road," he says. "When the Chinese market stops growing faster than other countries in the world, we will look outside. The reason we focus here now is that this is the fastest growing market we can access."Poetry and protestBaidu'sname - meaning hundreds of times - comes from an 800-year-old Chinesepoemabout the search for a"retreating beauty", the company says. "Hundreds and thousands of times, for her I searched in chaos, suddenly I turned by chance to where the lights were waning, and there she stood." Founded in 2000 and now employing 700 staff inBeijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, it is not only China's most usedsearch enginebut the fifth most popular website in the world. It is not quite so popular with some other Chinese sites, which have formed an alliance calledFanbaidu("anti-Baidu") to fight its ranking of search results, known as P4P: pay for performance, under which they must bid for priority placement of links.
Many government websites are failing to attract readers despite extensive spending, new figures have revealed. Information published today by Technology Guardian shows that many of the government's internet operations are underperforming, despite vast funding and investment. One website, UK World Heritage Sites (www.ukworldheritage.org.uk) managed only 77 visitors last year.Sarah Teather, a Liberal Democrat MP who tabled a series of parliamentary questions on the subject, says the figures show the government has got its priorities wrong."Some of the visitor figures to the websites are frankly an embarrassment to the government," she said. "These websites will only improve their visitor numbers when people know they exist, and if they provide them with a service they need."UK World Heritage comes under the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, which also runs 10 other websites at a combined cost of more than &pound;43m last year alone. Increasing the use of technology and the web has been one of the core issues promoted by Tony Blair since Labour came to power in 1997. Official figures show that there are now more than 2,500 government websites in operation.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, told parliament last month he intended to consolidate the 36 websites which come under the Home Office umbrella "so that more information is accessible on our central sites", but could not confirm how much was being spent on them.Some internet projects have proved more successful, and yesterday the NHS chief executive, Sir Nigel Crisp, revealed that there had been a 45% surge in visits to NHS Direct Online.
You are on the plane, seatbelt buckled, and you hear the pilot say: "Er ... there's a little bit of a delay." Across the tarmac, back in the airport, an increasingly peremptory broadcast voice is giving Mr Smith and Mr Jones one last chance to get there quick or their baggage will be taken off the plane. That's it. Your flight is going to be delayed and there's no way to avoid it.But now there is. A European-sponsored consortium called OpTag is creating panoramic cameras linked to a long-range radio tagging system that in theory could zoom in on the distracted duo, slouched over the seafood and champagne bar or in the duty free queue.OpTag is the joint brainchild of engineers at University College London, a Berkshire firm called Innovision, a group in France, another in Greece, an airport in Hungary and a few others. The idea is to attach a unique tag to each boarding pass as it is issued. The prototype tag radiates a very low power signal in the 5.8GHz band but it is enough to be picked up by a cell-based tracking system linked to high-resolution video monitoring cameras placed strategically to cover 360 degrees, and linked by an Ethernet network to an operator at a set of screens.The technology is a challenge: in any 10m radius of a busy airport, there could be as many as 1,000 passengers. But the people at Innovision Research and Technology of Wokingham think the system could be refined to track any passenger to an accuracy of one square metre, and update that passenger's movements at least once every second.It could help airport security or find lost children but, they say, its real value lies in working out how far from their departure gate the thirsty Mr Smith and the absent-minded Mr Jones are at the crucial moment. Five per cent of airline departure delays are due to these puzzling people who check in their baggage but forget to actually get on the plane: the OpTag system could save flight hours, money and, of course, irritation.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At a time when it is trying to persuade the British public of the merits of a national identity card, the government needs proposals for a European ID card like it needs an outbreak of bird flu. Although officials talk up international precedents for cards, and see continental travellers as early adopters, they are desperate to play down any EU influence on the scheme. Ministers remember that the last government's foray into ID cards, in the mid-1990s, foundered when backbenchers and newspapers noticed that the proposed cards would carry the 12-starred EU flag. The current scheme has enough opponents without those worried about Euro-federalist plots.Which is why Britain's minister for e-government, Jim Murphy, spent much of a press conference the other week denying that Brussels had a plan to introduce European ID cards. That's a matter for national governments, he said.Unfortunately, Murphy was launching a document that many will read as saying the opposite. A ministerial declaration, approved unanimously at an EU conference in Manchester last month, sets out four "ambitious targets" for European e-government by 2010. Item four is "mutually recognised electronic identifications". It calls on member states to work towards "the mutual recognition of national electronic identities by testing, piloting and implementing suitable technologies and methods".Although no one is spelling out that this will create a standard EU card, it is hard to see what other form a mutually recognised "secure and trusted means of electronic identification" can take.At the conference, Murphy preferred to stress another, more concrete, target in the ministerial declaration: for European public agencies to procure at least 50% of their goods and services electronically by 2010. At the moment, it is about 9%. There were two more 2010 targets: to achieve "considerable gains" in government efficiency and make e-government services accessible to all.However, the plan for a Europe-wide ID card system isn't going away. With the end of Britain's EU presidency, responsibility for driving Europe's e-government programme passes to Austria. Like Britain, it is promoting identity cards as the key to electronic government. Austrians can register for e-public services with an electronic signature stored in their bank or health insurance cards. Unlike their British counterparts, however, the Austrians aren't impressed by biometrics.Officials across Europe see transportable electronic identities as essential to the single market and economic regeneration. Only when citizens are confident that they can carry their entitlement to state benefits along with them will they feel able to sell their skills where most in demand.Viviane Reding, European Commissioner for information society and media, speaks of a future in which transportable electronic identities will allow citizens falling sick in one country to be treated by doctors in another. A very tentative step in this direction is the new European health insurance card. This must be one of the daftest pieces of bureaucracy to emerge from government - a dumb piece of plastic that doesn't even carry our NHS number, let alone information of any medical use. However, if you're travelling on the continent this Christmas, there's still a chance to order one online atwww.ehic.org.uk/InternetPROD/ home.do. It could be the closest to the pan-European e-government experience we get for some time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
American Invalid a realistic sequelI have never played America's Army or any hyper-real battle simulators sponsored by the US army (Toy Soldiers, December 1) but was intrigued by Colonel Casey Wardynski's assertion that players can "try the role of soldier, virtually, and see if it's something they want to do in real life". Does the game include the moment when your Humvee is shredded by an improvised explosive device, riddling your body with shrapnel? Bloody and screaming, you are dragged from the wreckage, to waken days later with your legs missing and the news that all your friends are hamburger meat? If not, might I suggest a sequel, American Invalid, where the player has to find a way to live and cope with his new-found disability and hideous mental scarring.John GoslingCriticisms ring trueI had a pair of Shure headphones (Innovations, December 1) and also found them fiddly to use, often uncomfortable, with a pretty good sound that gave excellent isolation. When an earbud got stuck in my ear and I had to go, somewhat sheepishly, to my doctor to get it removed, I ditched them. I replaced them with a pair of Etymotic 6i phones. At about &pound;90, these are much cheaper, lighter, less bulky, and easier to fit. You can also grip the earbuds while pulling the phones out.And they sound better than any other headphones I have used.Muir MacKeanFrome, SomersetYour review of the Shure headphones implies you have to spend &pound;149 to get superior sound quality. This is not so. I purchased Sony's MDR-EX71SL for less than &pound;30 and they do exactly that.Rob LightbodyShoebox memoriesIt was interesting to read Maurice George's comments (Letters, December 1) about the delights of discovering old photographs at the bottom of a shoe box. I have already discovered the digital equivalent: ones left in various folders before I set up an archive.Steve ElliottLancasterPreserve digital heritageGeorge's comments about digital images being throwaway technology seem a bit Luddite. Sure, digital images can be lost if not cared for. But, as he admits, it's the same for prints and negatives.Many bodies, such as the Arts and Humanities Data Service, realise that digital objects need extra attention. By employing procedures such as regular back-up and data migration, we should be able to hold on to digital images for as long as physical ones.Alastair DunningKing's College LondonToy soldiersMilitary themed toys are nothing new: I played with plastic toy soldiers as a kid, and had loads of fun, as have children of many generations before me. What is new is the level of funding and research pushed by governments, military manufacturers and the communications industry to shape the minds of our children towards a natural acceptance of the culture of war.http://jwpfyi.blogspot.comMy grandfather was there on D-Day and those people deserve our respect. People died and died horribly. Kids who will grow up to vote for presidents and prime ministers, or who will be called on to fight wars, should appreciate the reality of war.http://leflashingblade.blogspot.comSince when have &#91;such&#93; games "prepared" people for war? Clicking a mouse button must be a million miles from pulling a trigger and shooting a man. If someone went on a battlefield and acted like they do in a first person shooter, they'd be dead in seconds.http://wikrok.blogspot.comThe peace movement ought to be aware of this and looking at how to counter it. It's clearly desensitisation and is likely to promote mindsets that think first in terms of violent responses. We need simulation games of good quality that reward peacemaking responses.http://eirenopoioi.blogspot.com
Now that finding needles in the web's haystack has been made easier - thanks to Google and its search-engine peers - the next challenge is to find a better way of sifting through the mountains of news content available online. The choice has been between using human editors such as Yahoo's news pages to do the filtering, or an automated aggregator such as Google News. But neither is a satisfactory solution for providing easily updated, tailor-made news.The better answer may be the approach taken by a news aggregator website namedReddit.com, the brainchild of two 22-year-old graduates from the University of Virginia, Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian.Reddit seeks to tap the "wisdom of crowds" means of gauging popularity - as exhibited by the social bookmarking site del.icio.us - by offering a front page of links to articles submitted by users, with individual users then able to vote for or against each article. The voting has two important roles: first, items are promoted or demoted from the site's front pages depending on how popular they are with readers; second, by voting, users are training their individual filters, in the manner of Amazon's book recommendations, to guess their preferences and serve up other news items that will interest them individually. Users who post popular items build up "karma points", which gives greater weight to their future postings, and vice versa: unpopular posters get slipped down the running order.Reddit.com is certainly not the first to harness collaborative filtering: sites such as Kuro5hin and Slashdot pioneered user-driven content, with Digg.com a more sophisticated recent version. But while those sites are primarily interested in technology news, Reddit is aimed at general readers.The site's clean lines and simple usability have drawn flattering comparisons with Google. Since Google executives remain unhappy with Google News, it is no surprise to hear that people at Mountain View are looking closely at Reddit's techniques. The prize of becoming the web's first "must-visit" site, the Google of news, is a huge one.The site has only been running since mid-July, after Huffman and Ohanian were among the first group of start-ups supported by the innovative Y Combinator seed fund, set up by net guru Paul Graham and others. The pair have received further funding, with the site now being visited by about 12,000 users each day.Graham remains a big fan: "I never look at any news site now except Reddit ... Reddit's like an RSS feed for the whole web, with a filter for quality."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft has been fined $32m (&pound;18.4m) by South Korean regulators and ordered to separate its instant messaging service from its Windows software.The software group said it would appeal against the ruling but did not carry out a threat to withdraw Windows from the country. It was also ordered to allow rival products on its system by South Korea's fair trade commission in a decision that bore similarities with a European commission ruling against Mircrosoft last year.The FTC, in a ruling that has no repercussions outside South Korea, said the bundling of Windows with the media player and instant messenger service were creating a monopoly and blocking out PC Server and other operating system makers. The investigation began four years ago when South Korean internet service Daum Communications lodged a complaint followed by US-based RealNetworks. Settlements were reached with both companies recently, with RealNetworks accepting $761m and Daum $30m.Microsoft is inching towards settling its dispute with the EC following the appointment in October of Professor Neil Barrett, a British computer scientist, to monitor its adherence to the EC's ruling. However, the EU competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, is investigating fresh complaints against the group.Microsoft announced yesterday that it will invest $1.7bn in India over four years to build its presence in a country that is becoming important in the global software market, with its $17bn software services industry expected to grow by 30% by next year. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates, making a four-day trip to the country, said he expected to nearly double the group's Indian workforce to 7,000."We have about 4,000 people &#91;in India&#93;; we would be growing that by 3,000 over the next several years. The human resources here are really fantastic. Our employment growth here would be far more rapid than in the US."Mr Gates promised to sell more software products to India's small and medium sized companies, which employ 40 million people but have under-developed IT infrastructures. The Microsoft chairman added that the group would encourage the development of low-cost computing in India.
In theory, all headphones should be wireless. Who wants a cord restraining them when jigging around to music? Yet Bluetooth wireless headphones, which have been available for about a year, have been slow to catch on. The headphones have generally been large, with poor sound quality. Also, as the phones and their adaptors use rechargeable batteries, users need to keep three devices charged, if you include a music player.The latest company to cut the headphones cord is Plantronics, with its &pound;129.99 Bluetooth Pulsar 590A. These smallish headphones work simultaneously with audio players and a mobile phone. When the phone rings, the music cuts out.It sounds impressive, but in practice, the headphones have some way to go before becoming essential. On the positive side, they are easy to set up and use, and within minutes I'd paired both the small circular Bluetooth dongle that attaches to any music player and my mobile to the headphones. I then pressed play on my Sony NW-A1000 and could hear music. The quality isn't overwhelming, but the headphones are light and comfortable.When a call came through they cut off the music, allowing me to hear my caller in clear sound quality. When the call ended, the music came back. Adjusting the volume meant a lengthy tussle with fiddly buttons on the side of the headphones, and the track controls did nothing apart from emit a loud beep. Apparently this feature only works with a limited number of players (not iPods).The headphones and adaptor run for 12 hours from one charge and come with a docking station that powers both. So if you want a Bluetooth headset for your phone and never leave home without a music player, check these out.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the big disappointments with the Motorola/Apple music phone, the Rokr E1, was that other than compatibility with iTunes software, it didn't offer anything beyond what rival mobiles had been delivering for more than a year. Almost any phone now will offer you a music player, card-based removable storage, earphones and built-in speaker as part of the package.Nevertheless, this winter has seen the arrival in droves of what networks are billing as music phones. The only real difference, however, between many music handsets and standard mobiles is that the music phones sport easily accessible control buttons on the front. It's more a marketing exercise to catch the eye of youngsters who might otherwise spend their cash on an MP3 player than any real innovation.That hasn't put off Toshiba, which is labelling its TS 803 as a music phone and even throwing in free music and video content from Oasis. The company is quite new to the UK phone market - it agreed a deal with Vodafone (www.vodafone.co.uk) earlier in the year - and its handsets are very Japanese in design. The 803 is a big, bulky and unattractive clamshell, though it does sport large, usable keys and a rather striking 1.3in screen.Porting music tracks on to the phone involves either loading up the miniSD card via a PC, via Bluetooth, or using the supplied software and USB connector. The music-playing software is easy to use, with controls for the music on the front - volume, pause, play and track up and down. The onboard speakers are good and Toshiba has thoughtfully included an earphones adaptor, so if you don't like the in-ear model bundled with the phone, you can use your own. Sound quality is very good; the phone has one of the best MP3 players around.As a 3G phone, it is compatible with Vodafone's recently launched TV service, so you can view Sky One and many other channels live. The 2.3 megapixel camera is superb, taking pictures with colour resolution and fine detail. There is also a basic HTML web browser, an email client, Bluetooth and rather primitive PDA-style facilities.It is hard to get excited by the look of the Toshiba 803, but if you can get past this, you'll find a nicely featured phone.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A few months ago, I was dumbstruck when a deity in the UK games business suggested that the future of computer gaming was community, not content. This man's plot structures, characters and dialogue have won accolades and legions of fans. His games are the epitome of designer-generated content through which players trip, dazed at its digital perfection. So what's this about community superiority?Well, he's also very insightful. The static content that arrives in a packaged game is becoming pass&eacute;. Instead, community and community-created content are the keys to courting and keeping players, as games technology becomes a testbed for self-expression.Many massively multiplayer games, such as EverQuest, have encouraged community ownership for years, realising early on that end-users make or break a title. The intangibles that have spun out of the genre - virtual social systems, politics, corruption and economies on such a scale that social scientists spend careers pondering them - emerged because the other people who played were as essential to the sense of realism within the virtual worlds as the storyline.Publishers across the genre spend months developing communities of players, testing ideas and incorporating players' thoughts into the final build. The community has become an essential part of the finished product, and the core members form a knowledge base and act as the basis of community interaction.A great example is The Movies, from Guildford's Lionhead Entertainment. It is a home animation kit in a game cradle, offering tools to make movies and the platform through which to share them. Forums feature films, from ones about the recent French riots to love stories, created by users for others to enjoy.Community is an essential aspect in the race for the throne for the next generation of home consoles. The Xbox 360 is leagues ahead, and not just because it launched first; it has incorporated community into its hardware.The machine is thus the most exciting platform of the next generation. Microsoft has engineered a community infrastructure that can be used by every family member. Furthermore, at its core is content creation. Users can generate things - clothing, environments, playlists - for distribution in the community.It may even have accidentally opened up its console as a platform for the distribution of independent games. If so, we could see a gaming revolution with the community at its core, and the generation of a hundred new genres.If this happens, out-of-the-box content be damned. With the public in charge, we're all in for the most exciting ride of our lives.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggersblogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In recent years, I have kept a list of all the functions packaged into a mobile phone that could in principle be sold separately. The tally is now more than 50 and includes well-used functions such as cameras, browsers, emailers, video and music players as well as offbeat uses in Asia such as electronic insect repellents. This week, I must add another: books. Or maybe I should say libraries because ICUE, which was launched yesterday, claims to enable users to download and keep up to 400 books on a normal mobile phone memory card, a literary rival to Apple's iPod. If this proves popular, it could open up new vistas for reading, with the chance of capturing people who don't currently read books. It has been possible before to download books or parts of books, but never on this scale.Starting up was surprisingly easy. You simply send a text message to 64888 with the word ICUE typed into the text section. You soon receive another text message inviting you to click on a web address. After three or four clicks you are on its website and free to choose from a number of books. I chose the free one, Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol, and opted to store it on a memory card rather than on the phone itself. It is claimed to work on most cameraphones.It didn't take long to download and I was soon choosing from among three ways of reading it: full screen, words scrolling continuously across the screen or - the recommended way - a succession of single words flashing on the screen. There is a slight pause after full stops and a smaller one after commas. Apparently it is a method used by the American air force and takes about four minutes to get accustomed to. People who have used it claim it is twice as fast as ordinary reading.It takes some getting used to but you can adjust the size of the text and the speed at which new words appear to suit your needs by using the navigation bar of the phone with the menu on the screen. You can pause at any moment by hitting any key. It remembers where you are and can do fast forward or rewind.ICUE is initially doing quite a bit of marketing but also hopes that word of mouth or viral marketing will come into play since you can send the first chapter of a book you like to a friend free. Otherwise the library of books - which ranges from Julie Burchill to Philip Pullman - will cost up to &pound;4.50 each.There are some obvious problems, such as whether you need to keep the screen lit up all the time to read, which would be rather heavy on the battery, but otherwise there is no reason why this should not be a breakthrough in the use of mobile phones.You can, of course, already download novels, plays and poetry as audio books to your iPod or phone. This is very much a niche market and hasn't caught on in a big way. The same may happen to phone text books. Everything will depend on consumer reaction. But a lot of people who don't want to carry a book with them all the time on the offchance they may have some free time to read it might be attracted by having one on their phones that they can return to at odd moments.The company has plans to try to capture the elusive youth market, which is notoriously difficult to persuade to buy books, and there are also opportunities for developing countries. The person behind ICUE, Marc Lewis, who has the majority of the shares, is giving his proceeds to charity. Other shares are owned by senior management and Benchmark Capital, a British venture capital firm.What makes ICUE stand out from many of the other 50-plus functions of a mobile that are often ignored is ease of use. It has done for books what Shozu has done for transferring photos from a phone to a website: it has made the operation very easy to do. For that alone it deserves some success.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Martin Burke can't guarantee what time he'll get home in the evenings: his work as a chartered surveyor and project manager in Nottingham tends to have unpredictable hours. That's a problem, because his favourite TV programs, such as Little Britain and Top Gear, are broadcast at rigidly set times.But Burke, 33, doesn't mind that. He is one of the millions of people who have embraced video on demand (VoD) - making it possible to watch whatever is available, at a time that suits him and his wife, not the network schedulers. When he gets home he can press a button on the remote control, and in NTL's data centre on the M4 beyond Heathrow, a server will begin streaming the program he has chosen to his TV.If his neighbours press the button one minute later to start watching the same program, they will get that program streamed separately. NTL says it has signed up 600,000 households since launching the service in January this year, and expects to hit 1m by next March.In the US, millions of people also get VoD from companies such as Comcast and Time Warner Cable; and the research company In-Stat said in October that there will be a total worldwide of 13 million VoD users by the end of this year, up from 7.5 million 12 months earlier. By 2009, the company says, the figure will reach 34 million, not only in the US and UK, but also Japan, South Korea and Israel.So VoD is here - and spreading fast. But wasn't VoD something that computer companies were meant to be doing? Wasn't that the purpose of Microsoft's Media Center PC or Apple's iTunes service, upgraded in October to allow US users to download Lost and Desperate Housewives after they had aired?Here to stayIt is easy to overlook the fact that VoD is here in the household already, because the idea of watching moving images on demand is usually associated with websites.In part that's because computer companies have wanted to sell PCs for you to view the websites on, and content companies, such as AOL, figure it's probably easier to get someone to click a link in an email or webpage than navigate to the further reaches of a TV channel listing.However, the computer-based model faces the problem that content companies are wary - very wary - of sending out their precious data to machines, which, as the music industry has already discovered, can be used for widespread redistribution. At a meeting in Montpellier in southern France last week, the two sides seemed unable to find common ground."We want to launch video on demand &#91;in France&#93; before the spring but it is difficult to agree on the business model," said Carlo D'Asaro Biondo, head of AOL France, which has about a 9% share of the French broadband market.Simon Kenny, European managing director at Warner Brothers International Television, said the company was keen to sell and rent films and TV programmes online: put simply, it would mean more revenues for the group."But the critical question is, will people pay for a market which in the past has been completely free?" he told Reuters. "We need a general agreement between access providers, film studios and broadcasters. We are in talks with a lot of people at the moment about that."But away from computers, and in the closed world of the set-top box connected to a cable or satellite provider, VoD - and its poorer sibling "near-video-on-demand" (NVoD, where a program is broadcast on multiple channels starting at, say, 15-minute intervals) - the market is booming.In Nottingham, for example, Burke is delighted with his NTL setup. "It has really changed the way that I watch TV," he says. "It means I don't have to worry about missing the programs I want to watch."Costly exercise?An onscreen menu offers recently broadcast TV shows such as Eastenders or Bleak House, films - broken down by category - or any number of other programs. Many programs are free, though some, such as films, cost from &pound;2 to view. Episodes of Father Ted cost 75p.Doesn't the cost mount up? "It's always below the price it would have been at Blockbuster," Burke says. "And we don't have to go anywhere to get them." He thinks that, on balance, he's spending no more than when he used to rent DVDs from the local video shop.NTL isn't alone in the UK. HomeChoice, run by Video Networks Ltd, has offered a VoD service for years, though it has found it slow going; at the beginning of last month, it had just 34,000 users. BSkyB, meanwhile, has NVoD on its Sky Movie channels, and is planning- if its acquisition of the broadband ISP Easynet goes ahead - to start offering VoD on its next generation of Sky boxes sometime next year.When that happens, VoD could explode in the household; Sky has almost 8 million UK subscribers, while Easynet can reach almost one in five UK households.The cable and satellite companies have two big advantages over the computer and independent broadband companies in the race to get people buying VoD services from them: they have huge reach and they have existing contracts with the TV companies (because they already broadcast TV channels).Just as in the UK, the cable companies such as Comcast and Time Warner Cable are quietly winning the war in the US.Time Warner Cable says the average household now watches 30 VoD programmes a month, while Comcast has recorded a billion programmes downloaded so far this year. And US networks NBC and CBS last month began offering VoD replays of shows such as CSI and Law &amp; Order.Time Warner is particularly excited that its figures suggest that using VoD is getting close to being a daily habit. (The "average" figure suggests that in some homes it already is, while others lag behind.) Once VoD becomes ingrained as a daily habit, the networks can rely on it as an income stream, while the cost of providing the VoD service falls as servers and cable gets cheaper.TV rulesBut what about computer companies using Microsoft's Media Center model, or Apple Computer, which some rumours suggest will announce a VoD service in January? Will they overtake the cable companies? Nate Elliott, digital home analyst at Jupiter Research, thinks that TV will rule the majority of content, while PCs will get the niche content."TV has had video on demand of sorts for a long time," he says. "Pay per view is a sort of 'bad' VoD. There's a lot of noise about video on demand for PCs because it's new - that sort of content hasn't been available there before."He thinks TV will still be the bigger market, just as TV penetration is far greater than PC use (virtually 100% against 62%). "It's going to happen more on TV than PCs."Computers, he reckons, will find their place offering niche programming: "For example, Chelsea did a tour of the US recently and played some exhibition games which were on late at night in the UK. It wouldn't be worth Sky trying to make any money selling ads against that. But Chelsea could sell it online, on-demand, where you'd pay five pounds to watch it."But did it get anyone watching? Did it cover the cost? "I don't know - they wouldn't tell me," Elliott says. "But I know they had at least one viewer - me."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The start of the new century saw the early days of blogging, when perhaps only a thousand bloggers used RSS - the Really Simple Syndication method - to send out the content of their musings to the world. RSS was a means of pushing out only what had changed on the website, free of the unnecessary trappings of static pictures or ad banners. Readers "subscribed" to the "feeds", and would see only what had changed. It was, indeed, really simple.Like the inhabitants of the Garden of Eden, early RSS feeds were naked, pure and untrammeled. But change was coming. From the earliest days, putting the entire content of a blog post into the RSS feed was considered de rigueur. Woe betide the blogger whose feed was only "partial". As tech blogger Tom Raftery (tomrafteryit.net) notes: "Partial feeds are a pain - they force you to click through to get the full story, whereas when you get there you may very well find the full story is not as interesting as you thought."But this year, some notable bloggers have started to switch their full feeds off. Chris Pirillo, author and creator of the popular Lockergnome site, did so after discovering his content was being exploited first by one site, and then five more, all feeding off each other, confusing readers and stealing his traffic."Over time, I saw more and more people using my content without proper attribution, and that forced me to think about why I was producing full-text RSS feeds," says Pirillo. "When Google AdSense &#91;which links ads served by Google to site content&#93; was unleashed, I started to push visitors back to the full content on our site." Only after protests from readers did he switch the full feed back on.Lockergnome had become the latest victim of a kind of spam blogging or "splogging", where sites are set up to display the free content generated by RSS feeds next to adverts (Cashing in on fake blogs, Technology, November 17). Another racket is using the text from feeds to improve search rankings with Google to a particular site. This can affect the ranking of the original bloggers, and damage their reputation.But it's not just splogs that can prompt a move to partial feeds. Technology blog Good Morning Silicon Valley (blogs. siliconvalley.com/gmsv/) also elicited cries of foul play from readers when it switched off its full RSS feed last month after being acquired by media firm Knight Ridder. GMSV's editor John Paczkowski says: "Knight Ridder Digital business rules ... require all KRD blogs to offer only excerpted feeds. The reason ... is to drive page views for our advertisers. Most commercial sites go this way."But in the blogosphere, it's all about writing and reading. And partial feeds are annoying some powerful voices.Robert Scoble, Microsoft's semi-official blogger, recently declared on his blog (scobleizer.wordpress.com) that he would stop reading "any feed that doesn't run full text". He says he'd "rather be obsessed with whether a site treats me well than with whether or not my readers will see any advertising on my site".Part of the problem is that RSS feeds were never designed to display the expensive advertising banners and keyword advertising adorning most commercial websites. No wonder people like full RSS feeds - they can avoid advertising at a stroke.Avoidance has become so rife, especially in the technology news world, that Matt McAlister, webmaster for tech site Infoworld, declared on his blog: "The day InfoWorld's top news RSS feed received more requests than our home page, I started thinking a frightening thought. We have disintermediated our website by offering our news in an easier to access format ... again."And the rise of RSS feeds seems inexorable. If you use the Firefox browser, you can "subscribe" to pages with RSS feeds with one click, so that new content will automatically show up when the site has it, without you needing to visit. Microsoft will build RSS support into the next version of Internet Explorer, and into Vista, the next Windows operating system. Ultimately, subscribing to RSS feeds will be a mainstream activity.Is there another way? Blog sites such as DaringFireball.com have started charging for full RSS feeds - an annual membership is $19 ($29 if you want the T-shirt). The scheme's success has been "so-so", according to owner John Gruber. It started charging in June last year, and now has more than 1,500 subscribers.But charging for feeds will only be the preserve of the very few. "Unless the feed was really, really, really good, I just don't see much of an incentive for anybody to pay for full content in a feed," says Pirillo.Instead, full feeds may be coming back - but with the ads you thought you'd escaped by using RSS. In July, Google launched a beta trial of its "Adsense for RSS" scheme, which allows Adsense ads to be displayed in a site's RSS feeds (although you'll need more than 100 active subscribers). Yahoo! is planning a similar service.Dick Costolo, chief executive of FeedBurner, which has sought to allow online bloggers and publishers to make money out of their RSS feeds, says: "Many of the top publishers and bloggers are either full feed, have switched to full feed, or are experimenting with full feeds." He cites Gawker.com, which now offers subscribers the choice of the blog's full text with adverts, or a partial feed with no ads but linked to an ad-supported web page.But not everyone sees partial feeds as bad. Neil McIntosh, assistant editor of Guardian Unlimited, defends them: "Full feeds take longer in my reader to load up, so irritate me as a user. And yes, there is the advertising issue, too. For sites such as our network of blogs, it's clear that &#91;full&#93; RSS would damage the levels of interaction we currently enjoy. I just don't think most users really care about having to click once to read a full story."Despite its rapid rise, RSS is a minority game. As Pirillo says: "Google AdSense for RSS doesn't pay squat."Online marketing expert and blogger Michael Gray (wolf-howl.com) agrees. He says advertising in RSS is "horrible" and the resulting revenue won't come close to what can be achieved with web page ads.Ultimately, the closure of full feeds may not hit that hard. Research from Nielsen//NetRatings in August reported that only 11% of 1,000 blog readers surveyed are using RSS for content consumption. In fact, 66% either "did not understand the technology or had never heard of it".But it is now impossible to browse the web without seeing little orange symbols imploring the reader to subscribe to an RSS feed. Whether those feeds will be full or partial may in the end come down to pure economics. None of those early bloggers expected to make money from it. But their successors think it would be nice.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wi-fi your hi-fiI am increasingly playing music on my PC for choice and convenience. Now I want to listen to it downstairs in a separate room without cabling. Is there, essentially, a remote control for Windows Media Player? I could use an MP3 player but that would limit my choices.Peter StanleyJack Schofield:The simple answer is to buy a SlimDevices Squeezebox 3 (www.slimdevices.com). This is a wi-fi device supporting 802.11g with a nice visual display and a simple remote control. It streams MP3, WMA, AAC, Ogg Vorbis and FLAC lossless audio files, plus MP2 and internet radio. (There's also a wired Ethernet version.) The RCA phono connectors, S/P-DIF, optical TOSlink and coax connections mean you should be able to plug it into any hi-fi or home cinema system. It works with Windows XP/2000/NT, Mac OS X and Linux, and is reasonably priced.The complicated answer is that there are lots of ways of doing the job. Devices include the Philips MCW770 Wireless PC-Link, D-Link's DSM-320 Wireless Media Player and DSM-520 MediaLounge, the Buffalo Linktheater High-Definition Wireless Media Player, Roku's SoundBridge, Creative's SoundBlaster Wireless Music Receiver, the Bluewalker Wireless Hi-Fi Link, Apple's Airport Express, Pinnacle's Show Center and Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console.Searching for "digital audio receiver" and "wireless media player" will give you an idea of the range available. Some devices stream MPeg and other types of video, as well as music files. However, I think only the somewhat limited Airport Express will stream protected music from the iTunes Music Store.One attractive but relatively expensive option is the Buffalo PC-P3LWG/ DVD wireless media player, which has 802.11g wi-fi plus a built-in DVD player that supports HDTV (720p and 1080i formats). If you have an Xbox 360 plugged into your TV, this can also stream media from a Windows Media Center PC. Many similar products will no doubt follow.VoIP for WindowsI am a happy Windows 98SE user, but no one seems to do internet telephony except for XP - or have I missed a trick?CPCPJS:Most of the old instant messaging programs do VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) between IM users, and most can do it with Windows 98/SE and XP. Examples include Yahoo Messenger with Voice, MSN Messenger and AOL's AIM and ICQ. The drawback is that usually you can only talk to people on the same service. New VoIP programs such as Skype and Google Talk require Windows 2000 or XP, but Vonage works with "Windows 98 SE &amp; above".Backchat&#183;Re last week's speed query, Ed Colley writes: "I'd wager dollars to donuts that Dick Smith's internet connection is 1 megabit per second and he is seeing download speeds of 100 kilobytes per second - ie he is getting close to the quoted performance." There are eight bits in a byte, and 1024 bytes in a kilobyte, so a million bits per second translates into 122 kilobytes per second, assuming no overheads. Seehttp://tinyurl.com/dkzt5.
Data, like diamonds, are forever: people and organisations may want access to texts - and, in future, spreadsheets and databases - for tens, hundreds, even thousands of years. Software, by contrast, is transitory, and anyone who has been word processing for a while may well have used Electric Pencil, PC-Write, WordStar, WordPerfect and Microsoft Word, among others. Since data can be extremely expensive or impossible to replace, it's more important to worry about the file formats used for data storage than the software used to create the files.There is some safety in numbers: popular file formats become de facto standards and widely supported. But in the long term, the safest option is a published, openly agreed (de jure) standard. At the moment, Microsoft's Office file formats are the de facto standards. However, the XML-based ODF (OpenDocument Format) has been put to the ISO (International Organization for Standardization) as an open standard by the Organisation for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (Oasis), with the support of IBM, Sun Microsystems, Intel, Google, Red Hat and others.Another of ODF's early backers was the commonwealth of Massachusetts. Its IT advisory board decided to make ODF its default file format for office documents from January 2007. This would necessitate changing from Microsoft Office to an alternative suite that supported ODF, such as OpenOffice. Not everyone in the state government was happy about this.Most software can save files in a variety of formats. Microsoft Word 2003, for example, can save files in .rtf (Rich Text Format), the web's HTML, XML and plain ASCII text, as well as several versions of Microsoft's proprietary .doc format. The obvious solution would be for Microsoft to add ODF, giving customers more choice. Instead, it will submit its Open XML file format - the default in the forthcoming Office 12 - for standardisation.Open XML will be submitted to ECMA, the European Computer Manufacturers Association, which is a way of fast-tracking it to an ISO standard. Microsoft's move is supported by companies including Apple Computer, Intel, BP and the British Library. To exploit the new formats, users will not have to buy Office 12 or spend more money. Microsoft will provide free add-ons that work with Office 2000 onwards.Developers will also be able to use the Open XML format for free, and that includes "developers who work only with open source licensing", according to Jean Paoli, Microsoft's XML architect and a co-creator of the XML 1.0 standard.In other words, while Microsoft will not support ODF, rival software suppliers can support Open XML to provide better compatibility with Office. Microsoft has moved a long way with Open XML. It is an evolutionary step forward, based on preserving the billions of Office documents already in existence. But it will not satisfy those who wanted Microsoft to move towards ODF.It's not clear which way Massachusetts will go. However, Thomas Trimarco, the secretary of administration and finance, has said: "The Commonwealth is very pleased with Microsoft's progress in creating an open document format. If Microsoft follows through as planned, we are optimistic that Office Open XML will meet our new standards for acceptable open formats." This looks like a reversal of statements made by his predecessor, Eric Kriss, who championed open source.But even if Microsoft holds Massachusetts, it will face the same battle in other countries and companies. Billions of dollars worth of Microsoft's business is at risk. Now it's less about winning and more about minimising the losses.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Want to send an email, do business or post to a blog while on the move? Forget it. Everything you've seen on TV - those commercials promoting the always-connected world of mobile communications - is plain fiction.You know the thing: exotic locations, wireless connections, fast mobile phones with flashy PowerPoint presentations rolling across their tiny screens. Grannies and grandpas receiving digital images of grandchildren caressing shaggy baby animals. While touching, it is also misleading. All those goodies will work more or less reliably, but only when you're at home. What if you leave it? If the mobile industry wants to reflect real-life situations, their commercials should tell us different stories.On a recent visit to London I worked on the plane, hoping to find a wireless hotspot at the airport to send files back home. I found a commercial wireless network but couldn't connect, even after many attempts. Instead, I decided to find an open hotspot somewhere in the city. No luck: they were all closed and password-protected.So I went to a friend's London office, but I couldn't link my laptop to the network because the company's security policy would not let me use a removable Flash drive. With time running out, I hooked up my computer to a mobile phone and tried to send an email. The phone did not connect. I called (for a fortune) my network provider, who helped me change the setting manually. I tried again, and it seemed to work - but would only send files smaller than 20K.After my mobile froze a few times with larger files, I started compressing the documents time and again until the network finally digested the tiny text package. Yes, it worked, but I can't imagine the people in the advertisements repeating this laborious procedure.The next time I came to the UK, I believed I'd thought of everything. I downloaded a list of mobile operators that would support data transfer, and installed loads of compatibility software. I packed miles of cable, and even assembled an external Wi-Fi antenna to hunt down distant hotspots.But after just two days, my machines were dead: I had forgotten a power adaptor. I was saved by a Norwegian au-pair who used one to charge her iPod.The concept of the connected world is turning into another utopian dream for trivial reasons. It is all about plugs, protocols, roaming contracts and standards. But after wasting a huge amount of time, money and energy fighting those incompatibilities, I have learned never to do anything critically important while travelling. But that's not exactly what the mobile industry is telling me, is it?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Double Olympic gold medallist Dame Kelly Holmes says she is retiring from athletics, but she has launched an official website atwww.doublegold.co.uk. This will help keep in touch with her fans and also "retail Double Gold fitness and training products". The site was designed by 13 Steps, run by Middlesbrough-based cousins Anthony Borsumato and Kevin Allinson. They say: ""We have done a site for the International Association of Athletic Federations and are currently working with javelin-thrower Steve Backley on a new venture which we will be announcing in the New Year."The name of the company taken from the 13 strides required between each hurdle in athletics.
Like most cyclists, I suspect, I float around on my bike buoyed up by the idea that I am doing my bit to save the planet. Compared to motorists, of course, this is mostly true. Per passenger kilometre, cars put out 200-300 grammes of carbon dioxide (the chief greenhouse gas). Cyclists, meanwhile, are rated at zero - which may not be quite realistic, given that we are breathing as we ride, but our CO2 emissions are negligible.So far so good, but what about the bikes we ride? Here the picture gets murkier. I rang Chris Juden, the Cyclists' Touring Club's technical officer and an authority in the field.The bad news is that bikes are getting less green. The old steel frames were heavy but it was standard to get a lifetime guarantee. Today, lighter bikes have built-in obsolescence: aluminium frames fatigue, and carbon-fibre parts (such as forks) bear stickers recommending replacement after just three years.Even maintenance has been affected by the demise of the very idea of the consumer "durable". "The cost of labour to service is higher," explains Juden, "so it's no longer worth manufacturing parts in such a way that they can be repaired." So bike bits are actually designed to be disposable.And then there's the air (and sea and road) miles issue. Like everything else, the bike industry is global. Juden estimates that, in the sum of their parts, most modern bikes will have already travelled further on their way to the shop then they are ever likely to be pedalled. And let's not even get into labour conditions and environmental regulation in China and Vietnam.What's the answer? Well, the nearest thing to a fair-trade, organic, ethically correct bicycle is to buy local - either a British-made brand such as Brompton, or a steel lightweight from an artisan frame-builder. Then the longer you have it and the further you go, the more marginal its original environmental cost becomes.In other words, all you need to do is keep riding it.
"European publishers warned Tuesday that they cannot keep allowing Internet search engines such as Google Inc. to make money from their content. 'The new models of Google and others reverse the traditional permission-based copyright model of content trading that we have built up over the years,' said Francisco Pinto Balsemao, the head of the European Publishers Council, in prepared remarks for a speech at a Brussels conference," reportsAP."His stance backs French news agency AFP, which is suing Google for pulling together photos and story excerpts from thousands of news Web sites."AP quotes Balsemao saying:"It is fascinating to see how these companies 'help themselves' to copyright-protected material, build up their own business models around what they have collected, and parasitically, earn advertising revenue off the back of other people's content."Google made the obvious response:Google spokesman Steve Langdon said: "Search engines do not reproduce content. They help users find content by pointing to where it exists on the Web."Comment:Seems to me that unhappy publishers can take action on their own. All they have to do is put their content behind closed (password protected) doors and/or put "no spidering" commands in theirrobots.txtfiles. It will be interesting to see how well their companies do after they go "dark". Alternatively, they could at least offer Google suitable payments for, in effect, advertising their sites and delivering customers. Advertising and customer acquisition costs can be much higher than copyright fees.....
Codemasters has announced a release date for Dance Factory its innovative take on the dancing game genre. Due out next April, the game will work with any CD you put in your PS2, rather than coming with a pre-selected track list. As the press release ethuses:"Dance Factory's innovative beat recognition technology, developed exclusively for the title, ensures that for the first time a dance mat game can span across all music tastes; it works with everything from a classic disco track, to guitar rock, R&amp;B, to most current dance anthem.In addition to the unique 'any CD' concept, Dance Factory will unleash a whole load of different dance mat gaming modes – including Fitness, Endurance and Recorder..."Apparently, whatever you try it with, be it rock, dance, country or Portuguese fado, Dance Factory choreographs moves for you, which you must repeat on your trusty dance mat. The better you 'bust your moves', the more points are awarded with which to unlock additional modes, features and content.Sadly, Dance Factory will be out four months too late for this Christmas' office parties. It'll back to the original plan then: Sing Star Eighties andcheeky Vimto.
Internet-bereft travellers in some of the world's furthest-flung corners could soon be able to log on thanks to a new satellite broadband offering.The BGAN service, which is being offered by satellite communications firm Inmarsat, could help bring the internet to some of the world's most remote areas. The company claims that it will be able to deliver satellite broadband connections to 98% of the planet's population by using two of its hi-tech communications satellites."It enables anyone to set up a broadband mobile office in minutes and remain fully productive," said Michael Butler, Inmarsat's chief operating officer, "Wherever they are on the planet."The system offers speeds of up to 492Kbps - roughly equivalent to the slowest broadband internet speeds available in the home - but will cover 85 per cent of the world's land mass.
Just in case you missed it, IGN have beenspeculatingabout the Nintendo's upcoming console, the Revolution. And, as suspected, it looks like the focus will be on the unique controller and bringing in some new experiences, rather than HD and pumped graphics. You could say it was a gamble for Nintendo, but if true it is a wise move. There's no sense in them battling Sony and Microsoft for the tech-gamer market - it's a battle that can't be won profitably.
Aleks touched on it in her blog below, but as the Christmas retail rush gathers pace the issue of educating parents has hit the headlines once again. ELSPA - the UK's industry body - has today launched anew sitewhich, it says, will, "help parents understand the age ratings system for computer and video games so that they can make more informed choices when choosing games for their children."Sadly this "informed choice" is unlikely to lead to parents buying classy platformerPsychonauts- now sensibly delayed until Feb 2006 - rather than FIFA06, but it may help some of them realise that GTA isn't suitable for their kiddies.But let's be honest here. Parents who are clued up enough to check out ELSPA's site are not the ones that need to be educated. Instead it's the parents buying the latest "urban action game" for their 12-yr old - it's only a game, isn't it - who need the help. It's a bit like the 360. Yes, it has accessible and prominent parental controls, but chances are little Johnny will either be setting up the console on his own or his parents will be unaware of the facility to block unsuitable content. Still, even if they are not used, MS can point to the fact that they have included parental controls and it's likely they will be a feature of every console going forward.Perhaps the best hope is generational. As the current mass of gamers in their 20s and 30s become parents the need for sites such as this will fade. Well, that's the theory.
AIM users are being attacked by a worm that talks, according to instant messaging security company IMLogic. Its description of the worm it has calledIM.Myspace04.AIMsays:This IM worm uses infected computers to send out messages over AIM. The infected host acts as a bot and responds blindly to messages sent to it, even sending messages such as "lol no its not its a virus" and "lol thats cool". One of the messages is a URL to a .pif file on the myphotos.cc domain. The full URL is available to IMlogic customers. (Note: This threat does not involve myspace.com.)OK, so it's not much of a bot, but it's targeting an area where many users are not very sophisticated and their PCs may not have particularly good anti-malware defences. (Got tthe T-shirt: I had to get back control of a friend's PC where the young daughter had clicked to accept a Trojan file sent via IM.)If you use IM, check to see if your anti-virus software covers this or if there is a plug-in for IM protection.For more on the talking worm, see the CNet story,New IM worm chats with intended victims.Update:In the original version of this post, I linked to theRAV seriesof programs for IM protection. As Garry has pointed out in a comment (below), the page is still there but you can no longer download the software. My apologies.
IGN has published sometechnical details of the Nintendo Revolution-- which Nintendo is keeping very quiet about -- gleaned by talking to developers. It warns:Readers are advised to make two notes before continuing with this article. The first is that developers are still working with incomplete Revolution hardware. Most studios are, in fact, developing on "GameCube-based kits," according to major software houses we spoke to, which have asked to remain anonymous. The second is that developers are still without final specifications for Revolution's ATI-developed graphics chip, codenamed Hollywood.None the less, it's clear that Nintendo is not going to compete with the Xbox 360 or very similar PS3 in the power stakes, and it doesn't even support HD."To be honest, it's not much more powerful than an Xbox. It's like a souped up Xbox," a major third party source revealed to us. "But it's the controller that makes the difference and the controller is really nice."The IGN story continues withMore Revolution Specs Uncovered, as more developers open up. This says:Revolution's Broadway CPU, developed by IBM, is an extension of the Gekko CPU in GameCube, according to official Nintendo documentation passed to us by software houses. The Hollywood GPU, meanwhile, is believed to be an extension of the Flipper GPU in GameCube. Since developers have not gone hands-on with the GPU, they can only go on Nintendo documentation, which is limited.Exact clock rates were not disclosed, but one development source we spoke to had this to say of the Revolution CPU and GPU: "Basically, take a GameCube, double the clock rate of the CPU and GPU and you're done."The main advantage is price: "Every developer was in agreement that Revolution should launch with a price tag of $149 or lower. Some speculated that based on the tech, a $99 price point would not be out of the question."Comment:If IGN is right, the Revolution is less of an improvement on the GameCube than the Xbox was on the PlayStation 2. Of course, even being significantly more powerful does not guarantee success -- witness the old Xbox's failure to supplant the PS2, or the Atari Lynx's failure to supplant the original GameBoy. However, in both these cases, an entrenched, established system (with loads of games and millions of users) was fighting off an alien invader (with few games and no users). I suspect it's going to be much harder to challenge two established systems (Xbox 360, PS3) with an underpowered invader like the Revolution. Even if all the GameCube fans buy one, it's still likely to be a distant third.... unless, of course, it really can find a new market that doesn't take its lead from the early-adopter hardcore gaming fraternity. That's probably in the toy department.
An American man is suing Microsoft because he believes their new Xbox 360 videogames console is "defectively designed".Robert Byers, from Chicago,  says that the power supply and central processor of the Xbox 360 are prone to overheating. In a proposed class action lawsuit, he claims that the company rushed the product to market in an attempt to unseat its biggest rival, Sony's PlayStation.Microsoft has refused to comment pending litigation, but customer complaints about overheating problems were quick to arise after the console was launched in the US two weeks ago.The machine, which was released last weekend in Britain, is in short supply as retailers struggle to meet demand ahead of Christmas.
ModelBMW 130i M SportPrice&pound;26,515Top speed155mph (limited)Acceleration0-62mph in 6.1 secsConsumption30.7mpg (combined)Emissions221g/kmAt the wheelSheree MurphyThey'd rather walkBobby BallOn the stereoTake ThatEn route forSouthportBeing a relatively petite hatchback, the BMW 1 Series could seem to be the modest option from the available BMW range - a polite step-down from the ready-pimped sports models and immodest executive gravel-crunchers which are central to the Beamer legend. It is, if such a thing were imaginable, a BMW in sensible shoes - the car a 3 Series-driving drug dealer might choose after a crisis of conscience and a change of career. In its latest incarnation, however, the 1 Series turns out to be operating very deeply undercover. It is a hatchback in appearance only, and simply because adopting the shape of a hatchback provides the most convenient disguise for its actual mission on earth, which is to be a rocket.Under the BMW 130i M Sport's fetchingly crimped but definitely short bonnet, and behind the twin serving of kidney-shaped grilles that BMW go in for these days, sits the most powerful engine ever to have been plumbed into a car in this commercial segment. (Obviously, we're talking about factory-made production cars, rather than some unofficial road-monster built after work by a freelance petrol-head using a fourth-hand Vauxhall Astra and the engine from a decommissioned Russian fighter jet, discovered on eBay.)The 130i M Sport happens to be packing a 3.0 litre, aluminium and magnesium alloy, six-cylinder engine. When you consider that a standard 2.0 litre engine is, by most people's standards, ample for pulling a fully loaded estate car, you see how attaching a state-of-the-art 3.0 litre engine to a hatchback is roughly akin to folding a small knob of paper over an elastic band. The small knob of paper, or, in this case, the hatchback, is likely to go a bit when fired.Note, too, that, as a result of devious planning in BMW's engineering sheds, the engine in the 130i M Sport is the lightest six-cylinder petrol engine in the world. Which gets the car round a design problem soon bumped into by the aforementioned freelance petrol-head with the eBay account - namely, that when you fit an outsize engine to a small car, it tends to drop out of the bottom and sit on the ground.Also, those decommissioned Russian jet engines can make a bit of a racket. This BMW engine, on the other hand, at all stages of operation, offers only smoothly tuned sonic bliss. It is entirely without an attention-seeking top-note or aggressively competitive, look-out-below whine, but instead sticks to a chord of rounded, middle- and low-end notes whose vibrations, upon ignition, carry softly through to the chest of whoever happens to be in the driving seat. As such, it must surely go straight into the top 10 of musical engines currently on release, and may even turn out to nick the Christmas number one spot.Plus you get to fire it up with a dash-mounted starter button. True, the availability of this hallowed, golden-age-of-motoring device on common-as-muck Renaults has diminished its kudos to some extent. But it still seems to me humanly impossible not to offer instant charisma points to any car that starts at the push of a button, a piece of business that makes the standard key-in-the- ignition application seem desolately suburban.Inevitably, then, given what is under its bonnet, the M Sport is capable of coffee-slopping surges of speed of a kind that are at least 95% guaranteed to frighten your passengers witless. The M Sport will get you up to 60mph faster than the time it takes a policeman to find the speed gun in his glove compartment. And once up there, it hums along. The top speed has been electronically limited, to discourage further amateur exploration of the engine's true capabilities, but my own guess is that its natural upper limit is somewhere around 420mph, at which point, as long as the windscreen held, you might actually start travelling backwards in time in the manner made popular by Michael J Fox.All of which would be considerably more dangerous if the M Sport were not such a breeze to drive. Purist speed freaks, who like to feel they are wrestling a car into submission and subduing its wilder nature, would almost certainly have turned their noses up at my M Sport because it was packed tight with the kind of electronic support systems that BMW routinely feed into their range-topping saloons.To name just a handful, it had Active Steering with variable ratio (looser at low speed, tighter when fast), Dynamic Stability Control, Hill Start Assist, Rain Brake Support and Fading Compensation, which sounded like something connected with pension schemes, but in fact was a system supplying extra braking power when the brakes were hot and likely to underperform on you. There seemed to be no aspect of the car that wasn't being carefully monitored and mothered in anticipation of malfunction, unavoidable tragedy and routine driver incompetence.And while it is easy to pooh-pooh this kind of artificial mollycoddling - especially in the context of an eye-wateringly over-priced, leather-bound German automobile - there was no arguing that the M Sport was, in the hands of a non- rally driver, quietly reassuring and stable in a way that other hairier, over-heated hatchbacks, in similar situations, would not automatically have been. It may have strange rolling lines and a slight look of the carousel about it, but there are consolations.
gamePoliticshas a list of 36 mainstream media channels which have headlined a fear of game-inspired cannibalism over the past week. The new approach to game slander comes in response to the USNational Institute for Media and the Family's annual report card on negative values and harmful consumer goods in the run up to the year's consumer glut. The games industry in general received an "F" (ouch), scoring particularly low marks on Retailers' Enforcement of age ratings. The US games industry body's response ishere.The two games which the mongering press allege will lead to a rampant run on human-eating areF.E.A.Rand the schlock-horror titleStubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse. Cannibalism-related games stories have since spread around the web.Nice marketing, folks.The games which the federal body doesn't recommend for children and teens are: 1. Far Cry (M) 2. F.E.A.R. (M) 3. The Warriors (M) 4. Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse (M) 5. True Crime: New York City (M) 6. Blitz: The League (M) 7. Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories (M) 8. God of War (M) 9. Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil (M) 10. Urban Reign (T) 11. Conker: Live and Reloaded (M) 12. Resident Evil 4 (M)Yes, that's all butonewith an M rating.A parental education scheme is kicking off in the UK on Wednesday at the siteAskAboutGames, but worryingly a recentMCV surveysuggests that more than 65% of parents don't actually care about the ratings system.EDIT: The MCV survey says that RETAILERS think that more than 65% of parents don't care about the ratings system(thanks Paul O)Hmmmm. Food for thought. Hungry anyone?
"Evesham Technology Ltd, the award winning UK PC manufacturer, unveiled the revolutionary Evesham Mini. Light and small enough to hold in the palm of your hand this brushed aluminium media centre is a PC to be shown off not hidden under the desk. The Evesham Mini is a new PC style icon," claims today's press release.Basically you get a Windows Media Center PC with an Intel Celeron M 360, 512MB of memory, DVD/CD-RW combo and a 40GB hard drive for £499. Another model offers an Intel Pentium M 760 and an 80GB drive for £699.The manufacturer isAOpen of Taiwan, which showed the system earlier this year at at the Computex Taipei exhibition (see blogbelow).No prizes, but you can now take this exclusive Technology Quiz.The Evesham Mini looks a lot like which other system?1) Apple's Mac mini 2) Apple's Mac mini 3) Apple's Mac miniIf you are not sure of the answer, checkthis review.
Business 2.0 hasan interview with Eric Schmidt, the former Sun and Novell executive who is Google's chief executive. He didn't give much away, but John Battelle did raise the issue of whether Google saw itself as a portal -- because if looked at as a portal, it looks pretty weak.OK, so does that mean Google's a portal? Because if you think of it that way, as Terry Semel [of Yahoo] recently pointed out, it ranks as one of the smaller ones.Well, if I can be obnoxious --Please.You're using a tired model of looking at corporate behavior. You're looking at us based on market share for technologies and ideas that were invented 10 years ago. A much better way to ask that is to say, Are the things that we're doing consistent with the mission of the company? We're not in the portal business, we're in the business of making all the world's information accessible and useful. We never have the conversation that you just asked. The test that I apply -- and we do this every day, 70/20/10 -- is to ask how a feature will extend the core, the adjacent, or the innovative stuff to fulfill our mission. That's the sort of drug that we all take, and it works really quite well. So it may very well be that what you said is correct, and it may not matter very much.The 70/20/10 is the Google rule for allocating time. Schmidt says: "We spend 70 percent of our time on core search and ads. We spend 20 percent on adjacent businesses, ones related to the core businesses in some interesting way. Examples of that would be Google News, Google Earth, and Google Local. And then 10 percent of our time should be on things that are truly new. An example there would be the Wi-Fi initiative."
According toAlpha, the CNet blog, running the Xbox 360 for an average of four hours per day will cost you between £5 and £18 more on your electricity bill per year. That could be a significant consideration for people thinking of purchasing the power-hungry console:We tested the 'box using Extech's MA200 power meter, which gives real-time power consumption results. It turns out that the Xbox 360 draws about 160 watts of power, over twice as much as the original Xbox, which draws 74 watts, and the PlayStation 2, which draws about 50. In fact, the great white beast chomps down more electricity than almost every piece of living room electronics we tested, including the JVC RX-D702 A/V receiver, the Denon DVD-3910 DVD player, and a DirecTV HD TiVo. The only pieces of A/V gear that draw more power than the 360 are big-screen high-definition TVs.The Xbox 360 is, therefore, not a friend of the environment, not good for sustainable development and not for people withelectricity phobias.
Yesterday, Activision and research company Nielson Entertainmentannouncedsome findings from their recent joint report into the murky world of in-game advertising. This 'pioneering' study - the fourth part in a series to gauge the, 'effectiveness of in-game advertising that incorporates different levels of product integration' - purports to have discovered that gamers actuallyenjoyin-game advertising:"Contrary to the assumption that highly pervasive ads would detract from the game play and frustrate gamers, a majority of study participants said that when the product is relevant to the game, advertising enhances the experience. Underscoring relevance, the study revealed that the vast majority of gamers who recalled a product in a game felt it fit the game they were playing. Moreover, a much higher percentage of gamers changed their opinion of the product positively versus negatively after having played the game."So, for any company looking to target the hugely profitable, and usually difficult to impress, young male demographic, the message is, "Kerr-ching".Actually, I like the way Andy Wing, President and CEO Nielsen Entertainment, explains the effect: "(advertisers)... have finally found a pipeline into the 18-34 male sweet spot." I'll leave you to draw your own mental images...Right, moving swiftly on, the report later highlights another interesting factor in videogame advertising...As Michael Dowling, General Manager of Nielsen Interactive Entertainment, explains in the press release:"Video games can provide actionable feedback to advertisers. Gamers like to customize their game play experience based on their personal preferences - so, the color of the Jeep a gamer chooses says a lot about how they might act in the real world. This is invaluable information for advertisers."Is this true, do you think? I'm not sure that any company should pay too much heed to the choicesImake in videogames. Games are about fantasy, after all, and most of the time, there is a sizeable gap between what we fantasise about and what we actually want in real-life - just ask any magazine sex therapist. I may pimp up a bright pink Subaru with a spoiler the size of a kitchen table in the latest Need For Speed, but that doesn't mean I actually want to drive one out on the streets.Finally, the report differentiates between two very different forms of in-game advertising: the obvious placement of ads within the environment and a more pervasive, integral form of advertising, "Unique brand integration that incorporates in-game interstitials, video footage, audio cues and branded storyline elements that serve as goals of the game."In other words, the ad canbecomethe game - in a similar way that highly monetised 'bling culture' has defined much of mainstream hip-hop's output over the last ten years.What a strange world we live in where we accept and even desire marketing messages as an intrinsic part of our entertainment. How telling that brand authenticity has become as much a signifier of in-game realism as complex physics and real-time shadows. I'm as guilty as anyone. I'd rather drive a Nissan Skyline GT-R in a racing title than a made up sports car. I feel the twang of cosy familiarity when I see an extreme sports character wearing labels I recognise from the high street.'Pigs, we get what pigs deserve,' Nine Inch Nails once sang. And here we are snuffling at the trough, squealing for brands - now even our virtual lives belong to the ad men and their fattening feed.
Company cars used to be a great perk: every three years you'd get a new, bigger model and could hammer it up and down the motorway without a thought to either the financial or environmental cost. Not any more, though. As director of AA Loans, Lloyd East, says: "The cost of company cars is becoming increasingly high."Company cars are now considered to be a taxable benefit. You pay tax on a proportion of the new list-price of your car at your standard rate, that's 40% for higher tax-rate payers, 22% for lower tax-rate payers. And the way company cars are taxed means that the proportion on which you pay tax is higher for the least fuel-efficient motors; it is much more expensive tax-wise to drive a large gas-guzzler than a smaller car.This is because in 2002 the chancellor, Gordon Brown, changed the way company cars were taxed in an effort to cut UK carbon dioxide emissions. He decreed that those cars that emit a relatively high proportion of damaging CO2 should be taxed at 35% of the list-price of the car, while eco-friendly vehicles would be taxed at only 15%. In between there is a stepped table of emissions and tax, which increases at 1% increments for every extra five grams of CO2 per kilometre that your car emits.Confusing? Yes, it is, but the table on the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders'websitecan help make sense of it and explains what rate different cars are taxed at. If you already drive a company car you probably know its CO2 emission rate - indeed emission rates are a big selling point now and most car adverts feature them.Green targetsThe decision to tax only company cars on their emission rates and not all cars was made because most company cars end up in the used-car market. In this way the government hoped to eventually influence the cars everyone bought. Although it is committed to taxing company cars in this way for the foreseeable future, it is moving the goalposts a little. But a slight tweak to the rules is enough to cost some drivers hundreds of extra pounds in tax.When the new tax regime was introduced, an extra 3% "environmental tax" was added to diesel cars. This was because while diesels actually produce less CO2 than petrol cars, they pump out some pretty nasty particulates. The lowest tax rate for a diesel car was 18% instead of 15%, although the top rate was capped, as on petrol cars, at 35%.However, at the time a new European standard for diesel cars called Euro IV was being rolled out. Cleaner than conventional diesels, Euro IV cars co-existed for a time with ordinary diesel cars. And to encourage companies to buy these cleaner diesel vehicles, the government knocked off the 3% environmental tax, bringing them in line with petrol cars.Because diesel cars usually have better fuel efficiency than petrol cars and also have a stronger resale value, Euro IV diesels became very attractive as company cars and their sales went up - from 26% of sales in 1999 to 50-60% in 2005. Now all diesel cars in Europe conform to the Euro IV standard and the government is taking the tax-incentive away. As of January 1 2006 the minimum tax payable on a diesel car will be 18%.However, employees who register their new diesel car before December 31 2005 will still be able to take advantage of the tax break for as long as they own the car, potentially saving themselves hundreds of pounds. For example, an employee who spends &#163;15,000 on a new low-emissions diesel car and registers it before the end of the year will pay tax on 15% of the vehicle. If he is a basic-rate taxpayer, paying a rate of 22%, his annual tax bill for the car will be &#163;495. If, however, he registers the same car after January 1 next year he will pay 22% on 18% of its value - &#163;594 a year. That's a difference of almost &#163;100 every year he owns the car.The potential saving is much greater for high-rate taxpayers, and those who buy more expensive and less fuel-efficient cars. A high-rate taxpayer who buys a &#163;25,000 diesel car with CO2 emissions of 200g/km would be taxed at 40% on 27% of the value of the car if she registered it before the end of the year. This would mean an annual tax charge of &#163;2,700. After January 1, tax would be charged on 30% of the car's price, increasing her tax bill to &#163;3,000 a year.Tax pointsSo as another tax break on company cars is removed, it's worth asking if they are still the perk they once were. With many companies offering cash in place of a motor, how do you know what is best for you? As with most things which involve money, each individual case will be different - and it pays to do your research.Lloyd East from the AA says the most important thing is to "understand the scheme on offer". He says: "Speak to your HR department and ask them to explain the scheme's structure and benefits." Many company car schemes allow employees to contribute cash (up to &#163;5,000 for tax purposes) so they can get a better car. But many companies also offer cash instead of the car and let you claim a mileage rate for using your own vehicle.East says: "A general rule of thumb is that the more miles you drive, the better value it will be for you to participate in a company car or fuel scheme. Work out the number of miles you drive, both for business and in your personal life. Take into consideration the personal costs of being on the road and offset this against the scheme to make sure you pick the right deal."It's not just the purchase price of the car that you should worry about, he says. "Company cars will usually come with free repairs, servicing and road tax, the cost of which will be charged to your company. This can often save you thousands of pounds."Useful linksHow much tax will I pay on a company car?Company car tax benefit-in-kind calculatorCash or car, what's best for me?Cash or car calculator
