Microsoft announced on Wednesday that it is cutting 7,800 jobs and taking a loss of $7.6bn on its money-losing mobile phone business.The cuts add to the roughly 12,500 jobs eliminated in the past year from the Nokia phone business that Microsoft bought for $7.3bn in 2012. Some 2,300 of the jobs will be made in Finland,where Nokia is headquartered.Related:What does Microsoft's $7.6bn, 7,800-person layoff mean for Windows Phone?In a statement, chief executive Satya Nadella said Microsoft was reassessing its smartphone strategy, though he gave no specific details. “We are moving from a strategy to grow a standalone phone business to a strategy to grow and create a vibrant Windows ecosystem including our first-party device family,” said Nadella. “In the near term, we’ll run a more effective and focused phone portfolio business while retaining capability for long-term reinvention in mobility.”Microsoft’sformer CEO Steve Ballmerbought Finland’s Nokia as its Windows Phone system has struggled to compete against Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android system. But the purchase has failed to attract new users and Windows Phone still accounts for less than 5% of the market for mobile operating systems.After taking into account restructuring charges the company has now written off more than the entire cost of buying Nokia.The company is in the midst of a broader restructuring that includes cutting 18,000 jobs. Microsoft is expected to give more details when it reports earnings on 21 July.
The Sony press conference at this year’s E3 expo in Los Angeles was one huge gift to veteran gamers. There was the long-awaited confirmation that The Last Guardian is still in development; there was news of the Shenmue 3 kickstarter; and, to the raucous delight of the audience, there was the announcement of Final Fantasy VII Remake, a modernised version of the classic PlayStation role-playing game. The internet blew up.Many writers have attempted to explain the lasting appeal of this hugely successful 1997 release, but few have managed it conclusively. Set in a dark industrialised world, where eco warriors face a mega-corp looking to suck all the resources from the planet, the game is crammed with flawed, interesting characters, quirky charm (including cross-dressing in order to sneak into a pimp’s mansion) and truly epic narrative scale. 18 years, three spin-off games, a handful of novellas and an animated sequel later, and the adventure is still considered a masterpiece of its genre.So what about that teasing E3 trailer? What does it tell us about the forthcoming remake? We’ve gone through the video frame by frame, and here’s what we think Square Enix is telling us.Long ago, we looked upon a foreboding sky ...The significance of the narrator describing eventsin the past tenseis amplified by what’s going on in the opening few scenes. It’s abundantly clear that his words about a star burning eternally in our hearts have a meta meaning, addressed to those that have been calling for years to have a remake and acknowledging that this project cannot be undertaken lightly.The contextual meaning of this narration is more important though: the opening 23 seconds aren’t set during Final Fantasy VII’s time period. In fact, they may well be placed long after the events of the sequel, Advent Children. Could this be a hint that the new FFVII will contain extra content? Why else would Square Enix dedicate such a large portion of the trailer to a scene that isn’t in the original game? After all, the publisher needs to give long-time fans a reason to play through the story again – it’s a story we’ve been familiar with for 18 years.The memory of the Star that threatened all burns eternal in our hearts ...South Edge is not a location in Final Fantasy VII. Edge was built on the outskirts of a ruined Midgar to house the thousands of refugees, after the events of the game’s finale rendered the city uninhabitable. Advent Children was set two years after the events of the game, and Edge was only half finished (and largely destroyed again during the events of the film). Take another look.The overcrowded tube station and the several large skyscrapers give the impression of a city that has been established for some time. It also looks to have now engulfed the original architecture of Midgar, a theory justified by some familiar looking spired roofs and large industrial piping.There’s also a subtle nod here to an advertisement for the play Loveless found in the original game – look in the bottom right as the camera pans along the road, and you can see a new ad for something called Valentina. Despite the similarity to a key character’s last name we perhaps shouldn’t read too much into this, but it’s an intriguing little feature, regardless.You can just make out a billboard for ‘Valentina’ herePhotograph: Square EnixIn its wake came an age of silence...After a long cut to black, we get this sequence which shows a distinctly less clean, less modern city. Those familiar with the original game will recognise the freight train right at the beginning, which is identical to the one that first takes our protagonist Cloud into Midgar; fans will also recognise this as the Sector 6 park. Altogether, the red brick walls, the prominent telephone wiring, and the smoggy air paint is a far less advanced picture than what we’ve seen so far. So it looks like this is the city of Final Fantasy VII, whereas the early sequences may come much later in the timeframe.The dying flower at the close of the scene perhaps symbolises the planet’s ecological devastation, one of the principle themes of the original title – this lets us know we’re truly in remake territory now. Also, notice that those kids are play-fighting with replica versions of Cloud’s iconic buster sword. A neat touch.Yet with each fond remembrance we knew those encountered were not forgotten...Next we see more shots of Midgar in all its industrial-looking glory, with a close up of some reimagined grunts from the evil ShinRa corporation and a helicopter flying overhead. We’re not sure there’s much of importance here until the flowers come into shot, but do let us know in the comments section below if you’ve spotted something else.The flowers, the puddle, and the angel statue in the reflection are all clear nods to Aeris/Aerith and the events of Advent Children. Those who have seen the film will appreciate the significance of the black feather, a symbol of Sephiroth, the main antagonist.The reunion at hand may bring joy, it may bring fear, but let us embrace whatever it brings...Again there are some nice nods to the original FFVII here, with the train that circles the circular plates that lift the upper echelons of Midgar’s society above the lower class slums. Most of this scene is designed to inspire nostalgia, which peaks when we see Barrett’s machine-gun arm and some gravity-defying spiky blonde hair.Again there’s not really a lot else to analyse here, other than what appears to be a sick old man on the ground, who may or may not be the same character from the original, immortalised by the memorably bad translation “this guy are sick”.They are coming back. At last, the promise has been made.The most important aspect of the whole trailer comes right at the end with the word “remake”. Director Tetsuya Nomura, the character artist of the original FFVII, has stated that this won’t simply be the original game with upgraded textures, otherwise there would be no reason for him to be involved. The intention, it seems, is to make a game that is better than the original, an exciting if potentially hubristic endeavour.Final Fantasy VIIwas, to put it mildly,huge, spanning three CD-roms – and even then, graphical detail often had to be compromised in order to cram as much content as possible onto those discs.It is perhaps unlikely that every scene from the original game will be found in the remake. What Square Enix absolutely cannot afford is to have another Final Fantasy XV on its hands – that project started out as a spin-off from Final Fantasy XIII, but grew in scope and ambition, and has taken close to 10 years to complete. Considering it’s the 20th anniversary of Final Fantasy VII in two years’ time, Square Enix must not let the opportunity pass to have its remake ready.So here’s the theory. The first 20 seconds of this trailer signify what the framework for the game will be: a reunion of some sorts between certain characters from the original, but one held far into the future – perhaps 20 years, if they’re particularly romantic about it. This would allow Nomura-san to tell the story of FFVII in a series of flashbacks, allowing the development team to include or edit out practically any element without changing the original narrative.The later tie-in, Final Fantasy VII: Dirge of Cerberus, left the door to more story open with a “to be continued” message. In this case, could we get more than just a remake?
As software updates go, the one coming soon to Facebook appears relatively minor. It’s a slight visual update to the icons used to represent friends and groups on the platform, and probably won’t even be noticed by the vast majority of users. But symbolically, the change says a lot.Why? Because it puts women first – literally.Until now, both icons had been fronted by a male silhouette. On the friends icon, one woman stands behind him to his right, and on the groups icon, he’s backed up by one woman and one man.The new and old Friends icons.Photograph: Facebook/Caitlin WinnerBut as part of a refresh of the icons,which also gives them modern haircuts, women have been put front and centre.Facebook’s design manager, Caitlin Winner,explained her reasoningfor making the change: “As a woman, educated at a women’s college, it was hard not to read into the symbolism of the current icon; the woman was quite literally in the shadow of the man, she was not in a position to lean in.“My first idea was to draw a double silhouette, two people of equal sizes without a hard line indicating who was in front … I placed the lady, slightly smaller, in front of the man.”Winner instituted a similar redesign of the groups icon, placing the woman in the centre and having her backed up by two men.The old and new groups icons.Photograph: Facebook/Caitlin WinnerIt’s not the first time someone at Facebook has launched their own project to make small but symbolically-important changes. In 2014, the globe icon was updated to focus on Europe for users outside the Americas. Since then, an Asia-focused globe has also been added.“As a result of this project, I’m on high alert for symbolism,” writes Winner. “I try to question all icons, especially those that feel the most familiar. For example, is the briefcase the best symbol for ‘work’? Which population carried briefcases and in which era? What are other ways that ‘work’ could be symbolised and what would those icons evoke for the majority of people on Earth?”The new icons have already started to show up in Facebook products.
YouTube star Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg has responded to online criticism after it was revealed that he earned $7.4m in 2014 from his gaming videos.The earnings were published in a financial filing in Sweden by his company PewDie Productions and reportedon news site Expressen.Related:YouTube: PewDiePie, DC Toys Collector and Katy Perry top in 2014The PewDiePie channel was the most popular on YouTube in 2014 with more than 4bn video views, ending the year with more than 33 million subscribers.As news stories about Kjellberg’s income trended on Facebook, though, he was attacked for not deserving these financial rewards, spurring him intopublishing a YouTube video called “Let’s Talk About Money”to address the criticism.“Money is a topic that I have purposefully tried to avoid for the five years that I’ve been making videos, because I just feel like it’s not important to anyone,” said the 25-year-old, before reminding fans that he funded his early efforts on YouTube by working on a hot-dog stand.“The fact that I could make videos was so much more important to me than [that] I had to spend a few hours a day doing a job that wasn’t that prestigious,” he said.“I knew people were big at other types of videos, but there was no one big in gaming, and I didn’t know you could make money out of it. It was never like a career that I could just quit college to pursue. it was just something I loved to do. And here we are five years later and it’s exploded.”Kjellberg read out and responded to some of the more critical Facebook comments during his video, while defending the work he puts in to his channel, which focuses on “Let’s Play” videos playing through games while commentating on them.“A lot of people which I saw were very very angry. They thought it was unfair. They thought I just sit on my ass all day, and I just yell at the screen over here. Which is true! But there’s so much more to it than that,” he said.“I understand that haters are gonna hate, alright? But I really think that money doesn’t make you happy. I am just as happy as I am now, as I was five years ago ... To see so many people being upset about this whole thing, it’s sad. It’s such a waste.”Kjellberg also expressed irritation that his charitable fundraising attracts less coverage than his earnings, having raised money for the likes ofSave the ChildrenandCharity:Water,as his popularity has grown on YouTube.Related:YouTube star PewDiePie strikes publishing deal for This Book Loves You“It seems like the whole world cares more about how much money I make than I do myself. We did raise a million dollars for charity, and very few articles picked up on that, but here it is everywhere how much money I make,” he said.“I don’t think there’s any good reason why anyone should care, and on top of that I don’t think there’s any good reason why I should care either, so we’re just going to end it there.”One good reason people care within the media world is that PewDiePie’s financial filing offers a rare insight into the money being made at the top end of YouTube stardom.It’s very rare for any YouTube creator to talk about their earnings publicly, not least because YouTube itself does not encourage it.But with many of its top stars essentially freelancers – even if they’re signed to a multi-channel network, as Kjellberg is to Maker Studios – those with their own companies will increasingly be declaring their income in financial filings.
Female job seekers are much less likely to be shown adverts on Google for highly paid jobs than men, researchers have found.The team of researchers from Carnegie Mellon built an automated testing rig called AdFisher that pretended to be a series of male and female job seekers. Their 17,370 fake profiles only visited jobseeker sites and were shown 600,000 adverts which the team tracked and analysed.Theauthors of the study wrote: “In particular, we found that males were shown ads encouraging the seeking of coaching services for high paying jobs more than females.”One experiment showed that Google displayed adverts for a career coaching service for “$200k+” executive jobs 1,852 times to the male group and only 318 times to the female group. Another experiment, in July 2014, showed a similar trend but was not statistically significant.Google’s ad targeting system is complex, taking into account various factors of personal information, browsing history and internet activity. Critically the fake users started with completely fresh profiles and behaved in the same way, with gender being the only factor that was different and illustrating that the ad targeting for these job adverts was discriminatory.Discrimination is inherent to advertisingHowever, the authors of the study admit that the gender discrimination shown is difficult to pin to one factor, due to the complexity of not only Google’s profiling systems, but also of the way advertisers buy and target their adverts using Google.A Google spokeswoman said: “Advertisers can choose to target the audience they want to reach, and we havepoliciesthat guide the type of interest-based ads that are allowed.”Profiling is inherently discriminatory, as it attempts to treat people differently based on their behaviour and personal information. While that customisation can be useful, showing more relevant ads to users, it can also have negative connotations.The study authors said: “Male candidates getting more encouragement to seek coaching services for high-paying jobs could further the current gender pay gap. Even if this decision was made solely for economic reasons, it would continue to be discrimination.”Google allows users to opt out of behavioural advertising and provides a system to see why users were shown ads and to customise their ad settings. But the study suggests that there is a transparency and overt discrimination issue in the wider advertising landscape.Television, radio and print advertisers have, of course, been practising discrimination for years, pushing ads out with shows or magazines that appeal to a particular gender or demographic.The difference now is that it is much more obvious in the internet age, and the in-depth profiling that is now possible could make it worse, not better.Profiling, ad choice, dating and substance abuseThe researchers also investigated whether visiting sites dealing with certain topics, specifically substance abuse, adult content, disabilities, mental disorders and infertility, affected the ads served to the fake profiles.Only visiting sites dealing with substance abuse and disability created statistically significant results. The researchers found that after visiting substance abuse sites Google’s advert profile page showed no change to the interests listed, but the adverts shown to the user accounts did change, including displaying ads for rehabilitation services from a company called Watershed. The adverts shown to the control group did not include any rehabilitation services.“One possible reason why Google served Watershed’s ads could be remarketing, a marketing strategy that encourages users to return to previously visited website,” said the authors of the study.The Watershed site was included in the top 100 substance abuse sites list, which was used as the experimental list of sites to visit by the automated system.A similar result was shown in testing for disability sites, using a similar methodology. This time the researchers found that Google’s ad interest profile did change for the test group, but that it showed other interests not related to disability.Ads for mobility devices including a standing wheelchair were shown to the test group 1,076 times but never to the control group. Again the adverts included sites within the top 100 sites concerning disability used during the experiment.Google has said that it prohibits the targeting of adverts within its “sensitive category policy”, which includes health issues such as substance abuse. It also says that does not allow remarketing within the same sensitive areas.The researchers also discovered that Google’s ad choices, which allows users to manually remove certain interests from the tracking profiles, had the effect that was desired.“The ad settings appear to actually give users the ability to avoid ads theymight dislike or find embarrassing,” said the authors.Removing online dating interests, for instance, stopped online dating ads from appearing within the top five ads served to the test group.•Women in technology: no progress on inequality for 10 years
Fancy dating Cara Delevingne or Kit Harington? Whodoesn’tfancy dating Cara Delevingne or Kit Harington? Well, now you can – as long as they’re on Tinder.The dating app has rolled out verified profiles, which means now you’ll know if “celebrity” profiles on the app are for real – instead of having to rely on whether or not the profile picture is a heavily pixellated crop from a website, complete with watermark still attached.Tinderannounced the move on its blog: “Now when notable public figures, celebrities and athletes appear in your recommendations, you’ll know it’s for real.”Verified profiles for celebrities have long been in development, and were first mootedback in March 2014, when Tinder’s chief executive, Sean Rad, said: “This will allow celebrities to enter Tinder in a different way.”The app’s chief marketing officer, Justin Mateen,added: “Tinder gives them [celebrities] the control to filter through the noise and communicate with people they want to know.”Just discovered tinder. *Waves goodbye to life*&mdash; lily (@lilyallen)March 13, 2014Back in May 2014, singer Ed Sheeran said he believed he was thefirst celebrity to be approached by Tinderfor a verified profile.“I got offered the first verified Tinder account. I did say no. I haven’t got time to go on loads of dates. I want to do this. Be on the radio and talk about music.“It’s so people know it’s you I guess, but it just sounds quite creepy doing that because then you’re just using your celebrity status to hook up with chicks.”Hillary Duff’s Tinder profile.Photograph: ScreengrabCelebrities already known or thought to be active on the app include:Katy Perry(“I’m really deep on Tinder”), Lindsay Lohan (or at least her brother), Ashton Kutcher,Lily Allen,Made in Chelsea cast membersand Hillary Duff.Actor and singer Duffspoke about her first ever Tinder dateon Ryan Seacrest’s radio programme back in April:“We went bowling so we didn’t have to talk too much, but we did talk a lot actually. He brought a friend and I had some friends there, so it helped.“It kind of started out to be a joke with some of my girlfriends. I was like, ‘explain this whole thing to me because it’s kind of blowing my mind’. We were swiping and it started out to be kind of a joke and then I was like, ‘I’m gonna join Tinder’.”“I’m just a Tinder animal. I had my Tinder training wheels on for my first date. Now it’s smooth sailing.”Britney Spears was alsosigned up to the appwhen the singer appeared on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. The talk show host created a profile for Spears during a segment entitled ‘Pros and Cons of Dating Britney Spears’.Tinder follow in the footsteps of Twitter and Facebook, who also offer verified accounts for well known people.Like me.•Swipe right? Britney Spears joins Tinder dating app
An unpatched security flaw in Adobe Flash, discovered then kept secret by Italian cyber-surveillance firm Hacking Team, is now being used by malware developers to hack victims’ computers following the leak of over 400GB of data from the company’s servers.Adobe,which saysit expects to publish a patch for the vulnerability at some point on Wednesday, warns that “successful exploitation could cause a crash and potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system”.Symantec warned on Tuesday that “it can be expected that groups of attackers will rush to incorporate it into exploit kits before a patch is published by Adobe”. And, sure enough,it appearsthat virus writers are already using the security flaw to deliver cryptolocker software, which encrypts a users’ data and demands payment to unlock it, on to unsuspecting computers.The Hacking Team hack, which saw a BitTorrent file of the massive data dump posted to the company’s public twitter feed, contained emails, presentations and source code for its software.The initial effect of the leak was an embarrassing number of revelations about the actions and clients of the firm, which largely provides software for law enforcement and national security to hack into the computers and mobile devices of targets.But the leak also included the code for much of the company’s hacking software, and now virus writers are incorporating the code into their own malware. While many of the security holes used in the company’s “remote control service” (the name for its hacking software) were already publicly known and patched, there were a few vulnerabilities the company had managed to keep secret.Known as “zero-day” vulnerabilities – because the affected companies have had zero days to release a patch – they are now being used by the wider community of malware authors, as well as Hacking Team itself. The new vulnerabilities were even accompanied by readme files, intended for internal use at Hacking Team to explain how to deploy them, which likely further reduced the time until the virus authors were able to use them in their own software.Until the Adobe Flash patch is published, web users should be wary of visiting untrusted websites, and may want to enable “click to play” to prevent untrusted Flash files from activating.Questions in BrusselsMeanwhile, Dutch MEP Marietje Schaakehas asked pointed questionsin the European parliament about the revelations contained within the Hacking Team data dump. The documents suggest that two of Hacking Team’s clients include Russia and Sudan, two countries covered by EU sanctions.Schaake asked of the commission whether it believed that the company “has violated EU sanctions regimes”.She also asked the commission whether it knew of “any prior authorisation given by the Italian authorities that would allow Hacking Team to export its products to Sudan or Russia”, and whether or not the company asked the commission explicitly about export controls to those two countries.In one document leaked from Hacking Team, which listed a number of nations as either “active” or “expired” clients, Sudan and Russia were both marked out as “not officially supported”.
Get set for a summer of discontent on London’s underground system, with a24-hour tube strike set to kick off, and more possible in the weeks ahead if negotiations between London Underground and unions RMT, Unite and TSSA don’t progress.Commuters wondering how to get across the capital on Wednesday evening and Thursday can turn to a range of smartphone apps that could help them with tube-free travelling. Here are five that could come in handy this week.CitymapperCitymapperIf you get one app in this list, make it Citymapper: it’s one of the most useful apps you can have on your homescreen. You set your starting point and destination, then Citymapper provides you with a range of ways to get there, from walking and cycling to taxis and buses. It’ll even tell you how many calories you’ll burn and what weather to expect along the way. Citymapper even has a“Strike Safe” section of its resultsto route you around the disruption.Free foriPhoneandAndroid.Google mapsGoogle MapsOwners of Android devices get Google Maps preloaded – although the version available on the Google Play app store is updated more often. It’s still a quick, slick way to find your way across London, including public transport directions that can be tweaked to choose tube alternatives as your preferred mode of travel during a strike.Free forAndroidandiPhone.Santander CyclesSantander CyclesThere are a number of apps helping you see where there are free London cycles (“Boris bikes”) nearby. This is the official app, though, and comes with one advantage: it will send the code needed to unlock the bike you’ve just hired directly to your phone. It’ll also help you plan your journey with a built-in map.Free foriPhoneandAndroid.HailoHailoOne obvious choice when thinking of taking a cab across London is Uber, although its “surge” pricing could make such a journey expensive during times of high demand (ie during strikes). Hailo is an alternative worth trying: it’ll help you digital-hail a black taxi from your smartphone and, as with Uber, track its location and then pay from within the app.Free forAndroidandiPhone.London Bus Live CountdownLondon Bus Live CountdownIf you’re dead set on catching the bus, this is one of many useful bus-tracker apps available for the capital, drawing data from Transport for London to let you know just how long a wait you’re in for at the bus stop. It’ll also show you your Oyster balance, and help you find a bus stop nearby if you’re in an unfamiliar part of town.Free foriPhoneandAndroid.
It’s Wednesday.
Reddit, the giant online discussion forum for everyone from political junkies to billiards enthusiasts, is in revolt.Over 10 years, Reddit – which styles itself as the “front page of the internet” – has built a site that attracts 164 million readers a month. Last week, however, its users mounted an open insurrection against the California-based company’s interim CEO, Ellen Pao, following what they say have been a series of unpopular decisions by management that directly contradict the open, democratic style of discussion that Reddit has previously encouraged. And despite the company issuing an apology on the site on Monday, a petition calling for Pao to step down now boasts more than200,000 signatures.Related:Reddit CEO sorry for 'letting down' users after popular subforums shut downRedditors – as users are called – have accused the site of increasingly trying to monetize its popularity, and it appears their sentiments came to a head last Thursday, when Reddit’s popular director of talent, Victoria Taylor, waslet go from her post.Taylor’s role had been to coordinate the site’s popular Ask Me Anything series, also known as AMAs, where celebrities from Madonna to Bill Murray, and even Barack Obama, have answered questions submitted by the Reddit community. Users suspected that a controversialAMA sessionwith the US civil rights activist Jesse Jackson held on Wednesday, the day before her dismissal last week, had been the tipping point for a company torn between catering to commercial interests, and an obsession with giving voice to every possible perspective.The conversation between Redditors and Jackson had devolved rapidly into personal accusations and pointed questions about Jackson’s character – one user introduced a “question” about Jackson’s family life with the line: “You are an immoral, hate-filled race baiter that has figured out how to manipulate the political system for your own gain.”The next day, Taylor was gone, and the site’s volunteer moderators were quick to make their feelings against her dismissal known by shutting down some of the site’s biggest forums, beginning with the main AMA subforum, in what was dubbed a “Reddit revolt”.Related:Reddit revolt continues as user petition calls for resignation of CEO Ellen PaoReddit denied that the Jackson AMA meltdown was the cause, and the company did not respond to requests for comment for this article. Marc Bodnick, formerly of venture capital firm Elevation Partners and a major figure in tech investment over the last decade, suggested in a post that was laterdeletedthat Taylor had been removed for resisting greater commercialization of the AMAs.Whatever the reason, however, the dismissal appeared to be a serious misreading of the Reddit community.“The admins [administrators, people Reddit actually pays to moderate the site] didn’t realize how much we [theunpaid moderators] rely on Victoria,” wrote user karmanaut in a post explaining why users could no longer get into r/AMA, the Ask Me Anything subforum. “We’ve had situations where agents or others have tried to do an AMA as their client, and Victoria shut that shit down immediately. We can’t do that anymore.”In Monday’s apology, Pao – whose failed discrimination lawsuit against Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers made headlines last year–admitted Reddit had “screwed up,” not just last week, but “also over the past several years”.“We haven’t communicated well, and we have surprised moderators and the community with big changes,” the post said. “Today, we acknowledge this long history of mistakes. We are grateful for all you do for Reddit, and the buck stops with me.”Reddit’s top brass have painted the revolt as the actions of a disgruntled few whose needs are insignificant compared to those of the general-interest Redditors who make up the vast majority of its user base. Those 200,000 signatures on the petition against Pao would represent 0.12% of Reddit’s readers. “Most of the community is made up of thoughtful people, and they can appreciate what we all do, even if we don’t always agree,” Pao told the New York Times.But some have suggested that the latest revolt is a flashpoint in a wider clash of cultures. The web’s largest agglomeration of niche enthusiasts provides a portal for people to make friends and enemies in a wide range of different communities, including some less reputable forums that have come under increasing scrutiny.These communities have found themselves threatened over concerns about harassment (a term that Pao has said includesanything that would make another user “feel unsafe”). When that has happened in the past, users have lashed out, convinced they are being persecuted for quirks or fetishes, and accusing the site of censorship. While Reddit has often responded to those accusations with silence, some of the site’s fiercest critics have decamped, en masse, to a Swiss-based clone of Reddit called Voat.But some consider the disgruntled few the most valuable part of the company. “I’m a pretty apathetic content sponge,” wrote a user who calls himself CaptainObviousMC. “That fact is deadly dangerous to Reddit, because the moment the content creators jump ship, I’ll follow them like the fair-weather fan I am, because I don’t care – at all – where I get my content, or about which corporation or moderators are involved. If Reddit compromises its content stream by having moderators jump ship, I’m out too, not because I care, but because I don’t.”In her apology, Pao – whose interim tenure (there is no replacement in sight) has so far lasted eight months – said Reddit was ready to make it up to users, apparently by encouraging what Reddit does best – discussion.“I know we’ve drifted out of touch with the community as we’ve grown and added more people, and we want to connect more. I and the team are committed to talking more often with the community, starting now.”What happens next, for Reddit and for Pao? The interim CEO has apologized, and Reddit revolts do tend to burn out quickly. And for obsessives of all stripes looking for a large, centralized and stable community, at present there is simply nowhere else for them to go.
Facebook has criticised European countries for using the “right to be forgotten” ruling on a Spanish case to challenge privacy regulation.TheMay 2014 ruling, made by the European Court of Justice, set a precedent for removing outdated information from search results that are deemed to be no longer relevant or not in the public interest.Countries across Europe have taken the ruling and applied it at a national level.Related:How Google determined our right to be forgottenFacebook’s global deputy chief privacy officer, Stephen Deadman, said: “A number of authorities in Europe are using that judgment to challenge the status quo that’s existed for many years. We think they’re wrong. We think the model we have is right.”One-stop-shopUnder the current system, companies can take a one-stop-shop approach where they deal with a single regulator within their base of operations within Europe.Any measures or orders in that country then apply across the rest of Europe, allowing businesses to operate without consulting regulators in each country.Facebook chose Ireland as its global base of operations, handling everything outside of North America from there. Facebook is therefore regulated by the Irish data protection commissioner.However, countries including the Netherlands and Belgium have opened their own investigations into Facebook’s privacy practices, while the pan-European data protection authority working party, Article 29, has looked at privacy practices of Facebook and other US technology companies operating in Europe.Disputes over accuracyThe Belgian data protection commissionrecently sued Facebookover what it sees as a disregard for Belgian citizens’ private lives in terms of the social network’s tracking of users for advertising.Deadman said: “[Facebook] don’t agree that the Irish data protection authority isn’t doing its job. The academic report, which forms the foundation of [the Belgian privacy commission lawsuit], was not conducted by reviewing our practices, there was no interface with us, it was purely done without engagement with us or trying to find out the facts from Facebook.”Theauthors of the report dispute Facebook’s claims, stating that they made multiple attempts to contact Facebook and clarify some parts of its operation, specifically around the use of tracking technologies.Facebook, Google and other large US technology companies operating in Europe face an increasingly politically charged landscape. Europe’s 25-year-old data protection laws are being revised.Reform neededPart of the proposed plan, which isnow under trialoguebetween the European Commission, the European parliament and the Council of the European Union, is to form a framework for pan-European data regulation with the possibility of forming a “super data regulator” for issues that cross borders and affect EU citizens of more than one country.Deadman said: “Any structure that gives confidence to the way that national regulators are doing their jobs is good. If there can be a model to give the Article 29 working party more official status as a board, that would be a positive thing and reinforce and provide support to national data authorities as they’re doing their jobs.“There should be order within Europe and a single regulator that regulates you, not multiple regulators all trying to regulate everything in their own different ways,” he said.Encryption is stayingFacebook is not only bullish on data protection issues in Europe. It also stands at odds with British prime minister David Cameron and home secretary Teresa May’s plan tore-enact the Snooper’s charterandremove or weaken encryption.Facebook’s director of security, Jennifer Henley, said: “To completely do away with encryption is not a stance we’re ready to make. We feel we have a very viable front door that allows governments and law enforcement agencies to come in and request information from us.”Facebook’s line follows many other US technology companiesand experts, including Google, which say weakening encryption is not an option.Henley said: “We feel that weakening encryption produces a multitude of problems. Encryption really plays an important role in modern day security and it gives people additional confidence around their communications and how they can secure their data.”Should Cameron force through his plans, it is unclear how Facebook would proceed. However, such a move would affect every technology company operating in the UK, and diminish user security.•Why the BBC is wrong to republish ‘right to be forgotten’ links•Facebook ordered by Dutch court to identify revenge porn publisher
Robin Hunicke, the CEO of San Francisco-based game studio Funomena, is kind of worried. We’re standing in a corner of the Los Angeles convention centre amid the cacophany of the E3 games expo. Metres away, a large crowd has gathered around the game she has brought to show off. It is called Wattam. It is not a typical E3 game. There are no guns, there is no dark, cyberpunk imagery. On the screen a small group of apples is being chased by a toilet.“I’m the first to say: ‘I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but the person running this company has no idea what she’s doing,’” says Hunicke. “I’ve never been a CEO before, I literally have no experience in marketing or PR. I have a very weird feeling about being on camera. I may not be the best person. I may not be cut out for this job.”When Hunicke was growing up, she wanted to be a painter. Later, as an undergraduate, she got into writing and poetry – but her next move was somewhat tangential: she studied programming at postgraduate level and then got a job as a game designer at Electronic Arts. She worked on the Sims series and the acclaimed puzzler Boom Blox before joining That Game Company to produce the beautiful PS3 adventure, Journey. Her career has been a zig-zag of roles on amazing inspirational projects.I first met her in 2009. She playedJourney in front of an audienceduring Nottingham’s GameCity festival; people huddled together on the floor in the huge tent on the old market square and watched silently. It was wonderful, emotional and fascinating. It was also typical of Hunicke, one of the most interesting speakers on game design that I’ve ever interviewed, to share her game in this way – as a collective experience. Some people were moved to tears.Related:Robin Hunicke on Journey, AI and games that know they're gamesWattam is an eccentric puzzle-exploration game set in a series of surreal seasonal environments. Players take on the role of a mayor whose planet has been devastated by a mysterious apocalyptic event, and now he’s all alone. However, he quickly manages to create some flower people by squeezing rain from the clouds, and then, by holding hands with them and creating a long chain of friends, he is able to set off a fireworks explosion under his hat that creates new characters. In this way, he re-populates his world.This is unmistakably the work of Keita Takahashi, creator of the gorgeous PlayStation 2 classic Katamari Damacy and PSP cult favourite Noby Noby Boy. Working with Funomena, he has brought the same psychedelic artistic sensibilities to this beguiling new project. The Katamari games involved rolling a ball of objects round the world, drawing in larger and larger components until you have a whole planet. This use of interesting mechanics based around collection and environmental interaction also underpins Wattam. Here, you’re able to take control of any character on screen, whether it’s a flower, an apple, a tree or a piece of sushi, and then try to help them create shaky “human” pyramids with other strange inhabitants. The more you join together, the bigger the explosion. But it’s not a destructive explosion, it’s an explosion of joy and friendship.Wattam E3 trailerTakahashi was playing with his two-year old son when the idea for Wattam materialised. The two of them were building towers with wooden blocks, but they got bored of that and decided to start introducing other objects – a camera, some cutlery, a glass of water – to the tower. It was at that point that Takahashi’s son became really engaged. Breaking the rules, then watching the whole thing come crashing down, was the real fun.“Keita sent me a picture of the concept, a drawing he’d done on the top of a cardboard box in crayon,” recalls Hunicke. “There were different characters, a circle, a square, a spoon, a fork – and in the first prototype we made, we had all these knife, spoon and fork people and a plate person, and when we’d show it to kids, and they’d go nuts.”Funomena took on the project, partly because it looked amazing, but also because it symbolised Hunicke’s hopes when she set up the company with tech director Martin Middleton, who wrote Journey’s innovative peer-to-peer networking system. “We wanted to build a place where people like Keita – people who have a family to support – can earn a living wage, have healthcare, and have an environment where they can do the kinds of games they want to do. We wanted a place where people can be open.“Game development is an uncertain thing, you’re only ever one milestone away from getting cancelled. It’s really performative, there are a lot of unknowns. When you start making a game like this, you don’t really know if you’re going to find it. It’s like getting in a boat and sailing off to where you think an island is, but then there’s a huge storm, and eventually you find the island – but how many of you are left in the boat – and how crazy are you?”Wattam is a perfect mix of craziness and sense; of playful imagery and serious intentions. At first you’re just mucking about, exploring the landscape. But then you realise that each character has its own special ability that can be used to solve simple puzzles or unlock new characters. For example, throw the poop character into the toilet character and a golden poop character comes out. Yes, this is a game with anthropomorphic toilets and poops. One of the first “boss” characters is a sad pillow that makes everyone else fall asleep. However, you can use the coffee bean person to wake everyone up and allow the pillow to be part of the group.The player isn’t told any of this, you just work it out by playing and experimenting. “It’s kind of halfway between the structured gameplay of Katamari and the open-world playspace of Noby Noby Boy,” says Hunicke. “If you want to play the game to unlock all the awesome characters and see the story, which is how I play, you can do that. But if you want to play like Keita, which is just to see if you can break it, you can do that, too.”“But it really is about how you play with the system rather than having a system designed specifically to give you a feeling of achievement. You have to find the achievement yourself.”Importantly, the game can be played co-operatively with another person, each of you switching between different characters and trying to help create larger explosions. As you progress, you open up new areas of each of the four seasonal hub worlds. In the spring environment, I sit playing with Keita for a while and he unlocks a football pitch area. When we go on it, a little score display opens up and a ball bounces on to the screen – so now we’re able to play a game of footie – except he’s controlling a mushroom and I’m a turntable. Oh, and you can also switch control to the goals themselves and have them wander off. It’s just gorgeously silly and fun andinvolving.The game has a huge variety of characters to unlock and play about with, each with its own quirks and abilitiesPhotograph: FunomenaI ask Hunicke about the supposed culture war that’s opened up in games, between the “hardcore” industry and the indie community. She happily describes herself as a hippy, but also appreciates the value of allowing players to inhabit powerful avatars like Kratos in God of War. She’s fine with that. “The market is a lot broader than what you see day to day,” she replies. “It’s up to us as the people pushing the boundaries in the indie space to be ambassadors to the broader audience, and to the people on the other side making these larger games. A game like Journey can do really well, a game like Wattam can surprise the show floor at E3 – it’s totally possible.“If you have someone in your company, who’s been working on your Call of Shooty franchise and they’re really excited to create a game they can share with their young daughter, let them. Like Ubisoft did with Child of Light. The more that larger studios can support these efforts, the better. True, they may not be as profitable as a giant game, but they are the spirit of the industry, they’re the way we move forward. No one would have given money to Notch for Minecraft – now look! That kind of effort comes from a genuine love for the medium itself – and you can’t say that only this tiny niche of indie developers has that love –everyonein the industry has that love. So together, how can we use our differences constructively to amplify what we do?”Related:Is Journey a game or a piece of interactive art?After Wattam is completed, there’s no grand plan on what to do next. Funomena has another project – Luna – on the go, and the team is very interested in virtual reality and children’s games. You get the feeling that, despite her reservations, Hunicke and her crew will instinctively know what to go for. It may not work, but it will be interesting and worthwhile, and it will be crafted with care. Wattam is a game about connecting people, about how love cures, about how you need your strong friends to support your weaker friends. I guess the only question is, can a modern studio really build around ideas like this?“I’m really not that great at thinking through all the long-term ramifications of a business strategy,” says Hunicke. She looks over at Keita who is lounging on a bean bag, happily showing off the game to an endless stream of fascinated if bewildered E3 attendees. “However, Iamgood at saying: ‘Hey, let’s print some T-shirts and give them away at E3, even though it’s going to cost us a bunch of money.’ I mean, that seems like a good investment, something for the fans who have come all this way to see the game.“I want to be that person. I want to be the person who says: ‘Take this $20 T-shirt for free because you came to give us a hug.’”Wattam is a PlayStation exclusive and is due for release next year
A coalition of anti-harassment initiatives and digital rights organisations is fighting a proposal from the internet’s governing body, Icann, to strip anonymity from website owners.Icann’s planis to require all website owners who use their domains for commercial purposes to provide a direct contact address for their registration records, known as the Whois record. At the moment many use privacy-protecting services, where often the domain name registration company’s details are given instead. If implemented, the proposal would effectively end the ability to run a commercial website without revealing significant personal information such as business address and real name.In an open letterpenned by the Online Abuse Prevention Initiative (OAPI)‘s Randi Harper and four other activists, the signatories argue that the move will “physically endanger many domain owners and disproportionately impact those who come from marginalised communities”.Specifically, they argue that the proposals will make it easier to “dox” and “swat” people online.Doxing refers to the practice of uncovering personal information about someone online, sometimes with the intent to carry out further harassment, and sometimes simply to publish the information.Swatting, in turn, refers to the practice of using personal information to place hoax calls with law enforcement with the intention of bringing down a squad of armed police. The practice iscommon among gaming communities, from which the four founding members of OAPI were drawn.“Our concern about doxing is not hypothetical. Randi Harper, a technologist, anti-harassment activist, and founder of the Online Abuse Prevention Initiative, was swatted based on information obtained from the Whois record for her domain. The only reason law enforcement did not draw their weapons and break down Harper’s door was that she had previously warned her local police department about swatting.”The OAPI’s letter has now been signed by more than 30 separate organisations drawn from a whole host of areas. Internet freedom organisations including the Electronic Frontier Foundation (whichspoke outagainst the proposal independently last week); the Tor project; and Fight for the Future have signed. So too have domestic violence charities such as the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, New York State Coalition Against Domestic Violence and the National Centre on Domestic and Sexual Violence.A number of other organisations with an interest in protecting at-risk communities online back the campaign, including the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain, Jewish Women International and Internet Democracy Project, India.In a personal capacity, the campaign has also been backed by Richard Stallman of the Free Software Foundation, writer Cory Doctorow, and former American football player (and major Warcraft fan) Chris Kluwe.Harper says she’s been “humbled” by the support.“We knew that between all of the original authors, we would be able to drum up a good amount of people that would be interested in signing. It’s rare to see anti-abuse organisations standing on the same side of an argument as free speech advocates, but this is an issue that has the potential to affect everyone. We know for certain that Icann has been watching this letter, and I think it’s going to have a lot of impact,” she told the Guardian.Related:Meet the seven people who hold the keys to worldwide internet securityThe campaign in favour of Icann’s proposal has been backed by a coalition of copyright industry bodies, including the Recording Industry Association of America, Motion Picture Association of America and Entertainment Software Association, the last of which represents the gaming industry in the US. Through their lobby group, the Coalition for Online Accountability, the organisations argue that proxy registrations are abused to protect those who infringe copyright online.The Coalition for Online Accountability’s Steven Metalitz told Congress: “While there is a legitimate role for proxy registrations in limited circumstances, the current system is manipulated to make it impossible to identify or contact those responsible for abusive domain name registrations.”Meanwhile, Harper told the Guardian that more should be done to hold the internet governing body to account. “Icann is a strange beast that doesn’t get a lot of attention from the public,” she said. “We had only found out about this proposal the day before EFF commented on it, and not a lot of people were talking.“I’m really not sure why we’ve been ignoring Icann. They’ve made some spectacularly horrific decisions lately, such as introducing the .sucks TLD, which is now selling domain names at $2,500 – basically endorsing extortion and creating an industry around abuse.“I think that it’s time that we start paying attention to this organisation that has a huge amount of power in defining the way the internet works.”
Carpooling could be set for a new trip around the block following a decision by Google to test a new app in Israel.RideWith uses technology developed byWaze, an Israeli start-up bought by Google in 2013 for about $1bn.Its navigation system, which uses data from users’ smartphones to give live traffic information, learns the routes drivers most frequently take to work and matches them up with people wanting to travel in the same direction.It is aimed at people who work for the same company and live reasonably close to each other.Related:LAPD chief's claim that Waze 'helps criminals' leaves many in blank disbeliefAn estimated 200,000 people participate in carpooling in Israel already.Unlike ride-hailing services such as Uber and Lyft, drivers using RideWith cannot profit from participating and thus the app relies to some degree on goodwill.They can charge a modest fee that is based on the distance travelled and wear and tear, with a maximum price set. Waze will take a 15% cut.Drivers will be limited to two journeys a day, with more passengers than drivers expected initially.Waze said it was “conducting a small, private beta test” in the greater Tel Aviv area for a carpooling scheme, but had nothing further to announce.The service is expected to be offered in other parts of Israel if the Tel Aviv trial is successful.The Waze app is available on Android and iOS and allows users to see friends who are driving to the same destination if connected via Facebook.The non-profit format of RideWith could improve its chances of being accepted more readily if Google decides to introduce the app in other countries.Uber is battling opposition from taxi drivers and regulators in numerous markets.Last week, it shut down theUberPop service, which allowed non-professional drivers to take passengers, in France following the arrest of two executives and protests from taxi drivers.In May, a court in Milan ordered the company tostop offering the service in Italy.Uber has not offered the Pop service in the UK, where it operates as a registered minicab company.
The BBC is to give away up to one million of its new Micro:bit computers to 11- and 12-year-old children across the UK.The computer was unveiled at an event in London on Tuesday, along with plans for its rollout this October, after the Micro:bit project was launched earlier this year as part of the corporation’s Make It Digital initiative.The BBC is working with 28 software and hardware partners on the project, which will see every year seven pupil in the country given one of the computers, and a not-for-profit body set up to sell them after that point.“Creating the Micro:bit has been a brilliant collaborative adventure for all of us,” said BBC director-general Tony Hall. “We’re talking about up to 1m Micro:bits going to 11- and 12-year-olds across the country.”The BBC hopes the computer will change “the way children think about their ability to make things happen digitally”, according to Hall, who said the Micro:bit fits neatly with the BBC’s Reithian mission to inform, educate and entertain.He also drew a parallel with the BBC Micro computer, which the corporation launched in the 1980s as a way for children to get their first experiences of home computing.Hall said that device “shifted the conversation around computing” in a way that the Micro:bit hopes to do again for present-day children. “We want to take that legacy and reinvent it for our age,” he said. “The creative opportunities this tiny little device offers are endless.”The Micro:bit measures 4cm by 5cm and has 25 red LEDs and two buttons, which can be programmed from a computer or mobile device via the BBC’s soon-to-launch Micro:bit website, connecting to it using Bluetooth technology.The device also has an accelerometer and compass built in, and five input and output (I/O) rings to connect it to other devices using wires.The BBC’s head of learning, Sinead Rocks, said that the project started in 2012 as a “very tentative idea that very quickly gave us a feeling of ‘what if?’”. She added: “There was a real opportunity, if not a real need, to inspire young people to get creative with digital technology.”Rocks said the BBC had faced “a real moment of decision” when choosing between year seven and year five pupils to receive the device.“The reason we plumped for year seven is it had more impact with that age group … they were more interested in using it outside the classroom,” she said. “But it was a really hard decision.”Rocks said the BBC was not working with the government to incorporate the Micro:bit into the national curriculum, but instead was creating resources for teachers, parents and pupils to access from its own website.It does not plan to distribute more Micro:bits to year seven pupils in the autumn of 2016, but Rocks said the not-for-profit body would “explore ways” of getting the device into the hands of more children after the initial giveaway.Key partners include ARM, Microsoft, Samsung, Barclays, Freescale, Element14, Lancaster University, Nordic Semiconductor, Technology Will Save Us, ScienceScope and the Wellcome Trust.The corporation and its partners are hoping the Micro:bit can inspire more children to take up computing as they progress through school, and then go on to further education and careers in the technology sector.“We all know there’s a critical and growing digital skills gap in this country, and that’s why it’s so important that we come together and do something about it,” said Hall.Related:BBC Micro Bit will complement Raspberry Pi not compete with itThe BBC is launching an online simulator ahead of teachers being given the computers in September, and the rollout to pupils in October.“We’re also exploring ways to ensure that children who are home-schooled also get their hands on one,” said Rocks, who added that once the 1m Micro:bits have been distributed to year-seven pupils, the BBC will make them available for other children, too.“We’re planning to develop a not-for-profit company that will oversee and drive the Micro:bit legacy … we will be licensing them so that they can be made commercially available both in the UK and abroad,” said Rocks.Derrick McCourt, general manager, public sector for Microsoft UK, said: “We don’t really know what kids are going to do with it … the exciting thing for us is that out of year seven, the next Bill Gates could come.”
Hacking Team, the cybersecurity firm which saw 400GB of private data published on Sunday night in a humiliating hack, has been forced to advise customers to stop using its software while it assesses the damage caused by the leak.A spokesman for the company recommended that clients, who are largely law enforcement and national security agencies who use Hacking Team to provide surveillance capabilities, suspend their operations while the company determines what has been exposed.“We would expect this to be a relatively short suspension of service,”the spokesman told Reuters. He also confirmed the breach, saying: “Law enforcement will investigate the illegal taking of proprietary company property.”The massive data dump obtained a number of awkward files for the firm,apparently showingthat Hacking Team sold its hacking tools to repressive regimes such as Sudan and Bahrain – despite denials from the firm that it dealt with such nations.But the data dump also contained the source code of a number of the company’s tools. Those tools, which take advantage of vulnerabilities to let users to hack into smartphones and desktop computers in order to spy on their targets, are now available for all to dissect, and researchers have already found some security flaws that could allow the hackers to be hacked.Wow.#HackingTeam&quot;backdoored&quot; their own product to let them do arbitrary SQL, itself vulnerable to#SQLinjectionpic.twitter.com/qyPKANMbLH&mdash; Pwn All The Things (@pwnallthethings)July 6, 2015The source code dumps have also allowed researchers to discover which vulnerabilities were being exploited by the company to enable its spying tools, and software companies are racing to fix the newly uncovered holes.Mozilla’s security teamhas promised it will pay out its standard bounties to the first person to file a report with them on such a vulnerability.The company was named as one of the five “corporate enemies of the internet” ina Reporters Without Borders reportthree years ago, for its position as a “digital mercenary”.
For gamers, it was like discovering the Ark of the Covenant – but made of plastic and less likely to contain the power of God. In early July, one Dan Diebold posted a YouTube video showing an apparently functional prototype of the SNES CD, an aborted update of the famed Super Nintendo Entertainment System built in partnership between Nintendo and Sony.Developed in the late 1980s, the machine was intended to run games on both cartridges and CD-rom discs, but then Nintendo and Sony fell out and things went wrong. Sony proudly showed off its console – now called the Play Station – at the 1991 Consumer Electronics Show, but Nintendo switched its allegiance to Philips a day later. Enraged, Sony decided to release a new PlayStation console on its own, and many of the SNES-CD prototype units were destroyed. Which is why this new footage has caused much excitement in the gaming community.However, the SNES CD is far from the only obscure games machine that either died at the prototype stage or collapsed shortly after release. Here are six more to look out for at your next car boot sale.Apple Pippin (1995)The Apple Pippin was based on the Macintosh computer platform, but struggled to find an audience amid many similar – and superior – products.Say what you like about Apple, the company is famed for its impeccable industrial design and market sense – which makes the Pippin one of its most inexplicable mis-steps. Intended as a multimedia machine with gaming and internet browsing functions, Apple licensed the platform out to other manufacturers, including Bandai and Katz Media, which produced units from 1995. Unfortunately, it was expensive, poorly marketed and less powerful than competitors like the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation. It was also called the Pippin, the least cool console title ever (though Bandai did try to beat that four years later with its Japan-only handheld, the WonderSwan).Value today:You’re looking at around £150 for a basic Bandai model, but prices can go up to £400 for limited-edition versions.Matsushita M2 (1997)Matsushita M2 demoOriginally designed as a followup to the innovative but expensive 3DO console, the M2 technology was instead sold to Japanese electronics company Matsushita in 1995 for a reported $100m. A powerful 64-bit machine was promised, complete with a graphics engine that could push one million polygons per second – unprecedented at the time. But by 1997, the manufacturer was having second thoughts about the games market and pulled out of production, leaving only a handful of prototypes.Value today:They rarely materialise, though an offshoot of the tech, the Panasonic M2 FZ 35S, did make it to market and has turned up on eBay for between $1,000 (£644) and $3,000 (£1,933).Nintendo Virtual Boy (1995)The Virtual Boy was intended as an entry into the world of virtual reality, but it turned out no one wanted to play Mario Tennis in red and black graphics until they were sick.Photograph: Evan Amos/public domainThis legendary table-top virtual reality system was designed by GameBoy creator Gunpei Yokoi and used oscillating mirrors to create a monochromatic 3D-style display. Nintendo promised that the 32-bit device would immerse players “into their own private universe” – it just happened to be a private universe of really bad headaches. The weird red LED visuals were far from the vision of virtual reality that consumers had been sold by the movies of the era, and the expensive toy vanished without a trace within a year, taking a vast catalogue of, erm, about 20 games with it.Value today:This one’s easier to get hold of as it was actually released to the public, though you’ll pay between £180 and £400 for a boxed unit in good condition.RDI Halcyon (1985)RDI HalcyonMarketed as a kind of advanced living room entertainment computer, the Halycon was like a cross between a PlayStation and Hal from 2001: A Space Odyssey, capable of talking to owners and receiving voice commands. Developed by RDI Systems, the company behind 1983 arcade classic Dragon’s Lair, the machine ran games on laser discs and had an initial retail price of $1,800 ($2,100 if you wanted the voice control capability). Production was meant to begin in 1985, but strangely, the company had difficulty drumming up consumer interest for a games console that cost more than a car. It was never released and the handful of custom-built prototypes are with the product’s original investors and a few lucky private collectors.Value now:Erm, substantially more than $2,100?Sega Mega Jet (1994)Sega Mega JetBetween 1990 and 1999, Sega was a veritable production line of abortive hardware ideas, with the likes of the Neptune (combined Mega Drive and 32X) and the Jupiter (a Saturn with a cartridge port) failing to make it beyond the planning stages. The Sega Mega Jet was different though, a handheld version of the Mega Drive originally only sold to Japanese airlines, where it was used for inflight entertainment. It wasn’t strictly a portable console as it needed an external screen and power source, but that didn’t stop Sega giving it a limited consumer sales run in Japan, before employing the tech in its more widely available Sega Nomad handheld.Value now:Well, there’s oneon eBay right nowfor $750 (£484), complete with a copy of Sonic 3.VM Labs Nuon (1999)The Nuon was supposed to revolutionise the home entertainment market by combining a DVD player with a games console – but then came PlayStation 2 …Originally known as Project X, the Nuon was a powerful, 128-bit chipset complete with a state-of-the-art audio/video decoder. The idea was to market the tech to DVD manufacturers, allowing them to turn their players into games consoles. Co-founded by Richard Miller, who helped design one of the world’s first laptops (the Z88 from Cambridge Computers) and later the Atari Jaguar, VM Labs thought it could disrupt the entire consumer electronics industry, and managed to convince a few companies, as well as garnering plenty ofpress excitement. However, by the time the tech was available in 1999, Sony was preparing its PlayStation 2 console – complete with a DVD player. That pretty much killed it. Just under 20 games were produced for the Nuon, including Jeff Minter’s excellentTempest 3000.Value now:Several Nuon-equipped DVD machines were released in or shortly after 1999, including the Samsung DVD-N range. They’ve come up on eBay for around £400 boxed.Do you have a favourite obscure games console? Let us know all about it in the comments section!
The 100 largest multi-channel networks (MCNs) on YouTube may have a collective valuation of nearly $10bn, and account for 42% of the online video service’s monthly views.That’s according to a report from research firmAmpere Analysis, which has been crunching data on the last three years’ worth of acquisitions of MCNs to figure out the value of the rapidly-growing market.According to the report, the average price paid for an MCN during that period equalled around $0.10 per monthly video view on their network, which suggests a valuation of $100m for an MCN with more than 1bn monthly views.Ampere claims there are now 22 networks at this level, averaging $21m in annual revenues from YouTube ads and brand partnerships.Its report also claims that the top 100 MCNs are collectively generating 100bn monthly views - 42% of the total views on YouTube - which would give them a total valuation of nearly $10bn if they were sold using the $0.10-per-view formula.Will that happen, though? It all depends on the traditional media and entertainment companies that have been the main acquirers of MCNs, with 75% of such deals in the last three years involving traditional media firms including Disney, Discovery Communications, DreamWorks, RTL and ProSiebenSat.1.“The business model of MCNs is a good fit for many traditional media companies, which understand advertising business models,” said Ampere’s research director Richard Broughton.“They are also an extremely effective way for traditional media players to reach a younger audience which is leaving traditional media in droves, as well as to experiment with new programme formats and content types.”That hints at the underlying dynamic in this space: the MCNs portraying themselves as the solution to traditional TV companies’ fears that they are losing “millennials” to YouTube, in the hope that their valuations will be inflated if the traditional firms start to panic about this trend.Ampere notes that the average MCN sold in the last three years was valued at between 25 and 35 times its annual revenues.The report also by extension puts a figure on overall YouTube viewing. If the top 100 MCNs’ 100bn monthly views are 42% of YouTube’s total, that total would therefore be just under 240bn views a month: an average of 240 videos watched by each of YouTube’s 1bn monthly visitors.Related:YouTube trains its sights on traditional TV: 'It's a no-growth business'Ampere’s report comes shortly after a financial report in Sweden shed more light on how much one of YouTube’s biggest stars, Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg, is making from his popular gaming channel on the service.Expressen reportedthat Kjellberg’s PewDiePie Productions company reported SEK 63m (around $7.4m) of revenues in 2014: a year in which his channel generated nearly 4.1bn views, making it the most popular on YouTube.Kjellberg is currently signed to MCN Maker Studios, which was acquired by Disney in 2014, although he hasmade noises in the past about striking out aloneby launching his own MCN.
It’s Tuesday!
Most people who play video games have played a game made with Unity – even if they don’t know it. Originally launched in 2005, this adaptable, cross-platform game engine is freely available to amateur coders and can be bought for just $1500 by small professional studios, allowing both groups to quickly develop new projects without having to build their own underlying 3D graphics technologies – saving years of work and many thousands of dollars. Consequently, Unity has been a hugely important part of the indie scene, providing the tech behind everything from Gone Home to City Skylines, Pillars of Eternity and Fallout Shelter.But the openness and accessibility of the engine comes at a cost. For many PC gamers, the tech has become synonymous with cheap, quickly produced games, thrust onto the Steam game download service by inexperienced developers. Although the industry recognises the benefits of the engine – there are now over 4.5m Unity developers worldwide – consumers are becoming wary. Unity has an image problem.John Riccitiello, once the boss at mainstream publisher Electronic Arts, is now Unity’s chief executive. During the company’s Unite conference held in Amsterdam in June, he was hugely vocal about the progress of the engine, andabout its important role in the re-emergence of virtual reality, allowing developers to quickly produce Oculus Rift prototypes. But what about the issue of how his engine is perceived by PC gamers?“I think some players have a false perception of Unity and that might be of our own making,” he says. “We require free users to employ a Unity splash screen [in their games] but professional users are not required to show off the fact their game was made using our engine. Maybe in terms of how the engine is perceived we ought to do that the other way around.”Unifying everythingTo Riccitiello, the sheer omnipresence of the platform is a mixed blessing. Its affordability and robustness has made it the first choice for small scale projects, but this also means it has become associated with amateur productions. “The truth is we have millions of developers using our software,” he says. “When you have that many customers, you are going to have lots of college and high school projects with your engine name attached. Occasionally you get somebody who has clearly got something, but for the most part, a couple of inexperienced developers making their first project won’t usually yield a great outcome. They get a much better standard of product than they would have without using Unity, but it’s still not up to the standards of a high-end commercial game.”Of course it’s fine for college students to make use of the free “personal” version of Unity to explore game development. However, one of the bigger issues currently plaguing the perception of the development tool is the way that Steam’s Greenlight service, a sort of peer review portal used to calculate demand for a product on the site, has seen a growing stream of hackneyed game projects. Sometimes these are entirely built using code and graphics taken straight from theUnity Asset Store, a collection of tools, demos and assets uploaded by Unity users and meant as useful tool sets for larger projects. And if some users are ripping stuff from the site and repackaging it as their own game without any original content, is that something Unity needs to address?Sam Beddoes, developer of Unity game Jump ‘N’ Shoot Attack!, thinks it might be. “In my eyes, the biggest issue for Unity’s reputation is the asset store,” he says. “Think of it like web development. Designing and coding a great website is a lot of hard work, but a tonne of people go and grab scripts and codes pre-written from other sites and manage to use copy and paste to cobble them together into something which just about resembles a product.“The asset store is now diverse enough that if you want to make a game where a guy shoots zombies, you can download zombie graphics, AI scripts for that zombie, the gun graphic, FPS control scripts etc, and cobble the whole thing together in a few afternoons. And people do exactly that. When assets provide tools to cut out almost any of the hard work and required skill, that’s when you get the amateurs trying to blag their way into a game dev career.”Riccitiello, however, is reticent to start policing how Unity games are built. “You know, I think there’s a great debate to be had about how people who own computers shouldn’t be able to use them to write evil messages to people,” he says. “I don’t think there’s any mileage in that way of thinking about our product.“Realistically, most of what’s put up in the Asset Store comes from third-party developers that want to sell it. After that somebody uses it, it’s really not up to us to police that. Who are we to say they can’t resell it unedited on Steam? I understand what I’ve just said is also a really weak excuse and I will admit I’m not thrilled with the state of our Asset Store and how it is utilised right now. I don’t want to have some kind of liberal police state philosophy for how things from the Asset Store are used, but I think there are issues there that do need to change.”Perhaps the answer would be to have a blanket license on the store that prevented assets from being resold on other sites without significant additions? Riccitiello is unconvinced and sees the responsibility for policing such content lying elsewhere.“I think this is far more Steam’s problem than anything to do with us,” he says. “Steam, with regards to mods and Greenlight, has its own pile of problems to deal with. From our perspective, there’s one thing that gamers are invariably good at: finding the margins within which they can use a system to cheat.“That’s just the nature of our industry and I don’t think we will ever stop people wanting to work around limitations. There are people who, if told they couldn’t resell an asset pack without editing it, would just mod some hair from blue to green and say they’re done. I don’t know if you can ultimately say that’s not a saleable mod or game at that point. Are we at Unity going to start having to make judgements about how much of a game needs to change before it can be resold? I don’t think so [...] I don’t think that, long term, trying to prevent reselling assets wholesale is a wise policy on our end.”Unity for beginnersGarrett Cooper, currently developing role playing shooter Black Ice, says he experienced some push back from his audience when they learnt his game was made in Unity, yet he sees the benefit in how the engine and the asset store currently work.“I’ve definitely had some players say things like ‘Gross, not another Unity game!’ during the development of Black Ice, but I think what they were concerned about is mostly the default options they’ve seen in other games. A lot of games made with the free version of Unity 4 look pretty similar, because they use the same user-interface buttons, the same shaders on all the objects, that sort of thing.“The way it’s set up now, minimum-effort games will always have that Unity splash screen, but quality games almost never will. That said, I think the intention was to show that, hey, anyone can make games with Unity with very little effort. It’s possible that splash hurts them a little, but it also gets more people started making games, which I’m all for.”Unity is in a unique position as a powerful, indie-friendly technology, but there’s a lot at stake. Somehow the company needs average gamers to know that it is behind the likes of Grow Home, Ori and the Blind Forest and Superhot as well as those exploratory projects built with asset store bits and pieces. And if the engine is to become a big part of the exploding virtual reality and augmented reality scenes (which its 5.1 update isclearly aimed toward), managing expectations – and promises – will be ever more important.Laura Kate Dale was on a press trip to Unite 2015 with other journalists. Her travel and accommodation costs were met by Unity.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest newiPhoneand iPad apps and games. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection.Minecraft Stop-Motion Movie Creator for iOS.AppsMinecraft Stop-Motion Movie Creator (Free)This is new from Mattel, although you’ll need the Minecraft “mini-figure” toys to make the most of it. The app is aimed at children as a way for them to make and share Minecraft-themed stop-motion short films, with a clever onion-skin interface for taking a succession of photos with their props.iPhone / iPadBuzzFeed News (Free)This news app is made by BuzzFeed, but it draws on plenty of other sources beyond its parent website. It pulls in breaking news and memes alike, with the option to tweak it for push notifications on your preferred categories.iPhoneBitTorrent Shoot (Free + IAP)BitTorrent (the company) has been keen recently to remind people that BitTorrent (the technology) is about moving large files around efficiently, not just about piratical filesharing. Shoot is the latest evidence: an app designed to help you share large numbers of photos or high-file-size videos with friends from your device. It works well.iPhone / iPadKitchen Timer(s) (£2.29)The thing about most kitchen-timer apps is they only let you time one thing at once. That’s something developer Diavo Lab is tackling with its new app: you can time up to six different tasks on your iOS device’s screen, and it also works with Apple Watch.iPhone / iPadToca Life: City (£2.29)This is the latest app from children’s publisher Toca Boca: a true sandbox based on a cartoon city, where kids can explore the environment, move and customise various characters, and make up their own stories based on what they see on-screen.iPhone / iPadRA Guide (Free)Resident Advisor is one of the longest-established online communities for electronic music, and its first consumer app draws on its plentiful database of club nights and dance gigs. You can browse events near you, or dig deep into its database of artists and DJs to see where they’re playing next.iPhonePicjoy - Automatic Photo Organiser (Free)If you’ve been worrying that your iPhone photo library is so big as to become unmanageable, Picjoy is worth a look. It uses all the metadata around your photos to categorise them and make them more easily searchable, with the option to connect it to your cloud storage accounts too.iPhone2000 AD Featuring Judge Dredd (Free + IAP)This is pretty big news if you’re a fan of the Judge Dredd comics and graphic novels: an app providing access to the Judge’s 37-year archive of adventures, with a subscription option to keep you updated with new editions.iPhone / iPadArtStack – Discover Art (Free)This app is a nice idea for art-lovers: an “online museum” of artworks for you to browse, collect and share with friends. Your collection is digital: a “stack” of the art that you like, with options to follow other users’ tastes and look at more works by individual artists.iPhone / iPadBeet - For Moments (Free)Taking on Snapchat? Quite a task for any fledgling startup. Beet is at least interesting with the idea: it competes more with Snapchat’s “Stories” feature in the way it collects your videos into an ongoing “movie of your entire life” to share with friends, and see theirs in return.iPhone / iPadThe Executive for iOS.GamesThe Executive (£2.29)This all-action game has a visual style all its own, but thankfully the gameplay matches up. It’s part beat ‘em up and part platform/runner, as you see off werewolves and – a first for this genre – try to run your own mining company on the side. Quirky, but unique.iPhone / iPadLego Minifigures Online (£3.99 + IAP)This is Lego’s latest game, with an online focus. You play with mini-figures – including the ones you buy in the real world – exploring, battling and playing with friends on iOS, PC, Mac and Linux. It’s early days but current indications are promising: with a pirate world available now, and more to follow as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadXenowerk (£1.49 + IAP)Another independent treat, this: a top-down action game where you have to rid a scientific laboratory of an army of mutants over 50 levels. It looks absolutely spiffing, but presents a decent challenge too, as you upgrade your weapons and armour and learn to deal with the various enemies.iPhone / iPadCivMiner (Free + IAP)If you got addicted to the “clicker” game CivCrafter, you’ll want to try this successor. It sees you tapping away to dig down below the Minecraft-ish surface, uncovering treasures, stones and monsters as you go. Just as compulsive as its predecessor.iPhone / iPadStick Tennis Tour (Free + IAP)Having just emerged from the deep rabbit-hole that is Stick Cricket 2, I’m trying not to fall in to another one with developer Stick Sports’ new tennis game. It’s hard though: this is an excellent take on the tennis genre, with neat swipe controls for your shots and a range of challenges to beat.iPhone / iPadHeroki (£5.99)Perhaps the best-looking game this week on iOS is Sega’s Heroki, which has sparkling graphics. The gameplay almost matches up: a mixture of flying, falling and fighting with power-ups, treasures and a varied selection of enemies to vanquish.iPhone / iPadFreak Circus Racing (Free + IAP)This is an extremely silly (in a positive sense) horizontally-scrolling racer, with circus characters providing the driving. It’s colourful, challenging and demands that you pick it up to play again, even when you get frustrated.iPhone / iPadDivide By Sheep (£2.29)Minecraft aside, there still aren’t enough games with sheep playing a prominent role. Divide By Sheep is helping to remedy that, with an appealing mix of puzzles and maths, although I’ll be honest with you: the division theme doesn’t always work out non-painfully for the sheep.iPhone / iPadTales From Deep Space (£4.99)This is the latest game from Amazon Game Studios, the internal development arm at Amazon. It’s a well-designed adventure game with a space setting, with good puzzles making up for occasionally-frustrating controls.iPhone / iPadEggheads (£1.49 + IAP)Finally, trivia. This is an official app based on BBC quiz show Eggheads, with the same format of four specialist rounds followed by a general knowledge test. While it may not appeal beyond keen fans of the show, if you’re in that group it’s definitely worth shelling out on. Sorry.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Overheating, sluggish, running out of energy faster than usual? Have you noticed how it’s not just you that suffers in the heat, your smartphone does too? Don’t worry, you’re not imagining it, the heat really does make a difference.Unlike people, phones can’t sweat, and while this may be good news for your pocket, it’s bad news for them. Without a way to cool themselves, phones suffer: the battery dies, the processor melts and the screen can crack.Here’s why it happens, and what to do about it.Why is my phone slower when it’s hot?Processors are heat sensitive. The hotter they are, the slower they run - as they have to reduce the power usage to stop themselves overheating.That means when a phone gets hot it becomes more sluggish. Because it’s taking longer to longer to do things, it in turn means it needs to stay awake longer, potentially drawing more electricity from the battery for a longer time and increasing the heat further.Other components such as the GPS chip, the screen’s backlight and mobile data connection all generate heat too, which means the more you use a phone for mapping or other relatively intensive tasks the hotter it gets.Why does my phone’s battery run out so much faster?Batteries are small packs of chemicals that react to create electricity, which also creates heat. That’s not an issue in cooler climates, but when the heatwave starts the battery’s ability to keep cool, like the rest of the phone, is impaired.A hot battery charges slower because charging it causes it to heat up. A battery’s thermal control system reduces the rate of charging to keep things at a safe level. If a battery hits a critical temperature it experiences thermal runaway, which like a nuclear meltdown can be explosive as experienced withinBoeing 787 Dreamliner batteries.Keeping a battery above 30C is bad for its health as its chemical components degrade. While short periods of heat are unlikely to cause issues, prolonged exposure to heat causes its capacity to decrease, which means shorter battery life. Keeping a battery fully charged and hot can be worse than repeated charges and discharges for its life.Why did my screen crack when I left it in the car?Heat can also do nasty things to the screen, and other bits and pieces of a phone. For instance, the fine liquid layers of a screen can swell under high heat, which means pixels can blow and glass can crack – leaving a phone within a hot glovebox on a sunny day is asking for trouble.Why isn’t there an easy why to cool it?While hot phones are only an issue for a few weeks a year in the UK, and rarely for air conditioning-using countries, smartphones suffer from overheating greatly in developing nations and those that don’t rely on electricity to keep them cool.App developers have tried to help. A collection of apps designed to help a phone cool off is available for most platforms. Many work by temporarily giving the processor a timeout by limiting background tasks and stopping some apps.A similar thing can be achieved by using the battery-saving modes on most smartphones, or by simply turning it off.What can I do?Most phones use their body panels as heat sinks to attempt to dissipate heat, which is why metal-backed phones such as the iPhone and HTC One feel hot. Storing a hot phone in a hot pocket against a hot body is a bad idea - keep it out and well ventilated.A case can also inhibit a smartphone’s ability to rid itself of heat, remove the case –but then do try not to drop it.If you’re using it in your car as a satnav, GPS can overheat a phone – stick it on the windscreen and use the windscreen airflow to cool it - also keep it in shade.Processor intensive apps exacerbate the problem - unfortunately there’s no real solution but to stop using them.The display’s backlight generates a lot of heat and sucks battery - turn down the backlight and set a shorter timeout.•Is aluminium the answer to all our battery prayers?
The cybersecurity firm Hacking Team appears to have itself been the victim of a hack, with documents that purport to show it sold software to repressive regimes being posted to the company’s own Twitter feed.The Italy-based company offers security services to law enforcement and national security organisations. It offers legal offensive security services, using malware and vulnerabilities to gain access to target’s networks.According to the documents, 400GB of which have been published, Hacking Team has also been working with numerous repressive governments – something it has previously explicitly denied doing. It has not been possible to independently verify the veracity of the documents.The perpetrators of the apparent hack used the company’s own official Twitter feed (renamed “Hacked Team”) to communicate. They continued to post to the feed for hours after, highlighting specific documents they claim come from the hack, such as emails, invoices and even screenshots of Hacking Team employees’ computers, until the company regained control on Monday morning and removed the posts.One such tweet, which has since been removed, purports to show Hacking Team negotiatingwith a third-party reseller to export its malware to Nigeria. If the sale took place, it may have bypassed Italian export controls. Another is claimed to showthe company debating what to doafteran independent investigation from the University of Torontoattacked it for selling hacking tools to Ethiopia, which then used it to target journalists in the US and elsewhere. The company has never publicly confirmed nor denied working with Ethopia, andin March this year a spokesman dismissedearlier reports as “based on some nicely presented suppositions”.One of the now-deleted tweets from @hackingteam.Photograph: TwitterThe company has repeatedly denied selling its technology to repressive regimes. In 2013,a Reporters Without Borders reportthat named Hacking Team as one of the “corporate enemies of the internet” for its position as a “digital mercenary” prompted a response from the firm.In a statement, it said: “Hacking Team goes to great lengths to assure that our software is not sold to governments that are blacklisted by the EU, the USA, Nato and similar international organisations or any ‘repressive’ regime.”But, if genuine, the leaked documents suggest that among Hacking Team’s clients are the governments and security services of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, many of whom have been criticised by international human rights organisations for their aggressive surveillance of citizens, activists and journalists both domestically and overseas.Most notably, the documents include an invoice for €480,000, which purports to be from the Sudanese national intelligence service, dated June 2012. Three years later, in January 2015, the company told the UN’s Italian representative that it had no current business relations with the country, prompting the follow-up question “as to whether there have any previous business arrangements” with Sudan, the answer to which is not recorded.A separate document contained in the apparent file dump appears to show Sudan, along with Russia, listed as “not officially supported”, as opposed to the “active” or “expired” status held by most other nation states.The company describes itself as in the business of “providing tools to police organisations and other government agencies that can prevent crimes or terrorism”, but if the documents are genuine they suggest it may be willing to sell to non-state actors as well. One invoice apparentlyreveals the companydealing with a private Brazilian firm, YasNiTech, to whom it sold three months access to its remote access tool, allowing the firm to hack in to Android and Blackberry phones, and Windows devices. We do not know if this sale was part of a wider contract with the Brazilian government.Hacking Team is one of a number of security firms that sell surveillance technology and malware to national governments, enabling them to access the computers of their targets. Gamma International, another firm in the same space that was best known for its FinFisher surveillance software,suffered a similar hack in 2014. In the 40GB of data on FinFisher leaked, the company’s clients, capabilities and pricing was revealed; according to the leaked documents, Hacking Teamwas celebratingthe demise of “a wannabe competitor of ours”. The hacker behind the Gamma International hackhas now claimed responsibilityfor the Hacking Team leak as well, according to Motherboard’s Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai.Hacking Team refused to give comment over the phone, directing the Guardian to an email address. Multiple emails to that address and others given on the firm’s website were returned as undeliverable, and on a follow-up call, Hacking Team again declined to comment and directed the paper to the broken email address. When the Guardian explained that the email address was not working, Hacking Team declined to give an alternative address or any other form of contact.Christian Pozzi, one of the firm’s employees, tweeted to say that the documents contained “false lies” about the services the company offers.“A lot of what the attackers are claiming regarding our company is not true. Please stop spreading false lies about the services we offer,” Pozzi tweeted. “We are currently working closely with the police at the moment. I can’t comment about the recent breach.”Pozzi’s feed was later itself hacked, and later still the entire account was deleted.Privacy groups have welcomed a rare chance to potentially look inside the workings of a cyber-surveillance company such as Hacking Team. Privacy International said in a statement: “Yesterday’s leak of materials reportedly shows how Hacking Team assisted some of the world’s most repressive regimes – from Bahrain to Uzbekistan, Ethiopia to Sudan – to spy on their citizens.“We know from investigations by Citizen Lab that these tools are used to target human rights activists and pro-democracy supporters at home and abroad. Surveillance companies like Hacking Team have shown they are incapable of responsibly regulating themselves, putting profit over ethics, time after time. Since surveillance companies continue to ignore their role in repression, democratic states must step in to halt their damaging business practices.”
More than 150,000 Reddit users have signed an online petition calling for Ellen Pao, the site’s interim chief executive, to step down. The petition arose after Victoria Taylor, the director of talent who managed the site’s popular Ask Me Anything (AMA) subreddit, was fired.Related:Reddit CEO sorry for 'letting down' users after popular subforums shut down“Action must be taken to prevent Reddit from being further run into the ground,”the petition said. “Stop Ellen Pao from destroying the Reddit.com community by making her step down as CEO of Reddit Inc.”After Taylor left the company last Thursday, around 300 subreddits, or discussion areas, on topics including gaming, science, history and cinema were shut down by their moderators as a form of protest.By Sunday, most of the subreddits were back up and the petition was on its way to reaching 150,000 signatures.In answer to a request for comment, Reddit provided a statement that Pao first released to the press on Friday.“I want to apologize for how we handled the transition yesterday,” the statement said. “We should have informed the moderators earlier and provided more detail on the transition plan. We are working to make improvements and create the best experience for our users and we aren’t always perfect. Our community is what makes Reddit, Reddit and we let you down.”Ininterviews on Friday, Pao apologized , but her remarks did not satisfy Reddit users because they were not made on the site, where such users felt Pao would have been communicating directly with them. Paodid post a statement on Redditon Friday, in which she said: “We are going to figure this out and fix it.”In March, Paolost a landmark sex discrimination lawsuitagainst the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers. Pao and her lawyer argued that Kleiner was a boys’ club and that Pao was fired because she was a woman. The jury found in favor of the company, which claimed that Pao was fired because she was bad at her job, was divisive and not a team player.According to the New York Times, which spoke to Pao when the petition had about 13,000 signatures, the call for her resignation did not faze her.“It’s an exciting job. We’re doing a lot behind the scenes that people have not seen yet,”Pao said. “Most of the community is made up of thoughtful people, and they can appreciate what we all do, even if we don’t always agree.”Pao was hired by Reddit in April 2013. “Being part of a community of people who care is inspiring and energizing,”she said then, in a statement. “Reddit has so much to offer so many people, and I’m excited to find partners to help make Reddit even more awesome.”In November 2014, she wasappointed interim chief executiveafter the resignation of Yishan Wong.In September 2011, when Reddit looked to hire a CEO, a companystatementsaid: “Make no mistake, Reddit owes its past, present, and future success to the community. We wouldn’t seriously consider any individuals for the CEO position unless they understood the community and were passionate about serving its needs.”That is what users signing the petition say Pao – who has offended some bycracking down on trolling– does not do.“A vast majority of the Reddit community believes that Pao … has overstepped her boundaries and fears that she will run Reddit into the ground. Alternative sites to Reddit.com have sprung up and have received vast amounts of traffic within the recent months,”the petitionsays.“The communication between the Reddit administration team to its subreddit moderators is very lacking and rather unsettling after years of empty promises to the moderators to improve and provide tools to help run subreddits, and ultimately Reddit as a whole, smoothly.”When the petition surpassed 100,000 signatures on Sunday, its creators posted an update noting that Pao and chairman and site co-founder Alexis Ohanian had issued apologies via comments and interviews via news outlets.“Along with their apologies were, again, empty promises to improve their communication with the community and provide tools for the moderators as they have promised to do so years ago,”the users behind the petition said.“As of right now they have not issued an apology in a site-wide announcement or blogpost. It is sad that they have resorted to the news rather than addressing us, their consumers.”Those behind the petition urged those who signed it to keep “keep spreading, promoting, and supporting.“We will not stop until we see action taken,” they said.Advance Publications, which owns Reddit, is under no obligation to respond to the petition.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatestAndroidapps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Vessel offers online videos before YouTube.APPSVessel Beta (Free + IAP)From vloggers to musicians to Let’s Play gamers, Vessel is promising “early access” to some of the most popular channels on YouTube through its app. The idea: you pay a £2.29 monthly subscription to get videos at least three days before they’re published on YouTube, with creators including Ingrid Nilsen, Connor Franta, Nerdist and Rhett &amp; Link already on board.Medium (Free)Medium made its name online as a new platform for writers. Its Android smartphone app is aimed partly at their readers: a simple way to browse the bloggers you follow as well as discover articles from the wider Medium community. But you can also use its editor to publish your own pieces.CloudPlayer by doubleTwist (Free + IAP)With streaming music on the rise, you don’t see cloud lockers in the media as much. Even so, the idea of storing your own collection on someone’s server to access from all your devices still has plenty of users. DoubleTwist’s new app does exactly that, but it taps multiple cloud-storage services: Dropbox, OneDrive and Google Drive.BitTorrent Shoot (Free + IAP)BitTorrent (the company) has been keen recently to remind people that BitTorrent (the technology) is about moving large files around efficiently, not just about piratical filesharing. Shoot is the latest evidence: an app designed to help you share large numbers of photos or high-file-size videos with friends from your device. It works well.BBC Newsbeat (Free)Plenty of media organisations are trying to figure out what young millennials want from news. In the BBC’s case, it’s trying an app for the Newsbeat news team that work for its Radio 1 and 1Xtra radio stations. It’s an accessible app for browsing music and entertainment news along with topics including politics, technology and sexual health.Portal - Wifi File Transfers (Free)One of Android’s most useful apps right now is Pushbullet, which helps your Android device work better with your other devices around the home. This is a new app from the company, focused on transferring files stored on your smartphone to your desktop computer, simply by dragging and dropping.QualityTime - My Digital Diet (Free)Worried that you’re spending too much time glued to your smartphone? Join the club. QualityTime is one of the apps hoping to nudge you back into the world around you – in this case by showing you data on how much time you’re spending in various apps, while also enabling you to set “take a break” alerts to shame you into looking up once in a while.Facebook Ads Manager (Free)This is an app specifically for businesses and marketers buying Facebook ads: a way to track how your campaigns are doing from your smartphone, as well as setting up notifications when ads are about to end, or if you’re about to hit your budget limit.Crossroad (Free)Nothing to do with the famous soap opera (although you may have guessed that from the missing ’s’). This is a clever app for creating shared albums while with friends at an event, from parties to holidays. It then handles the process of synchronising everyone’s photos, rather than relying on you to share them manually.Minute Video Discovery (Free)If you watch a lot of online video, this app could help you find better stuff to watch. It promises 10 “highlights” of new videos every day, based on your viewing preferences, boiling them down to the “best parts” in order to persuade you to tap through to the real things. Time will tell if its recommendations algorithm is truly useful, though.Geometry Wars 3 for Android.GAMESGeometry Wars 3: Dimensions (£3.82)The first Geometry Wars game was a console hit, but this action franchise is just as suited to touchscreens. This latest version is a frenetic shooter that sees you working your way through 50 levels in its adventure mode, and testing your reactions in its separate battle modes. It’s colourful, challenging and a treat for the eyes.Vainglory (Free + IAP)Released for iOS last year, Vainglory is that most hardcore of genres: Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA for short) where you take part in three-on-three battles trying to outsmart your opponents with monsters, magic and clever strategy. Now it’s on Android too: a treat, although be prepared to put the time in.Lego Minifigures Online (£3.83 + IAP)This is Lego’s latest game, with an online focus. You play with mini-figures – including the ones you buy in the real world – exploring, battling and playing with friends on iOS, PC, Mac and Linux. It’s early days but current indications are promising: with a pirate world available now, and more to follow as in-app purchases.Socioball (Free)This looks like a simple puzzle game, but it’s rather wonderful once you get sucked in. Essentially it’s about guiding a ball from A to B by placing missing tiles, but it opens up when you start creating your own levels and sharing them via Twitter, while checking out those of other players.Groove Coaster 2 (Free + IAP)There’s a long history of neon-fried racers with great soundtracks, and Taito’s Groove Coaster 2 fits neatly into it. That said, it’s more of a rhythm-action game where you tap to the music to zoom through the rollercoaster levels. The ability to tap on physical objects around your device to play adds to the fun.Stick Tennis Tour (Free + IAP)Having just emerged from the deep rabbit-hole that is Stick Cricket 2, I’m trying not to fall in to another one with developer Stick Sports’ new tennis game. It’s hard though: this is an excellent take on the tennis genre, with neat swipe controls for your shots and a range of challenges to beat.Freak Circus Racing (Free + IAP)More traditional racing here: an extremely silly (in a positive sense) horizontally-scrolling racer, with circus characters providing the driving. It’s colourful, challenging and demands that you pick it up to play again, even when you get frustrated.FireWhip (£0.78)FireWhip doesn’t look like much from the screenshots, but it provides plenty of fun once you dive in. It involves spinning yourself around then cracking your fiery whip to kill enemies: a skill well worth mastering.Sonic Runners (Free + IAP)Sonic the Hedgehog has starred in some duff games down the years, but putting him into a horizontally-scrolling endless-runner is a logical move – given his history. Collect rings, beat bosses and unlock Tails and Knuckles for extra retro thrills.Eggheads (£1.49 + IAP)Finally, trivia. This is an official app based on BBC quiz show Eggheads, with the same format of four specialist rounds followed by a general knowledge test. While it may not appeal beyond keen fans of the show, if you’re in that group it’s definitely worth shelling out on. Sorry.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
In 2012, a fallow year for the E3 video game expo in Los Angeles, Ubisoft revealed its latest open-world action adventure – and promptly stole the show. Watch Dogs, a cyberpunk thriller set in an astonishingly detailed recreation of Chicago, looked amazing, with its complex lighting effects, lifelike character animation and detailed weather simulation.There was just one slight problem – when the game was released on PC and the next-gen consoles, the visualsdid not quite match that early promise. For many gamers, the disparity symbolised a growing problem with games industry marketing: a reliance on “vertical slice” demos to build early hype. These pre-release presentations tend to be built on powerful PC hardware and are designed to give an impression of the performance levels that development teams are targeting. The problems come when the game is released months or even years later, and the reality fails to match the early promise, with the most ambitious and demanding effects often scaled down or missing.Speaking to the Guardian at this year’s E3, Ubisoft CEO, Yves Guillemot, conceded that the company had been caught out by the complexity of the project.Watch Dogs follows hacker vigilante Aiden Pearce as he gains control of the city’s mainframe computer system; it features a large open-city environment, the ability to hack into the phones of every passerby to open side-missions, and a multiplayer feature that lets players raid each other’s games. The dev team also introduced “second screen” functionality so players could interact with the game via smartphones and tablets.“It’s a real challenge to create those types of games,” said Guillemot. “When they come out, especially the first iterations, they are not perfect on everything. We think we launched a good quality game for a first step in a new brand with a new technology. It’s just so complex – seamless multiplayer, connectivity with mobile and tablets, so many things – it was maybe a bit too much for a first iteration.”Ubisoft was far from alone in presenting an overly ambitious graphical demo for a major new title. Few veteran gamers will ever forget the controversy surrounding the E3 2005 demo of Killzone 2, which Sony initially appeared to claim was running in real-time on PS3 hardware before it later became clear the footage was a “target render”. Furthermore, as a first generation release on the new PS4 and Xbox One console, Watch Dogs would have been largely developed on high-end PCs with only an approximation of the final machine specifications.Nevertheless, Guillemot said that reactions to the Watch Dogs demo had re-shaped the company’s approach to showing off pre-release games. “With E3 2015 we said, OK, let’s make sure the games are playable, that they’re running on the target machines. When we show something, we ask the team, make sure it’s playable, make sure gamers can immediately see exactly what it is. That’s what we learned from the Watch Dogs experience – if it can’t be played on the target machine, it can be a risk.”Speaking about Ubisoft’s approach to internal development, Guillemot said that the company would continue to accompany its triple A releases with experimental projects pitched to him and chief creative officer Serge Hascoet by small teams. The process has seen offbeat titles like Valiant Hearts and Child of Light come to fruition. Apparently, developers have even started skipping the official pitching procedure. Newcastle-based studio Ubisoft Reflections started creating its botanical platformer Grow Home in secret.“[Managing director] Pauline Jacquey said ‘we’re going to do a game that’s so cheap we don’t need your approval – we have something that’s already good enough’. When I saw it for the first time it was 60% done. I like that approach. When a project costs more than $5m we need to look at it because it can go wrong. But when it’s €200,000 to €300,000, they can make all the decisions they need to to make it happen.”As for the next Watch Dogs, which is surely in development, Guillemot was circumspect, but said the development team would be building on the foundations of the original title. “We are continuing to work on everything we created so we can get to the next level,” he said.
Monday? So soon?
Rocksteady’s masterful Arkham trilogy comes to a close with a game so far from the cramped, knotty, Bafta-winning originalAsylumas to be nigh on unrecognisable. WhereAsylumtook place entirely in the titular madhouse, inCity,the Caped Crusader took to the skies and streets of Gotham to deal justice to his collection of nemeses. Now, inKnight,the basic idea is the same – the open-world setting has grown, the already impressive visuals have been polished further – as the Dark Knight takes on the Scarecrow and the mysterious Arkham Knight, a malevolent doppelgänger.The addition of the Batmobile is the biggest change in gameplay – with the ability to speed through the streets of the city a welcome departure – although some of the tank-style combat has strayed too far from the claustrophobic, stealth challenges that really made the series great. However, the twisty plot is a comic-book delight – a fitting end to a triumvirate of games that have always valued storytelling and voice-acting – and it propels players through to a fine conclusion to this version of DC’s most popular superhero.
Another intriguing direction for the Wii U here, withArt Academy: Atelieroffering a good basic toolkit for learning to paint and draw. It does so through rather charming lessons that communicate the fundamentals of visual art in a laid-back, step-by-step format. Each stage features detailed explanations and animations that do an admirable job of explaining concepts such as the rule of thirds or colour theory.The Wii U gamepad, it has to be said, is slightly awkward for accurate drawing, but with practice it is possible to create good-looking work. However, finished pieces can create large files that will eat up storage space, so it may be worth investing in SD cards for back-up.The package includes tools and an inbuilt community-sharing feature and its relatively low price provides value as a jack-of-all-trades package.But it comes up unfavourably against more specialist competition. It’s undoubtedly a great place, then, for a young beginner to start, but experienced artists are likely to find it less rewarding.
4.33pmBSTThat’s a wrap for this liveblog. There is a closing ceremony to come, but I have two young Minecrafters of my own who I’ve promised I’ll be home in time to read a bedtime story to, and it’s a long-ish journey ahead.The thing that’s hit home this weekend, though, is that Minecraft is much more than just a game that children (and adults - someone was telling me the other day that the average player age is 28, although I haven’t had that officially from developer Mojang) play. For many children, Minecraft is their entertainment - and the YouTubers who make Let’s Play videos with it are their pop stars.I haven’t written nearly enough this weekend about the crossover between Minecraft and education - from the efforts of Mojang’s new parent company Microsoft to the Wonder Quest education series launched recently by Stampy to the various initiatives exploring whether Minecraft can be used to help children learn and practise programming skills.That’s something to watch closely in the months ahead. Anyway, off I go, leaving an audience behind me happily waving their foam diamond swords and cuboid balloons. And as for the children...Updatedat 4.34pm BST4.21pmBSTfyi Daniel wanted to be a policeman when he was younger, his favourite colour is blue, and he doesn’t speak any languages other than English. And the final question, from one bold youngster: “Will you come to my house?” He might pop round for a cup of tea.So now you know.4.08pmBSTMiddleton has just punched a man off the top of Big Ben. “Oh no! I’ve done a terrible thing!” Meanwhile, it has started raining in virtual London. And punching the man has solved the quest, for reasons nobody seems quite sure of.But regardless, he’s now giving the jewels to the Queen because London. There might be an MBE in this for him one day. Oh, he’s taking a virtual selfie with her. Maybe not.The Queen in Minecraft: at last!Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianAnd now questions from the audience. What does he like best: pugs or Minecraft? He can’t choose. How much Minecraft does he play a day? About six or seven hours. What’s his favourite video on his own channel? DanTDM Gets Sick:What would he be doing if Minecraft didn’t exist? “If YouTube was still around as a thing then I’d like to think I’d still make video on something. But something in video or music production, as that’s what I did my degree on.” Favourite block in Minecraft? Diamond blocks, although he flirts with the idea of saying the slime blocks.Who inspired him to do YouTube? “I started watching Minecraft videos like Sky Does Minecraft and VanossGaming,” he says. His favourite mob? A villager, with pigs coming in second. Who’s his favourite YouTuber? VanossGaming, again.It’s striking how naturally he answers the questions - which are all coming from young children - no talking down or fake-wackiness. “PS my mum’s best friend loves you!” says one questioner, drawing a big laugh from the parents in the room.Updatedat 4.13pm BST3.47pmBST3.43pmBSTAnyway yes, Middleton is playing an adventure set in London, searching for a missing bus sign, then solving a jewel robbery - all with plenty of audience participation. Fans are shouting the answers whenever he asks a question, while parents give one another “I don’t understand this but at least we have seats for an hour, remember Peppa Pig World NEVER FORGET” glances.It’s an interesting contrast to what you’d think of as traditional children’s entertainment, though: no exaggerated slapstick or shouting from Middleton - he really is just sat behind a laptop playing Minecraft and chatting about it with a fairly relaxed drawl. But his audience is rapt.3.36pmBSTDaniel ‘The Diamond Minecart’ Middleton at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian3.26pmBSTIn other news I’m about four rows from the front to watch Daniel of The Diamond Minecart spend an hour playing Minecraft live - along with at least 3,000 other people. What scenes!There was anextremelygrumpy boy sat behind me complaining loudly about not being able to see. He’s moved now. That’s one of the awkward things about being a grown-up at Minecon: wherever you sit, there’s the risk that you’ll end up blocking the view of a six year-old who’s not afraid of calling you names.3.20pmBST'You don't need to be scared of YouTubers. We're as scared of you!'I heard the quote above while eating lunch earlier, from a woman sat behind me who was obviously famous enough on YouTube to have children nervously approaching and asking for her autograph. She was joking to reassure them, but it did neatly sum up the curious situation that gaming YouTubers find themselves in, when they get popular.A lot of the ones I’ve met remind me of, well, me as a 21 year-old: gamers keen to communicate their passion to a wider audience. Except that while for me the main option was to take a staff writer job at a magazine publisher like Future Publishing or Dennis here in the UK - I did exactly that with Official Dreamcast Magazine back in the day - for them it’s about online video and audiences in their millions. But also the pressures that brings.These gamers are stars for their audience - somewhere between children’s TV stars and pop stars on the scale of fan fervour. They have gaming skills and video-making skills, but they’re also having to develop the kind of people skills required when every other child you see wants your autograph and/or a selfie and/or a deep chat about a specific element of a certain Minecraft mod or video. Celebrity skills, I guess you’d call it.And all the time, they’re uploading videos every day, getting involved in conversations on YouTube, Twitter and Facebook, and having the kind of direct relationship with fans that a lot of traditional TV, film or music stars didn’t. They’re a fascinating new layer of pop-culture stars that, I suspect, the media still hasn’t quite gotten its head around.I do hope they’re getting good support and advice, though: I can’t imagine the 21 year-old me being plunged into this kind of environment - where fandom crosses the digital-physical divide - and not finding it overwhelming at some point.2.49pmBSTI’m assuming this has been announced before, but hadn’t seen it written about: Mattel is making a Minecraft-branded quadcopter drone based on the Ghast character (but you’ll have to wait until Autumn 2016 to buy it):Mattel’s RC Ghast quadcopter Minecraft drone.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian2.45pmBSTDaniel Middleton of The Diamond Minecart at Minecon.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThere’s an online TV show broadcasting from Minecon, with interviews shown live on nearby screens. Here’s Daniel Middleton, who runs the Diamond Minecart channel on YouTube, having his say.Out of shot there was a growing crowd of children with foam swords and pickaxes, ready to seek an autograph as soon as he dares set foot on the expo floor.2.41pmBSTMore Mojang staff are giving a deep dive into the process of making Minecraft in a panel session that sounds like it may be useful for young programmers:Now inflicting on my kids a discussion about java vs. C++ at &quot;behind the scenes&quot; session#Minecon2015&mdash; Roger Milton (@rogermilton)July 5, 2015&quot;Oh that&#39;s secret code, don&#39;t look at that&quot;#Minecon2015&mdash; Mikael Hedberg (@slicedlime)July 5, 2015Enjoying@Mojangpanel! Idk dungeons had to be built 100% in code. Now devs use special in-game blocks.#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/vIHlTEupsd&mdash; Douglas Kiang  (@dkiang)July 5, 20152.35pmBSTA familiar face spotted in the art section of Minecon’s expo:Remember him?Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian2.32pmBSTThere’s one area of the expo with a bunch of Minecraft-themed fairground games. Cow Tipping appears to be the biggest hit of the lot, with a long line:Cow tipping at Minecon.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianBut Creeper Catch seems to be doing well too:If this was happening in Minecraft, you’d be stepping back quickly right now.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian2.28pmBSTA Minecraft tree in the real world.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianI’ve been impressed by the Minecraft-y trees scattered around the expo here. A close-up view reveals how they get the effect: metal cages and (I assume) careful pruning.2.26pmBSTI think I’ve found the parent creche at Minecon...Adults taking a breather at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian1.33pmBSTAt the world&#39;s largest live#Minecraftshow Olivia is sat on the floor playing#CutTheRope. This is OK#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/k4JINuNmxw&mdash; Dean Johnson (@activrightbrain)July 5, 2015Not just OK: common, I’d say. Interestingly, most of the children I’ve seen playing on tablets to while away queue time aren’t playing Minecraft: Pocket Edition. Crossy Road seems to be the usual choice, as far as I can make out.1.08pmBSTBlock By Block seems an inspiring project: Eugenio Gastelum Pons from Mexico is talking about getting children involved in creating the designs for new parks, figuring out what they want from basketball courts to lighting, with Minecraft the conduit for their ideas to reach city planners.Matt Needler and Phil Southam from FyreUK are showing some of the models they’ve built for Block By Block, starting with one in Nepal:“It’s quite a fun challenge, because if you’ve seen our videos, you’ll know we aren’t usually building real structures,” says Needler. “It’s been really interesting trying to find things in Minecraft that can represent things in real life,” adds Southam.They show their biggest model, built for a space in Haiti, which is massive. “We want to make it as detailed and accurate as possible,” says Needler. “We want to make it somewhere you can visitinMinecraft.” Meanwhile Southam talks about the experience of visiting the real cities after creating the builds: “I’m always worried I’m going to have missed a corner or something!”“The fact that we can produce something using a game that helps people in the real world is really special,” says Southam, before handing over to Mojang’s Vu Bui, who explains that the original idea came from an outside organisation in Sweden, using Minecraft in an urban regeneration project.“To be able to use what is designed and created purely as a game in things that are not directly gaming-related... and to use that to help people’s lives, is really special for us. This is not ‘the architect version’, this is just the pure game, but it can be used for uses outside what it was originally intended for, which is really exciting for us,” says Bui.Currently, UN-Habitat is running between 30 and 35 projects, with 12 of those using Minecraft, with one having been completed. “By the end of this year we should be at about five, and with more finishing in 2016,” says Westerberg. Meanwhile, Needler says FyreUK is exploring the idea of making its builds available for the wider Minecraft community to explore. But they won’t be editable: only people in the cities covered by the projects will be involved in that process.12.45pmBSTI’m now sitting in on a panel session aboutBlock By Block, Mojang’s partnership with UN-Habitat to use Minecraft in public space design, which is one of the most interesting offshoots so far.Pontus Westerberg, who coordinates the programme, describes it as using Minecraft “to involve communities, particularly young people, in the design of good public spaces - particularly in developing countries”. He explains that contact with Mojang began in 2012, and that the partnership has so far raised nearly $3m for real building projects.His colleague José Chong talks about the definition of public spaces: anywhere people meet, shop, play sport... “All places publicly owned or for public use, accessible and enjoyable by all for free and without a profit motive,” is the official definition. “This is something where we are facing a lot of problems in many countries,” he adds. Not least because public spaces are also places where people can protest and demonstrate.An example of a project run by the Block By Block initiative.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianChong says that successful cities have 50% of the city area as public space, but notes that this is often a seemingly-impossible achievement in the developing world. The process involves British developer FyreUK, which uses source materials like Google maps, plans and photos to build the virtual versions of the cities in Minecraft. Then UN-Habitat runs workshops with citizens using those builds to get their ideas on how their city’s public space should develop - and often the resulting plans are used for real building works.Updatedat 12.48pm BST12.28pmBSTHow many chief operating officers of games developers attract lines of autograph hunters at their company conferences? Here’s Mojang’s Vu Bui, currently dispensing big smiles, selfies and signatures for young Minecraft fans.Mojang COO Vu Bui at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian12.19pmBSTMeanwhile, around the show:In my first mega queue now. But it&#39;s OK, I&#39;m British. We queue well, we queue very well.#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/ARExfrv0pW&mdash; Ector (@ectorvynk)July 5, 2015MORE SWAG!!!!#Minecon2015@whaleygeek@martinohanlon@SianTechyThomas😝pic.twitter.com/wdwt1iON10&mdash; Hannah Mills (@Digitaldivageek)July 5, 2015All Nico wanted at#Minecon2015was the cube balloon from#minechest&#10;&#10;Tiniest Minecrafter is now happy.pic.twitter.com/w8w8R85TYt&mdash; Amber Smirnow (@Ambersmirnow)July 5, 2015I’ve been told to bring two of those cube balloons home tonight, which means taking them on the DLR then on a train from Liverpool Street. The chances of themnotending up floating miles above the London skyline are slim.That said, when I took my now-eight-year-old to In The Night Garden Live once and bought him a helium Iggle Piggle balloon, he spent the next 10 minutes scampering along outside The O2 threatening to let it go, and when he did just that, my despairing dive wasn’t good enough to catch it.I’d say the expressions on the faces of the other 700-odd parents watching were 20% been-there sympathy, and 80% uncontrollable mirth. With parenting, you have to take your schadenfreude where you can get it.12.08pmBSTNew features for Minecraft revealedHere’s the promisedstandalone story on upcoming Minecraft features, based on a panel session featuring Mojang developers:“Mojang also showed off a new area of the game for players to visit with a doomy yellow, purple and black colour scheme, and new trees that can be mined for “chorus fruit”, which in turn can create more new blocks.The company is introducing a new mob called the Shulker, which sits inside a block that opens up, and shoots shuriken-styke projectiles at players that bounce off walls and travel round corners.Mojang showed a demo of a player leaping upwards - using another new feature, a levitation effect - and fending off a battery of projectiles.”Although I’ll put my expertise in “playing Creative Mode with two children while they destroy everything you’ve carefully crafted, while cackling” up against anyone, I’m not quite so expert at the business end of the game’s Survival Mode, so hoping I’ve not made any howling errors reporting the finer points of that session.The new levitation effect and Shulker mob look fun though:Updatedat 12.28pm BST11.03amBSTChildren keen to get their foam swords and pickaxes signed by YouTube stars Stampy or iBallisticSquid, good news: they’re still in the building. Although unless they spent the last hour in that block pit, they’ve probably moved on from book publisher Egmont’s stand.Look who just popped by our block pit!@stampylongnose@iBallisticSquid#minecon2015pic.twitter.com/R7FXjdoqRw&mdash; Egmont Publishing UK (@EgmontUK)July 5, 2015You just know that Egmont’s stand staff, once the show finishes, are going to be leaping into that block pit. Just like gleeful adults on a bouncy castle at a family party once the kids have gone to bed.10.58amBSTWe’re about to start an hour-long session called The Minecraft Team - Upcoming Features, in which several Mojang staff will talk about what’s next for Minecraft across computers, consoles and mobile devices. I’ll be scribbling a report and then linking to it from here, so expect an hour’s quietness.10.39amBSTCan&#39;t make it to London? Here&#39;s a tour of#Minecon2015in just over a minute:http://t.co/EZ4oD6R7pKpic.twitter.com/7DMR2zfxLX&mdash; IGNUK (@IGNUK)July 5, 201510.34amBSTLast thing from yesterday: since the opening-night show, dancing Minecraft Steves have been playing on a loop in my head overnight, so it’s only fair to share them with you...10.32amBSTWhile we’re going over yesterday’s news,here’s the standalone piece on Minecraft: Story Mode, an entirely new narrative-led adventure game being worked on by developers Mojang and Telltale Games.“Telltale looked back to the 1980s for inspiration. “We wanted a story that evoked the classic film stories that we were passionate about,” said Stauffer.“The movies we grew up with, the two tentpoles we called out were Goonies and Ghostbusters... movies that they just don’t make any more, not like that,” he said, before admitting that a more recent film, The Incredibles, has also been an influence.“Roleplaying is pretty key. In a Telltale game where you’re driving the story, it’s literally roleplaying. You’re going to be able to play Jesse however you want to play him,” said Stauffer.“You might have to decide which friends you want to be with the most, and which ones you’re going to have to leave behind. It’s about driving the story, role-playing as a character, and there’s a lot of tough decisions.”One aspect that is sparking debate online, as it was in the venue, is the fact that the game’s playable character is set: a male character called Jesse, although Telltale said that there will be strong female non-playable characters.10.28amBSTThe Observer also sent photographer Katherine Anne Rose to Minecon yesterday, and her best shots have been gathered in thisMinecon 2015 - in picturesgallery. Some of the costumes are excellent (and, parents, worth bookmarking for later reference before Halloween, perhaps).10.24amBSTMinecraft's Minecon day one: recapIf you want to quickly catch up on the first day of Minecon, you canread yesterday’s liveblog, or the report that appeared in today’s Observer newspaper, and is now online:The likes ofSqaishey QuackandiBallisticSquidmay not be familiar in the wider world, but to their young audience they are genuine celebrities. When the compere asked children in the audience how much time they spend watching Minecraft on YouTube, one mother’s muttered “Years!” sparked laughter from the parents around her.“Minecraft is a bona fide phenomenon on YouTube,” said Ryan Wyatt, YouTube’s global head of gaming. “Its beauty is its openness: anyone can create a new Minecraft world and share it with others. The result is really rich, often weirdly wonderful content and very engaged communities.”Wyatt added that, in 2014 in the US, Minecraft was the second most searched-for subject on YouTube. “Could anyone have predicted the huge success of Minecraft way back when? I doubt it. But content beauty is in the eye of the beholder,” he said. “Long may the reign of this game continue.”Read the full Observer piece here.Updatedat 12.29pm BST10.21amBSTGood morning! It’s 10.15am on a Sunday, and I’m perched in a plastic seat near the front of a cavernous room in London’s Excel conference venue, listening to uplifting trance music while a lush (if somewhat blocky) jungle environment spins on the giant screen above.No, not a new music festival: Minecon. The annual conference for Minecraft is into its second day, and I’m here for the day covering it. My two sons (aged six and eight) are at home,fumingthat they weren’t invited along - “I don’t see why I can’t liveblog,” said the eight year-old. Maybe next year...Anyway, expect news and views from the conference sessions, photos from the accompanying exhibition, a sprinkling of quotes overheard in the crowd, and more evidence that the creative community around Minecraft is one of the most interesting, positive things in gaming right now.
We know all about Minecraft’s past and present: 70m sales across computers, consoles and mobile devices, and a burgeoning community of players, YouTubers, educators and independent developers doing interesting things with developer Mojang’s game.We know a little about its future too: a narrative-driven adventure spin-off calledMinecraft: Story Mode- a separate game, not a new mode within the main game - and aMinecraft movie sometime in 2016 or 2017. But what’s next for the main game itself?Related:Minecon 2015: day two of the annual Minecraft conference - liveMojang provided fans with some details during its Minecon 2015 conference in London this morning, in an hour-long session focusing on Minecraft for computers and consoles, and its Pocket Edition for smartphones and tablets.A panel session saw Mojang’s Owen Hill, Daniel Wustenhoff, Tommaso Checchi, Jens Bergensten and Nathan Adams talk about upcoming features, and take questions from an audience that was around two thirds adults and a third children - a reflection of Minecraft’s player community.Among the changes: a harder-to-beat Ender Dragon monster towards the end of the game in its desktop incarnation.“The Ender Dragon right now in the PC edition is not right. You go to the end, you break a few blocks, then you hit him over the head a couple of times,” admitted Adams, promising a tougher challenge for players, and also the ability to respawn the dragon at will if they craft the necessary item.Mojang also showed off a new area of the game for players to visit with a doomy yellow, purple and black colour scheme, and new trees that can be mined for “chorus fruit”, which in turn can create more new blocks.The company is introducing a new mob called the Shulker, which sits inside a block that opens up, and shoots shuriken-styke projectiles at players that bounce off walls and travel round corners.Mojang showed a demo of a player leaping upwards - using another new feature, a levitation effect - and fending off a battery of projectiles:Minecraft players will also soon be able to quickly swap between different weapons and items in their character’s right and left hands, and also to carry shields and craft banners to customise them - a much-requested feature from players.On smartphones and tablets, Mojang will soon release an update adding the main game’s entire Nether region, complete with its mobs and items, to the Pocket Edition.Also coming soon: support for physical controllers - “Real buttons!” said Wustenhoff. Meanwhile, Checchi confirmed that Minecraft: Pocket Edition will get full use of the game’s redstone material by the end of this year.On desktop and console, redstone can be dropped as dust to create circuits that transmit power, in one of the game’s most creative features. Until now, the Pocket Edition has only been able to use redstone for crafting objects, rather than as dust circuits.Wustenhoff and Checchi also confirmed that Mojang is working on bringing its Realms service - where players pay a monthly subscription to manage their own private Minecraft servers to play on with friends - to the Pocket Edition. “It was meant to be in the next update, but we didn’t get around to it,” said Checchi.Mojang staff on stage at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianNot every player request is being answered, of course. Adams politely knocked back one suggestion from the crowd that Mojang allow the Ender Dragon to spawn a baby version of itself.“A baby dragon would be too cute to kill! He’d be flying around destroying your world, and you’d be like ‘Aah!’,” he said.
Whatever happened to wonder? The most unnerving thing about sitting in the back of a driverless car is how quickly you get used to it. After 10 minutes cruising Californian streets in the rear seat of one of Google’s “autonomous” Lexus 4x4s, the “look, no hands!” miracle of the Google “driver” in the front already feels old hat. Approaching a complicated four-way junction, every nearby moving or stationary object – lorries, wheelie bins, birds, trees, pedestrians – mapped and colour-coded instant-by-instant on the car’s computer console, I find myself thinking not, “Look out!” but rather, “Speed up!”The car, one of 24 that have now done a collective million miles on the roads aroundGoogle’s campus in the city of Mountain View, and further afield on freeways, and even out in San Francisco, behaves – not surprisingly – somewhat like a cautious learner driver. Its sensors, bolt-on radar and lasers and cameras, are twitchily hyperactive. They can monitor unexpected movements two football pitches away. Now they are calculating from memory what the dad and his toddler passenger on a bike on the right are likely to do next, now processing the probabilities that the car approaching the stop sign at some speed is actually going to stop.Even so, pausing for a cautionary second and a half at a green light, driver’s impatience being so ingrained, I don’t think, “Wow!” but “Come on…” Not for a moment do I imagine that the car – or the complex digital intelligence that fuels its decisions – will fail to do the right thing. It is, I suppose, the latest expression of that now vintage and troublingly prophetic bumper sticker: In Google we trust.The car takes me for a ride on the second morning of a three-day quest to discover in which direction the all-powerful search engine (now 16 years old, ready to spread its wings) is currently motoring; what territory – virtual, actual, economic – it is planning to stake out next; where it is taking us.Related:Google Maps: a decade of transforming the mapping landscapeMy campus tour has something of the quality of a west coastTomorrow’s World. It involves meetings with the head of Google Translate, Barak Turovsky, who places a phone on a table and has it talk to me in English directly from his spoken Russian; the cartographer-in-chief of Google Maps, Manik Gupta, who is excited about current efforts to map the unmappable – Indian villages, the Grand Canyon, the Great Barrier Reef – using backpackers and local knowledge. I listen to one of the two or three key brains behind the Search algorithm itself, Ben Gomes, who speaks 10 to the dozen of “natural language generation” and “deep learning networks” (and, inevitably, of the “holy grail” of answering users’ questions before they have been asked). I walk and talk with the Brit Alex Gawley, who has just reimagined Gmail for mobile. I have my mind suitably boggled by some of the more maverick voices atGoogle X, the company’s in-house futurology lab, includingMike Cassidy, whoseProject Loonaims to bring Wi-Fi to 4 billion currently disconnected people, with the stratospheric use of tens of thousands of hot-air balloons (“It seemed like something worth aiming for, I suppose,” Cassidy says, with the wry understatement that is Google’s lingua franca). And – when I had returned the Lexus to its parking bay, and headed up to a rooftop test area, where the new home-grown prototype self-driving car, a friendly little two-seater bubble that comes without steering wheel or brake pedal is going through its paces at a community launch event – I meet Sergey Brin, co-founder of the company, in his T-shirt and shorts and Crocs.Are driverless cars his priority at the moment? I ask (immediately throwing away, it turns out, one of two questions I’m able to put to him).“We have a great many priorities,” Brin says.Sergey Brin, co-founder of Google, still owns around 16% of the company.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewHe’s not wrong. From the outside it can appear as if Google is trying to solve every problem, colonise every market, all at once. As a company, it seems dangerously – or thrillingly, depending on your point of view – addicted to ubiquity. Last year Brin’s co-founding partner, Larry Page, confessed to the challenges of trying to invest the $62bn in cash that Google had accumulated. He explainedin October to theFTthat Apple’s Steve Jobs always used to tell him that Google was trying to do too much, be too ambitious. Page considered a lack of such ambition to be a crime. Even so, he conceded: “We’re in a bit of uncharted territory. How do we use all these resources… and have a much more positive impact on the world?”In order to give more thought to that question, Page announced he was stepping back a little from technical challenges at the end of last year and appointing Sundar Pichai into part of his former role as head of products. Pichai, 43, is in some ways the embodiment of the engineering soul of the company. Raised in Tamil Nadu in India, educated first in India then at Stanford and Wharton school of management and employed by McKinsey before coming here in 2004, he is self-effacing, compulsive about solutions, evangelical about possibilities and likably slightly inarticulate at expressing them precisely. How does he decide the priorities for the company’s billions?He references two cultural commandments as his guiding principles. One is a line from the founders’ letter that Brin and Page wrote when Google was mostly just the two of them, 16 years ago: “Focus on the user and all else follows.”“We call it the toothbrush test,” Pichai says, “we want to concentrate our efforts on things that billions of people use on a daily basis. For it to work for us, it has to be global. Search started that way. You could be very educated or you could be a rural kid somewhere, but as long as you had access to Google connectivity it was the same thing. To me there was something very democratising about that.”Employees at Google corporate headquarters in Mountain View, California, May 2015.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewThe second guiding principle comes from the fabled mission statement that Brin and Page also put together. Whatever they choose to do, Pichai says, has to be in some way directed toward the small matter of “organising the world’s information and making it universally accessible”. Google remains above all ravenously hungry for data – text, video, photography, search histories, gmails, spoken word, driver behaviours, health indicators, whatever; it is their gift to you, and yours to them. “It is always a busy day, a busy week, a busy year,” Pichai says. “But when I try to work out what we should do, I go back to these two core principles.”Related:Yuval Noah Harari: The age of the cyborg has begun – and the consequences cannot be knownEvery era-defining corporation sells not only its products but also its culture to the world. In executive chairman Eric Schmidt’s often surprisingly frank bookHow Google Works(co-written with Jonathan Rosenberg, longtime developer of Google’s consumer and advertiser products) it is argued that “Culture and success go hand in hand, if you don’t believe your own slogans you won’t get very far.” You don’t have to spend very long at the Googleplex to realise that it believes that slogan in particular.Corporate cultures only become a source of wider interest when their attached businesses are wildly successful. If Google was Yahoo! or MySpace, the beach volleyball courts, the Thursday town hall meetings, the primary-coloured bikes, the famous interview techniques, the ping-pong tables and the lunch menu choices would be significantly less fascinating. The more you spend in that deliberately pervasive culture, though, the more people you speak to, the more you realise that Google employees are not only living the Google dream, they are also selling a version of that fantasy to the world.There is curiously little going on beyond Mountain View in nearby Palo Alto. It is quiet, orderly, restful, moneyed, not a city in any sense of the word. Its inhabitants are mostly asset-rich and time-poor. They believe in smart solutions to stress. They like the idea of structured play. They give the sense of believing it would be a good thing if all the world were as green, safe, and easily navigable as here. The pursuit of that goal seems to fire much of Google’s innovation. One USP of driverless cars is that they will allow occupants to use time “more productively”, by which I imagine they mean conference calls or Googling. Soon, people won’t even have to do that – their phone will answer queries – how long will it take? When can I schedule a walk with my wife? What do I have in the fridge for supper? – before they are even asked. That “ease” apparently is, according to several enthusiastic vice presidents, what users want. (“Is it?” I keep wondering, admittedly as someone who has never kept a diary or owned a watch. Or is it rather what Silicon Valley VPs want, with their “overworked” days of back-to-back meetings, their perception of time as money.)Sometimes, listening to these mobile features, it can sound as if they are selling users (not for nothing a synonym of addicts) not ease, but passivity. It does in any case feel worth pointing out that one result of some of these interventions – driverless vehicles, for example – will be that far fewer people will have anywhere purposeful to go. Still, Google has always wanted to be not only successful, but also to be loved. Like any suitor it gets irritated when it is misunderstood.“I think people see the disruption but they don’t really see the positive,” Larry Page said last year. “They don’t see [the advances of Google technology] as a life-changing kind of thing… I think the problem has been people don’t feel they are participating in it.”To an increasing degree they may be right. AnOxford University study of 2013, looking at the effect on employment of exponential advances in machine learning that Google has in large part accelerated, suggested that 47% of current American jobs were likely to be eclipsed by robots and computers in the near future – from taxi drivers (the driverless car will probably be the last word in hail and ride) to brain surgeons. Page himself is sanguine about the inevitability of that change. Given the chance to give up work, nine out of 10 people “wouldn’t want to be doing what they’re doing today,” he suggested. What they would do to make a living instead was less clear. “The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job – that just doesn’t make any sense to me,” the multi-billionaire offered. “That can’t be the right answer.”Page’s evangelism – what internet critic Evgeny Morozov calls “the Google doctrine”, the enthusiastic belief in the liberating power of technology – is shared by the universally inspirational leaders of Google’s product divisions. If you wanted to reassure yourself about Google’s famous motivation not to “do evil” there is, still, something comforting about talking to some of the quiet visionaries on the Google campus engaged in their everyday miracles. It’s the digital revolution in human form.Unfortunately, though, if you also wanted to feed your paranoia about the prospects of how things will turn out you would probably talk to the same people. Google’s affable, soft-spoken employees are guided by the thrills of problem-solving logic, optimised by data and funded by billions. One of the downsides of the toothbrush test is that while the perceived benefits (and profits) those solutions provide can provoke change on a vast scale, they also invariably mean the law of unintended consequences is multiplied by many orders of magnitude. Human costs are not part of the algorithm.Ben Gomes, Google’s overseer of UI – user interface – pictured in Mountain View, California.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewOne of the primary keepers of that algorithm – Google’s secret sauce – is Ben Gomes, who has been here since almost the beginning, as “search tsar” and now overseer of UI, “user interface”, the all-important billion a day “snippets” of dialogue between humans and Google, that make the experience seamless and keep the dollars rolling in. (He was there when the company first launchedAdWords, the pay-per-click revenue system that found a way of monetising curiosity, potentially taking a cut from pretty much every question anyone asked Google anywhere in the world.)Gomes runs quickly through the momentous challenges overcome in his 15 years, and in particular the growing certainty of voice recognition, which is bringing millions who cannot even read and write to the service. “It is good for all of the major languages now,” he says, bright-eyed. “We have attacked these hard problems like translation and speech recognition, getting the error rate down from 25% to 8%. Many years ago I would not have been able to talk to it at all with my strange accent. We used to have to get British guys to do the demos. Now it is fine.”Gomes was born in Tanzania, grew up in Bangalore, and never loses sight of the transformative technology he has helped create for inquisitive souls in the world’s four corners. As a child, he says, the only source of information about the outside world came from the two books a week he was allowed to borrow from the British Council library: Dickens novels, history books. How extraordinary it would have been to have had internet access, to have all the world’s information in his pocket…Thinking about libraries, and thinking about Google, I ask him, despite all those profound benefits, if he thinks some small things, the struggle for knowledge, the surprises and satisfactions of intellectual discovery, are also lost in that progress. Or, to put it another way, is it as formative for a child to learn about the world from BuzzFeed as fromBarnaby Rudge?“I don’t think one thing replaces the other,” he says. “I think there is a role for novels. If you give children the answers to questions I think it will stimulate them to go to greater depth. Sometimes I will go to a book for in-depth stuff, but if we can provide something that satisfies your curiosity and gives you the signposts to get to deeper information that is surely good.”It’s certainly a fabulous idea, that Googling makes us not passive and restless, but much smarter and much more curious. Still, cynic that I am, I can’t help being reminded as he speaks of a video on Twitter I recently half-watched while distracted from reading a book for review. It was a series of interviews with Texan university students, who were asked a number of very basic questions about the key events in American history. “Who won the civil war?” was one. No one had a clue (“America?” “The South?” “Tell me who was in it again?”). They did, to a man and woman, however, know the answer to the question, “Who was Brad Pitt’s first wife?”An exercise class at Google corporate headquarters. Eric Schmidt has described Google employees as ‘multidimensional, a type we call the “smart creative”’.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewIn his book, Eric Schmidt talked about the profile of the Google worker as a prototype for “a different type of employee”: “They are not confined to specific tasks. They are not limited in their access to the company’s information and computing power. They don’t keep quiet when they disagree with something. They get bored easily and shift jobs a lot. They are multidimensional, usually combining technical depth with business savvy and creative flair. In other words they are not ‘knowledge workers’ in the traditional sense. They are a new kind of animal, a type we call the ‘smart creative’, and they are the key to achieving success in the internet century.”These individuals are everywhere you turn at Google. Smart creativity becomes, no doubt, infectious, viral. Spend five minutes with Mike Cassidy, a serial entrepreneur whose first four start-ups were bought by Google for seven-figure sums, and it is impossible not to be enthused about his make-do-and-mend mission (initially involving prototypes using beer coolers and inspiration from Cheerios boxes) to send tens of thousands of helium balloons 20km up, then work out how to steer them, in order to bring Wi-Fi to half the world. Or listen to Chris Urmson, head of autonomous cars, make his careful and incontrovertible case for the need for the technology. “Today, worldwide, 1.2m are killed each year on the roads. In the US alone 33,000 people are killed, the equivalent of a 737 falling out of the sky five days a week. Why should we accept this as the status quo?”Steve Mahan tests Google’s self-driving car.Urmson details the joys of witnessing the first blind driver, Steve Mahan, tell a Google car to take him to pick up his dry cleaning. He details the pains to which his team have gone to understand all conceivable driver situations (his favourite, from the real world, was when a driverless car came upon a man in a wheelchair chasing a duck). He notes with understandable pride the fact that the cars have had only 11 minor accidents, mostly when they have been rear-ended, none of them “the car’s fault”. “If you look at teenage driving statistics they are really scary,” Umson says. He has two sons: Ethan, 11, and Carl, nine. “The aim is to get these vehicles out there and driving around before Ethan gets his driving licence…”Smart creatives are happy to talk about pretty much anything to do with their projects with huge enthusiasm. But the one subject you can never really get them going on is money. When asked in turn about the business case for their ideas, the engineers in turn intone the same mantra.“If we get the user experience right, we always assume the business case will follow.”They speak of an effective firewall between the science and the selling, much like those that exist between editorial and commercial departments in newspapers. As in newspapers, are there occasions when pressure is brought to bear, one to the other, for “pure” search results to be tweaked for commercial considerations?“Not in my experience,” Ben Gomes says. “Larry and Sergey set that division up very carefully.”One of Google’s self-driving vehicle prototypes.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewBut given that the algorithm is now so crucial to our understanding of the world, shouldn’t it, as some European politicians maintain, become public property in some way?“The reason we can’t do that is that there are people who are trying to game the system out there,” Gomes says. “It is constantly a battle to give the user as much information as they want, and for a website to get as much traffic as they can. If the algorithm was open, that battle would be lost.”The privacy of that algorithm is only one reason, of course, that Google has, rightly or wrongly, long been losing its cool in Europe. The series of investigations and court cases that have lately been brought by the EU overperceived monopoliesandviolation of antitrust lawshave fuelled that perception. That growing narrative is, I guess, also one of the reasons that I have been invited – along with a single journalist from Germany, and one from France – on this particular fact-finding mission.Related:Google’s dominance faces a challenge at last. Shame it’s too lateWhat don’t the Europeans understand about Google, my German colleague asked at one point of Sundar Pichai.“We have our version of the same debates in the US,” he said. “The digital economy does represent change, and it has been very fast change. With scale comes scrutiny, we understand that. As long as it’s a healthy process it is good for the world. My comfort comes from the fact that in Europe people love using our products. We work hard. I wish people could meet our people here. Broadly, though, I don’t think the characterisation is accurate in what we are doing.”In what way?“I don’t think we are trying to advance our products at the expense of people,” Pichai argues. “We try hard to make trade-offs. We work really hard at partnering. For example Android is by any measure one of the most open user platforms done at scale.”Nevertheless the European commission has now started an investigation into Android…“We have already been cleared fully in the US and [South] Korea on similar charges. If you look at the ecosystem of entrepreneurs that have resulted from it, there is not a problem.”Does Pichai see those partners, I wonder, as including governments?“We work within the context of the law and the regulatory framework in each of the places we do business. Do we view governments as important? Of course we do.”But they are essentially an impediment to progress?“They also can help us. We ask them about connectivity. They make sure our products are safe. But we serve the whole world, and we try to innovate responsibly.”On the way out of his office, Pichai wonders out loud how Google might make itself better understood in Europe.“You could pay more tax,” I say.He smiles politely.A view of the campus at Google corporate headquarters, Mountain View, California.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewThere are plenty of messianic calls to arms in Eric Schmidt’s manifesto about the Google way. Most of them are along the lines of this one. “The internet century brims with pyramids as yet unbuilt. Let’s get started. And this time with no slave labour.”It would, of course, be a brave new world if that vision came to pass. The most visible pyramid that the internet century has so far brought about, however, is that of inequalities of wealth. The last 20 years have seen the greatest shift of capital from working people to the super-rich – bankers and lawyers and digital entrepreneurs – in human history. Sergey Brin, net worth $29.7bn, Crocs or not, has far more buying power than any pharaoh. He also, of course, jointly presides over a corporation that in 2013 paid £21.6m tax on UK revenue of £3.4bn, or 0.6% (a figure George Osbourne is hoping to inflate this year with his25% “Google tax”).Related:What is the ‘Google tax’?The digital age has generated plenty of prophets as well as profits. Two years after Google was founded, American essayist Thomas Frank, in his bookOne Market Under God, was already detailing effects of the new digital economy. As an antidote to Google’s charm offensive I reread on the plane home his persuasive account of the ways in which the first dotcom boom undermined “the middle-class republic that [our] ancestors spent decades building... millions found themselves trapped in casual jobs with no benefits, but our shares did OK. A good education for our kids ascended out of our reach, but our position in Cisco paid off; our neighbourhoods collapsed and our industries decamped... we frittered away what little workplace power we had managed to achieve. Convinced that the internet ‘changed everything’, we signed away some of our most basic rights as citizens.”Along the way, Frank unpicks the “bullshit on wheels” of the management industry – based on “anecdotes that prove nothing, of patently wrong syllogisms, of meaningless diagrams and homemade master narratives” – and the absurdism of the new, “cool” plutocrats: “chatting with the guys in the band and working on their poetry in Starbucks... abjuring stodgy ties and suits for 24/7 casual” while all the time building and protecting personal capital on a previously unimaginable scale.It is tempting to believe that the idea that Google should do what it likes with its money (within the letter if not the spirit of the law) is ingrained in its geography. Page and Brin famously met and formed the company while still at Stanford University. Leland Stanford, the original benefactor of that institution, was one model for their build-it-and-they-will-come aspiration. Stanford made his fortune by driving a railroad across the United States in the first west coast gold rush and subsequently lived the equivalent of a billionaire’s lifestyle on San Francisco’s Nob Hill. Stanford bequeathed his fortune as he saw fit, and was viewed in his time as both a robber baron and an exemplary, world-changing philanthropist. Wealth creators have always looked in the mirror and told themselves the world should be grateful for their talents. Like those mega-rich celebrities who say that the most important thing they can give to charity is their time, so Google wants to suggest altruism as a driving principle, global problem-solving as its gift. Among the engineers, that is almost an article of faith.The tacit implication in that belief is that since they are supplying all this beneficence apparently for nothing (and it is undeniably a magical kind of resource and legacy – organising all the world’s knowledge! Mapping all the world’s streets! Providing instant translation between 97 languages! Digitising all the world’s books! Eliminating death on the roads!) it is as if they feel themselves free as their peers to evade the full fiscal responsibilities due to those quaint old-fashioned problem solvers, democratic nation states. Page is undoubtedly right to argue that technological progress is unstoppable, but the sometimes brutal effects those digital forces of change present need to be mitigated by the exchequer. There are, to take only two examples, an awful lot of libraries that could be kept open, or cab drivers retrained, if Google paid its share.Mostly escorted around the Google campus, I only get a chance to talk to a couple of younger Google employees. Strangely, on hearing that I am over from London and working for a British newspaper they both, separately, ask me the same urgent question: “CanTop Gearsurvive without Jeremy Clarkson?” The coincidence leaves me wondering ifTop Gearis a secretly universal vice among the carbon-friendly. With something like this in mind, I find myself using my second allowed question to ask Brin, who is 41, if the autonomous car represents a kind of midlife crisis in reverse.Was he ever a petrol head, I wonder, a lover of fast cars?He flinches at the idea. “I like electric car solutions,” he says.We are watching his own friendly-looking electric car solution choreograph itself around the test track, dealing with every sudden contrived obstacle in its path – pedestrian, human, bicycle – before it is allowed on the road. When it comes my turn to be taken for a spin by the bubble car it is, in the absence of any controls at all, with more of a sense of a journey to a future that is being mapped out second by second. As a symbol of the power of Google intelligence it is hugely impressive, but you have a sense that where it will take us is not a smooth ride, nor, you guess, will it become one any time soon.Mike Cassidy is in charge of Google’s Project Loon scheme.Photograph: Norbert von der Groeben/The Observer New ReviewWhat is Google working on now?Project Loon“The plan is to bring the internet to 4 billion people that don’t currently have it. The balloons will be 20km up, twice as high as planes fly. From a balloon that high, with a standard phone you can connect [to the router] at 10 megabits per second, three times as fast as you need to stream a YouTube video. We don’t need ground receivers, just a smart phone. The numbers of balloons will be in the tens of thousands. Our goal is to have each balloon stay up for 100 days. We can steer them. We have this complex choreography where when one balloon moves aside, another comes along to take its place.“You can reduce infant mortality hugely just by giving expectant mothers access to the internet. Likewise, by giving farmers an accurate weather forecast, you can increase yields by 30 to 50%. The name of the mission control system is Small World. At launch all the articles were like: ‘This is crazy, it is never going to work. Google has lost it.’ But now we have major telco partners and have flown 15m km they are more like: ‘Wow, OK!’”Mike Cassidy, leader of Project LoonSelf-Driving Cars“Freeways are relatively straightforward. We switched direction to city streets a few years ago. It is a much more complicated problem. Mapping is the first thing we worked on. GPS can be off by 10 metres and there are bridges and tunnels and parts of the world that don’t have GPS. Our maps have information stored and as the car drives around it builds up another local map with its sensors and aligns one to the other – that gives us a location accuracy of a centimetre or two. Beyond that, we are making huge numbers of probabilistic calculations every second. With city driving you really have to understand the world around you. You have to understand that you need to give more room to cyclists. Or that the bus is a school bus. Or that you have a police car approaching behind you. One great thing is that our cars are able to share their experiences. We have about 75 years of driving experience now shared across the fleet…”Dmitri Dolgov, principal engineer, Google Self-Driving CarsSearch“As the search gets larger and more complex, what it does is more often surprising to us, what it can answer. Last year we did 60,000 tests on the algorithm and we launched maybe 1,000 improvements. Our priority is always to give you the best answers to all the questions you want answered. Beyond that, we want to carry on a conversation with you. We want to give you the follow-up questions you want. That is a harder problem. And then beyond that we want to be able to do it for all types of data – video, images, text, your personal data. And then we even want to be able to tell you before you have asked the question: so travelling, for example, it will tell me my flight details. It knows whether my flight is delayed, it knows what the traffic is like, so it can tell me when to leave, which would otherwise be 10 queries. We take some inspiration from our own introspection but how the brain works is very different to how a computer works. We are just at the start of the road. There are lots of trivial things that computers cannot understand. But there are no reasons why they shouldn’t eventually.”Ben Gomes, VP search engineeringGoogle Translate“The challenge is that in some languages we have hit a peak, we have used up all the available translated data.“There are multiple things we are doing to get to the next stage. There is a lot of research focused on what we call deep neural networks, which is a way of looking at language in a broader semantic context, and then we are also working a lot with crowdsourcing. People and groups were coming to us and saying: ‘I want you to translate my language – why can’t you launch it?’ With machine translation it really has to be written and there just wasn’t the volume of data. Some of the people who had approached us said, no problem, they would provide it. It became a national effort. There are tens of thousands of people now translating in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan for example. We can feed their translations into our machine learning system and start to create a proper database. It is not only national pride, it is that they can use it for business, tourism. It started as a side project, really, and we now have tens of millions of contributions now across 40-plus mostly spoken languages, including Frisian and Scots Gaelic. It’s a never-ending story, really.”Barak Turovsky, product manager, Google Translate
Price £50,000MPG 152 (equivalent)Top speed 140mphThe future doesn’t arrive gently: it comes at a leap – a great galumphing jump that leaves you laughing with disbelief. I drove theTesla Slast week and it offers such revolutionary solutions to so many of the oily problems that bog most manufacturers down that you wonder what on earth they’ve all been doing. While they’ve been dozing,Elon Musk, the polymath gigabillionaire who inventedPayPal, has set about changing the cars we drive – and the way we drive them.From the outside, the Tesla S is fairly unremarkable. It looks like a posh Jag or maybe a nice Lexus. In a corporate car park a Tesla is just another anonymous fatcat motor. It’s under that boring skin that the fun begins. First up, ask your kids where they think the engine is. They’ll point at that long bonnet. Pop it open by squeezing the fob in your pocket (the key is shaped like a tiny Tesla). The kids will peer into the empty cavity and see only decent storage. Ha, they know your game. It’s round the back. You pop the lid on the boot… Nope, just more storage. “Holy shit!” They cry, “There’s no engine!”The world at your fingertip: the 17in touchscreen interface dominates the inside of the carIn fact there is: it’s the size of a handbag and is hidden behind the back seat, but they don’t need to know that. A giant battery pack powers this handbag and it takes up the entire floor of the car. Some have said a Tesla is not so much a car as a battery on wheels. It’s this smart battery that blasts you to a top speed of 140mph and gives you a range of 240 miles.The car doesn’t have a fuel tank, exhaust pipes, petrol cap or any of the other gubbins associated with an internal combustion engine. Being purely electric it only has one gear. Hit the throttle and the car accelerates in a soaring, totally silent, endless swoosh – it essentially does 0-140mph in first. It also doesn’t have an ignition. There is no on or off. The car wakes up when you approach it (it detects that tiny Tesla in your pocket). You get in, select D, press the throttle and off you slip. When you stop, you just get out and walk away.Plugged in: the fully charged Tesla S has a range of about 240 miles. Using a supercharger it takes four hours to top up the batteryTo drive it does take some getting used to: the regenerative braking means it lurches to a stop as soon as you stop accelerating. It doesn’t free wheel at all. But after a while you’ll find you hardly use the brakes. Under acceleration its ability to pick up speed is astonishing and it handles corners just as you would expect a premium performance car to do.Inside, the car is lavish, but it’s quite normal. The only giveaway to its futuristic credentials is the driver interface – a gigantic multimedia screen. You control everything using this. It’s also a TV, a computer and a music system.Open road: the all-electric car has superb handlingYou can stay in touch with your Tesla using an app on your phone. Sitting at my desk, now, I can see the car is parked outside my home seven miles away. Its interior temperature is 21C. I could open the sunroof or flash the lights with a tap on my phone screen. Actually, I just honked the horn. That’ll make the dog bark – wife annoyed, tick! You can sync the car to your online diary, too, so if you have a 2.30pm meeting in Reading, the car will contact you and tell you when it’s time to leave.The only real issue is charging. When you buy a Tesla they install a supercharger in your garage. It then takes four hours to fully charge. Using a domestic plug, it only recharges at six miles per hour. There is an ever-expanding network of superchargers spreading across Europe and these are free for Tesla owners. If you want to drive to the south of France, the car will plot a route via the charge points you’ll need to visit. But what if the battery is flat, your kid has an accident and you have to suddenly drive to hospital? Tough, you can’t. But I’m sure Elon’s working on that…Correction: this article was amended on 6 July 2015The price of the Tesla S is £55,000 not £50,000. Also I wish to clarify that a home charger and a Supercharger are different things. A home 7kwh charger charges at 22 miles an hour so if plugged in overnight the car is fully charged each morning when at home. Tesla does not install the charger. It is a generic EV charger installed by POD point, Chargemaster, British Gas or similar with the help of a government grant. Superchargers are installed by Tesla at various locations across the country and are free to Tesla drivers to use. The Supercharger fully charges a car in an hour or will do a 50% charge in 20 minutes. For more information, go toteslamotors.com/en_GB/chargingEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
As a corporate conference venue, London’s ExCeL Centre is regularly overwhelmed by besuited executives dealing in arcane business jargon. This weekend, however, an altogether different sub-culture was in charge, as Creepers, Zombies, Skeletons and thousands of children congregated to celebrate a common digital passion: Minecraft.Minecraft involves exploring a world made out of digital blocks, which can be broken up and made into new materials and structures, from pickaxes and swords to buildings and carts. Its “creative mode” puts the emphasis on building, while its “survival mode” sees players having to battle monsters which come out at night.Initially a PC game, it has since crossed on to games consoles, smartphones and tablets, finding a huge audience of children along the way.The game’s developer, Mojang, brought its Minecon conference to London for the first time, with 10,000 fans filling the venue – a small sliver of the 70 million people who have bought the game since 2009, enticed by its blocky blend of crafting and battling.Those fans made Mojang worth $2.5bn to Microsoft when it bought the Swedish developer in 2014, and since then the company has been keen to reassure them that the new ownership will not be changing its focus.“People had their concerns, and that totally makes sense. But people are starting to see that Mojang hasn’t gone away: we’re still here, the same people working in the same office in the same city, and we have a new partner in Microsoft,” said Mojang’s chief operating officer, Vu Bui. “Mojang is still driving what Minecraft is: it’s not like an acquisition where the product is handed off to a whole new team and everything changes. It’s only been eight months, so we haven’t had time to show the community yet what the future is going to look like. But we also haven’t scared them by going in any weird directions that would seem out of character.”Minecraft’s main character Steve heads to work (pursued by a green creeper, right).Dotted around the show were artworks depicting popular characters and monsters from the game, with the centrepiece being a giant Ender Dragon hanging off a blocky Big Ben. Children posed for selfies with character statues while patiently explaining to parents who they were. Some had come in costumes – most involving cardboard boxes – to take part in an onstage fancy dress contest judged by Mojang staff.There were stands for the company’s merchandising partners, including book publisher Egmont and toy maker Mattel, which is launching an app to help children make stop-motion films using its range of Minecraft mini-figures. Meanwhile Think Geek’s stand, selling toy diamond swords for £20 each, was doing a roaring trade.The stars of the show were the gamers who run YouTube channels showing off their exploits in Minecraft, some of which are among the most popular on Google’s online video service.British gamer Joseph Garrett, for example, has more than 6 million subscribers for hisStampy channel, aimed at children, which was the fourth biggest channel on YouTube in 2014 with more than 2.2 billion video views – just behind Katy Perry’s 2.4 billion, but ahead of Shakira’s 2 billion.Garrett’s “Stampy and Friends” session was the big draw of Minecon’s first morning, with close to 5,000 children and parents gathering at the event’s main stage to watch him play live with some of his online collaborators.The likes ofSqaishey QuackandiBallisticSquidmay not be familiar in the wider world, but to their young audience they are genuine celebrities. When the compere asked children in the audience how much time they spend watching Minecraft on YouTube, one mother’s muttered “Years!” sparked laughter from the parents around her.“Minecraft is a bona fide phenomenon on YouTube,” said Ryan Wyatt, YouTube’s global head of gaming. “Its beauty is its openness: anyone can create a new Minecraft world and share it with others. The result is really rich, often weirdly wonderful content and very engaged communities.”Wyatt added that, in 2014 in the US, Minecraft was the second most searched-for subject on YouTube. “Could anyone have predicted the huge success of Minecraft way back when? I doubt it. But content beauty is in the eye of the beholder,” he said. “Long may the reign of this game continue.”Microsoft kept a low-profile presence at Minecon, although the company was running sessions showcasing Minecraft’s use in schools and giving private demonstrations of the game running on its HoloLens augmented-reality headset, which is currently in development.Mojang also had other developers exhibiting their wares in an “indie zone” at the show.“The big appeal of Minecraft to children is that it’s their world: it belongs to their imagination and no one is telling them what to do in it. They have the complete freedom to create whatever they want, without the pressures of outside influence,” said Chris O’Shea of developer Cowly Owl, who was showing off his Monster Mingle children’s app.Francesca Stevens, aged 7, in her costume for the fancy dress contest at Minecon.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose /Observer“I’ve personally taught a four year-old to use it, who now, at eight, is building massive structures – moving underground train systems and all kinds of contraptions, surpassing anything I could build. I don’t see it as a craze like other mobile games. It’s easily got another 10 years’ run. The freedom of expression, the power of creation and imagination never gets old.”This points to the key reasons for Minecraft’s popularity with parents. The game values crafting as highly as it does fighting, while its creator has been careful not to be over-aggressive in its merchandising strategy or in how it charges people to play. Its moves into education, meanwhile, are aiming to persuade teachers that Minecraft can be a good teaching aid for everything from history and physics to computer coding.“A lot of people think now that children play so many digital games and spend so much time in front of their screen, they’ve maybe become disconnected from other people,” said Bui. “But people connect in different ways: they can communicate with a lot of people from their bedroom and less when they leave – but maybe that time, when you add it up, is the same amount of human interaction.“But there are also a lot of people who interact in the real world when it comes to Minecraft, meeting up and playing together. That’s why we love being able to bring the community together like this once a year.”MINE FACTS■ Minecraft has sold more than 70m copies since its launch in 2009.■ The original main character was called Steve, but in April he was joined by an alternative default character, Alex – a woman with a red ponytail. .■ In April 2015 alone, 3.9 billion Minecraft-related videos were watched on YouTube ,according to research firms Octoly and Newzoo.■ Minecraft’s educational version, MinecraftEdu, is being given to every secondary school in Northern Ireland free, in a government-funded project.
Related:Reddit revolts: subforums shut down in protest over AMA co-ordinator sackingThe chief executive of the social media site Reddit, Ellen Pao, has apologized for “letting down” users after the company fired a well-liked employee.Until Thursday, Victoria Taylor managed the site’s popular Ask Me Anything subreddit. Her dismissal as director of talent sparked a “Reddit revolt”, in which about 300 subreddits (or discussion areas) on topics including gaming, science, history, and cinema were shut down by their moderators.While Reddit would not comment on the specifics of Taylor’s dismissal, the company said it was working on providing its moderators with a better infrastructure and support network.In a comment posted on Redditin response to a user looking for alternative sites, Pao said: “The bigger problem is that we haven’t helped our moderators with better support after many years of promising to do so.“We do value moderators; they allow Reddit to function and they allow each subreddit to be unique and to appeal to different communities. This year, we have started building better tools for moderators and for admins to help keep subreddits and Reddit awesome, but our infrastructure is monolithic, and it is going to take some time.“We hired someone to product manage it, and we moved an engineer to help work on it. We hired five more people for our community team in total to work with both the community and moderators. We are also making changes to reddit.com, adding new features like better search and building mobile web, but our testing plan needs improvement.“As a result, we are breaking some of the ways moderators moderate. We are going to figure this out and fix it.”In an interview with Time, Pao said she wanted to apologize to Reddit users and added that the management should have informed moderators earlier about personnel changes.Neither Pao nor Alexis Ohanian, the company co-founder and chairman, would comment on the firing of Taylor. Ohanian did dismiss speculation that Taylor’s departure had to do with the moderation of a Wednesday AMA with Reverend Jesse Jackson,which according to Time“became disorganized after a flurry of questions about racial issues”.“That had nothing to do with it,”Ohanian told Time, going on to say that Kristine Fasnacht would take on the role of liaison between the site and the site’s moderators. Fasnacht is a community manager at the site.In the wake of the user protests,Ohanian posted that he was there “to triage AMA requests in the interim”. He spent hours communicating with users, fielding concerns and suggestions.“Now it’s on us to act, to use Reddit to create a dialogue to better keep our community and our base informed,”he told Time. “They made some very good points.“The first thing we could do was get a moderator like Kristine to be the point person for moderators. So if users have a questions or want someone to talk to, we’re there.”
10.26amBSTAnd if you’re reading this on Sunday,day two’s liveblog is now up and running...8.51pmBSTActually, I’ll just leave these Vines here...6.37pmBSTTime to wander off, get some food and queue up for the evening’s show: I’ll try to post some photos on the way home to wrap up this day one liveblog, before starting all over again in the morning.6.33pmBSTThe final panel at day one of Minecon draws a crowd: Geoff Ramsey and Matt Bragg of Achievement Hunter, a division of online video studio Rooster Teeth, that’s one of the longest-running games shows on YouTube.Achievement Hunter’s Ramsay and Bragg at Minecon.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThey promise an “intimate panel”, by which they mean they haven’t prepared anything to talk about beyond asking the audience for questions. The first few don’t go hugely well - a man in a big bow tries to get the audience to shout his name for a video without success, and someone asks Bragg what three things he’d buy from Tesco (“Three bottles of whisky,” he says. Some parents leave with their children at a trot.)What would they be if they weren’t YouTubers? “Do they pay you for sleeping?” says Bragg. “I would probably be a rocket scientist,” says Ramsey. “An astronaut maybe.” Although the more prosaic truth is he thinks he’d still be working in a “miserable” job in a tech support company.Advice for people who want to work for a company like Rooster Teeth: “We have 102 employees at Rooster Teeth now, which is way too many! I don’t know 60 of them,” jokes Ramsey. But that now also includes audio engineers, animators, HR and finance people (“smart people, they use calculators to do accounting stuff”) and so on. He says the company tries to hire from within its community of viewers and fans.What is the future of Minecraft on their channel? “Minecraft was never intended to be a flagship show for us. It was intended to be one single Let’s Play, and it turned out to be the grandest sandbox in the world,” says Ramsey. “There aren’t a lot of games out there that offer the same opportunities that Minecraft does... People like to complain that we’re bored of it, butreallynot... There’s still so much stuff that you can do in a game like Minecraft.”If they could have any animal in Minecraft as a boss, what would it be? “How about Cerberus? You could tame it and have a three-headed dog following you around,” says Bragg. “I’ve always wanted to fight a unicorn,” adds Ramsey, putting a big smile on the face of the young boy who asked the question.5.54pmBSTImagine my relief when I clicked through and discovered this was a “parody account”. In fairness, most people here could simply craft their own gates of heaven as an alternative.#Minecon2015is against jesus and if you go you will not be accepted into the gates of heaven&mdash; unodosseb (@unodosseb)July 4, 20155.51pmBSTLook, one school of thought says this is £40 down the drain. But the other says if I’d brought my two sons it would have cost £258 for their tickets, more in food, they’d still have demanded the swords, and I’d have got about 10% of the liveblogging done. I feel I’m up in this deal.At this point I am a 37yo man with two toy swords in a bag and no accompanying children. I&#39;ve had the odd starepic.twitter.com/IMGr9cBTAw&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 20155.12pmBSTI’ve just written a standalone piece about Minecraft: Story Mode, the new narrative-driven adventure game that’s the result of a partnership between Mojang and Telltale Games (of The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones adventure-games fame).Telltale looked back to the 1980s for inspiration. “We wanted a story that evoked the classic film stories that we were passionate about,” said Stauffer.“The movies we grew up with, the two tentpoles we called out were Goonies and Ghostbusters... movies that they just don’t make any more, not like that,” he said, before admitting that a more recent film, The Incredibles, has also been an influence.“Roleplaying is pretty key. In a Telltale game where you’re driving the story, it’s literally roleplaying. You’re going to be able to play Jesse however you want to play him,” said Stauffer.“You might have to decide which friends you want to be with the most, and which ones you’re going to have to leave behind. It’s about driving the story, role-playing as a character, and there’s a lot of tough decisions.”Read the full story here.5.01pmBSTIn a session: “Has anyone here killed an Ender Dragon?” Every child within 50 feet of me puts their hand up, while mine stays down. Feeling so ashamed right now.4.32pmBSTA lovely scene at the end of the last session: a mother next to me patiently encouraging her shy son to wave to YouTuber CaptainSparklez. When he finally plucked up the courage, and got a wave back, the child screamed and then flung himself into his mum’s arms. She wins all the parent points.3.53pmBSTMore tweets from around the show:Have you visited the Egmont stand? We have the#Minecrafthandbooks and a block pit to get stuck into!#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/eFujM5a40j&mdash; Egmont Publishing UK (@EgmontUK)July 4, 2015#minecon2015pic.twitter.com/OGPqoi7P3w&mdash; Mike Tickle (@tickle_mike)July 4, 2015Tom playing@Minecraftat#Minecon2015...I need to find the sanctuary area for dad&#39;s.pic.twitter.com/DaLCwZF7iq&mdash; Rob Longden (@roblongden)July 4, 20153.43pmBSTHere’s the teaser trailer for Minecraft: Story Mode that was shown earlier today at Minecon for the first time. It’s the more narrative-focused game being worked on by Telltale Games and Mojang.3.37pmBSTI sat in on the panel session about live-streaming Minecraft on Twitch, with panellists including Chad Johnson (OMG Chad is his handle online), Matt Zagursky (Sevadus), Bacon Donut (real name unknown), Martyn Littlewood from British gaming network Yogscast, and Jordan Maron (CaptainSparklez).The live-streaming panel at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianWhy live-stream? “One of the advantages is I can’t get bored because there’s always thousands of people yelling at me and commenting on how horribly I’m doing something,” said Johnson. “When I’m streaming it’s much more about the audience than it is about the game. I don’t have to be good at it, I don’t have to do it well!”“I’m pretty bad at games, so I just try to compensate by being funny,” agreed Bacon Donut. “And I love being in front of an audience, because I can immediately tell if something is working.” Meanwhile, Maron said that he sees live-streaming as being “way more casual” than shooting and editing YouTube videos (which he still does as well). “I just play and have a good time and don’t really have to worry.”Johnson talked enthusiastically about live-streams to benefit charitable causes, and Zagursky agreed. “To be able to take that kind of influence and to be able to leverage it for something good is amazing. We’re approached a lot to help out, and we always find a way to say yes,” he said. Yogscast runs charity live-streams every Christmas, with Littlewood describing it as an “overwhelming experience”. He praised charityGaming for Goodas one of the organisations spurring action in this area.The panel were asked about embarrassing incidents while live-streaming. “Every few minutes I do something stupid,” said Zagursky. “I’ve kinda built a career out of embarrassing myself so it’s a little hard to pinpoint certain things,” agreed Donut. Most of the panel, it turned out, had accidentally started streaming when they didn’t mean to, several times. “I was asleep and my cat stepped on the home key, which is my normal hot key to start streaming. And there is 10 minutes of me asleep until my friend saw it and gave me a call,” said Johnson. “You could even see the cat at the beginning, rubbing his face on my mic and then chewing something he shouldn’t... That actually got television shows talking about it.”The panel also talked about taking donations during their live-streams, and the ethics of people tipping to get shout-outs. “It’s an interesting line to walk between recognising people who are financially contributing and supporting the stream,” said Littlewood. “I never want to put that kind of paywall... but if somebody does pay, I will say thank you to them.”What has doing online video improved about the panellists. “I definitely think YouTube, streaming all that stuff has helped with my ability to communicate,” said Maron. “Highly recommended to anyone out there: do some streaming!” Interestingly, when asked if they had to choose between YouTube and Twitch, several of the panellists said they’d pick Twitch - because they thrive on the live interaction with viewers. That would be whyYouTube is beefing up its games live-streaming activities, then...Updatedat 3.50pm BST2.29pmBSTThe Ender Dragon swoops on Big Ben. Which has given me an idea for a Doctor Who crossover episode...Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian2.28pmBSTAnyway yes, the Hololens demo. I bagged a 10-minute slot in Microsoft’s demonstration room at Minecon, where visitors are getting essentially the same demo that was shown at E3 (above) andtried by my colleague Keith Stuartat that show.You switch between playing regular Minecraft on a virtual screen projected on the wall, and seeing a zoomed-out birds-eye view projected onto a table in front of you. The set-piece moment is crouching down to look under ground-level: a Dorling Kindersley-esque cutaway view that lets you pinpoint rare materials or interesting caves, mark them, and then explore using the normal view.Aside from an awkward moment where I mistargeted a lightning strike and set swathes of scenery on fire that I wasn’t supposed to, it ran like clockwork: no obvious technical glitches. It is making me wonder how this kind of hardware will affect the gameplay though, with one player able to zoom out into a kind of “god view” while others scurry around on the surface.That might actually be one good use for Hololens: the headset wearer playing vengeful deity while friends with regular joypads try to protect themselves and hide away. I sense this may be the next creative job for Mojang and Microsoft though: it’s technically possible to run Minecraft on Hololens, so how do they use that capability in interesting ways?2.18pmBSTThere’s currently a costume contest taking place on the main stage at Minecon, with added peril provided by the fact that half the children taking part are wearing boxes on their heads with not-quite-rightly-aligned eye-holes. Exiting stage left is a potential death trap *Lynne Faulds Wood face*Scenes from the costume contest at#Minecon2015- a fair few boxes were harmed in the making of this competition...pic.twitter.com/pGKD5WgsFs&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 2015More#Minecon2015costumespic.twitter.com/9Efu1lyzwr&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 2015In other news, I bumped into Stampy on my way out of the Hololens demo room, and shook his hand. My sons are going to be excited by my proximity to fame OR furious at missing out. Place your bets now.2.10pmBST“I only swiped right on her because her profile promised an explosive date...”Creeper selfies are being taken by the dozen today.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian2.06pmBSTI’ve been wandering the expo, where there’s plenty to see:Minecraft art at#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/BIC2PoV1s4&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 2015More Minecraft art at#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/x8yjFg4EAE&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 2015Sights from#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/WOE1AOCsu1&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 201512.30pmBSTI’m off for a wander, so there’ll be no updates for a bit, but check back for more sights from the show, panel reports and *whispers* thoughts on the Hololens Minecraft demo over the course of the afternoon.12.17pmBST“How much time do you spend watching Minecraft videos on YouTube?” asks the host of the session. “Years,” mutters a mother sat behind me. But then Stampy returns to the stage with iBallisticSquid.It’s an interesting dilemma: if your job is playing Minecraft for videos on YouTube, what does that mean in a live setting? Playing Minecraft on a massive conference-venue screen, of course, using some of the challenges that debuted online.To wit: iBallisticSquid tries to find the ingredients for a pumpkin pie and make it, while blindfolded, based on voice instructions from Stampy. A pair of young fans chosen from the audience are competing with them. The 2,000-odd children who weren’t chosen are initially a little flat, until encouraged to shout their own instructions out.Stampy’s session at Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianIt’s taking quite a long time. “Shall we say ‘the first person to find a pumpkin wins?” says Stampy, with the expression of a man who’s just realised a.) this could go on for hours and b.) if he doesn’t let the children win, this might become a bad scene.iBallisticSquid solves that by falling down a ravine. This could last longer than my regular three-hour-long sessions of trying to lose Top Trumps to my son. Happily, when time is called, the children prevail.Updatedat 12.25pm BST12.05pmBSTIt’s notable how key the YouTubers are to Minecraft and Minecon now, and perhaps worthwhile contrasting Mojang’s approach to some other games companies, who’ve seen fan-made videos on YouTube as copyright infringement, or something to try to make money directly from.Here’s howMojang’s Vu Bui explained his company’s alternative approachto the Guardian last year:“We have a whole slew of people who are making their entire living just off making videos about Minecraft. Just the economics of that – how many people are making a living off this one IP – is pretty awesome,” says Bui.“That doesn’t take anything away from us, and I would say it actually adds value to Minecraft, to have people who are extremely talented and creative doing things. We’ve essentially outsourced YouTube videos to a community of millions of people, and what they come up with is more creative than anything we could make ourselves.”There are limits: Mojang’s rule is that uploading videos to YouTube is fine, but selling them on iTunes or other video-on-demand services is not – the key being whether creators are charging fans.“There’s no damage to us from YouTube. We might have some people who make content we might not agree with, but this is how the democratisation of media works. You put it out there and let the community decide,” says Bui. “If someone’s putting out rubbish, the community is not going to watch it, and it won’t rise to the top.”11.57amBSTPeople are beginning to explore the show (I’m still in the main-stage room waiting for Stampy’s session wearing my best “I’m a JOURNALIST that’s why I am taking pictures and don’t have children with me don’t freak out fellow parents” expression).It appears to be all about the animals so far. And the odd winged beast attacking Big Ben, obviously.#minecon2015pic.twitter.com/vpB2xJkUll&mdash; Kieron Smith (@KieronJS)July 4, 2015Another monster destroying London: the Enderdragon!#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/ECxNgvOwA2&mdash; Abi Sutherland (@evilrooster)July 4, 2015Life size ocelots and kitties!#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/T3ru15CjXQ&mdash; Scotsman (@scotsmanuk)July 4, 2015I found a baby mooshroom.#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/1yiz4ZvWvm&mdash; Bryan  (@Kaelten)July 4, 201511.48amBSTGenuine quotes from young Minecon attendees sat around me over the last couple of hours:“I’ve seen the lead Mojang developer, this is SO COOL!”“Are we getting a Hololens? Why not? Can I have one for Christmas?”“Yes that IS iBallisticSquid, Dad. He doesn’t have a squid head in real life. Obviously.”“GET ME CAKE NEXT.”Although I have to say, there was also a very involved discussion between two children sat behind me about the ins and outs of using redstone in Minecraft that was so above my level, I wanted to take notes.Updatedat 11.49am BST11.31amBSTWinters gets to the “boring” part of the opening session: explaining the rules: no running, no pushing, don’t hassle YouTubers and so on.To make it somewhat less boring, she invites Stampy on-stage, who in turn is ambushed by fellow YouTubers iBallisticSquid and The Diamond Minecart. Several children around me explode in excitement at this point.And they finish off with the previously-unseen trailer for Minecraft: Story Mode, the game that Mojang is making with partner Telltale Games. The show is now well and truly started.11.24amBST“We want to talk about Minecraft on Microsoft Hololens,” says Bui, referring to Mojang’s owner’s augmented-reality headset.Minecraft was demonstrated on the devicea few weeks ago at the E3 show in Los Angeles. Rather than talk about it, though, they show the video of the E3 reveal.Minecraft’s E3 demo working on Microsoft’s Hololens.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMore news? Winters invites Mojang lead developer Jens Bergenstein and Microsoft’s Hololens developer to talk about the new version.Microsoft is running 15-minute demos of Minecraft on Hololens for 25 “golden ticket” winners throughout Minecon. “Everything you saw works,” stresses Bergenstein, of the E3 demo. “From now on, it’s about getting the experience perfect,” adds the Microsoft man (whose name I didn’t catch, apologies).The best features? Playing on a nearby wall, and using lightning strikes he says. Bergenstein: “Just to be able to see the world from an ant-farm perspective, where you can see and look around a miniature world. It’s quite amazing.”Bergenstein will be showing off some new features for future Minecraft updates in a panel session tomorrow, at the show, he adds before leaving.11.09amBSTA man from the UN is up next to talk about theBlock By Block projectbetween Mojang and the UN, which aims to involve citizens in public space design. “We are incredibly proud of the work we’ve been doing with UN Habitat,” adds Winters.Vu Vui and Lydia Winters on-stage at Minecon.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianShe introduces Mojang COO Vu Bui to show a quick video about Minecraft in education - there’ll be panels on this over the course of the weekend - and to introduce some of the other themes and sights from the show.That includes showing off Mattel’s stop-motion Minecraft movie-making app that Iwrote about earlier, and promising some spectacular artworks from artist Greg Aronowitz, who’s worked with Mojang at several Minecons to create physical Minecraft art.Updatedat 11.11am BST10.58amBSTMinecon's opening ceremony gets underwayMojang’s Lydia Winters takes to the stage, accompanied by fireworks, quickly segueing into an introductory video showing Minecraft characters exploring London with all the landmarks you’d expect.#minecon2015intro video: Londonpic.twitter.com/No44YFEN0C&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 2015Winters says 73 countries are represented in the audience, with the furthest-travelled attendees having come from New Zealand.A man from Guinness World Records joins her, to explain that Minecon has just set the record for “the largest convention for a single video game” with its 10,000 ticket sales.Updatedat 10.58am BST10.45amBSTMinecon 2015 opening ceremony beginsI say “about to kick off” - the start has been delayed so everyone can get in from outside the cavernous main-stage room.I’m experiencing the odd connectivity problem so if that continues, I’ll write up the main bits from the opening ceremony and publish at the end. This is less a minute-by-minute liveblog, more a byte-by-byte-when-I-can-transmit-them one...10.28amBSTThe opening ceremony is about to kick off. If you want to watch live, it’s also beingstreamed on Twitch.10.27amBSTIn size, the main-stage room at Minecon feels similar to the big room at the Moscone West venue in San Francisco where Apple holds its WWDC keynotes.In atmosphere, though, the only thing I can compare it to is a Nintendo press conference at the E3 show a few years ago. I was sandwiched between a man dressed as Mario and a man dressed as a mushroom. Everyone in the room was a professional journalist.It’s hard to judge the mix of ages in the room: I’d say maybe a sixth are children, perhaps more. I’ve heard a range of accents while queuing to get in too: families have flown to London on their holidays to attend.10.21amBSTThe UK’s minister of state for culture and the digital economy Ed Vaizey is tweeting about Minecon:Minecon - global gathering for fans of the#VideoGame@Minecraft- takes place in#Londonthis weekendhttp://t.co/16hnI5Xe1w#Minecon2015&mdash; Ed Vaizey (@edvaizey)July 4, 2015I’m not sure if he’s here or not. Maybe he’s come incognito in an Enderman costume.10.18amBSTPossible sources of unrest at Minecon 2015:Children bumping into things when their cardboard-box Steve heads slip.Parents realising their phones are out of battery by lunchtime because they let their kids play Crossy Road in the queue.Sudden, crushing realisation that Stampy isn’t a cat after all.Ejections from the Excel building after tunnelling into its walls looking for diamond.10.07amBSTFairly sure I saw them at Glastonbury dancing round the giant spider tbh#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/XLiXso6pvI&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 201510.03amBSTLast weekend I was dancing in the dark to loud dance music at the Block 9 complex in Glastonbury, surrounded by excitable people waving glow-sticks. Now, I’m sitting in a dark room listening to loud dance music at Minecon, surrounded by excitable parents and children waving replica Minecraft axes. It’s a little bit frightening.I’m alsocravingsome noodles and a pint of head-spinningly strong cider, but I suspect I’ll have no luck finding those this weekend...9.52amBSTWhile we’re waiting,this beautiful piece by my colleague Keith Stuartis worth a read, if you’ve not seen it before.It explains why for a lot of children and parents - especially those like Keith whose children have been diagnosed with autism - Minecraft is much more than just a game:“I knew Zac better, I understood him a little. He was telling us more. Minecraft seemed to have given him both a vocabulary and the confidence to use it. So when the documentary producer asked me about that game, I just gushed; I talked about how it was being used in schools to help teach kids everything from physics to architecture, but most of all I talked about how it created a safe and creative space for a lot of children who may struggle to find safe and creative spaces elsewhere. “I’d love to shake the hand of the guy who designed that game,” I said. I think the emotion behind that sentiment was palpable on screen. And then they stopped filming, and I suppose I was crying a little bit.”9.49amBST9.42amBSTSome tweets as we await the start of the opening ceremony:It makes me so so so happy to finally see a geek event where taking my son feels ok and cool, thank you@mojang#minecon2015&mdash; SylwiaKorsak/Presley (@sylwiapresley)July 4, 201510,000 minecrafters taking their seats for the opening ceremony of#minecon2015#madness#strangelywonderfulpic.twitter.com/emH9y8gHQR&mdash; Diarmuid McIntyre (@Deermud)July 4, 2015Too excited, can&#39;t wait!#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/ClE0S3JekD&mdash; Bjørn Ove Strand (@StrandIT)July 4, 2015And a strong early contender for the Minecraft costume contest that’s happening later, perhaps:Turns out the Guardian # costume is pretty big!#Minecon2015pic.twitter.com/k5kLSoSwjU&mdash; gemma bowen (@mediationwales)July 4, 20159.35amBSTJoseph “Stampy” Garrett is one of the big draws on day one of Minecon. The YouTube star will be joined by some of his friends (Sqaishey Quack, iBallisticSquid, AmyLee33, AshDubh and Netty Plays) to play Minecraft live on-stage from midday.Joseph Garrett at the launch of Wonder Quest in Los Angeles.Photograph: Jesse Grant/Getty Images for YouTubeHere’s an extract fromthe Guardian’s recent interview with Garrettabout his Wonder Quest show on YouTube:“It’s all my friends. People on the street might not know who they are, but if you ask a fan ofYouTubeor Minecraft, these are superstars!” says Garrett, who says he relishes the fact that this group of creators have managed to become big stars for their viewers while remaining under the radar in the wider media world.“It’s fun being in that position of not being completely mainstream. I can come up with an idea for a video, and I don’t need to pitch it to anyone or get approval. If I’m tweeting or replying to someone, it’s me: there’s no PR company talking about what I should say,” says Garrett. “Mainstream approval is something I’m not interested in.”And here’s the first series of Wonder Quest as a YouTube playlist, if you’re looking to catch up:9.26amBSTMain stage room is filling up at#Minecon2015. My row just had to shuffle up and am now in front of a 6yo :o(pic.twitter.com/H0ML6qus6Z&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 20159.25amBSTHere’s our story from earlier in the week about what to expect from Minecon:“Highlights include panels and live “let’s play” sessions featuring the creators of Minecraft-focused YouTube channels Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and Captain Sparklez, as well as sessions giving a glimpse at what’s next for Minecraft.The latter includes members of Mojang and fellow games developer Telltale Games teaming up for a talk about their plans for Minecraft: Story Mode - a new “narrative-driven” game set in the Minecraft universe.Mojang staff will also host a session talking about “upcoming features” in the main game, while YouTube will run one giving advice to players who want to find their own online-video stardom through Minecraft.”Everything kicks off at 10.30am today with the opening ceremony, although Mojang has been keeping the details of its contents close to its chest.8.55amBSTLost children can go to the information desk to be reunited with their parents. But perhaps the conference is tackling this the wrong way round...#minecon2015needs a space for lost adults to just chill out in. Then kids can just dump them there and collect them later.&mdash; Neil C Ford (@neilcford)July 4, 20158.53amBSTSteve! Steve! Steve!Minecraft Steve mini-figure from Minecon 2015.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMini-Steve with his Minecon cape. Incidentally, Mattel recently launched a smartphone and tablet app for children to make their own stop-motion movies using Minecraft mini-figures. It’s officially licensed - some of the Mojang team made their own demo video for it - and is availablefor Androidandfor iOS.I will hazard a guess that the average nine year-old could easily outdo my first effort yesterday:8.50amBSTFromyesterday’s preview of Minecon, here’s Mojang’s Vu Bui on why the conference is all about the community, rather than the company that created Minecraft:“If you ask people what their favourite things are to do in Minecraft, the majority would have been created by people outside of Mojang,” he said. “Some people just like to watch Minecraft videos on YouTube, and others play ‘mods’ created by the community. This is not just about a game you download: it’s about the people in the community who are creating on top of it. And this is the one time of the year we get to bring that community together in the real world.”When I spoke to Bui earlier this week, he promised a few surprises over the course of the weekend, but warned against expecting major announcements. He could have been throwing me off the scent, of course...8.45amBSTIt is 8.38am and the#minecon2015opening ceremony starts at 10.30am. This is the queue to bag a seat...pic.twitter.com/9qEBR40VDi&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)July 4, 20158.44amBSTMinecon 2015 swag for every attendee.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianEvery Minecon attendee gets a goodie bag when they register at the Excel venue. The bag itself is pretty nice, but it also includes a pen, a notepad, a lanyard, a pin-badge, a commemorative medal, and an exclusive Steve mini-figure wearing a Minecon 2015 cape.7.39amBSTWelcome to Minecon 2015In 2009, games developer Markus “Notch” Persson released the first version of Minecraft. Six years on, it has sold 70m copies across computers, consoles and mobile devices, becoming a cultural touchstone for a generation of children in the process.Minecraft is a merchandising juggernaut; the engine driving the careers of some of YouTube’s biggest stars; expanding into the educational world; and it persuaded Microsoft to buy Persson’s Mojang studio for $2.5bn in 2014.But most importantly, Minecraft is a global community of players. Once a year, thousands of them come together for the Minecon conference, and this weekend sees Minecon 2015 lay down its blocks in London.I’m going to be here all weekend reporting on the panel sessions, exhibitors and the general sights and sounds of Minecraft culture - so check back regularly for updates from the show.
Minecraft: Story Mode was announced in December 2014as a partnership between developers Mojang and Telltale Games to make a narrative-driven adventure set in the world of Minecraft.Due for release in 2015, when it was announced it was described as a new original story, driven by player choice, rather than one focusing on the “Steve” character that has been Minecraft’s default hero over the years.At the Minecon 2015 conference in London, Mojang and Telltale held a session to explain more about their plans for the new game, around which there’s a lot of anticipation - not least because Telltale is responsible for the excellent The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones adventures.Job Stauffer and Laura Perusco from Telltale Games were joined by Mojang’s Owen Hill and Lydia Winters for the session, which began with a second viewing of the game’s preview trailer, which was released this morning:Telltale has been making games for just over a decade, working with a range of partners. “We make adventure games based on the things that we love the most, where there are really passionate fanbases that we’re a part of. We want to make games for those fans, and us,” said Stauffer.Telltale makes its games “kinda like television” he added. “Our games are kinda like playable television as a matter of fact. As we make them we’re always looking at what the fans are saying, and what the reaction is. And sometimes we can tweak and adjust certain things about the games as we go along.”That’s the approach that will be taken with Minecraft: Story Mode, which is premiering this year. “It’s coming very soon,” said Stauffer. “At least the first episode you will play this year. We don’t know exactly when: it’s probably sooner than you think.” It will initially be a five-episode series.Stauffer talked about the characters in a game that sounds like it will be about Minecraft, not just set within it.There’s a character called Jesse. “He’s a huge fan of everything going on in the world of Minecraft... But he’s kinda still learning about how to build a sword and how to ignite a portal... he’s a total n00b! But his friends are really really passionate about Minecraft as well.”The other characters are called Petra (“she’s kind of a warrior herself”); Axel; Olivia; and Lucas. And a pig called Reuben. The human characters will, to some extent, reflect the characteristics of different player types in Minecraft.Hill said that Mojang and Telltale Games wanted the game and the story to “not just feel like you’re playing Minecraft as you do today, but we wanted it to exist in a place that felt familiar to people... you can see things within the game which remind you of the cool times you have when you play normally. But that said, it still exists in its own world.”The panel for the Minecraft: Story Mode session.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianTelltale looked back to the 1980s for inspiration. “We wanted a story that evoked the classic film stories that we were passionate about,” said Stauffer.“The movies we grew up with, the two tentpoles we called out were Goonies and Ghostbusters... movies that they just don’t make any more, not like that,” he said, before admitting that a more recent film, The Incredibles, has also been an influence.“Roleplaying is pretty key. In a Telltale game where you’re driving the story, it’s literally roleplaying. You’re going to be able to play Jesse however you want to play him,” said Stauffer.“You might have to decide which friends you want to be with the most, and which ones you’re going to have to leave behind. It’s about driving the story, role-playing as a character, and there’s a lot of tough decisions.”The game will see Jesse and his friends visiting “Endercon... where things go just a little bit horrifically wrong”. The game will see players able to take Jessie to pretty much any location they’ve seen (or have wanted to see) in Minecraft, including The End.There’ll also be a group called the Order of the Stone, who in the game are famous for having slayed an Ender Dragon. “Some super-cool guys who might feel familiar to some of you players. The reason for that is each of them has a distinct characteristics that certain Minecraft players might have,” said Hill.There’s a warrior called Gabriel; a redstone engineer called Ellegard; a rogue named Magnus; and an architect called Soren. “That’s as much as we want to show you without spoiling too much,” said Stauffer. “Through the course of the story you’ll encounter these people and maybe work together with them, or against them, or between them,” said Hill.He confirmed that the male character Jessie will be the hero: there will be no option to play through Minecraft: Story Mode as a female character. “But I think there are plenty of very cool female characters. You’re going to like Petra a lot,” said Stauffer.He added that the game’s age-rating is expected to be around the “PEGI-12” level, meaning that in theory it will be aimed at 12 year-olds and upwards.Live coverage of Minecon 2015 day one
The new Subaru Outback is unaccountably large – 4.8 metres long, 1.8 metres wide, 1.6 metres high – but low-slung; it looks much more estate than SUV. This, paradoxically, makes it seem even larger. One makes allowances in an SUV and expects to feel ridiculous. In a supersized estate, I was never prepared for how much I would always be sticking out, everywhere.Given its outlandish size, the Outback was strangely characterless. I drove to Bristol and parked in a hurry on some floor or other of a multistorey. When I returned, I couldn’t remember anything about it, not even its colour, which occupied some indeterminate, Welsh-weather-ish space between brown and grey. Luckily, I had parked in a way that nobody else would, which is how I was able to find it without having to wait until all the other cars had gone home.Going fast was a pleasure; the 2.0 turbo-diesel automatic features Subaru’s “lineartronic continuously variable transmission”, meaning you are always, with split-second efficiency and true 21st-century responsiveness, in the right gear. It tells in the smoothness and the silence. Acceleration at higher speeds is absolutely effortless and on motorways I was constantly leaning out of the window, screaming, “Sayonara!” and “Eat my shorts!” (in my head).On the run-up to a motorway, however, it was insufferable. There’s a feature called “eyesight assist”, also described as “a second pair of eyes for drivers”. In fact, it is not a second pair of eyes: for one, it is not connected to your brain; for two, you can never tell what it’s responding to. Some bits are obvious – “lane deviation”, it flashes – but I noticed that thanks to my first pair of eyes. Other times, it beeps with no obvious explanation; the manual is impenetrable and you end up Googling what the noise means while you’re in traffic. Great. Now I have no pairs of eyes.They’re seriously delighted with the tech – shouting about the fact that it’s the first time it’s been made available in Europe – and I can’t see the point of it at all. The only way it would help is if your sight or attention were so impaired you shouldn’t be driving in the first place. The satnav was also maddening – not very fast, full of intricate changes you could make that never would have occurred to me (for instance, the verbosity level on the voiceover), but impossible to change where it counted. You couldn’t, for instance, turn the voice off. My mister found it unbearable. “Thanks for interrupting myfavourite songto tell me to keep going straight ahead,” he would yell, as I wondered aloud how Losing My Religion could be his favourite song, and he said, “Obviously, when I’m talking to the satnav, I mean favourite song on Magic FM.”The Outback was known for not being a town car, if only because no one who lives in a town would ever need this much boot space. Its extra safety features, while devised with traffic in mind, have turned it from somewhat unnecessary for the self-respecting urbanist into an active pest.Subaru Outback: in numbersPrice£29,995Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption50.4mpgCO2emissions159g/kmCool rating6/10Eco rating6/10
With more than 70m copies sold since its launch in 2009, Minecraft is one of the biggest success stories of the modern games industry. It is remarkable for the community it has spawned – from developers who modify the game for fun, to the players who have become stars on YouTube with videos of their exploits.Related:Minecraft: a crash guide to Mojang's world-beating gameThis weekend, 10,000 members of that community will descend on London for the annual Minecon conference, organised by the game’s developer, Mojang. It is the first such event since Mojang wasbought by Microsoftfor $2.5bn (£1.6bn) in November 2014, and players are eager to see how the two companies plan to maintain Minecraft’s popularity by adding new features and taking advantage of emerging technologies.For the uninitiated, Mojang itself describes Minecraft as “a game about breaking and placing blocks” where players construct a virtual landscape alone or with friends, building structures and fending off monsters along the way.Originally made for adults by the Swedish developer Markus “Notch” Persson, Minecraft has evolved into a game for all ages with a huge community of children – a number of whom will be at the Minecon show at the Excel centre. The event will include panel sessions on all aspects of Minecraft, live tournaments and a party.“It’s impossible for us to have an event big enough that our entire community can attend, but even to have 10,000 people who really care what we’re about, and to meet and talk to them in real life, is really special,” Mojang’s chief operating officer, Vu Bui, said before the conference.“We want Minecon to feel like a world where the real world and Minecraft co-exist,” said Bui. “I think people will be blown away by a couple of things we’ve created this year.”One reason Minecraft has become such a cultural touchstone for children in particular is the influence of YouTube, where a number of channels focus entirely on videos of people playing the game. Minecraft videos were watched more than 4.1bn times in May alone, well ahead of the second most popular game franchise, Grand Theft Auto, which pulled in 1.7bn views.British Minecraft-playing YouTubers, such asJoseph “Stampy” GarrettandDaniel “The Diamond Minecart” Middleton, are among the top stars on YouTube, generating 2.2bn and 1.6bn views respectively on their channels in 2014 – more than the likes of Taylor Swift, One Direction and Beyoncé.Bui says YouTubers are a big draw at Minecon. “At the first Minecon, people wanted to come and meet the Mojang developers. They still do, but now they just as much want to see these YouTubers who are creating videos with Minecraft.”“They’re like the movie stars of this community, except unlike traditional movie stars, they have daily interaction with these players’ lives, whether it’s through comments on YouTube or on Facebook and Twitter.”Minecon will also offer some hints at what Mojang has planned for Minecraft in the coming months, although Bui warned fans not to expect major announcements. A panel of Mojang staff will talk about upcoming features, while Microsoft may show off a new version of Minecraft made for its upcoming HoloLens augmented reality headset.Education will also be a prominent topic, with panels featuring teachers who will share case studies ofMinecraft being used in schools. Microsoft has just launched an online community for educators.Bui says, however, that Minecraft’s community, rather than Mojang or Microsoft, will be front and centre at the conference.“If you ask people what their favourite things are to do in Minecraft, the majority would have been created by people outside of Mojang,” he said. “Some people just like to watch Minecraft videos on YouTube, and others play ‘mods’ created by the community. This is not just about a game you download: it’s about the people in the community who are creating on top of it. And this is the one time of the year we get to bring that community together in the real world.”
The Home Secretary, Theresa May, has been named the UK internet industry’s villain of the year for pursuing “snooper’s charter” legislation without fully consulting the sector.The gong, part of the annualISPA awards, was given for “forging ahead with communications data legislation that would significantly increase capabilities without adequate consultation with industry and civil society”.“With an investigatory powers bill due before parliament in the coming months, it is essential that ISPs are consulted,” the Internet Services Providers’ Association (ISPA) added.The MPs Tom Watson and David Davis were jointly named internet hero for their legal action against the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act (DRIPA). “Surveillance has dominated both the hero and villain shortlists for number of years, and it was felt Davis and Watson were some of the best informed politicians on the subject,” the ISPA said.Related:Drip surveillance law faces legal challenge by MPsAlso nominated for the Hero award were theInterception of Communications Commissioner(part of the Home Office), Privacy International,GreenNetandDavid Anderson QC, an independent reviewer of terrorism legislation. David Anderson QC.A special 20th anniversary award was given to John Souter, chief executive of Linx (the London Internet Exchange) for his service to the internet industry.The ISPA said Linx had been fundamental to the development of the UK’s internet industry by providing a cost-effective platform for ISPs.Fibre broadband ISPHyperopticwon three awards, including best superfast broadband for the third consecutive year.Hosting providercatalyst2won two awards, including the customer choice honour for the third time. It was the only category decided solely by customer ratings.For a full list of winners, visit theISPA website.
Arkham Knight describes itself as the “conclusion to the Arkham trilogy”, conveniently ignoring the less well received Arkham Origins, which was admittedly by another developer. In this outing, Batman gets new body armour and a redesigned Batmobile, which is a Swiss Army knife-style problem-solver that pulls down walls and doors and even chips in with rubber bullets during fights. It’s also got a mini-gun and cannon for dispatching the legions of unmanned drone tanks that infest Gotham City, letting you blow stuff up without breaking Batman’s no-killing rule.It looks gorgeous, the perpetual night complemented by beautifully realised gothic architecture, but the 1980s Chuck Norris movie-grade script and mostly cheesy voice acting do little to bring the atmosphere to life. Still, pretending to be Batman has never been so exciting, and this is a well-constructed finisher for what remains the best superhero franchise ever.
Sorry, the internet is full - in North America at least.The organisation that hands out IP addresses has finally run out of numbers.ARIN, the American Registry for Internet Numbers, has had to turn down an application for IP addresses because it did not have enough left under the IPv4 protocol to fulfil the entire request.Related:Is the internet ‘full’ and going to shut down?ARIN has known for quite some time that this day would come. As a result it has activated a policy to deal with this situation. The body says that organisations needing larger amounts of address space can use the IPv4 transfer market.“Our number-one priority is ensuring Phase 4 procedures are followed during this unique time in the IPv4 history,” Richard Jimmerson, ARIN’s chief information officerwrote in a blog post.IPv4 has been a loyal and faithful protocol since its inception, supporting 4.3bn internet addresses. But given the explosion in the number of internet-connected devices, that is not nearly enough.According to one calculation, ARIN has about 134,000 addresses left.Fortunately, a solution is at hand: IPv6, which has “ample availability”, ARIN says.That’s something of an understatement given that IPv6 can allow as many as 340 trillion devices to be connected to the internet simultaneously.Although one forecast from Gartner expects that there will be 25bn such devices by 2020, IPv6 should keep the world going for a few more years after that.Existing IP addresses are a string of numbers such as 68.89.31.226, while an IPv6 address has eight four-digit hexadecimal numbers (where the numbers 10-15 are represented by the letters a-f). An example would be 2001:db48:1f70:54e3:9399:def8:7648:6ef8.While some companies, such as Google, have already switched to the new protocol, not all have done so.Continuing to adopt the ostrich approach, though, will not be an option for much longer.
Virtual reality was a big deal at this year’s E3 video game expo in Los Angeles. Oculus was there showing off the latest build of its Rift headset, Sony revealed a newmultiplayer shooter demofor the Project Morpheus, and Microsoft announced a partnership with Valve, seeking to make Windows 10thesoftware platform for the HTC Vive as well as all other PC-based VR devices. It also brought the “mixed reality” device Hololens along for the ride. There was much excitement.But what do the mainstream games publishers really think about this new era of immersive technology? The spectre hanging over the whole industry right now is that, behind all the hype, very few VR or AR headsets have actually been sold to the public. The only commercially available mainstream products right now are Android phone extensions like the Samsung Gear VR and Zeiss VR One; Google ditched its Glasses project this year. The first big player to get a launch is likely to be the brilliant HTC Vive this winter, but it’s going to require an ultra high-end PC, limiting its user base – at least at first – to enthusiasts.And then, of course, there’s the whole problem of, well, what are people going to want from a VR application? At the well-attenedSouth West VR conferencethis year, many of the talks and discussions were based around this question. Is it going to be about epic narrative games in vast virtual environments or will people want short, contained experiences with very little movement? Or some combination of both? Or neither?Opinion is hugely divided – and the interesting discussions are going on away from the glare of the E3 press briefing. Andrew Wilson, CEO of Electronic Arts chose to speak about VR, not at E3 at all, but at the more offbeat and artsy SXSW festival, where he talked about the company’s interest in VRas a new paradigm in entertainment, but provided no details. Then, on the Sunday before E3, the Guardian was invited into a short interview slow with Nintendo America chief Reggie Fils-Aime and Activision Publishing CEO Eric Hirchberg – two of the most powerful men in mainstream gaming. We were ostensibly there to talk about the Skylanders deal between the two companies, but at the end of the session, we snuck in an extra question: what do you think about virtual reality?The responses were a fascinating mix of evasion and corporate messaging. “Can I get out of this one?” asked Hirschberg, laughing. “I think there’s certainly a lot of energy, industry-wide, going into these things, and sometimes that popcorn pops and sometimes it doesn’t. At the end of the day, it’ll come down to the applications. We’re certainly looking at it carefully - we’re a platform agnostic company, we want to be wherever gamers are. We’ll see how it goes.”Fils-Aime was similarly circumspect. “Is it fun?” he asked. “I think that this industry is going to continue to progress by being entertaining and creating experiences that are fun. I’ve tried a lot of the different experiences - some were fun, some less so. But at the point that it’s consistently fun, it will be a real innovation. That’s my perspective.”Not much commitment there. By contrast, later that afternoon, in a behind-closed-doors briefing, Ubisoft revealed that it is working on a number of virtual reality projects, with its Red Storm studio set to release something in the near future. David Votypka, head of Red Storm,spoke teasinglyabout how the company wants to marry virtual reality gaming with social connectivity: “I’m talking about games that are specifically designed to have mechanics based around social cues, social dynamics and social interactions between players. These projects are just the beginning.”Speaking to the Guardian a couple of days later, Ubisoft CEO, Yves Guillemot, admitted that there is uncertainty surrounding VR, but insisted that the company is on board with the tech.“We don’t know yet whether it will be an enormous consumer success,” he says. “What I like about it is that it’s accessible, you can control it just by moving your head; that’s an interesting step. What’s also good is that you don’t have to work on $50m projects with VR, you can work on $1-2m projects and that gives us a chance to test different ideas. We’re at the beginning, but our demos have been convincing.”Interestingly, the company is already thinking of how to apply VR tech to its major game brands. “It won’t be like the games we see today,” says Guillemot. “It will be more like the World of Far Cry or the World of Assassin’s Creed, where you go and complete specific challenges that are more adapted to VR. But yes we will try to use the worlds we have created, because we think that’s a very important asset.”One of the demos Ubisoft showed at E3 was a VR version of the moment in Far Cry 3 when crazed antagonist Vaas explains his definition of insanity to bound and gagged lead character, Jason Brody. Viewed through Brody’s eyes it’s a weirdly intimidating experience, capturing the emotional essence of immersive theatre productions, and the scenario – you’re tied to a chair – provides a plausible limiter to the player’s movements – which is going to be a key element in VR because you don’t want people running into walls or furniture. So is this the future of VR gaming? Very intense, controlled cinematic moments with little interaction? Could this be a mass market proposition?Ultimately, though, the key barriers could be more psychological than experiential. What few people were talking about at E3 is the uncanny physical experience of both wearing a VR helmet (the way it isolates you from your environment, but also just the way it messes up your hair) and of viewing others wearing it. There’s a sort of techno-fear, instigated perhaps by a dozen sci-fi movie visions of an oppressive, highly mechanised VR future.David Braben, founder of Frontier Developments, has seen how VR can augment a gaming experience: Elite Dangerous works amazingly well on the Oculus Rift, giving you an immersive view of your ship’s cockpit. But he’s concerned about the future shock of head mounted displays (HMDs): “The move to VR is interesting, but very rapid,” he says. “I’m just worried that it’s going to happen too quickly, because I’m not sure we’re ready to see our own kids wearing HMDs, completely disengaged from the world. I love VR, it’s great, but there could be a backlash.”Guillemot recognises the possibility of this kind of instinctive hardware revulsion, but he thinks its like any new technological advance: the right kind of experience will make users of us all. “If we produce experiences that are emotional and intense there will be a market,” he says. “It doesn’t matter that you have to wear something on your head, if it’s good people will do it. People will have to go through that period of discovery, but itcanbecome mass market.”For now, all we really have from the traditional games industry are some Project Morpheus demos put out by the likes of Capcom and Rebellion and a lot of interesting indie projects (and experimental support from bigger brands such as Elite, Dying Light and Eurotruck Simulator) on Oculus. HTC Vive and Microsoft Hololens are tech demos and promises. If there is excitement, it is yet to transform into commitment.
Uber has closed its ride-sharing service, UberPop, in Paris, after the arrest of two executives on Monday, and a series of increasingly disruptive protests against the company in France.The company said it had made the decision as a result of “intimidation, violent protests and organised aggression against UberPop drivers and users … due to a minority of out-of-control individuals”.“Uber does not wish to run the slightest risk to UberPop drivers and passengers,” it added.The UberPop service allows non-professional drivers to offer their car for hire, and the company says that 10,000 drivers have signed up for the service. But concerns over its legality in France resulted in thearrest of two executives on Monday.Uber has faced particular difficulty in France following the passing of the so-called Thevenoud Law, which targeted car sharing services such as UberPop.The company said it was suspending its service “in a gesture of peace”, and will wait until the decision of the conseil constitutionnel, the French supreme court, on 30 September, on whether the law is constitutional.Until then, Uber said that UberPop drivers can apply for a taxi licence and drive for the company’s licensed UberX service – which is also offered in the UK – but that the licensing process was “too much of an obstacle course”.“We understand that new technology is disruptive: not just for established companies, but for the people who work in them and their families,” Uber said.“This is especially true at a time of high unemployment. But we believe there is a way forward that provides new opportunities for all drivers including taxi drivers, as well as passengers who love the convenience of services like Uber, Heetch and Djump.“Hundreds of taxi drivers have already switched over to Uber and are making a better living, with a work schedule to suit their family’s’ needs. It is heartbreaking to see the violence in the streets when we know that taxi drivers can earn more on the Uber platform. It’s why we need to do a better job explaining and communicating the advantages of Uber to all drivers.”
Google has made its “inceptionism” algorithm available to all, allowing coders around the world to replicate the process the company used to create mesmerising dreamscapes with its image processing neural-network.The system, which works by repeatedly feeding an image through an AI which enhances features it recognises, was firstdemonstrated by Google two weeks ago. It can alter an existing image to the extent that it looks like an acid trip, or begin with random noise to generate an entirely original dreamscape.Now that the code for the system is public, users have been playing around with it – apparently competing to see who can make the most nightmarish images possible.Running Larry Page through the system gives him a few too many mouths, for instance:#deepdreamLarry Page CEO google:pic.twitter.com/1pp6zpbiIO&mdash; samim (@samim)July 2, 2015and a half-eaten donut is ... MY GOD WHAT IS THAT?@kcimcthis little monster is a half eaten doughnut :Dhttps://t.co/zZ5euPgvsF#deepdream&mdash; Dunks (@dunknicoll)July 2, 2015And there are cats in the sky:The eternal question: Is there anybody out there?#deepdreampic.twitter.com/SpKzWQipQT&mdash; Jiri Lukavsky (@jlukavsky)July 2, 2015Running the already-freaky Philip K Dick adaptation A Scanner Darkly through the system ups the weird quota:Bob Arctor is going to have a bad day.#DeepDreampic.twitter.com/ofsdcvaEdn&mdash; vintermann (@vintermann)July 2, 2015And in a double Philip K Dick reference: yes, Androids do dream of electric sheep. I know, I’ve made that joke before, I do not care, look at these freaky sheep:Before#deepdream&#39;it&#39; was a sheep.pic.twitter.com/8s5nhVXQid&mdash; Pavel Bazin (@pavelbazin)July 2, 2015You can find more pics all over Facebook, Twitter and even Google+ on the hashtag “deepdream”
Many of the biggest subreddits on social news site Reddit have shut down to protest against the sacking of a well-liked employee.The so-called “Reddit Revolt” has seen the temporary closure of the site’s gaming, science, history, and cinema subforums by their volunteer moderators, with many more joining in.The protest is focused on the dismissal of Victoria Taylor, a former Reddit communications director who was abruptly let go on Thursday. Her role had been to co-ordinate the site’s popular Ask Me Anything series, also known as AMAs, where celebrities answer questions submitted by the Reddit community. The main AMA subforum, “IAmA”, was the first to close in protest.Over the years, AMAs had brought in some of the site’s biggest successes, including the AMA with President Obama in 2012, and one with a man with two penises in 2014, and many had been specifically arranged and co-ordinated by Taylor. The contrast between those two events is also a nice way to sum up Reddit to someone who has not heard of the site.After Taylor’s dismissal, one of the volunteer moderators of the IAmA subforum, karmanaut,wrote: “We all had the rug ripped out from under us and feel betrayed.”“The admins didn’t realise how much we rely on Victoria. Part of it is proof, of course: we know it’s legitimate when she’s sitting right there next to the person and can make them provide proof. We’ve had situations where agents or others have tried to do an AMA as their client, and Victoria shut that shit down immediately. We can’t do that anymore.”Karmanaut added: “Part of it is also that Victoria is an essential lifeline of communication. When something goes wrong in an AMA, we can call and get it fixed immediately … Part of it is also organisation. Without her filling this role, we will be utterly overwhelmed. We have been really blindsided by all of this.”The reasons for Taylor’s dismissal from Reddit remain murky, but a hastily deleted post from an executive at Quora (a Q&amp;A site that is like Reddit, but for Ivy League grads) gives a plausible outline.Marc Bodnick wrote that the dismissal was because “Reddit management was pushing Victoria to do a bunch of highly commercial things around AMAs, but Victoria wasn’t comfortable with those ideas”. He cited video AMAs as one such example, and said that her resistance led to the sacking.In a post on CenturyClub – another subforum that has since gone private in protest – Taylor herself expressed bafflement at her dismissal, saying that “you guys know what I know” in relation to her departure.Reddit has not responded to the Guardian’s request for comment.Reddit co-founder, Alexis Ohanian, said in a post: “We don’t talk about specific employees, but I do want you to know that I’m here to triage AMA requests in the interim.”“We get that losing Victoria has a significant impact on the way you manage your community. I’d really like to understand how we can help solve these problems, because I know r/IAMA thrived before her and will thrive after.”A second post from Ohanian, made in a private forum just for Reddit’s volunteer moderators, promised changes in an attempt to encourage the blackouts from continuing. “Your message was received loud and clear. The communication between Reddit and the moderators needs to improve dramatically. We will work closely with you all going forward to ensure events like today don’t happen again,”he wrote. In an effort to improve the relationship with the mods, Ohanian immediately named a new community contact, reddit employee Kristine Fasnacht, and promised greater support for AMAs.The revolt is the second major user rebellion at Reddit in as many months. Previously, the site had seen a number of high-profile users and subforumsexpress dismay at the closure of subforums such as transfags and fatpeoplehate, which were censured for inciting harassment.Many users jumped ship from the site fora Swiss-based clone called Voat, which promised a “censorship-free” experience.
It’s Friday, everyone. Everything is going to be OKAY.
Every year the global strategy consultancy Brand Finance releases a list of the world’s most powerful brands. In 2014, Ferrari topped the chart, but this February, the Italian super car manufacturer was usurped by a toy. It was, of course, Lego.This classic product, conceived over 60 years ago, has proved infinitely extendible in the modern era. The Lego Movie, a film based on the toy, was itself turned into a series of Lego playsets, while Minecraft, a game often referred to as digital Lego, is now available in plastic form. It’s a perfectly circular business.And, of course, we have the Lego video games from UK-based studio Traveller’s Tales. Each of these bright, funny action adventures is expertly crafted to exploit both the appeal of the blocks themselves and the various licences – from Star Wars to Harry Potter – that have been converted into playset form.Now it is the turn of Jurassic World, and for those familiar with the Lego game formula, there isn’t much new here besides a change of IP. In the main story mode, players run through scenes recreated from the current blockbuster, as well from the original Jurassic Park and its two subsequent sequels – all filled with puzzles and appended by TT games’ quirky Lego humour. The levels are packed with characters from the cinematic series – not just the obvious leads, but also obscure extras – as well as instantly recognisable dinosaurs, vehicles and locations. And this time the game comes with an inbuilt tips guide in the form of “DNA”, the cartoon helper from the Jurassic movies who bears a disconcerting resemblance to Microsofts legendary paperclip – although fortunately he’s actually useful.As ever, while exploring film scenes, you’re also smashing up the landscape to collect Lego studs – the small round pieces that usually get sucked up into your vacuum cleaner. These convert into game points that unlock rewards and extra content. The general rule is, if a scenic feature looks like a Lego set, then hit it.Meanwhile, in certain places, piles of unbuilt Lego will bounce enthusiastically around you, and with a tap of the button your character will build some incredible structure to move you further on in the level. Each character also has their own special skills, from throwing a grappling hook to following tracks, squeezing into small holes, or diving headlong into large piles of dinosaur poo and having a good rummage for something useful. Lego dinosaurs, it turns out, like to eat useful items. You can switch easily between the characters involved in your level, and if a situation presents itself where another character might be useful, they often begin to leap about vying for your attention.The stand out feature for Lego Jurassic World is the ability to control the dinosaurs. Jumping, charging and biting your way through the level as a velociraptor is good fun but these moments are all too short and sporadic in the Campaign section. It’s in the “free play” mode where you can make the most of the dinosaurs and vehicles, creating your own reptilian beasts and roaming the Jurassic islands – like a sort of prehistoric Grand Theft Auto.As in other Lego games, the graphics are clean and the cartoon style perfect for its plastic subjects. The humour is suitably silly and it’s clear that the design team poured a lot of love, knowledge and nostalgia into the game, particularly in the section dedicated to the original movie.What Lego Jurassic doesn’t do is innovate on the previous Lego games a great deal – nor does it really need to. This is aimed squarely at children – or more specifically at parents who want to share some nostalgia with their kids while making use of the perfect drop-in/drop-out co-operative option. Everything has been designed to make it safe for children who may not be ready for shocks and scares. Character deaths from the films, for example, are replaced with various light-hearted moments such as an unfortunate Lego worker being hoisted from a dinosaur cage, clutching only his dino-patterned pants. There’s also less fighting in this game than previous Lego titles – most of the time you’ll be running away and the only scuffles you see are with the odd baby dinosaur.More recent Lego games have become increasingly open-world in their design allowing the player to choose where to go next – not so much for this one though. Yes, there’s a map, and a hub world structure, but aside from some bonus levels and odd mini-game, the campaign is mainly linear, pushing you forward through the story towards the next cut scene. It also offers less challenge than some of its predecessors: everything is a little more obvious and the puzzles rarely have you searching for very long.There is a sense that Traveller’s Tales is one day going to have to overhaul its approach to producing Lego titles, but while they’re selling like – well, Lego – it’s doubtful that publisher Warner Bros will be in a hurry to demand changes. Those suffering from Lego game lethargy, then, may find this lacking. But for fans who want a good family-friendly game that will keep the children entertained through the summer holidays while providing the opportunity to relive some classic movie moments, then this park is open and definitely worth a visit.Warner Bros; 3DS/PC/PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Vita, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One; £35; Pegi rating: 7+
“The only things that the United States has given to the world are skyscrapers, jazz, and cocktails,” once wrote Federico García Lorca. “And in Cuba, in our America, they make much better cocktails.”The residents of Lorca’s hometown of Granada may now dare to add Twitter to that list. The California-based social network has become something of a specialism for the Spanish city, which now proudly promotes Jun, a local town pioneering Twitter as a way ofadministering its public services, and hosts an annual conference dedicated to Twitter.Mayor José Antonio Rodríguez Salashas been experimenting with technology to improve civic engagement since 1999, starting with software the council built itself, and later moving to virtual communities and social media. When I first meet him on a blistering Andalucian summer day, he is standing in the shade with a huddle of townsfolk overlooking a roundabout. The centrepiece of the roundabout is a large obelisk, decorated with a Twitter mosaic, and a collection of cement handprints that include the former Twitter CEO,Dick Costolo.Dick Costolo making his mark on JunPhotograph: PR‘We now do our paperwork on Twitter’The mayor jokes that Twitter has enabled them to eliminate the bureaucracy brought in by the French. “Twitter has created the society of the minute – very quick questions and very quick answers. We now do our paperwork on Twitter,” he says. “But this is an important point, because who values the work of the people at city hall? The street sweeper? The cleaner? We decided that everyone would have a Twitter account so that they could see that people value their work.”We decided that everyone would have a Twitter account so that they could see that people value their workJosé Antonio Rodríguez SalasSalas has been pushing all 3,500 Jun residents to join Twitter. Six hundred residents have had their accounts registered at the town hall so far, and are using it to book rooms at the town hall, make doctor’s appointments, report crimes or street lamps that need fixing and tweet about school lunches. How has this gone down with Jun’s less technophile residents?Elena Almagrowas cleaning floors when she was nine, and didn’t learn to read or write because her family were too poor to send her to school. Now in her 60s, Elena says she never thought she would be able to use Twitter when the mayor started to encourage her. “He said I should enrol on a training course, and I thought I was visiting the moon when I saw all the computers and equipment in there,” she said. Encouraged by her nine-year-old grandson, they both learned Twitter and decided it would be useful. She tweets during town meetings, she says. “And when I tweet to the mayor, he answers back. It makes me feel my tweets matter. I thought old people couldn’t learn how to use this but we can. There was a man of 90 in the training centre! And I’ve been using it to tweet about herbs and recipes.”‘When I enrolled on the training course, I thought I was visiting the moon’Elena AlmagroJun’s streetsweeper also says he has had a new lease of life through the scheme. His streetsweeping twitter persona@barredorajunhas become something of a town celebrity. “I can feel how people value my work and they congratulate me when I have done a good job,” he says. Does it worry him that he might get complaints too? “The fact that people tell you you have done something badly is not necessarily bad – it means you have to improve something. But not many people tell me I have not done my job properly.”The mayor is clearly proud of his work, which is the culmination of many years trying to find technologies that would cost the council less and make communication with residents more direct. He says that efficiencies in cutting bureaucracy have enabled Jun to cut its police force down from four to one officer, who can respond to everything from a car accident to a neighbourly dispute through Twitter. What of those who can’t or won’t use the internet? Are they disenfranchised?“Even old people who find it hard to adapt have been trained to use Twitter,” he said. “If you go to city hall you won’t find anyone queueing – they have all the information they need. And Jun has wifi access throughout and free internet connections in the training centre.”Jun’s streetsweeper, @barredorajun, has become a town celebrityPhotograph: The GuardianHe is adamant that there is no inherent risk in outsourcing local government functions to a private American company. “We passed a law that we would exploit any free resource, private or public – the important thing was that they were free. The characteristics of Twitter made it the best platform – immediate and efficient.” This is, he says, “mutual visibility” for the authorities and the citizens.This experiment by Salas was up and running for two years before Twitter decided to investigate in more depth, with Twitter’s chief data scientist and associate MIT professorDeb Roy, visiting earlier in 2015. “There are those who assume Twitter is lightweight and fun, and Jun shows that there is that side too – what’s available at the town bar, or what the kids are doing,” he said. “But one of the unique characteristics of social media being built on top of the internet is an almost superhuman distribution. Talking is a very natural communication act.”Salas says Jun has been able to cut its police force down from four to one officerPhotograph: The GuardianRoy referenced Socrates, who was concerned that the rise of text would lead to the death of critical oration and debate. “The idea that text is dead words, with a fixed authority that can’t be questioned – Socrates did have a point. But the affordances of social media are actually closer to a written form Socrates would have been happy with.”What of those who can’t or won’t engage?If Jun is a model for a more fluid, immediate democratic form of local government, is it a concern that some proportion of the population will always be unable or unwilling to engage?“Looking at how we scale this to a larger community, the potential downside is that if we think those who are digitally represented are the only people we have to worry about, then we aren’t thinking about all the people who can’t or won’t. They become invisible. So we need to look holistically at this,” said Roy, pointing to wider challenges globally where the cost of devices and connectivity, despite decreasing, is prohibitive for many, while a further billion people in the world fall below the functioning literacy rate.Jun, he said, is the exception rather than the rule, with a very committed and technologically confident mayor who has pursued this project for 16 years. He has ensured that Twitter has replaced paperwork but not human interaction; the town hall still buzzes with people and he is very visible in the town. Recently re-elected, it also doesn’t seem to have done his standing any harm in the community. Roy and his researchers have been exploring how the Jun project could be scaled up, looking at Chicago, New York, San Francisco and in Boston, where MIT is based.But in this complex intersection of ethical, political and social issues, is there enough public debate both inside Twitter and in the wider industry?“There’s constant dialogue internally, and a lot of public engagement,” said Roy. “But it’s important to step back and say that as a species we constantly create technologies that change our behaviour. We have to remind ourselves that we don’t have all the answers, and continue to have that conversation so that we learn. In that sense perhaps that can never be enough debate, not just as Twitter but at all these tech companies who interact, and the government.”
Self-published authors could be paid as little as $0.006 per page read under new rules planned by Amazon.Writers who make their works available through Amazon’s Kindle Owners Lending Library, and a similar service called Kindle Unlimited, will no longer be paid per copy downloaded following a move announced last week.Instead, they would receive a payment based on how many pages had actually been read, with longer books receiving a higher potential payment than shorter works.In an email to authors, sent on Wednesday, Amazon revealed exactly how little that payment would be.The company said that customers of its two services read nearly 1.9bn pages in June, while it expected to pay at least $11m a month for June, July and August.That means the payment per page read could be as low as $0.006, meaning that an author will have to write a 220-page book – and have every page read by every person downloading it – to make the same $1.30 they currently get from a book being downloaded.Casey Lucas, a literary editor who works with self-publishing authors, says she has lost six clients already. They have decided tostop writing after “estimating a 60–80% reduction in royalties”.“A lot of self-published romance authors are disabled, stay-at-home mums, or even a few returned veterans who work in the field because a regular job just isn’t something they can handle,” she says. “People are shedding a lot of tears over this.”Rachel Manija Brown, who publishes on the platform as Lia Silver, is one. Brown volunteers as a therapist, working with PTSD sufferers and as a crisis counsellor for the police.“I can afford to do this work for free because up until today, I was earning a living writing paranormal romance,” she says.“If I can no longer make a living writing, I’ll either have to take a paid internship which would not be serving the same population, or find some other day job which wouldn’t be as flexible and would mean I’d have to cut back my hours at the agency I’m at now. I would also have less availability as a crisis counsellor.”Not every author will lose out, however. Since the overall amount paid out to writers is intended to remain the same, there will be winners - mainly those who write longer books that are read in full.That has led some to argue that Amazon intends to reduce the income of authors of shorter works in an effort to alter the composition of the library. If that is the company’s intention, Lucas argues that Amazon is missing the point.“By placing the emphasis on length of book rather than quality of book, Amazon is shutting out more than just erotica authors. Nonfiction authors and especially children’s book authors – whose works tend toward the shorter side – are also going to be hard hit by this change.“The author of a cookbook used to receive a flat fee anytime someone borrowed one of their books. Now, they will receive a pittance unless the reader scrolls all the way through to the end of their book. And even then, they might not make much unless their book is long. And who reads cookbooks beginning to end?”Amazon did not respond to a request for comment before publication.
