A computer technician charged with launching a cyber-coup against the city of San Francisco was expected to plead not guilty late yesterday to four charges of computer tampering.Terry Childs, an employee of the San Francisco city government, is accused of blocking access to the city's computer system to everyone but himself. He is being held in jail in lieu of $5m bail.Childs, who was arrested on Sunday, had been suspended from his $127,735-a-year job with the city for alleged insubordination. Apparently irked by the decision, he allegedly created a password to the city's computer system giving him exclusive access. He initially gave police a bogus password before refusing to reveal the correct code, it is alleged.San Francisco's mayor, Gavin Newsom, did his best to calm fears that the city was being held to ransom."There's nothing to be alarmed about, save the inability to get into the system and tweak the system," he said. "Nothing dramatic has changed in terms of our ability to govern the city."The city was expected to place Childs on unpaid leave at yesterday's hearing. He is still being paid his salary as he sits in prison.Childs' court-appointed lawyer - also a city employee - called the bail "crazy"."I don't think he's a threat," said Mark Jacobs. "He didn't kill anybody, and murderers usually get a $1m bail. Someone out there is really scared of something, and I don't know what that is."Childs, 43, has been employed by San Francisco for five years and was involved in designing the city's network that records officials' emails, payroll files, police documents and prison inmates' booking records.
There were a few offbeat titles at E3. Flock! a herding sim by Dundee studioProper Games, may pick up nicely where Core Design'sHerdy Gerdyleft off. I wrote about Flower yesterday - the latest title fromThat Game Company, then there wasDeadly Creatures, a Wii title from Rainbow Studios where you take on the role of huge spider and a scorpion as they struggle to survive in a harsh desert landscape. (Can you think of any other games where you control an arachnid? I'm sure I remember a Sega Saturn title, Spider, by Scavenger Software...)However, here are the titles I found most interesting, primarily for the (*sigh* modestly) innovative ways they use their environments, both in terms of design and interaction...Mirror's Edge (DICE)Battlefield developer DICE goes futuristic with thisreallyinteresting first-person adventure, which is more Parkour challenge than straightforward shooter. The minimalist environments and interesting use of the lead character's body (limbs flicking into view as she leaps, grasps and fights) show a balance of confidence and subtle experimentation. An exciting prospect.Mad World (Platinum Games)You may have caught this wildly idiosyncratic game on the cover of Edge a couple of issues ago. It's a comic book-style slaughter-fest based in a Running Man-style TV show where combantants fight to the death for the amusement of the audience. It's byPlatinumGames, formed by the founders of Clover Studio, previously responsible for Viewtiful Joe and Okami. No wonder then, that it's such a wild visual ride, the monochrome backgrounds recalling Sin City, the copious blood and balletic hyper violence capturing the essence of manga like Ragnarok and Shamo. The trailer is am-az-ing.Singularity (Raven)Not much is known about this first-person shooter fromRaven, except it's based around some kind of rift in time, hence environments seem to flash between eras while the player is exploring. Sure, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time and Ocarina of Time, but not quite this manically.
You may recall on Tuesday I mentioned Wii's new MotionPlus add-on, which connects to the base of the Wii remote accentuating the device's movement sensing capabilities. Or asNintendo puts it:The Wii MotionPlus accessory attaches to the end of the Wii Remote and, combined with the accelerometer and the sensor bar, allows for more comprehensive tracking of a player's arm position and orientation, providing players with an unmatched level of precision and immersion. Every slight movement players make with their wrist or arm is rendered identically in real time on the screen, providing a true 1:1 response in their game play.I didn't say much more about the technology, apart from the fact that it will be bundled with (or is it the other way around?) Wii Sports Resort, the beach-based follow-up to the console's defining game.Luckily though, Nintendo's press people in the US are extremely vigilant (it's all about engaging with the online community these days), and spotted my post, sending through some info I missed. The increased motion precision offered by MotionPlus comes courtesy ofInvenSensea Silicon Valley company that develops motion sensors for mobile applications - mostly tilt control mechanisms for mobile phones. MotionPlus contains the company's latest IDG-600 multi-axisMEMS rate gyroscope, specifically designed for game control use.Apparently, in Wii Sports Resort, gamers will have the ability to throw a disc through the air AND control the angle of flight - I don't know, maybe by wafting your arm around in a sort of wind turbulence version of after-touch.In InvenSense's press release Genyo Takeda, General Manager of Nintendo's Integrated Research and Development Division, talks about the IDG-600's ability to "measure large dynamic motions" and its " accuracy for sensing the fast moving arm and hand motions". It's interesting because, until now, a lot of the sensitivity of the Wii Remote controller has been in the imagination of the gamer - those players who add twisting flourishes to their Wii Tennis and Wii Bowling actions have been sort of kidding themselves, filling in the sensory blanks, like those Pong addicts who were sure they could add after-touch to the ball flight.It will be interesting to see how much complexity MotionPlus adds to the Wii 'experience'. Will it simply be about cutting the frustration brought about by a slightly inaccurate technology, or will itaddlayers of complexity to the controls? From the Frisbee example it would seem to be the latter. Which means Nintendo has a precarious tightrope to walk, between building on the success of its technology as a mainstream phenomenon, and alienating its casual audience through the introduction of extra spatial/co-ordinative demands. Most importantly, is co-ordinative even a word?
Gartner: Worldwide PC sales for 08Q2 (click for larger)Worldwide PC shipments grew 16% to 71.9 million units in this year's second quarter, according toGartner, or by 15% to 70.6 million units according toIDC.Hewlett-Packard held on to the top spot, growing slightly faster than the market (17.1% versus 16.0%), according to Gartner. However, Dell closed the gap slightly with 21.9% growth as it moved into retailing notebook PCs. Garter says: "Preliminary results showed Dell achieve over 40% year-over-year growth in mobile shipments for two consecutive quarters."Dell continued to lead in the US market, shipping 5.25m PCs for a 31.9% market share, according to Gartner. HP shipped 4.17m units for a 25.3% share, with Apple in third spot with sales of 1.40m units for an 8.5% market share. (IDC placed Apple fourth, a few units behind Acer, but Acer's sales include Gateway and Packard Bell.)But the EMEA region (Europe/Middle East/Afica) was bad news for Dell. HP held on to the top spot (4.46m units, 19.3% share) ahead of Acer (3.49m, 15.1%), while Dell languished in third (2.76m, 11.9%). Dell grew its PC shipments by 27%, but this was less than its rivals in the top five.However, Asus was the star of the European show, entering the top five with 1.26m sales for a 5.4% market share. Gartner put Asus's growth at 159.1%, adding: "ASUS grew organically and expanded its presence across EMEA as a result of strong mini-notebook sales, which represented 5% of the mobile PC market shipments."The vendor displaced was Fujitsu Siemens Computers, which used to be strong in EMEA, and has been (maybe still is) No 1 in Germany.Although sales of Asus Eee PCs may not hold up over the long term, being seen as a major player will almost certainly encourage buyers to try its more traditional PCs.
Go to a video or TV programme on Amazon and it will start playing -- though you only get to watch the first two minutes. However, if you pay for it, you can watch the whole thing in streaming video mode, without downloading it. And if you want, you can watch it on a different system, so you can buy films in the office or on your mobile phone then watch them at home.That's the basis of Amazon Video on Demand, which starts its private beta test today, according toThe New York Times. It says:Films and TV shows from almost all the major studios and television networks are available for sale or rental to Amazon's customers in the United States, at varying prices depending on the program and whether people buy or rent it. The lone holdouts are Walt Disney and ABC, which Disney owns. Both have close relations with Amazon's digital rival, Apple.Amazon already hasUnbox, a video service that works with Windows PCs and TiVo set-top boxes. However, this takes the traditional download-to-watch route. Streaming will presumably have the potential to reach a wider audience, as long as the internet connection/buffering system is up to the job.Obviously, Amazon Video on Demand will be more attractive to people who have a PC or equivalent system connected to their TV set, which is part of the appeal of the Xbox 360 in theNetflix deal. But in the long term, you'd expect a decent TV set to have a PC built in.....Also in the long term, such services could reach distant lands, such as the UK.....
Today in the print section Heather Brooke - who was one of the key drivers behind getting access to MP's expenses - writes (as part of theFree Our Data campaign) inMet keeps crime stats under lock and keyabout how the Metropolitan Police insist that (a) they're not going to release data for crime mapping (b) even if they did, they keep it amalgamated on such a level that it wouldn't be any use to anyone.The Met also cites privacy as a reason not to release location specific crime data. Yet the Data Protection Act does not prohibit personal information being disclosed, even if one considers anonymised crime reports "personal"; and Boris Johnson's pledge was only ever to publish crime data by street level, not by exact address. The law's purpose is to ensure that disclosure is for a legitimate purpose. State-mandated ignorance benefits no one.Crimes are not a great secret, particularly not violent crimes - such as the spate of stabbings in the UK in recent months - though without access to the raw data, how can we know how and where it's rising? [Richard] Pope [of planningalerts.com] thinks the main problem is that the police are not technically savvy, citing an encounter at a meeting between locals, the council and the police where the Met admitted it couldn't provide incident detail broken down by area - so the council ended up paying the Met just to get this information.But people aren't necessarily waiting for the police. Take this mashup generated by MapMan which looks at that topic du jour, knife crime.Via theDigital Urban blog, here'sLondon Teenage Murders 2007, Knife Assaults and Regeneration Areas: Mapped - A Clear Pattern Emerges:Created using Google MyMaps the list has been compiled via various websites (such ashttp://www.capitalradio.co.uk/article.asp?id=532062) with street names identified in related press articles and plotted on the map. Actual position within the street will not be accurate, but the street names themselves should be. Note the map relates to all murders, not just knife related incidents.UsingMapTube[URL corrected] the map can be overlaid with other data sets, such as a map uploaded detailing assault using a knife or sharp objects extracted from all hospital admissions (2007). The map is based on data with a cause code of ICD-10 X99 (assault by sharp object) and excludes all codes that may indicate accidental injury (ICD10 – W25, W26), self inflicted (ICD10 – X78) and undetermined intent (ICD10 Y28).Figures are directly age standardised per 100,000 population with CI's - Actual counts were excluded in the map due to disclosure surrounding low numbers. By overlaying the two maps you begin to get a picture of the extent of knife crime and the number of murders in London.Each link is clickable for more information. Such data should really be available via either thehttp://www.london.gov.uk/orhttp://www.met.police.uk/along with other locations of crime in the city. It may be alarming to see such incidents mapped but this is the city we live in and the public should have a right to view exact locations of crime in their neighbourhoods.There's plenty more: they then overlay urban deprivation and find an interesting correlation with the number of teenage murders.OK, so you might find that obvious. But it also tells you where the energies need to be focussed - and whether parents in Hampstead or Notting Hill really need to worry about the possibility of their child being a victim.(One other thing: the gender of the victims. I suspect it's overwhelmingly male too, isn't it?)Anyhow, this is all stuff that's been done at zero cost to the police. Maybe if they think they're overcome with data, we could help them out some more. Make the data available for free, and we'll help you for free.
Google buys a lot of software companies -- YouTube, Blogger, Picasa, GrandCentral, Keyhole (Google Earth), Writely (Google Docs), JotSpot (Google Sites), Dodgeball etc -- but there's a tendency for them to stagnate. Nik Cubrilovic at TechCrunch IT reckons this is because of Google's proprietary software stack. InWhy Google Slows Down Acquired Companies, he says:One of the first main challenges for a company that has been acquired by Google is adopting the proprietary technology stack used within the company. Google does use Linux and open source, but their core technologies are all internal to the company. I have heard that it can take a new engineer at Google anywhere from 3-6 months to become accustomed to using these tools and services.The stack includes MapReduce, BigTable, and Google FS (file system).Because of the difference in technology, it can take a company anywhere from a year to three or more years to move over to the Google infrastructure and architecture. Blogger was still running their own infrastructure until their new release last year, and they have finally integrated Google ID's. YouTube is one of the only recent acquisitions where full steam and emphasis were placed into getting the site moved over to run on the Google platform. YouTube managed to pull it off, but it is a rare case inside Google (and also a special case).Other companies have their own software stacks, of course, but some of the main ones are very widely available to developers (eg Microsoft.net) or open source (Red Hat, Sun).As Angus McDonald points out in a comment,Google's AppEngineis an open invitation to use Google's stack, if only via an API. This would be a good idea if you're planning to have your startuptaken overby Google.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
AtTechCrunch, a video recorded by Adrian Pike ofTatango"shows the full Google search experience with a very Digg-like interface. Users vote search results up or down -- a down vote makes it disappear with a 'poof,' an up vote moves the result to the first page."Sound familiar? Last November, I posted a short about Google Experimental:Google Experimental works like Digg. This is an ongoing development, and is likely to be ongoing for some time.It's not particularly original.Sprooseis aimed at creating User Improved Results, and it's an element of theWikiasearch engines. So-called "social search" sites such as Wink and Mahalo have been taking a similar approach for a few years, but Google's monopoly market share of search could bring "voting" to a much wider audience (one almost indistinguishable from everyone).However, this would also make it a prime target for the vast number of people who would love to be able to manipulate Google's results, and not in a nice way.
What is it about the forthcoming RPGFallout 3which has caused the Australian Classification Board toban the game?Theories abound, but several suggestions have been outlined on/.(before the commentary devolves into infantilism), including the admittedly controversial use of morphine as a stimulant in the game.TheAustralian systemis notoriously conservative; they don't have any rating above 15+, which means that adult-oriented games, with adult-oriented themes, are frequently censored. That includes games we take for granted, like Grand Theft Auto (the whole series), Leisure Suit Larry (Magnum Cum Laude) and graffiti-sim Mark Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure. You can see the full list of thegames-non-gratahere.The UK hasa much shorter ban list, but what's always remarkable to me is how different it is from others'. Each country has its own notions of taste and decency, from Germany's well-reported dislike for blood and Nazi themes (bye bye classics Wolfenstein and Carmageddon) to the US' dislike for explicit sexual content (well, breasts). It gets political too: Saudi Arabia banned Pokemon for its alleged Zionist undertones, and China banned Football Manager because it recognised Tibet as an independent country.More information on this topic onWikipedia, which provides a detailed list of banned games by country.
We just call it "unbuilding"Building demolition, Tokyo-style, where there isn't room to do the usual blow-up-and-sweep-up. Instead, giant jacks slowly lower each storey to the ground for disassembly. Simple. Really?Keeps you drier than a bladeWith all the moral panic about knife crime, perhaps today's violent youth will turn to these super-strong umbrellas that can slice watermelons. Brolly-brandishing hoodies? OK, we're worried.Can you make it play "Sit Down" by James?Sony's Rolly music player, due out in September, can flash its lights and whirl around. No, we don't see the point either. It's sure to be huge in Japan - and a flop everywhere else.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments!
After reading articles about the net's latest security problem, I made sure I installed the Microsoft update. Result: I could not access any web pages until I rolled my computer back, at which point everything was fine.Jane KnightThe bulk of this week's mailbox came from Zone Alarm users who lost their internet access following last week's Windows Update. The update was part of a net-wide security effort led by Microsoft, Cisco and Sun to deal with a fundamental design flaw in the Domain Name System (DNS) discovered by Dan Kaminsky. The DNS translates memorable names (eg, doxpara.com) into the numbers used to route traffic (eg, 66.240.226.139). Anyone who can control that can send visitors to almost any site they like. Basically, hackers could take over the web.The project involved patching or upgrading many of the net's DNS servers and routers as well as server and PC operating systems, and it went astonishingly well. Zone Alarm seems to have been the only major failure, and the company quickly produced a patch. If you don't have that, a workaround is to set Zone Alarm Internet Security to "medium".However, Zone Alarm users should uninstall Windows Update KB951748 from Windows XP, restart their PC, apply the Zone Alarm patch fromdownload.zonealarm.comthen reinstall the update. KB951748 can be uninstalled using the Add or Remove Programs applet after ticking the box at the top that says "Show updates".The problem could affect products from more than 80 vendors and potentially all operating systems. Kaminsky has put a DNS checker on his website (doxpara.com) so that people can find out if their DNS server is vulnerable.
I'm concerned that Zone Alarm had all these problems while other firewalls seemed to cope OK. Are there any other free personal firewalls you can recommend?Sally TaylorThe DNS fix randomises the source port used for DNS queries: it seems the Zone Alarm firewall assumed they'd come from only one port. That may well be a one-off problem, and if you're otherwise happy with the product, you may not gain anything by switching. This is particularly true if you have the paid-for version rather than the cut-down free version.However, I prefer theSunbelt-Kerio Personal Firewallfor Windows XP. This starts as the full product but turns off its advanced features after 30 days, and nags you unless you pay for it.ComodoandJeticoalso offer decent free firewalls. The final choice is partly a matter of taste.
I am looking for a very light portable printer to replace an old Canon BJC80 for conferences and fieldwork. Is there anything new out there cheaper than the new Canon Pixma iP100?Dan RigbyNot that I know of. Sadly, all the Canon BJC ultraportable printers seem to be unavailable, and the Canon Pixma iP90v and iP100 look like the best alternatives. They're about the same size as the BJC but heavier -- weighing 4lbs instead of 3lbs. HP has rivals such as the OfficeJet H470 Mobile Printer but at similar prices. Does anyone have any other suggestions?
I'd like to get an iPhone to access my work emails. Unfortunately the IT department only supports BlackBerrys.Richard HicksonTry asking if they support anything besides BlackBerrys. If they support Microsoft Exchange "push email" and synchronisation features, then these work with devices that have ActiveSync This includes some Windows Mobile, Nokia and Palm Treo phones, and the new iPhone 3G. If they support non-BlackBerry devices viaBlackBerry Connect, this works with some Windows Mobile, Nokia and other phones, but not the iPhone, at the moment. However, IT departments generally like to eliminate variations, because standardisation simplifies support and therefore saves money. If they only support BlackBerrys, it might not make financial sense to change to the system to support a single iPhone.
It's been a while since the last F1 management sim, and this one ropes in all the required elements: merchandising, suppliers, pit crews and a whole stack of car set-up options. You can create your own team or take over a struggling one, choose your drivers and then watch the races unfold across 17 international circuits. The absence of truly unpredictable weather deprives you of tougher tyre choices, but pit stops can still be a real test of race tactics. The trouble is, without licensed teams, cars and drivers, it's hard to feel attached to your team, no matter how well it performs. RTM does a pretty decent job at a keen price, but it never feels like F1.
Anyone who played the 1980s RSI-inducing classics Daley Thompson's Decathlon and Track and Field will feel right at home here. Assuming you have any feeling left in your hands, of course. Yes, Beijing 2008 is a button-bashing and joystick-waggling recreation of a selection of Olympic events. Simple button-bashers - sprints, swimming - are complemented by more complex events - gymnastics, judo - and the whole package, while mixed, offers some solid entertainment. Multiplayer is key, though - training up an Olympic team by yourself is oddly soulless, especially if you play locally rather than online. Unfortunately, loading screens and unnecessary pre-event sections break up the flow. Yes, swooping stadium flybys and detailed animations of athletes limbering up may look the part but they become annoying very quickly. A bigger problem is the controllers. The PS3 and 360 pads are simply not up to the waggling/button-mashing that the game requires. Despite this, Beijing 2008 is just about worth persevering with. But if you have a Wii, Mario and Sonic is the one to get.
We just call it 'unbuilding'Building demolition, Tokyo-style, where there isn't room to do the usual blow-up-and-sweep-up.Here, giant jacks slowly lower each storey to the ground for disassembly. Simple. Really?Keeps you drier than a bladeWith all the moral panic about knife crime, perhaps today's violent youth will turn to thesesuper-strong umbrellasthat can slice watermelons. Brolly-brandishing hoodies? OK, we're worried.Can you make it play 'Sit Down'?Sony'sRolly music playercan flash its lights and whirl around. Sure to be huge in Japan - and flop everywhere else.&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Can you imagine spending more than two years of your working life on a single project, only to discover that your labour of love will never see the light of day? If you work as a games developer for long enough, that particular form of heartache will become only too familiar - the canning of partially or even fully completed games is commonplace. And a recent spate of high-profile game-culling suggests that more games are being canned than ever.Last month, Sony announced that Eight Days and The Getaway, both high-profile action-adventure games for thePlayStation3, first shown to journalists (albeit as tech-demo videos) two years ago had been given the chop. This February, beleaguered British games publisher SCi/Eidos announced that it had canned 14 games.Even the industry's biggest names aren't immune: World of Warcraft maker Blizzard, generally accepted as the best (and certainly the richest) developer in the world, recently quietly shelved the first-person shooter Starcraft Ghost. British development colossus Peter Molyneux's Lionhead saw the plug pulled on the prehistoric life-sim BC a couple of years ago.Game overA fortnight or so before the demise of Eight Days and The Getaway, we had a near-unprecedented opportunity to check out the two doomed games at Sony Computer Entertainment's London Studio. Eight Days' team of about 40 was just gearing up for full production, and the 10-or-so-strong Getaway team was in pre-production, in readiness for the Eight Days team to join it when the latter game was finished. Yet even this rare re-using of talent could not rescue either.Three weeks later - ironically, in the same venue - we met the man who canned them: Shuhei Yoshida, the new president of Worldwide Studios at SCE (replacing the London Studio-based Phil Harrison, who had decamped to Atari). Yoshida is no Japanese hatchet-man - he's urbane and relaxed, with a good grasp of English after eight years spent heading SCE's US development operation. He explained the reasoning behind the cessation of work on Eight Days and The Getaway: "People were doing the right things on the projects, and there were things in the games that were working really well, but the projects were coming to the end of the pre-production stage, and that is the time when we evaluate every product. We do evaluate and cancel projects all the time, because if we finished the same number of projects that we started, that would mean we were not taking any risks at all, which wouldn't move our industry on any further." He also cited "business situations and priorities", and added that all the Eight Days and Getaway staff would be reallocated to other projects. But they still spent two years working on what turned out to be vapourware.Few people are better placed to assess changing conditions within thegames industrythan Jon Hare. A co-founder of Sensible Software, of Sensible Soccer and Cannon Fodder fame, and nowadays director of development at Nikitova, he has been making games since 1986. A swift calculation reveals that, in his career so far, he has worked on 66 games, of which just 31 were published. But during his time at Sensible (1986 to 1999), 15 out of 21 were published, and subsequently at Codemasters, five out of eight came out - but in the past year and a half at Nikitova, 16 out of 24 games "never got off the drawing board". He says: "The point, from a creative point of view, is that it's very dispiriting to start working on something, knowing there's a 75% chance that you might as well not bother."Hare has several beefs: "In terms of trying to sell original product to publishers, it's pretty much impossible nowadays. But the thing with canned games is that it's not just original games you're canning. You speak with a publisher, and often they say they've got these licences - they want to do a rodeo game, say - "so write us a pitch document". But you've got four other guys writing pitch documents as well. From the idea-sources from five different parties - who get fuck-all for it - they pick the cheapest one to make the best combination of what they can put together from your ideas."Hare attests to the fact that games can be ditched for the flimsiest of reasons. "We worked for four years on an 18-rated game called Sex 'n' Drugs 'n' Rock 'n' Roll. It was a great game, although the programming was struggling, but we sold it to Warner for good money, and they backed it. However, then Warner sold it to GT Interactive, which was basically Wal-Mart, who are bible-belt Christians. It was an incompatible title for the publisher, and we had no means of getting out of it. I spent four of the best creative years of my life on that game so for me it was soul destroying."Fergus McGovern, president of HotGen, which now develops games for consoles and handhelds, even had one game canned because it was too good: "We acquired the rights to convert a big Japanese title to the Game Boy, and Virgin Interactive commissioned us to develop it. But the Japanese publisher said it wasn't possible to do a version of the game on the Game Boy. We finished it and sent it back, but the Japanese publisher was so embarrassed that we had done what they said was impossible that they cancelled it anyway."Hare highlights personnel changes as another problem: "I worked on one game which was signed to Microsoft as the publisher. Every six months, a new producer would come on to the game and decide to throw his weight around and try to influence it. In the end, Microsoft got fed up with it." Hare and McGovern agree that the problem lies with the risk-averse nature of the games industry. Hare says: "There used to be a market where the publishers looked to developers to come up with good ideas and then they would sell them to the public. They'd build an IP, which was jointly owned. That model was then changed. Now, publishers almost expect developers, off their own bat, to get themselves financed and develop something for six months to have a 10% chance of maybe getting a deal."McGovern explains publishers' aversion to risk by pointing out the extreme costs behind developing next-gen games: "From day one to completion, you're risking maybe $10m, then it can take another $5m to market it and another $5m for manufacturing and royalties."Gone fishingHare has a solution, but given that the smart money is on another round of consolidation among publishers, where the big fish swallow up the minnows (EA, for example, has been trying to buy Take 2 Interactive for the best part of a year), his idea seems unlikely."The way forward is to bring about a new batch of smaller publishers, because smaller publishers can't afford such wastage," he says. "The industry shouldn't be down to five or six publishers - we used to be up in the 30s or 40s."Games, then, will still be canned - but one suspects that the publishers will merely redouble their efforts to keep the likes of us from realising what is going on.
Small niche internet service providers and BT - and their customers - will be the early beneficiaries of the telecoms giant's announcement on Tuesday that it will spend &pound;1.5bn to install new fibre-optic cables to reach the streets, and in a small number of cases the walls, of 10m homes.The new systems, to be installed over the next five years, should be capable of speeds of up to 100 megabits per second (Mbps), though more usually up to 40Mbps. That compares with current speeds which top out at 24Mbps on standard copper-based phone lines. Virgin Media, the UK's only cable provider - following the aggregation of dozens of cable companies in the 1980s and 1990s - provides speeds of up to 20Mbps.Ian Fogg, telecoms analyst with the research company Jupiter, called the move "a game changer for the UK broadband market" - but warned that the rivals that have pursued local loop unbundling (LLU) such as Sky, Carphone Warehouse (though its TalkTalk subsidiary), Be, O2 and Tiscali "suddenly face the prospect of their copper [phone line-based] services becoming obsolete in a few years".Paul Lee, telecoms director at the analyst Deloitte, notes that people will want different speeds: "While some web users will be happy with low broadband speeds, sufficient for email and a spot of online shopping, power users may want to consume video over the web and thus need the highest speeds." But that creates a problem: "The underlying costs of fibre deployment are substantially the same, regardless of speed. So the industry needs to ascertain how to charge customers who are migrated from copper to fibre yet just want the speed they had on copper."Niche ISPs have struggled to stay in business as everyone has had access to virtually the same line speeds - up to 8Mbps) or in the case of Be, up to 24Mbps, depending on distance from the exchange. In fact, though, most people see download speeds of around 3Mbps with the ADSL broadband now in use. BT has begun upgrading that to ADSL2+(BT's plan for quicker connection, April 17), which has a maximum 24Mbps speed on lines that previously ran at up to 8Mbps; most people will see a near-doubling of line speeds as a result.However it is not clear whether BT will seek to charge customers more to pay for the investment in the systems. Its calls for a "regulatory holiday" over the investment have been favourably received by Ofcom - though exact pricing structures will be key in Ofcom's future reaction.BT will fund the work by cutting &pound;500m from other network investment, abandoning a &pound;700m share buyback, and putting in &pound;300m of new spending.
Montevina shipsIntel has rolled out its Centrino 2 (Montevina) mobile platform withfive newPenryn (45nm Core 2 Duo) processors. Look out for dozens of new thinner notebooks.Enhanced Wii-moteNintendo has previewed aMotionPlus accessorythat attaches to the Wii Remote and provides much better 3D accuracy.Taking video news seriouslyThe American News Projecthas been launched with the idea of "defending and promoting the public interest through high-quality, investigative video journalism".SimAnimalsElectronic Arts will launch a version ofThe Simsbased on wild animals for the Wii and Nintendo DS in January.Art in looThe Artintimity siteis soliciting works of art created on perforated paper.Snap to 50 megapixelsKodak has developedthe first 50 megapixel sensorfor professional photographers. It captures 8,176 x 6,132 pixels.Kids will be comicsToon Boom Animationhas launched a program to enable children to create and print four-panel cartoon strips.TED's top 10After 50m views, TED (Technology, Entertainment and Design) has listed thetop 10 most watched talks.
An unpatched PC running Windows XP will last on average between four and five minutes before it is attacked by a worm, according to the latestupdate from the Sans Institute- which says that the "window" during which a machine is safe to download the necessary software updates from Microsoft after, say, a system reinstallation "has shrunk over the past couple of years"But in less discouraging news, researchers at McAfee's AvertLabs report that the exponential growth in the amount of unique malware such as worms and viruses has stopped - to be replaced by a much slower, linear growth."For years the security industry has been fighting an uphill battle, with the number of new samples increasing every month at an alarming rate," says Toralv Dirro, one of theanti-malware team. "Now with constant, though still massive, growth there is some light at the end of the tunnel. If this trend keeps up, planning for future resources and technologies will become much easier and more manageable."However Thorsten Holz, one of the founders of the GermanHoneynet project(which aims to discover how prevalent malware is) reckons that survival times are much longer for an unprotected machines - ranging from 10 minutes to 20 days. Even so, he adds: "The time is still short and you need to patch a system before taking it online."That might seem like a catch-22, but the principal attacks are from longstanding worms that attempt to connect to open ports on a machine.The threat from existing malware to the millions of systems running Windows XP remains real, notes Lorna Hutcheson at the Sans Institute. "More than once, I've dealt with a compromise of a system that was placed on the network before it was hardened. I got the same answer every time 'We needed it working ASAP'."That problem will not go away, even if the growth in the amount of malware trying to break into a machine is slowing down, as McAfee reports in so-far unpublished data.It says: "The growth is no longer exponential but linear, averaging around 600,000 samples added each month. Looking at our own numbers of new samples, I can confirm this new linear growth," says Dirro - who cautions that it only applies to code that is uniquely identified as different from any preceding ones using a cryptographic hash. "Should we see more file-infecting viruses in the future, and there are some indications they will make a comeback, this way of counting will quickly become useless."
Radiohead's new single, House of Cards, features a promotional video that has been "filmed" without the use of a camera or conventional lighting. Instead the band has used two advanced visualisation techniques to produce an assembly of computer renderings in real time.Radiohead has employed a scanning system, called Geometric Informatics, that produces structured light to capture three-dimensional images in close-up. Then, for some atmospheric location shots, an advanced Velodyne Lidar system, which uses multiple lasers to capture large environments, has been used to create scenes of suburban Los Angeles. The system uses 64 lasers rotating in 360 degrees at a rate of 900 times per minute.The live action promo was created entirely with visualisations of that data. But what is most interesting is the way that Radiohead has decided to "open source" the project, allowing anyone to use the data to produce their own interpretation of the promo.Furthermore, it has combined with Google to release the data (although not the music) using a Creative Commons licence, which you can download from theGoogle Code site.Google has also provided a handy visualiser to help you play around with the code, although, theoretically at least, you should be able to mashup the data on a range of video editing applications, including QuickTime Pro and the open-source VirtualDub. You should be able to use iMovie on the iPhone as well.Once you've messed around with it, there's aYouTube groupfor you to share. Early reports from the group, which launched on Monday, indicate that the data visualisation is tricky. Several users reported that the visualisation failed to work or was distorted. The less technically inclined can make do with a nifty desktop application that allows you to play around with a visualisation of Thom Yorke's head.The promo's director, James Frost, has said that: "In a weird way [the project] is a direct reflection of where we are in society. Everything is [computer] data. Everything around us is data-driven in some shape or form. We are so reliant on it that it seems like our lives are digital." The end result is memorable video, full of what looks like millions of points of light that seem to move as if the data were alive.Radiohead is not the first band to offer an open-source video. Last year Bj&ouml;rk allowed her fans to remix her video for her single Innocence. Radiohead's House of Cards is taken from the latest Radiohead album, In Rainbows, which pioneered a pay-what-you-please sales strategy in the first few weeks of its release.As one wag on the internet has pointed out, the visualisation will be free for a couple of months. And then you have to pay for it.
Fancy yourself as a tasty videogamer? Then you might soon want to pursue a career in the army. Joypad dexterity, that most 21st-century of skills, is poised to assume a key role on the battlegrounds of Afghanistan and Iraq, now that defence contractor Raytheon has announced plans to usevideogame technologyin its unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), or drones.Currently, the larger, armed British and American UAV drones buzzing around Afghanistan and Iraq are operated from a base in Arizona, using aircraft-style joysticks and visual data from on-board videocameras. Raytheon claims to have built a system based on the Xbox 360 processor which generates a videogame-like view using accurately mapped terrain, and will replace the joysticks, which become unwieldy over the course of eight-hour shifts, with lower-input controllers. Indeed, many of the smaller, unarmed, hand-launched UAVs already use controllers similar to those of the Xbox 360.Of the 40 drones lost by the US military and air force in the past five years, 67% went down due to operator error, so at &pound;5m each, the move could save a lot of money. And if the technology is adopted, operators could simply be trained to the requisite level of proficiency on &pound;200-&pound;300 Xbox 360s or PlayStation 3s, rather than costly simulators.The key to the adoption of videogame technology in war is the sheer number-crunching power of the latest consoles. Anyone who has played Call of Duty 4, for example, will testify to the startling realism of modern war videogames. And videogames have already insinuated themselves into military life, the most famous example being America's Army, which was commissioned by the US army and launched in 2002 as a recruitment tool - it has since become one of the world's most popular games online. Future wars, it seems, could be won by the side with the most agile thumbs.
A recentstudyof Internet browsers worldwide discovered that over half – 52% – of Internet Explorer users weren't using the current version of the software.  For other browsers the numbers were better, but not much: 17% of Firefox users, 35% of Safari users, and 44% of Opera users were using an old version.This is particularly important because browsers are an increasingly common vector for internet attacks, and old versions of browsers don't have all their security patches up to date. They're open to attack through vulnerabilities the vendors have already fixed.Security professionals are quick to blame users who don't use the latest update and install every patch.  "Keeping up is critical for security," they say, and "if someone doesn't update their system, it's their own fault that they get hacked." This sounds a lot like blaming the victim: "He should have known not to walk down that deserted street; it's his own fault he was mugged." Of course the victim could have –and quite possibly should have – taken further precautions, but the real blame lies elsewhere.It's not as if patching is easy. Even in a corporate setting, systems administrators havetroublekeeping up with the neverending flow of software patches.  There could easily be dozens per week across all operating systems and applications, and far too often they break things. Microsoft's Automatic Update feature has automated the process, but that's the exception.  Patching is triage, and administrators are constantly prioritizing it along with everything else they're doing.It's the system that's broken. There's no other industry where shoddy products are sold to a public that expects regular problems, and where consumers are the ones who have to learn how to fix them.  If an automobile manufacturer has a problem with a car and issues a recall notice, it's a rare occurrence and a big deal – and you can take you car in and get it fixed for free.  Computers are the only mass-market consumer item that pushes this burden onto the consumer, requiring him to have a high level of technical sophistication just to survive.It doesn't have to be this way. It is possible to write quality software.  It is possible to sell software products that work properly, and don't need to be constantly patched.  The problem is that it's expensive and time consuming.  Software vendors won't do it, of course, because the marketplace won't reward it.The key to fixing this issoftware liabilities. Computers are also the only mass-market consumer item where the vendors accept no liability for faults. The reason automobiles are so well designed is that manufacturers face liabilities if they screw up. A lack of software liability is effectively a vast government subsidy of the computer industry.  It allows them to produce more products faster, with less concern about safety, security, and quality.Last summer, the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee issueda reporton "Personal Internet Security." I was invited to give testimony for that report, and one of my recommendations was that software vendors be held liable when they are at fault. Their final report included that recommendation. The governmentrejectedthe recommendations in that report last autumn, and last week the committeeissueda report on their follow-up inquiry, which still recommends software liabilities.Good for them.I'm not implying that liabilities are easy, or that all the liability for security vulnerabilities should fall on the vendor. But the courts are good at partial liability. Any automobile liability suit has many potential responsible parties: the car, the driver, the road, the weather, possibly another driver and another car, and so on. Similarly, a computer failure has several parties who may be partially responsible: the software vendor, the computer vendor, the network vendor, the user, possibly another hacker, and so on. But we're never going to get there until we start. Software liability is the market force that will incentivise companies to improve their software quality – and everyone's security.&#183;Bruce Schneier is a security technologist and authorschneier.com/blog
Hands off my IPThere is a double problem - massive oversupply of music to a saturated market, and the perception of the public that music doesn't have to be paid for (The right to peer inside your iPod, July 10).I split everything 50/50 with my record label, who invest time and effort into promoting my work - if they are screwed, so am I. The problem affects all media producers now - first it was music, then printed media started to lose circulation as online alternatives grew, and now television channels are struggling to adjust to a world where people expect free content on demand. It won't be long before people expect free films and games, too. Someone, somewhere will have to pay ... and it isn't going to be the freeloaders.Martin Wheeler, Berlin[I'm] rather suspicious of anything which is so wholeheartedly in favour of IP, without mentioning the need to balance between the rights of owners, competitors and users, though [I] suspect anything so detailed would be beyond the ambit of a general summit of world leaders. As for individuals being stopped at customs, this would be too costly and time consuming.ipkitten.blogspot.comThe focus of the Guardian article is on music and video content. But the same can be applied to books.bookyards.blogspot.comUnless Congress manages to entirely reapeal the Fourth Amendment (that pesky thing protecting Americans from warrantless seach and seizure), this bill appears to be entirely unconstitutional.happilyoblivious.com/blogThe solution: encryption, encryption, encryption! Encrypt everything no matter how trivial and leave dummy files all over your device to throw them off and take up as much resources as possible.shoutluton.blogspot.comPoor iPhone receptionThought you might be interested in the 700-plus people who ordered the  iPhone from the Carphone Warehouse last Monday and took delivery Friday. As of Sunday we are still being told stories from them as to when the phone will start working. We now have a ETA of Wednesday for them to start working. So far we have not received any communication from anyone at CPW to inform us what has happened or apologies for the problem.Keith Clifforth,NewburyThe whole O2 online shopping experience is fraught with problems. It seems clear that, five days before people actually pick up iPhones, O2 has not managed to prepare for the event, even knowing what usually happens when new Apple kit goes on sale. No wonder people think that the iPhone is marvellous - it must be, after receiving the O2 treatment, even if it isn't!Tony Crooks,EastbourneChemical brothers in armsWhen the US Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention, it specifically identified incendiaries, herbicides and riot control agents as exceptions to the CWC (US military weapons research is raising a stink, July 10). That is to say, US forces can use riot control agents and not be in contempt of the CWC.blog.wired.com/defenseThis is what they are leaking to the public ... my curious side wonders what are they doing in weapons research that they are not leaking.warnewsupdates.blogspot.comProtecting your dataJack Schofield reminds us of his Second Law: "Data doesn't really exist unless you have at least two copies of it" (Eureka! I've discovered the Third Law of computing, July 10). Don't overlook Taylor's Rejoinder, which states that two copies of the same data are always slightly different.Andy Taylor,Austrian Philatelic Society&#183;Read allthis week's letters in fullWrite to:tech@guardian.co.uk
There's a growing pile of subnotebooks by the side of my desk, and so far, Hewlett-Packard's HP2133 Mini-Note is the biggest and the best.It's a full-spec ultramobile with a lovely brushed aluminium casing, excellent screen and a keyboard that you can actually touch-type on. As a Wired blog headline put it, it's "what we really wanted the MacBook Air to be".But it's quite a lot wider and chunkier than an Asus Eee PC900, it's heavier (from 1.3kg), and it tends to be slow - at least with the Windows Vista running on the version loaned for review. (SuSE Linux is a cheaper option.)The Mini-Note's Achilles heel is the 1.2GHz Via C7-M processor, which rates a 1.7 on the Vista Experience Index. In other respects, the machine fares well, with graphics rated 2.9 and the 120GB hard disk scoring 5.2. With the new Via Nano processor, it would be a great machine. An Intel Atom would at least be competitive for its class.HP knows this, of course. But it's pitching the machine for educational use (RM is selling it, downgraded to XP), and it had to make deadlines for evaluation purposes.Waiting for Atom might have meant missing a school year. However, HP may offer an upgraded version when new chips arrive in volume. The Mini-Note is very slow to boot and slow to load programs, but once up and running, the performance is good for its intended uses: word processing, email and web browsing. Vista's Aero graphics system worked well in 2GB of memory.The scratch-resistant 8.9 inch screen (same size as the Asus Eee PC900) shows 1280 x 769 pixels, which is in effect the same as the 1280 x 800 you get on the 13.3 inch Dell M1330 or MacBook Air. Everything's smaller, but that's fine for younger eyes. The keyboard is a big improvement on rival machines, but should be even better. The Mini-Note keyboard measures 10 x 4 inches, which is only slightly smaller than my IBM ThinkPad X31 (10.2 x 4.2 inches), which has a 12-inch screen. It is far better than the Asus's 8.3 x 3.1 inch keyboard, but it should be as good as the ThinkPad.The selection of ports includes ExpressCard (useful for 3G) and SD slots, two USB 2.0 ports, Ethernet and an external monitor port. The Mini-Note also sports Bluetooth 2.0 and Wi-Fi .HP's website lists the starting prices as &pound;299 plus VAT for the Linux version, and &pound;349 plus VAT for the Vista Business version tested. Judging by appearances, you'd expect it to cost a lot more.Pros:High-res screen; good keyboard; big hard drive; well madeCons:Slow processor; big power brickView the HP2133 Mini-Notehere
It's surprisingly easy to drown in data. Just as you can drown in water that just covers your mouth and nose - unconsciousness plus a two-inch puddle will do - so a comparatively small amount of what looks like useful data can balloon into completely unmanageable columns and rows of figures. So I thought while making some early stabs at integrating the government's newly released list of the address and other details of all the schools in England and Wales (get it fromshowusabetterway.com/call/data.html) with the league tables from 2007.Of course, these data being the product of civil servants rather than data designers, they came as an Excel spreadsheet. Scanning those, I realised how easily government creates and then drowns in seas of data.So, you have a school. With an address. And postcode. And number of pupils. A local authority number, establishment number, phone number. Those are the basics. Then there's the gender of entry (boy, girl, mixed?), institution type, age range, admissions policy, whether it's a feeder for the sixth form, number of pupils covered by statements of special educational needs (SSEN), the number covered by SAP, the number at Key Stage 4 or 5 at the start of the school year and the number at KS4 or KS5 under special educational needs or admissions policy.That's all before you get to any actual measures of performance - that is, how well things went in the testing. Wrestling with these vast tables (some of which have more than 30 columns), I reflected on how dangerous spreadsheets are.Spreadsheets are ad-hoc databases in which you can use the interdependencies of the different table elements to run "what-if" scenarios (what if the cost of staff goes up by 5%? What if the cost of materials goes up 5%? What if both happen at once? Oh, hell, there goes the dividend). That's their power.But that also means that it's easy to use them to try to measure things which don't need measuring, and use poor data structures that mean you can't do rigorous analysis. These spreadsheets were a miasma: for "age range", the entries included "Sep-17" (meaning it takes 17-year-olds in a September entry) and "13-19" (self-evident). The problem is that's a human-readable, not machine-readable description: if you're trying to do an in-depth performance analysis of tens of thousands of schools, then columns whose content might be a number or might be text yet are meant to indicate "age" will screw it up royally.What I find truly niggling is the suspicion that those Excel spreadsheets are used to do analysis inside government. Oh, sure, they're fun things, and require little training. But that obscures how badly the tables are structured and how they hide correlations and causations. All those leagues and tests - but what are they telling us? If the only way we have to visualise them is the (at best) three-dimensional plots of an Excel graph for data that have 12 or more variables, we're unlikely to pull out the real connections that make a difference.
What if someone told you there were 100 extra processors in your PC? The sticker on the front might tell you that you have just one or two. But if you have a computer with a graphics card made by ATI or nVidia, the chances are that you have more than 100 microprocessor cores in the back. The extra processors are easy to miss because, sitting inside the graphics card, they normally only do one thing: draw 3D scenes on the screen. Now software is crashing into the market that will unlock that extra power and make it possible to dispatch in seconds long-winded jobs that normally would not only give you time to make a cup of coffee, but also nip down to the shops to buy another jar.Using a graphics processor for regular computing has only become possible in the past few years. The first graphics processors (GPUs) for PCs could only do limited tasks. They took shortcuts that meant people looked as though they were moulded out of plastic. Games developers demanded more realism, which meant more flexibility. The response from ATI and nVidia came in GPUs for which developers could create their own rendering programs. To get the performance needed, they had to take one simple processor core and replicate it many times across the silicon chip.Those GPU cores are the piranhas of processing. Because there are so many of them, they can chomp through tens of gigabytes of data in a second. But it has to be the right kind of data - something that can be parcelled up and delivered in bite-sized chunks to each core. In many cases, almost as soon as they have started working, the GPU piranhas will be waiting for the next chunk of meat. Managing that is hard and often it is just easier for a developer to have all the software run on a regular CPU.Here is the faster weatherBut some types of software fit the GPU very well. Scientists have already discovered its hidden power: the US National Center for Atmospheric Research is using GPUs rather than moving to supercomputers to get faster weather predictions. Others are using the processors to design a new generation of supercolliders and to work out how radiation damages DNA.Andy Keane, general manager of GPU computing at nVidia, reckons there are plenty of jobs outside science that users will find for a GPU-equipped desktop computer. "Very often you are waiting for the processor to finish doing something. Every time you are waiting, you probably have something that will fit the GPU very well."The wait for video converters to crunch video down for replay on a portable media player is one of the problems that Oregon-based startup Elemental Technologies has chosen. But, because each brand of GPU has its own programming language, the first version of the Badaboom software will only run on nVidia's GPUs. A version that runs on the GPUs made by ATI - now owned by Intel rival AMD - will have to wait. Sam Blackman, Elemental's CEO, has no objection to having a version that runs on ATI. "But right now we are focusing on the other guys," he says. So, users will have to pay attention to which graphic card they have before buying GPU-accelerated software.Tim Lewis, director of marketing at 3DLabs, says the advantage for each vendor having its own GPU language is that it ties in developers. But having a GPU programming language that every manufacturer can support would let the market grow faster, he claims. That is why just about every manufacturer of GPUs has thrown its weight behind a proposal by Apple to base a standard on its concept,  OpenCL. Apple donated the OpenCL specification - some 200 pages of documentation - to the Khronos Group, which is responsible for many of the leading standards for 3D-graphics software used on personal computers (bit.ly/1HaaZI).Neil Trevett, president of Khronos, says: "There have been discussions for quite a while about how we were going to deal with industry issues such as general-purpose computing on GPUs. Apple had been working on OpenCL and they came with a proposal to Khronos to establish the Heterogeneous Computing Working Group. It was an idea whose time had come."What about Microsoft?Patricia Harrell, director of stream computing at AMD, agrees: "I think OpenCL makes it possible to move GPU computing from being a speciality technology to something that any developer can count on being in a system that he is writing for."Acceptance of a Khronos-backed GPU-computing standard is not universal. "The Khronos group is the everyone-apart-from-Microsoft group," says Andrew Richards, chief executive of Codeplay, a parallel-software specialist based in Edinburgh.For the past few years, a team at Microsoft Research has been working on an experimental system called Accelerator. "There are several other initiatives to make it easier to program GPUs," says Satnam Singh, who is investigating acceleration technologies at Microsoft Research in Cambridge. However, Microsoft has made no public indication whether it will commercialise the research or work on some other competitor to OpenCL.Michael Dimelow, director of marketing for media processing at ARM, said: "I don't think Microsoft will be sitting and watching. I would never underestimate Microsoft's ability to come up with alternative positions."Despite Microsoft's dominance of the desktop, OpenCL already has the chipmakers behind it. Many of them do not sell into the desktop PC or Mac market, and their support isn't because they have their eyes on getting their silicon into the Macintosh. They see a much larger potential market: the billion-plus units and associated business of portable electronic devices, such as mobile phones and satellite navigation units. And so does Apple.Trevett explains: "The scope of OpenCL will be much wider than Mac OS. No one, including Apple, wants it to be a single-OS solution. They want it across desktop and mobile systems."That's because in handsets and other portable gadgets battery life is a major concern, and GPUs offer a way of doing more for less juice. So high-end cellphones will soon start sprouting tens or hundreds of extra processors.Even smarter smartphonesTrevett says: "Using a GPU, you can be 10 times more power-efficient than using a CPU. We definitely see that advantage coming over into the mobile space."As with the desktop world, much of the early focus on OpenCL in mobile will be on handling audio and video better. "No one is going to be doing earthquake simulation on their cellphones," says Remi Pedersen, product manager at ARM.But people in the mobile industry reckon that as they gain experience with GPU computing they will make possible innovative uses, such as being able to point the phone's camera at a building and then process the image so that it can tell you which building it is.Tony King-Smith, vice-president of marketing at GPU designer Imagination Technologies, predicts: "Then I think this is going to start shifting to where people explore more of the out-there things you can do with mobile platforms. But it is still early days."
Although a labour of love - System 3 boss Mark Cale is a noted Ferrari nut - this is no mere special-interest game. It veers towards the simulation end of racing games (although novices can turn the usual driver-aids on), faithfully recreating the three Ferrari Challenge series (based in Italy, Europe and the US) and putting you in an F430 Challenge, although myriad racing Ferraris can be unlocked. In terms of graphics and handling, it more than holds its own against the two best PS3 racing games so far: Race Driver GRID and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. And it contains some of the world's finest circuits, such as Monza, Spa, Silverstone, Laguna Seca and the glorious Mugello (as well as some of the worst, notably the tarmac travesty that is Vallelunga). If you're a true petrolhead, this is by far the best PS3 racing game on sale.
The excitement surrounding the launch ofiPhone 3Gprobably would have passed me by if it weren't for the fact that my in-tray was full of press releases all saying the same thing: "Hi, I'm a mobile games publisher. I'm releasing stuff on the popular new Apple phone. Please tell your readers to buy some."Mobile games publishers are really excited by iPhone 2.0 - for a lot of the same reasons they were really excited about Nokia's N-Gage application. It's a single platform, so they don't have to write 600 iterations of each game to different handsets. It also has its own attractive online shop, which makes downloading games a pleasure - unlike trying to buy Java games from your standard mobile's network operator portal.But iPhone potentially offers much more than N-Gage. OK, so the user base is microscopic in comparison to Nokia's. However, it's the type of customer that's important. According to startup iPhone developer Ngmoco, iPhone users spend up to 60% of their phone time on activities other than phone calls - they want to download stuff.Also, there's a major mobile gaming bugbear that the iPhone addresses and N-Gage never did - the interface. The Apple product boasts motion sensing capabilities and a multitouch screen; it couldn't be more tuned into the zeitgeist if it changed its name to Wii phone and started offering fitness games.Developers are also getting hassle-free access to the camera and GPS functionalities, which should finally lead to the development of mainstream location-based and augmented reality games.And then, of course, iPhone is ... well, the iPhone, the latest wrap of indefatigable Apple crack; a semi-religious artifact crafted by industrial design demi-gods. When Steve Jobs says iPhone is going to be a games platform, it bloody well is going to be a games platform. When some suit in Nokia with an unpronounceable Finnish surname says N-Gage might be quite good, frankly who gives a damn?Anyway, if you have succumbed, check out EA's Scrabble and Tetris conversions or Gameloft's Brain Challenge and Platinum Sudoku, or wait for the much-vaunted physics-based platformer, Rolando (rolandogame.com), which iPhone enthusiasts are calling innovative and groundbreaking, but the rest of us see as just a stylish take on some well-used ideas. Hey, that sounds sort of familiar ...
DNS fix zoned outAfter reading articles about the net's latest security problem, I made sure I installed the Microsoft update. Result: I could not access any web pages until I rolled my computer back, at which point everything was fine.Jane KnightJS:The bulk of this week's mailbox came from Zone Alarm users who lost their internet access following last week's Windows Update. The update was part of a netwide security effort led by Microsoft, Cisco and Sun to deal with a fundamental design flaw in the Domain Name System (DNS) discovered by Dan Kaminsky. The DNS translates memorable names (eg,doxpara.com) into the numbers used to route traffic (eg, 66.240.226.139). Anyone who can control that can send visitors to almost any site they like. Basically, hackers could take over the web.The project involved patching or upgrading many of the net's DNS servers and routers as well as server and PC operating systems, and it went astonishingly well. Zone Alarm seems to have been the only major failure, and the company quickly produced a patch. If you don't have that, a workaround is to set Zone Alarm Internet Security to "medium".However, Zone Alarm users should uninstall Windows Update KB951748 from Windows XP, restart their PC, apply the Zone Alarm patch fromdownload.zonealarm.comthen reinstall the update. KB951748 can be uninstalled using the Add or Remove Programs applet after ticking the box at the top that says "Show updates".The problem could affect products from more than 80 vendors and potentially all operating systems. Kaminsky has put a DNS checker on his website so that people can find out if their DNS server is vulnerable.Replacing Zone AlarmI'm concerned that Zone Alarm had all these problems while other firewalls seemed to cope OK. Are there any other free personal firewalls you can recommend?Sally TaylorJS:The DNS fix randomises the source port used for DNS queries: it seems the Zone Alarm firewall assumed they'd come from only one port. That may well be a one-off problem, and if you're otherwise happy with the product, you may not gain anything by switching. This is particularly true if you have the paid-for version rather than the cut-down free version.However, I prefer the Sunbelt-Kerio Personal Firewall for Windows XP. This starts as the full product but turns off its advanced features after 30 days, and nags you unless you pay for it. Comodo and Jetico also offer decent free firewalls. The final choice is partly a matter of taste.Printer questI am looking for a very light portable printer to replace an old Canon BJC80 for conferences and fieldwork. Is there anything new out there cheaper than the new Canon Pixma iP100?Dan RigbyJS:Not that I know of. Sadly, all the Canon BJC ultraportable printers seem to be unavailable, and the Canon Pixma iP90v and iP100 look like the best alternatives. They're about the same size as the BJC but heavier - it weighs 4lbs instead of 3lbs. HP has rivals such as the OfficeJet H470 Mobile Printer but at similar prices. Does anyone have any other suggestions?Corporate iPhone?I'd like to get an iPhone to access my work emails. Unfortunately the IT department only supports BlackBerrys.Richard HicksonJS:Try asking if they support anything besides BlackBerrys. If they support Microsoft Exchange "push email" and synchronisation features, then these work with devices that have ActiveSync This includes some Windows Mobile, Nokia and Palm Treo phones, and the new iPhone 3G. If they support non-BlackBerry devices via BlackBerry Connect, this works with some Windows Mobile, Nokia and other phones, but not the iPhone, at the moment. However, IT departments generally like to eliminate variations, because standardisation simplifies support and therefore saves money. If they only support BlackBerrys, it might not make financial sense to change to the system to support a single iPhone.Backchat&#183;Jane McNicol wanted to move her iPod libraries to a new PC. On the Ask Jack blog (blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack), Doctor reminded her that "if you do not intend to use your old PC, remember to de-authorise that machine as Apple will only allow you to have five machines authorised at any one time". He also mentioned Xilisoft's iPod Rip, "a brilliant piece of software that will transfer all your files from your iPod into your iTunes library" (xilisoft.com/ipod-rip.html).Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
His kingdom is an alehouse and his scepter a can, which is seldom out of his hand". Sounds like a familiar 21st century binge drinking problem. But it is actually from The Man in the Moone, taken from a unique copy printed in 1609 and preserved in the Bodleian library. I came across it serendipitously as I was looking through the books - now more than 1m - thatGooglehas been quietly scanning as part of its ambition to create a digital archive of every book that has lived or died. Google's "reader" will point you to a publisher or to a library or somewhere local to get it. If it is out of copyright you could download it as a PDF or self-publish it through sites such aslulu.com.When it started, publishers were up in arms about Google's presumption that they could scan first and worry about copyright later. We don't hear many protests now, apart from in the US. This is because most publishers have signed up to a deal which enables anyone to read up to 20% of a book for nothing. Some publishers have found that the more they allow a reader to read, the more sales it generates. This is one of the reasons - along with the explosion of print-on-demand titles (another digital phenomenon) - that pushed book sales up 36% in 2007. They seem to be rising not in spite of but because of the digital revolution. Music industry take note.For a digitally enhanced holiday, Google Reader is one of dozens of bookish sites that could help. In preparation for a long drive in France, I downloaded Madame Bovary, read by Julie Christie, for &pound;7.99 fromsilksoundbooks.com, a company that gives the actors who do the narrating a share of the profits. Whether this has anything to do withaudible.co.uk- now owned by Amazon, which had a near monopoly of audio downloads - dropping its prices I don't know, but it now offers cheaper audiobooks including theGuardian's top 40for &pound;7.99 or less. Whether reading or listening you are spoilt for choice with sites such asebooks.com,fictionwise.com, the wonderfulgutenberg.organdpagebypagebooks.com(for free books), orbanned  booksfrom Lysistrata onwards.Booksdownload.orgclaims to be the world's biggest peer-to-peer downloader starting at &pound;1.99 a month. One of the more interesting sites,Lovereading.co.uk, with 150,000 claimed readers, has startedLovewriting.co.uk, a paid-for service offering independent authors a "one-stop shop" for readers to discover their books. Maybe the start of an iTunes market for books?If you want to read digital, what device should you use? I tried a new app to download a classic to an iPhone or iTouch for less than $5. When the buttons didn't respond I triedgutenberg.orginstead and downloaded Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice on to my iPod touch for nothing (but beware of network charges). The reading experience was surprising, but not in the same league as the new electronic readers that come closest to the pleasure of reading a real book. The only problem is that they are either too clunky (the iRex iLiad) or tied to walled gardens (Kindle with Amazonand the eBook with Sony). A Guardian colleague showed me a new Cybook Gen 3 by Book Keen bought from a US site for $350. It is so light (6.13oz) and thin it fitted into my inside pocket. It downloads free books from Gutenberg easily but doesn't have a Wi-Fi link like Kindle and iLiad. The drawback was a clunkiness and a flash of black appearing in the background as pages were turned. Only the reader can say whether ebooks pass Anthony Trollope's criterion: "Of all the needs a book has, the chief need is that it be readable." But more needs to be done to encourage more relaxed holidays. A survey for Credant Technologies found that 83% of workers will take their BlackBerrys or mobiles on holiday, with 65% confessing they would be in touch with the office. There is a lot to play for.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
You can now watch Evan Williams, co-founder of Twitter, talking about Twitter, the Summize search engine (which Twitter just bought), the potential for making money and other topics. Theinterviewwas done by TechCrunch's Michael Arrington. If you don't want to spend 20 minutes on it, you can skim the transcript that's lower down the page.Ev previously started Blogger, which was bought by Google, andOdeo, a podcasting site. Odeo was bought by SonicMountain and has just beenrelaunched.[Edit: added interview link - CA]
Just a quick selection of promising or long-awaited titles, from third-party publishers. Spot the re-make of the classic Dreamcast game! (Okay it was originally released on N64, but only in Japan...)Wolfenstein on console and mobileA co-production between id, Ravensoft (hey, whatever happened to Hexen?) and UK start-upEndrant Studios, the ground-breaking FPS is back. Again. More exciting, though (and I'm only beingsemi-ironic), is EA's unveiling of Wolfenstein RPG, follow-up to Carmack's brilliant DoomRPG and Orcs and Elves. "Escape prison, navigate towns, and infiltrate Castle Wolfenstein to stop the Axis' diabolically evil Paranormal Division." Yeah, sure, whatever - where do I sign up?Bangai-O Spirits (DS, Treasure)Bangai-O-my-God-it's-back! Treasure's mind-mangling, hand-cramping scrolling shooter hits DS. "More than 160 levels are seasoned with strategic and tactical elements, as well as TREASURE's signature quirky design style. Bangai-O Spirits boasts a powerful level editor tool, ad hoc wireless multiplayer for up to four players and the pioneering new Sound Load technology. This original technology allows DS gamers to swap levels, game footage replays or high score statistics by converting the data into a sound file that is output through the host DS speaker." What the hell is all that about? Who cares? Just watch the trailer again!Street Fighter 4 (PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Capcom)If you still haven't seen this in action yet, you MUST see this. Watch how the animation pauses with each major impact, listen to the perfect voice and sound effects. Revel in dialogue so cheesy it should be taken with a plate of crackers and a glass of claret.I am Alive (Xbox 360, PS3, Ubisoft)Ubisoft's newly announced survival horror title, is due out next year. It's set in a Chicago devastated by some unknown disaster (although there's a definite Cloverfield reference in one scene that shows a felled skyscraper leaning on another). "The game will offer a rich palette of emotions while challenging players to make life-changing decisions," says CEO Yves Guillemot managing to add not a whiff of detail to the skeletal press release. Do they train executives to speak like this?Project Origin (PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Monolith)Just a new trailer for Monolith's promising follow-up to influential spook shooter, F.E.A.R. Taking place shortly after the original game, you're part of a Special Forces squad sent on a routine mission to Auburn city when a 'supernatural explosion' blows the place to kingdom come. That'll be ghost psycho Alma again. More details at theofficial website.Tomb Raider: Underworld (everything, Crystal Dynamics)What looks like very early gameplay footage from the latest Lara opus, but worth a look anyway. It's out on November 21.
Following the lead set by its competitor's Sony E3 press briefing was solid if unremarkable. No major surprises, but a few interesting little titbits and some effective demos and trailers.Here are eight important points to take out of the event, complete with videos where possible. In no particular order:80GB PS3From September the 40GB model is being phased out in favour of a hard drive twice the size. Nothing else is changing architecture-wise. Some American commentators were hoping for hardware backwards compatibility to be re-installed, but no. The new model will be priced the same as the current machine. And, of course, there's a good reason why PS3 owners will be needing more space...The movie and TV download service300 movies and more than 1,200 TV episodes (many available in both standard-definition and high-definition) hit a re-designed PlayStation Network last night - at least in the US (Europe in Japan may have to wait). Sony has cut content deals with the likes of 20th Century Fox, Lionsgate Entertainment, MGM Studios, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment and Warner Bros. Entertainment. Pricing for rental movies at launch ranges from $2.99 to $5.99, while purchased movies go for between $9.99 - $14.99.God of War 3Matching the Gears of War 2 trailer for portentous drama, and just as bereft of actual gameplay content, the GoW flick came with no release date hints. It was vital to getsomethingon the big screen at press event, though. Clearly the biggest game announcement of the show for Sony.Resistance 2In which the Chimera invasion stops off on the shores of the US, bringing new creatures and weapons, and more importantly, a totally overhauled graphics engine. Everyone's talking about thegameplay demo, which shows a monster the size of a skyscraper, smashing the bejesus out of a wrecked city. Interactive Cloverfield ahoy!Interesting downloadable stuffXbox Live has a new Geometry Wars and Galaga Legions, PSN went with Flower, a game where you control the wind as it herds petals. Shut up it looks lovely, and it's from the makers of flOw. More conventional perhaps is Crash Commando from EPOS Studios, a side-scrolling team-based multiplayer shooter, complete with shotguns, mines, machine guns and vehicles. Like Metal Slug mated with CoD. Woohoo.Oh and do you remember Rag Doll Kung Fu from Media Molecule, the chaps behind Little Big Planet? The 'franchise' has been picked up by Tarsier Studios who're releasing Rag Doll Kung Fu: Fists of Plastic, a multiplayer combat party game - sort of Powerstone but with super-exaggerated rag doll physics. Finally, winner of the best game title of the show goes to Fat Princess, a medieval multiplayer fight-fest, in which teams of soldiers must capture the titular portly royal from the enemy barracks and carry her across the battlefield to safety. There's lots of It's a Knockout-style team co-operation involved and the graphics are suitably jolly. Here are images of all four games:FlowerCrash CommandoFat PrincessRag Doll Kung FuInteresting PSP stuffLocoRoco 2! Patapon 2! Smash Court Tennis 3! There's also third-person action spin-off Resistance: Retribution, set a few weeks after Insomniac's PS3 shooter, and - one for the hardcore - Super Stardust Portable, based on... Super Stardust! Here are some screens:LocoRoco 2Patapon 2MAGThis is the extremely interesting new project from SOCOM creator, Zipper Interactive. MAG - or 'Massive Action Game' - is a modern military-themed online shooter that will apparently allow up to 256 players on a single battlefield. Participants will be sorted into squads of eight soldiers, each with specific character skills. There will also be some kind of ongoing campaign mode, though details are scarce. Watch the trailer, it looks likeamazingfun.Continued love for PS2SCEA said it will launch more than 130 new titles for the PlayStation2 system this year, bringing the total software catalogue up to a staggering 10,000 titles. There's also a new Lego Batman bundle pack. It's all about the kids games now, bless it.
Kudos to David Hassall who has put hispics of the Google Street View carin action on theGuardian Tech Weekly Flickr group. Yes, it may look to you like just another car onto whose roof someone has strapped a 1950s BBC Outside Broadcast camera, but those in the know realise that it's aDepraved Invasion Of Our Privacy. Or something.(We'd include the pic here but it's all rights reserved. Any time you feel like easing those, David ... David made it a Creative Commons Attribution licence. Nice!)Anyhow, the numberplate is very clearly LJ08 VDE and it has a white Google sticker on the back (bit of a giveaway that, apart from the six-foot camera). But where will the large black camera strike next? This one was in Deansgate, Manchester on Tuesday.Update:apparently there are at least 5 cars doing the rounds. Is there one inyourneighbourhood? Stop that shower and have a look out the window..The Register has beenplotting sightings on a Google map. So absent David's pics, we'll embed that. Well done, El Reg. Have you got Deansgate there? (Yup, they have - I told them about these ones.)View Larger Map
Launch audio playerThis week's Tech Weekly podcast is graced by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who tells Bobbie Johnson all about web science, trends in computer research and thinking and how to safeguard the future of the web and semantic web.I asked everyone to work out how much data storage we each have at home... and that includes your white goods. We have an average 500 gigabytes each, but where is it all? And what's it doing?There's more news, including the latest chapter in the Yahoo/Microsoft battle (for a change) and the iPhone 3G launch, plus the largest security update in the history of the web. And then there's our search for latest sightings of Google's Street Car. Naked rally, anyone?Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group• Join ourFlickr groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The search advertising deal between Google and Yahoo should be blocked, Microsoft has told a US congressional committee, saying the advertising industry has never seen one company dominate 90% of a market.Brad Smith, Microsoft's senior vice-president and general counsel, yesterday told the Senate committee that Yahoo's chief executive, Jerry Yang, had even warned the technology giant that such a deal would freeze it out of the market."Never before in the history of advertising has one company been in a position to control prices on up to 90% of advertising in a single medium," Smith said, appearing before the Senate judiciary subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights."Not in television, not in radio, not in publishing. It should not happen on the internet," he added.Microsoft was backed up by other executives from Yahoo and Google's search advertising rivals, including Matt Crowley, the chief marketing officer of YellowPages.com."[If Yahoo] does anything but continue to compete all-out to best Google, there is a real risk that the market will tip even further toward Google," said Crowley. "No one in the industry wants that to happen."Members of the committee, which was set up to explore how the deal will affect the future of online advertising, also questioned executives on whether the collaboration would strengthen Google's dominance of the market and be even more anti-competitive than the aborted Microsoft takeover of Yahoo."[Congress needs to explore] whether this agreement will reduce Yahoo to nothing more than the newest satellite in the Google orbit," said Herb Kohl, the chairman of the committee.Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, defended the deal, saying consumers and advertisers would benefit."The whole system becomes more efficient: people see and click on more ads that are useful to them ... and advertisers get more potentially interested customers," Drummond said.Yahoo's general counsel, Michael Callahan, added that Yahoo would become "an even stronger competitor to Google, to Microsoft and to others" because the deal would strengthen its revenues.The deal, struck between the two firms last month, will increase Yahoo's cash flow by $200m to $450m (£224m) in the first year alone, according to the firm.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The gamesblog is proud to present the firstHave I Got Games News For Youon Monday 28 July, just in time forDevelop, the biggest games conference in the UK. Come one, come all and prove yourselves against top teams from the UK games industry!We have room for four more teams of six people each to take on the hot shots fromBlack Rock Interactive,Linden Lab,NCSoft,Zoe Mode,GamesIndustry.biz,Eurogamer,Pocket GamerandFuture Publishing. Places are bound to go fast, so sign uphere- and sign up now! Check out the details:Have I Got Games News For You(Monday 28 July, 8pm,Caroline of Brunswick)An evening of topical trivia and booze, hosted by Aleks Krotoski and Keith Stuart fromThe Guardian's gamesblog.This warm-up event will pit the gaming wits of studio teams across the Brighton spectrum and will get you in the right mindset for the next few Develop-fuelled days. Form your own team of up to six players to take on contenders from Black Rock, NCSoft, Linden Lab, Zoe Mode, Gamesindustry.biz and Eurogamer. There are limited places so arrive early!Games-themed, but not exclusively. Expect plasticine and other surprises.Oh how the mighty will reign. Honour and prizes for the winners.Alternatively, if you can't make it to the shiny beachside resort for the festivities, you can help us write the questions - for prizes!We need suggestions for the two General Knowledge Rounds- one round about game characters and in-game events, and one round about the personalities behind the games. The top questions we receive will be included in the quiz, and the four people who contributed them will be rewarded with a copy each of theGuinness Book of Worlds Records (Gamers Edition).Send your question submissions to gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com. The competition endsFriday 25th July, so get internet-trawling and send 'em in.If you can join us, we'll be very happy to see you.
A teenager from New Zealand who was accused of stealing millions of pounds has been discharged without a conviction, despite pleading guilty to hacking into computers around the world.Owen Thor Walker, 18, known online as AKILL, was ordered to pay &pound;5,500 in costs and damages after a high court hearing in Hamilton, New Zealand, and could work with police against online crime after Justice Judith Potter discharged him.Lawyers in the case told the Associated Press that officers were interested in using Walker's skills for positive purposes and Detective Inspector Peter Devoy said that option was open.Walker was arrested last November after an investigation by New Zealand and Dutch police, the FBI and the US Secret Service, and was accused of leading computer hackers who had stolen more than &pound;12m from victims around the world.After the court hearing, police said Walker had been employed to write software used by the ring to skim bank accounts. Walker had not directly taken money himself.Walker admitted accessing a computer for dishonest purposes, accessing computer systems without authorisation, interfering with computer systems and possessing software with the intent to commit crime. His case was part of a crackdown on the ring, which has seen eight people around the world charged or convicted since last year. Thirteen others are subject to arrest warrants.The ring, said police, had built a network of more than a million zombie computers - a botnet - to steal credit card information, manipulate stock trades and crash the systems of large companies.
The cost of sending text messages when travelling within the EU could fall by up to two-thirds, under proposals put forward by the European commission yesterday.Signalling a fresh clash with leading mobile phone operators, Viviane Reding, EU telecoms commissioner, said: "EU citizens should be free to text across borders without being ripped off."The EC said the 2.5bn text messages sent each year by "roaming" customers cost 10 times more than domestic texts. But the GSM Association, the global mobile phone industry trade body, insisted that average prices had fallen 18% in the past year to as little as &euro;0.10 (7p) a message.The European Regulators' Group, including the British regulator Ofcom, said the cap should be set at between &euro;0.11 and &euro;0.15 a text compared with the current EU average of &euro;0.29. Domestic text messages can cost as little as &euro;0.034.Reding indicated that she favoured setting the cap close to the 12 cents she proposed earlier this year. She said British holidaymakers could currently expect to be charged &euro;0.63 a text when roaming in Spain compared with &euro;0.30 for the French and &euro;0.41 for Germans.She imposed price caps last year on roaming calls, which have proved popular with consumers, but angered the operators, which said services should be priced according to local market conditions, "not on some vision of a single Europe originating in Brussels".But Reding accused operators of failing to respond to calls for voluntary price cuts. "I deplore this bunker mentality among the operators," she said. "They always promise self-regulation and fail to deliver: nothing has happened." Operators said the squeeze on margins could force them to withdraw free handsets but Reding said texts were "pure 97% revenue".Reding won backing from 3 Group, a smaller operator, which welcomed her proposed price caps on texts. She confirmed she would reduce the caps on calls from August 30 and again next year.The EC believes its latest proposals, due to be presented as draft legislation in the autumn, will boost the EU's role as consumer champion among its increasingly disenchanted 500 million citizens after the debacle of the Lisbon treaty.The commissioner also indicated that the EC would propose caps on wholesale charges for downloading data via mobile connections to the internet but said it was too early in an immature market to consider retail price caps. She said her moves could end the "bill shocks" when travellers returned home to find they had been charged thousands of euros for mobile surfing overseas.
A proposed "super-database" tracking every phone call, text, email and internet usage in Britain in real time would be "a step too far for the British way of life", the information commissioner warned yesterday.Richard Thomas said there needed to be the "fullest public debate" over the justification for - and implications of - a database which held details of everyone's telephone and internet communications and was potentially accessible by a wide range of law enforcement agencies."Do we really want the police, security services and other organs of the state to have access to more and more aspects of our private lives?" the commissioner asked at the launch of his annual report.A Home Office project team is developing the radical plan for a system that would use new techniques to monitor phone lines and the internet to store details on every individual's browsing and communications traffic - although not its content - enabling the police to build a profile of an individual and their network of contacts.The proposal is still at a discussion stage between the Home Office and the telecommunications and internet industries, but the government's draft legislative programme for this autumn does include a data communications bill which the Home Office acknowledges may include the legal power to set up such a central database and a public authority to administer it.More than 57bn text messages were sent in Britain last year, suggesting that a central database would have to be massive.Since October internet service providers and telecommunications companies have been required to keep records of phone calls, text messages, emails and internet use. The companies log names, internet protocol addresses and telephone numbers but not the content of calls or names of websites viewed.A Home Office spokesman said a central database would save the police approaching hundreds of internet service providers to see if they held data on suspects. "The changes to the way we communicate, due particularly to the internet revolution, will increasingly undermine our current capabilities to obtain communications data and use it to protect the public. Losing the ability to use this data would have very serious consequences for law enforcement and intelligence gathering in the UK."
Raise the Titanic? It would have been cheaper to lower the Atlantic." So grumbled Sir Lew Grade, father of Michael (who now heads ITV) on seeing the cost of the film about the famous boat.Well, Apple has found that it's a lot cheaper to let the pound fall (or euro rise, if you prefer) than to actually lower its prices on the iTunes Store.You'll recall thatback in January we reportedthat Apple had promised it would lower the price of UK single-track downloads - then, as now, 79p - to match the euro price - then, as now, 99c.At the time, that meant there was a clear differential: the euro was lower, so the UK price should have been 74p.But now it's fallen so far that, hey, what do you know, 99c eurois worth 79p. Job done. (Graph at top fromx-rates.com.)Going back to the press release at the time, which saidApple currently must pay some record labels more to distribute their music in the UK than it pays them to distribute the same music elsewhere in Europe. Apple will reconsider its continuing relationship in the UK with any record label that does not lower its wholesale prices in the UK to the pan-European level within six months.Well. We wonder of course if those record labels have lowered their prices anyway... or whether it all got so much easier.It's all a fantastic deal, isn't it? Apart from one thing: tracks on the US iTunes Storestillcost 99c (US). Which in UK money is 49p, and in euros 62c.Nope - anyarbitrageuris going to tell you that this still not quite right - there's money to be made by selling to the Continent and the UK while buying in the US. The sort of thing that an American-based company that controlled the product could do. Does that sound like anyone you can think of?
Nintendo had its E3 games trade show in Los Angeles this morning, which was duly live-blogged byEngadget's Joshua Fruhlinger. After that, reporters spent some time trying to work out whether there was, inGamasutra's words, "anything truly new on show, and if not, does that really matter?"The little Wii with its twee graphics was presented astheconsole for granddads and mothers with small children, but as CNet'sCraveput it: "hardcore gamers loyal to the Nintendo brand were completely left in the dust."Well, obviously it doesn't matter. Wii consoles continue to sell faster than Nintendo can make them. The only real challenge is carting truckloads of money to the bank....After that, it's on tolive-blogging the Sony event, where Sony announces that more than 130 games are coming to the PlayStation 2 this year. More big news: Sony will be delivering video from the online PlayStation Store.As for the PS3, Engadget says: "Starting in September, the 80GB will have the current functionality of the 40GB PS3, for $399." (So Sony is reducing functionality again.) The big news: "God of War 3 is coming to PlayStation 3" -- but what's shown is just a video. And finally ... Zipper's Massive Action Game. Again, it's just a video.It will be interesting to see how this goes down with the gaming audience, because they may not be saying: "Wow, that PS2 bundle with Lego Batman looked really cool." I suspect that the success of the PS2, great sales of the PSP, movie downloads, and what amounts to a 40GB to 80GB hard drive upgrade for the PS3 plus some video previews might not have thrilled the ones who wanted games-games-games.The quote of the day competition was a shoo-in for Satoru Iwata, Nntendo's president, who quipped: "Even Nintendo employees could not have imagined five years (ago) that we would be selling millions of bathroom scales around the world."
In this week's Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski...Sir Tim Berners-Lee tellsBobbie Johnsonall about "web science". It's a new discipline that will pull together different strands of research and thinking about the web, with a view to safeguarding its future. He explains how it will differ from other disciplines like computer science, and discusses whether it will accelerate the development of the "semantic web".Charles Arthurtakes us to the Guardian's server room, and into his own house ... in fact, there's nowhere he won't take us in his exploration of data storage. It seems everyone has a staggering 500 gigabytes of storage in their homes on average, so Charles investigates where it's all coming from and what it's being used for. Is it worth investing in network storage, or should we simply back up everything over the internet?In our weekly trawl of the news,Jemima Kisshas news of theYahoo-Microsoft takeover bid;Apple's troubles in releasing the new iPhone 3G in the UK; and thelargest security update in the history of the web.We also review activity on the Guardian's blogs, and our quest to find the Google Street Car continues.No pictures as yet, but we have a sighting. Jemima tries to drum up support for her campaign to sabotage the resulting pictures ... by getting you to strip in front of the camera.Let us know if you're willing to get 'em off.•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
If you've missed 'em, or aren't allowed to sniff around on Gametrailers.com at work, here's a quick selection of the most important trailers from the first couple of days at E3...Rage (EA, ID)Id's latest is a "shooter unlike any other," according to CEO Todd Hollenshead. Using the developer's newid Tech 5 engine, the original teaser shots made it look like Motorstorm. Now it looks like Motorstorm directed by Eli Roth as a Nine Inch Nails video. And of course, the blogosphere is buzzing with LOLs regarding that closing baddie, a dead-ringer for the Goonies' Sloth character. Unwitting coincidence or bizarre tribute? Only id know for sure.Gears of War 2 (Microsoft, Epic)"I have a rendezvous with death..." Epic Games borrows its voice over from the Alan Seeger poem for this short, brutal trailer for the forthcoming Gears sequel. There's lots more to see at theofficial website.Wii Sports Resort (Nintendo)Not a trailer as such, this is Nintendo of America CEO Reggie Fils-Aimé introducing both the MotionPlus add-on and the game that it will ship with - a Wii Sports follow-up based around a day at the beach. Will there be a 'throwing sea weed at your sister' round?Resident Evil 5 (Capcom)Another glimpse at the latest eagerly awaited installment, beginning with a typically histrionic Resi nutjob and fitting in everything from car chases and gun emplacement blast-outs to mutated zombies with The Thing-style elongated heads. You also get a good look at Chris Redfield's female cohort who'll be a playable character if you chose to attempt the main game mode as a co-op venture. Explosive and enticing.Lips (Microsoft)Microsoft's proposed charge into the family entertainment space is headed by this take on the karaoke genre. Lips lets you sing along to your own CDs (as well as a collection of built-in tunes) and provides motion-sensitive microphones. But can it really compete with Sony's well-established SingStar?Fallout 3 (Bethesda)Bethesda's post-apocalyptic blaster is getting more and more intriguing and the witty first section of this trailer - a parody on fifties American advertising - is worth a look in its own right. From here, the in-game action is ambiguous, not really conveying the promise of an open world populated by smart AI characters.
Didn't get chance to cover this yesterday, but Sony has launched it's Go!View TV and movie download service for PSP. From the press release:Go!View makes portable, video-on-demand a reality, now PSP users are able to easily transfer content to their PSP via a PC. Through agreements with distributors and broadcasters including Disney-ABC-ESPN Television, BBC Worldwide, Sony Pictures Television International, NBC Universal International Television Distribution, National Geographic and Sky Sports, Go!View can offer PSP users an excellent range of content. Programming will range from US dramas such as library series' of Lost and Desperate Housewives (produced by ABC Studios) to hit UK shows such as Doctor Who and Top Gear (from BBC Worldwide) through to FA Premier League football action and blockbuster movies.Comedy, Sport and Entertainment Packs are available by monthly subscription, whilst selected movies and TV series can be transferred via the rental service on Go!View. Subscription packs are priced at £5 (€7) for 1 pack, £8 (€11) for 2 packs and £10 (€14) for all three packs and users can trial all three packs free for a month. Rental TV is available from £1.50 (€2.00) per episode and a range of movies is available from £2.50 (€3.20) each.Is it just me, or is this mixed subscription/pay-per-view modelslightlyconfusing? Also, a quick check through the FAQ seems to confirm there's no Mac support - probably not a huge deal for Sony, but annoying all the same. On the plus side, the site claims that there will be occasional free content, including trailers.Anyone who subscribes on theGo!View sitegets a month's free subscription.Have you given it a go?
