Google's bosses may be smarting somewhat from theBarron's articledebunking the share price, but no doubt they will get a warm glow from being on the cover of Time magazine. (And all their friends and relations will be able to buy a framed copy to stick on their walls.) You can't read the main story without subscribing, but there'sa short interviewon the site.And two covers in one week can't be bad.....
So we gamesblog writers and editors have put our heads together and have decided that we would like to give you all a space in which to wax lyrical about anything and everything that takes your fancy in the world of gaming. It's obvious that there are a few gamesblog celebrities emerging and lest we (you) step on your (our) toes, we would like to offer the following proposition which should meet everyone's approval:1. We post a daily Chatterbox post which allows you to write about off-topic elements, things you find interesting and other game-related chit chat that we've not covered, but you feel should be.2. Commentary for the posts which Greg, Keith or I publish remains appropriate and relevant to that topic or is pertinent to related topics which spin off.3. As with all of The Guardian's blogs, comments must remain clean, decent and respectful.We feel it's important that you have a voice on this blog, but would also like to encourage debates about what we post, from yourselves and from people who are not regulars and may feel intimidated by the tight-knit community which has evolved.So without further ado...
TheMakebloghas notice of a couple of indie musos who have found their muses through the Nintendo DS titleElectroplankton.Keeping with Nintendo's current broad approach to gaming, the software was developed by a Japanese contemporary musician. It's not a game per se, but a multi-media platform that uses interactive elements, including touch and voice, to make sound. While its release was limited outside of Japan, the cult hit has found a following among a new generation of musicians who share such untranslatable suggestions as:I found that it sounds best if I have the yellow lumineria bouncing between two F points, and the red and green ones looping around the Bb diagonalAmong the champtions are Boing Boing'sMark Frauenfelder, who used it tocompose the musicthat accompanies one of his podcast interviews, andMerleon Cedraeon, who says,Earlier this year, when I found out about Electroplankton, I was suddenly motivated to create a new type of music that I had never before attempted. When I finally had the chance to experience Electroplankton I instantly knew what my next project would be.If you find yourself moved by the underwater music,Thomas Wilburnhas written a very thorough How-To guide for budding Electroplankton composers.
It's GSM time, and the phone industry is in Barcelona for the annual GSM Conference. There should be lots of new products, but one of the first is the Sony Ericsson K610 range, which brings a two megapixel camera and Bluetooth to a slim candy bar-style 3G phone. Any association with the popular P610 will no doubt help, butPocket-lintsays:The phone comes with the NetFront browser. HTML pages are presented in full with photos, video, words and graphics adapted to fit the 1.9 inch colour display. New support for RSS Feeds allows users to subscribe to news services to receive updates direct to the phone.Nokia has launchedthree new phonesincluding the 6136 clamshell with Wi-Fi as well as quad-band GSM.Meanwhile, nVidia has announceda graphics processor for phones. It will support H.264, WMV9 and MPEG-4 video up to D1 resolution at 30 frames per second.nVidia also says it is "collaborating with DiBcom, the leader in semiconductor technology for mobile digital TV, to create a DVB-H reference design for mobile handset TV platforms. By working together, the two companies can offer a solution that will deliver dramatic advancements in the broadcast quality of mobile TV on next-generation mobile handsets.Finally, Microsoft and Motorola have announced that they are collaborating "to significantly advance the mobile music experience on Motorola handsets using Windows Media technologies. Motorola's next generation music handsets will support key Windows Media technologies including Windows Media DRM 10, Windows Media Audio (WMA) and Media Transfer Protocol (MTP) on multiple handsets starting in the second half of 2006 and WMA Pro LBR (Low Bit Rate) in 2007."
"Investors have been fixated on Google the past few weeks, as its shares have tumbled nearly 25% from a peak of $475 -- and the fact is, there could be a lot more tumbling ahead. The share price could well be cut in half over the next year as the Internet giant grapples with growing competition from Microsoft and Yahoo!, increased pricing pressures in its online ad sales and mounting concern about what's known as click fraud," saysBarron's cover story."Google reminds me very much of what went on in 1999 and 2000," says Fred Hickey, editor of the well-regarded High-Tech Strategist newsletter and a member of the Barron's Roundtable. "The valuation is insane, relative to what they do."Google is great, of course. The argument is about whether its stock -- now $360 -- is worth $500 going on $1,000 or $257 and heading for $188. Well, what do the people running the company think? The article says:Finally, there's the matter of persistent insider selling. As Google starts to spend the $5 billion it raised through two stock offerings in the past year and a half, its senior executives have aggressively sold shares. Co-founders Brin and Page have each sold more than $1.5 billion of stock. CEO Eric Schmidt sold $493 million. Omid Kordestani, senior vice president of global sales and business development, sold $793 million, and Ram Shriram, a director, pocketed $442 million, according to Thomson Financial.Granted these folks all continue to have substantial holdings in the company, and most of the sales were part of pre-arranged selling programs that Google asked these executives to establish at the time of the IPO. Still, it's notable that none have purchased shares in the wake of the recent stock pullback. Investors might be wise to follow what they do and not what they say.Thanks toJohn Battelle's Searchblogfor thel link....
Gamesindustry.biz isreportingthat Atari Inc - the US arm of French giant, Infogrames - is in dire financial trouble."The firm's results for the quarter ended December 31st revealed sales down to $100.8 million from a figure of $156.4 million a year previously, while profits collapsed into a net loss of $4.8 million, from a profit of $19.6 million in the previous year."With the company's bank unwilling to increase its current credit agreement, desperate Atari accountants are apparently considering others ways to raise money, including selling intellectual rights or closing down a studio. The story continues:"Despite the uncertain future the company faces, chief executive and chairman Bruno Bonnell announced a number of new products along with the firm's Q3 results - namely a new game in the Stuntman franchise for the Xbox 360, a new Alone in the Dark title for the PC, and a return to the classic Battlezone franchise on the PSP."And therein, I suspect, lies the problem. Relying heavily on the uninspired re-packaging of old-timer brands that no longer exciteanyone on the planetis not going to get this or any publisher out of trouble. It is ironic that new Atari should face disaster in the same way as its namesake - unable to understand the importance of good games. In the early eighties, Atari almost destroyed the whole industry by allowing the market to become saturated with derivative shovelware. There was a lesson in there somewhere that too few have thought to learn from.
The teenage boys who do their best to ruin the atmosphere in WoW may be /crying soon as Blizzard haveannouncedchanges to their T&amp;C's over gay-friendly guilds. The move follows a heavy handed warning given to a player looking for recruits who weren't homophobic - Aleks covered ithere. While this is undoubtedly good news, my experience of the game suggests that "gay" will remain second only to "noob" on the insult hit parade.
It is rare that the media manages to come up with an entirely new niche. But Time Inc, the world's largest magazine company, is attempting to do precisely that. Later this month, it will launch Office Pirates, a website aimed at young men who are mucking about online while they are supposed to be working. As niches go, it is not small.The site, we are told will be a "daily blend of funny videos, strange news and downloads". It is being aimed at men between 21 and 34 and will be run by the former editor of Maxim in the United States, Mark Golin; Maxim being the monthly that introduced "birds and beer" to American men's magazines. Other detail is scant but a Time spokeswoman said a recent article describing the Office Pirates jokes as "salty" and tapping into "Wall Street's bawdy and frat-boy humour" was pretty accurate.The appetite is clearly there. Call it the modern day version of surreptitiously slipping a piece of folded paper around the classroom: the short smutty video-clips, lewd jokes or, for the brainy, political satire, that make their way into workers' email inboxes around the world like wildfire.There was the "lost episode" of the Smurfs in which the little blue characters engaged in pornographic acts to a hip-hop soundtrack. There were the crude Simpsons animations, in which Marge did unspeakable things to Ned Flanders, that got 10 workers at Sun Alliance sacked. Then there was that Howard Dean scream song, that helped the Democrat lose the presidential nomination in 2004.Sometimes an unfortunate ordinary Joe gains unwitting celebrity, such as the podgy 19-year-old from New Jersey, Gary Brolsma, who made the grave mistake of putting a clip of himself on the web, jiggling about and mouthing the words to a cheesy Romanian pop song. Some 2m downloads later, he was on the front page of the New York Times and according to his family, severely depressed. Just like the classroom, the internet can be a cruel place.Then there is the breathtaking pace with which sexually graphic emails have been circulated, through boastfulness, malice or hamfistedness on the keyboard. Little wonder that a magazine company should attempt to harness that electricity and package it for advertisers.Golin had postings on an improv comedy website last year looking for "smart, funny, highly original video or animation" of between 30 seconds and two minutes and promising to pay $500 apiece. The website currently shows just a skull and crossbones, wearing a stripey tie, and the knowing line, "prepare to be boarded".But the launch of the site raises at least two questions. First, has the internet become so diverting for bored office workers that the website will become prime real estate for advertisers? Second, will it encourage already testosterone-fuelled workplaces to become even more hostile places for women?There are surveys aplenty that appear to answer the first one with a resounding yes. According to a recent study by the research company Tickbox, British workers are adding up to 14 days' unofficial holiday a year, emailing and browsing online. Other studies suggest this is a conservative estimate. The technology firm SurfControl said workers spent an hour a day on personal email alone while the employment law firm Peninsula said employees spent up to three hours a day on personal internet surfing.DaimlerChrysler has already signed up to advertise its Dodge Caliber on Office Pirates. A spokeswoman said the site promised to deliver exactly the right demographics, the young men that are notoriously difficult to reach through traditional media.As for the second question, bawdy "humour" is still clearly alive and well, especially in the City and on Wall Street. Morgan Stanley last year paid $54m to settle discrimination charges, and in January fired four male employees for taking clients to strip clubs. Six female workers filed a $1.4bn lawsuit against the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. They claimed male colleagues would boast of strip club visits, bring prostitutes to the office and repeatedly subject female workers to coarse remarks.Whether Office Pirates contributes to that corrosive atmosphere will depend on how close to the knuckle its jokes are. Golin, contacted via email, wasn't talking.Martha Burk,who wrote Cult of Power, Sex Discrimination in Corporate America and What Can Be Done About It, suggests the off-colour humour spread by email is far from innocent fun."When the laws against sexual discrimination were being put in place, the kind of things that people were doing was putting Playboy posters up or leaving magazines open in full view," she said. "Now it is electronic, so it is a little less obvious but it is no less offensive or difficult for women."
Hands up who knows how Google works? How do we deliver search results that are relevant and objective within seconds? Google has thousands of computers that scan and then index websites, constantly updating and adding content to its database. When people type in a query we search our database for the most relevant results and then link the user to those websites. No money changes hands: it's all about people and what's most useful to them.When Larry Page and Sergey Brin launched Backrub, the search engine that became Google, websites complained about their content being indexed. But if content isn't indexed, it can't be searched. And if it can't be searched, how can it be found? Imagine a library with no index of titles or subjects of its books, or no catalogue of the authors who wrote them. People don't create content for it to languish in obscurity.Eight years and billions of webpages later, similar concerns are being expressed about our news service, Google News. Search engines are being accused of kleptomania and profiting at newspapers' expense. At Google, we don't own content, nor do we create it: we help people find it. Our success lies in our ability to get users off our own site and on to the sites where information resides as quickly as possible.Google News enables people to search on any subject, and it then links them to stories from thousands of news outlets around the world. It always gives users the most relevant results (generated automatically - not by a human). And that's because we value objectivity. By collating news reports from multiple sources in one place, Google makes the news more accessible and interesting - encouraging people to read more, and benefiting the news industry as a whole.Google doesn't display the stories itself. We simply show the headlines, a line or two of text and links to the site. It's up to the site's owners to decide how to profit from this free traffic, which is the lifeblood of online content. If news outlets want to charge people to read the story, that's up to them. They can show advertising on their sites too, and if they use Google's adverts we give them the lion's share of that revenue. Indeed, many online publishers wouldn't exist without Google's advertising support.The internet is fundamentally changing the way we discover and access information. People increasingly want their news on demand. They want control over their media, instead of being controlled by it. People used to wait to be told what the news was but now they want to find out what their news is.Change is always challenging, and history teaches that the people who embrace change are often the most likely to benefit from it. Any news provider can opt out of Google News. Few do in practice. Google News now includes more than 10,000 news sources, and every day we get requests for inclusion. Even publishers that charge for their content ask us to index their articles so that readers can find them. Why? Because most news organisations understand that the internet gives them access to a wider audience. They realise that comparisons with illegal music file-sharing are wrong - that Google News simply points users to other people's content.The great paradox of the digital world is that as more and more useful information comes online, the harder it will be for people to find what they want. Online content and search engines exist- in fact, can only exist - as symbiotic partners, both of whom profit as technology enables users to find the information they're looking for. That's a win-win proposition if ever I've heard one.&#183;Nikesh Arora runs Google's operations in Europepress@google.com
Hitomi Terada is in the mood to shop. The 18-year-old has no credit card and very little cash on her, but that doesn't matter: all she needs to shop at her favourite mall is the mobile phone that rarely leaves her sight.A few seconds of tapping away at her handset, and she can be the owner of the latest brand-name bag or boots. Two or three days later the goods arrive at her home, along with the bill, which she pays at her local post office.Terada, who is in her final year at high school, is one of millions of young Japanese women behind the phenomenal growth of mobile shopping. According to a report by the economy, trade and industry ministry and ECOM, a body that promotes next-generation electronic commerce, "m-shopping" was worth 971bn yen (&pound;5bn) in 2004, a 25% increase from the year before, with sales of clothes and jewellery leaping by 80%.Industry watchers are impressed, but not surprised, by the pace of the m-commerce boom."There is a quaint custom of catalogue shopping in Japan," says Lawrence Cosh-Ishii, director of digital media at the online publication Wireless Watch Japan. "It's not like in the US, where most people want to touch what they're buying first. In that sense it isn't such a huge leap, especially when you consider how often people already use their handsets."The Girls Walker range of online magazines, which offer free sign-ups to sites aimed at fashion-conscious youngsters, have about 7 million subscribers. More than 70 % of them are women aged between 20 and 34 whose obsession with getting their hands on the latest fashions, cosmetics and jewellery has made the site the most popular portal of its kind since its launch in June 2000.With more than 43 million Japanese people now using 3G handsets, other firms are taking advantage of the online shopping boom.This spring the consumer electronics maker Toshiba will release software that enables online shoppers to check the quality and reputation of thousands of items simply by taking snaps of barcodes with their cellphone cameras.The information is automatically sent to a server, which then searches blogs for reviews, summarises them and sends them back to the user in a matter of seconds. The software recognises the bar codes on 400,000 products and will be available, initially, to the 21 million owners of 3G handsets from the KDDI mobile company.Zeta Bridge, a Sony affiliate, already operates Photo Navi Wine, a similar service for wine drinkers that provides reviews of 3,000 wines based on digital photographs of bottle labels.
"Kikizo presents a detailed, early account of its first-hand experience with a little known console called PS3. Is it looking like a new generational leap, or emotion engine tears? We have some answers,"says the site.Adam Doree got chance to try dev kits at three different developers. However, he's talking about PC-based systems with DVD-style games running off a hard drive in 720p -- no Blu-ray anywhere in sight.Unsuprisingly, nothing's even close to final. Those PS3 cases are just empty shells, the software is still unfinished, and the controller, well, that's fairly vague. They used a standard USB contoller and didn't actually play anything with the much maligned boomerang concept pad (which is hinted to undergo changes to appease the angry mob). Games are also running in lower resolution than alluded to at the last E3, which might send 1080p HDTV owners into a visual fidelity tizzy.It's clear that this is nowhere near the finished machine, and nowhere near what Sony has been hyping. In fact, Doree makes it sound pretty much equivalent to an Xbox 360:The hands-on evidence is beginning to mount up. We're talking about a machine barely superior to Xbox 360 -- not by any significant margin. It's certainly obvious this machine is not "twice" as powerful as 360, let alone a generational leap ahead. But the gap could become bigger: "Realistically, as libraries and experience with both machines grow, I think the PS3 will start showing things the 360 will choke at," offers the source. "But Sony will have to make available to us libraries and new routines for that to happen - something they've been severely lacking at so far."Fact of life dept: first generation games never exploit the hardware fully, because the programmers don't have the time to develop the expertise required. That was true of the PS2 and will also be true of the PS3 and the Xbox 360. How much Sony can improve it at this stage is another issue, given the short time to the projected launch.One surprise is that Doree seems to think the PS3 box is as fake as Sony's Killzone graphics demo. He says:The stylish PlayStation 3 casing design that SCEI boss Ken Kutaragi revealed last year is, and always has been, empty -- and no signs of a final, tangible casing solution appear to be in sight. "I think to fit everything that Sony wants in there AND leave space for a 2.5 inch hard drive," explains one senior developer working on a final kit, ... "the machine would have to grow. The models they're showing off are way too small for what they want."That may not go down too well in Japan....
Microsoft's Dare Obasanjo hasa little whingeabout bloggers going bananas over new Google features while ignoring the fact that Microsoft had them first. Which is fine, but hardly surprising, since Google started more than 20 years later, and practically its whole business is doing stuff people have done before, from Alta Vista on. However, in the words of the old song, it aint what you do it's the way that you do it. Just compare Gmail with Hotmail....It might be nice if more bloggers had at least some awareness of life outside the Google ecosphere, but they're not journalists, and they're not obliged to have anything except an opinion. And in general, it doesn't seem to me that bloggers give Google an easy ride, as Dare's colleagueRobert Scobleseems to suggest. They praise the good (Gmail, Google Maps etc) and criticise the not so good (RSS reader, Base, Video etc) -- and the best bloggers know the difference better than a lot of journalists.Of course double standards are being applied: Microsoft almost never gets any credit, whatever it does. It's function is to be demonised as the Evil Empire -- a job IBM used to have. (Demonising the opposition is a terrific way to manipulate people who don't have much clue, as politicians have always appreciated, and Microsoft certainly gave them plenty to work with.)Joining in the conversation -- as Obasanjo, Scoble and hundreds of other Microsoft bloggers do -- may well be the best way of getting at least partly undemonised, so you've made a start, guys. But give it another decade.
A friend of mine has an aunt who lives in Los Angeles. Recently she decided that she would like to have wireless networking in her home, and although she is not a techie, went out and bought a laptop and a Wi-Fi router, set up the base station and plugged it into her ADSL modem.With one bound, she was free. Her computer no longer needed to be tethered, like a goat, to the wall. She could surf the web from every room in the house. It was intoxicating. But there was, she reported to her nephew, one mysterious fly in the ointment - her email wasn't working properly.When he was next in LA, my friend called on her to see what the problem was. He discovered that there was nothing wrong with her Wi-Fi set-up. The problem was simply that her laptop was connecting to a neighbour's wireless connection. Once he got it hooked up to her own base station, everything worked fine. On further investigation, it turned out that there were several other wireless networks within reach in the same street.Walk down any middle-class street in Britain today and you will find the same thing. In London, it's positively bizarre. I once stumbled on a website that mapped active wireless networks on to a streetplan. In central business areas of the city, the black dots clustered like locusts. Most of these are 'closed' - in the sense that there are some elementary security measures (passwords and encryption) in place. But many wireless networks in residential areas are open - which means anyone with a suitable laptop can just sit in a car on the street outside and enjoy broadband access, gratis.Tut, tut, you say. And so, it seems, does the law: last July, a west London man was fined &pound;500 and given a 12-month conditional discharge for hijacking a wireless broadband connection. But it's difficult to muster much sympathy for someone who runs an open wireless network and then complains about people surfing for free on their bandwidth. If you don't want to expose yourself to that risk, the solution is simple: switch on the security provisions built into Wi-Fi, give your network an incomprehensible name, and don't use passwords that can be easily guessed.But what if you feel relaxed about sharing your wireless bandwidth? (Many people do, provided they know who they're sharing it with.) Enter Fon.com, a Spanish start-up that exploded into our consciousness last week when it was announced that Google and Skype had invested in it. Fon describes itself as 'a global community of people who share Wi-Fi'. The basic idea is that if you are willing to share your Wi-Fi broadband access at home, you can enjoy free Wi-Fi all over the world.To become a 'Fonero', you must have a broadband connection. The procedure is that you register with Fon and download some special software on to your Wi-Fi router that makes it accessible to other Fon users. 'It's that simple,' burbles the site. 'Just share your connection and the rest of the community shares back with you. Join Fon and enjoy connecting from anywhere within the Wi-Fi world. To start sharing, set up your access point where you can receive the most coverage, generally close to the window or outside your home. The rest of the community will be thankful.'Three categories of user are envisaged. A 'Linus' is someone who offers and receives free - password-regulated - access from other Linuses all over the world; then there are 'Bills' - subscribers who are offered access for a fee, which is split with Fon; and finally there are 'Aliens' - non-participants who pay a fee to use the network, just as they would any other Wi-Fi hotspot. Eagle-eyed readers will note that Linus Torvalds is the guy after whom Linux is named - and that the most famous Bill in the world is the co-founder of Microsoft. 'Alien' is self-explanatory.If Google, eBay and two leading venture-capital firms have put &pound;12m into Fon, they must think it's a viable proposition. Maybe it is, but there are some tiresome details to be sorted first. To take just one obvious problem, Fon aspires to operate over a wide range of legal jurisdictions, each of which has its own ideas about this stuff. As I understand British law, for example, it is legal for me to share my wireless bandwidth with a neighbour, but it would be illegal for me to charge him a fee for the service. And I don't know what the fine print of the agreement with my ISP says about sharing the connection. My guess is that it prohibits it, and I'm sure most ISPs will take a similar view.Truly, the road to world domination is paved with petty niggles. Besides, as one wag put it last week, if you can do it with Wi-Fi, why can't we do it with bathrooms. I'm thinking of setting up Pee.com. Subscribers can use bathrooms all over the world. Slogan: never pay to use a public toilet again. Wonder if Google would invest?john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Hoaxers in Poland have dealt a fresh blow to the credibility of the online encyclopaedia Wikipedia, after creating an entry for a fictional socialist revolutionary and supposed friend of Ernest Hemingway. The popular website - which anyone can edit - carried the entry for Henryk Batuta for a full 15 months until it was exposed as an elaborate fake by Polish reporters last week.Changes made to any of Wikipedia 's 1.8 million articles in 200 languages can be traced to the computers that produced them. New entries can now be edited only by registered users, after computers in Capitol Hill offices in Washington were used to doctor political entries.The Polish scammers added the false biography to the Polish-language section of the online resource in November 2004. It was cross-referenced by editors to 17 other articles, including a long entry on Hemingway. It described the invented Batuta as a fervent communist born in Odessa in 1898, who participated in the Russian Civil War and joined Hemingway during the 1936-39 Civil War in Spain.One of the hoaxers, who call themselves the 'Batuta Army', told The Observer the aim of the false entry was to highlight the glorification of Soviet officials whose names are still used for streets and public spaces in Poland. 'Many of these people were traitors and murderers who do not deserve such an honour,' said the member of the group, who called himself Marek.A secondary aim was to warn internet users against 'swallowing information' without checking it.
The village of Lurgashall, with its pub, church and cricket pitch, is a long way from Silicon Valley. But it is here in West Sussex that a 62-year-old grandmother - who first designed a Christmas card on her computer 'for fun' - has turned her hobby into a multi-million-pound business.JacquieLawson.com, which is gearing up for Valentine's Day, is the market leader in online greetings cards. Lawson spends weeks designing each card.Their gentle humour and musical backing have proved so popular that, according to Nielsen/NetRatings, Jacquie Lawson.com had 22.7 million visitors in December, more than double that of its closest rival, AmericanGreetings.com. The success has turned Lawson into a millionaire several times over.The website's membership has risen by 45 per cent in the past year to 531,227. Each member pays a &pound;4.50 annual subscription fee, generating nearly &pound;2.4m.Joel Dreyfuss, of technology business magazine Red Herring, says such a company would usually sell for five or six times its income, implying Lawson could be sitting on nearly &pound;15m. Five years ago the e-cards site Blue Mountain was bought by American Greetings for &pound;20m.But JacquieLawson.com is not for sale. 'It's a bit of a crusade because there's so much rubbish on the internet,' said Lawson, speaking from her 15th-century cottage. 'It's such a fantastic medium, it ought to be better. I've always been a stickler for detail - I studied illustration and I love putting in bits people might not notice the first time.'Trained at St Martin's School of Art in London, Lawson worked as a freelance artist for years. Her artistic flair was not in doubt, but computers were another matter. She got her first PC in 1998 and began using the animation program Macromedia Flash in 2000. 'It was a nightmare to learn,' she recalled. 'I thought I couldn't be bothered to read the bloody book so I taught myself.'After six weeks of trial and error she finished her first electronic Christmas card and sent it to 30 friends, then went to Australia. When she returned, she had 1,600 messages from people all over the world who had distributed the card by email. Many asked that if she produced another card, she let them see it. The following November, a simple website was born, only to crash under huge demand.Lawson's friend Andrew Dukes, now commercial manager, and nephew Mike Hughes-Chamberlain, now 'technical guru', suggested setting up a business. They invested in hardware and software and launched a sophisticated website. Lawson, who had been designing her cards slowly with a mouse, now uses a touch-sensitive tablet and stylus.'The internet is not just for people in their twenties,' she added. 'I was pretty ancient when I got my first computer. Dear old ladies like me can take it up.'Despite her unexpected wealth, Lawson, whose partner Malcolm Caird and niece Sally Lisney also help with the site, continues to shop at her local Tesco, though she has treated herself to a BMW.She owns two dogs and two cats, including Chudleigh, a labrador-springer spaniel crossbreed who features in many of the cards. 'He's becoming a celebrity: we get Chudleigh visitors. It's embarrassing when I have curlers in my hair.'www.jacquielawson.com
Smart&pound;6,810 to &pound;14,620Top speed:94MphCost per mile:&pound;0.34Good for:Scrum halvesBad for:Prop forwardsThe Smart car, the ground-breakingly novel city runaround which shows you don't have to be 'square to work in the Square Mile', is a class-leading vehicle. Having said that, it's pretty much the only car in its class. How many other tiny two-seaters with boot space and an eerie resemblance to a Dyson are there? It's a great strategy. Want to be a winner, invent your own class. Want to take gold at the Winter Olympics, enter an event no one else does. How many 'Nordic Combined' athletes have you heard of? Not many, I expect. The sport combines the seemingly unrelated disciplines of cross-country skiing and ski jumping. If they'd thrown in ski-boot throwing you could have the field to yourself.With its Smart, Daimler-Chrysler has done what few other manufacturers have done in recent years, and dared to think outside the box. The box in this case being the homogenous, play it safe, multi-pack approach to car design. As all other cars get bigger - middle-age spread affects the long-running models as much as their drivers - the compact, Mercedes-made Smart stands out from the crowd. The Golf, Polo, Focus and Clio are all now up to 20 per cent larger than their debut models. In an overcrowded island, surely a palm-sized car that takes up half the space of a family saloon is to be applauded. You can fit two in a normal space, as well as parking it at right angles to the kerb. If we motorists are to find ways to reduce our environmental footprint, a Smart will shrink you from a size-12 wellie to a size-4 stiletto.The Smart was developed by the Swiss watch company Swatch in 1994. In effect, the micro car was inspired by a plastic watch. The first right-hand drives didn't appear in the UK until 2001, but we Brits have not dared think outside the box as much as Smart would like. The car has been losing money quicker than the Lib Dems are losing votes; so much so that other Smart models have been axed, leaving the two-seater, now called the ForTwo, and its likeably lo-tech big brother, the ForFour - though this is, in fact, for five.Seven Smart versions are available, three of which come as a convertible. The engines are all 700cc and the tiny powerpack means that you'll get 60 miles to the gallon. At the top end, the Brabus will do 94mph, though it wouldn't be smart to drive your Smart that fast.It's a deceptively large car. The big doors open on to comfy, full-size seats and the glass roof gives it an airy quality. The boot, which is a split tailgate (something which should be mandatory on all estates), could easily accommodate a suitcase and, in my case, swallowed a week's family shop, no bother.To drive, it's like riding a giddy Shetland pony. Solid and stubby, with its whirring engine and eager throttle, you often feel like one of those hapless saddle-bound children in a Thelwell cartoon. As for speed bumps, the minuscule wheels mean you should approach them rodeo style - with one hand out the window and a large 'Yee haa' as you're jolted over each one. Maybe that should be an Olympic sport, too.martin.love@observer.co.uk
At the start of the first Matrix movie, Keanu Reeves's moody looking Neo sits at a computer, decoding zeroes and ones. It is the coolest portrayal of a computer hacker, and one that gets only more seductive as the film rolls on and Neo becomes the sci-fi superhero every hacker secretly wants to be.The reality of computer hacking, however, is a lot less glamourous and it can be illegal to break into a computer without authorised access, leading to not-so-cool consequences if you upset the wrong people. Last year, British hacker Gary McKinnon - also known as Solo - faced extradition to the US for tapping his way into America's department of defense, Nasa and other top-level secure computers, costing the US an estimated $1m (&pound;572,000) in tracking and correcting his hacks.But if remotely breaking into high-security computer systems still appeals to your inner racketeer, there is an alternative that will keep you in line with the law. Ethical hacking, the controlled staging of a hacker attack against a corporate network to reveal weaknesses in its security, has become a viable career option for many IT enthusiasts. Also known as penetration testing or white-hat hacking, it is increasingly being employed by security-savvy organisations."It's not going away; in fact, it's escalating," says Kris Raven, sales and marketing director at 7Safe, an information security consultancy that trains government, police and IT professionals in crime prevention and ethical hacking. "Anyone interested in IT should make sure that information security training is part of their learning programme."7Safe's courses teach a potential penetration tester how to find loopholes in a company's security and patch them up by, for example, preventing a denial-of-service attack on a computer network, which can cost dearly in damage and lost business. In 2004, the police estimated that hacking cost the UK economy &pound;2.4bn.The 7Safe courses, many of which have been accredited by the University of Glamorgan as part of a postgraduate certificate in penetration testing and information security, also award an industry-recognised CSTA (Certified Security Testing Associate) certificate and can be used as masters-level course credits.Such graduate training programmes are increasingly popular as this previously shunned element of IT security grows in recognition among big business and the government. The Department of Trade and Industry, for example, has approved the creation of an Institute of Information Security Professionals (IISP), which aims to standardise the profession and bring it on par with respected occupations such as accountancy and law."The courses let employers know these hackers are on the right side," says Raven, who confirms that all students must pass a security check against a criminal or terrorist background.The software company Oracle, which has recognised that ethical hacking is an important tool in the arsenal of its business IT managers, is also wary of employing less savoury types. Matt Moore, Oracle's security assessment manager and himself a white-hat hacker, warns: "I wouldn't employ anyone who had a background in unethical hacking - absolutely not."So, how to get a job as a hacker without first trying the less legitimate routes? "Try to get some practical experience in the field before applying for jobs - for example, a summer job working for an IT security company," Moore advises. "Being able to demonstrate a passion for IT security in general is also important. It's really [about] having an in-depth knowledge of computers, how they work and how they interact. If you have such knowledge, you can use it as you wish."In other words, go down the unethical hacking route if you will, but there's legal money and job security to be had by helping prevent such underhand tech tactics. Check company websites for ethical hacking job advertisements or use the services of specialist recruitment firms, such as Barclay Simpson and Alderbridge.Moore's personal background is similar to that of many ethical hackers. He had enjoyed playing with computers since he was a child - "taking them to bits and putting them back together again" - and later began working in IT.However, you do not necessarily need a formal computer science qualification. "You get people with a wide variety of backgrounds," says Moore, who studied modern languages at university, and knows other hackers who graduated in subjects as diverse as chemistry, media studies and atomic physics."It suits people who are methodical," he says. "There is a fair degree of patience required, especially when it comes to testing software. It's very challenging.""Almost a certain obsessiveness is required," adds Duncan Harris, Oracle's senior director of security assurance, dryly. The popular image of a hacker is an antisocial nerd who prefers the company of computers to real-world human interaction. But the increasingly positive reputation of ethical hacking is helping to change the image to a socially acceptable job choice of which your parents could be proud."A lot of software vendors, such as Oracle, Microsoft and IBM, employ ethical hackers," Harris says. "We may not all be prepared to admit to it, but a number of companies do employ them. They may give these staff another name, but they are ethical hackers."Furthermore, the varied job skills that ethical hacking trains you for could boost your career in the future. "There has been a dramatic change in some of the styles of testing that Oracle has performed over the years," says Harris. "Most of the testing we had done before was what I call positive testing - checking the product worked correctly. A lot of the ethical hackers have pointed us to more negative testing. It's a bit like lateral thinking - trying to defeat the computer system."Such lateral thinking means ethical hackers have to consider and analyse different points of view, understanding how a successful business and its employees work, as well as a computer: you have to think like a hacker to defeat one. One trick employed by black-hat, or unethical, hackers is "social engineering", whereby hackers pose as IT staff in order to trick unsuspecting workers into disclosing their username and password.So, call it what you will - ethical hacking is a realistic career option for any graduate with a love of all things cyberspace. "As long as computer programmers write software programs that will never be 100% security-bug free," says Harris, "there is going to be a need for ethical hackers."
Sometimes, just sometimes, you lose a little faith in human nature when you delve too deeply into weblog comments. Don't get me wrong: most of the time, comments on any blog are as valuable as the original author's post, if not more. The best bloggers act as as a kind of cross between ringmasters and curators, sparking rich discussions and drawing out the best from the participants.At GU we've had 117,000 comments and counting, on everything from geopolitics to, this week, Ryanair's rechristening of Prestwick as ... London Prestwick (writes Sadat: "if I want to really, really go to Glasgow, should I catch the flight to Reykjavik?")But occasionally the circus gets out of hand; contributors start hurling insults, go wildly off topic, or the "trolls" - internet slang for troublemakers - arrive and a previously civilised discussion becomes the online equivalent of a bar room brawl. Unfortunately, we have few electronic John Waynes available to restore order.We're not the only ones grappling with this. The Washington Post was embroiled in a furious row recently after removing comments from a contentious blog post. The site's executive editor wrote: "There are things that we said we would not allow, including personal attacks, the use of profanity and hate speech."Because a significant number of folks who have posted in this blog have refused to follow any of those relatively simple rules, we've decided not to allow comments for the time being."Turning comments off is dodging the problem, but I've nothing but sympathy for the Washington Post's position. They were brave, and it didn't work out. Some websites, hoping to catch the blogging wave without actually engaging it, only allow comments to go on their blogs after they've been filtered by staff - a form of letters to the editor, only without the prestige. Readers, unsurprisingly, don't bother to contribute much; the whole exercise rather misses the point.So how do you keep an orderly house? A clue might be in suggestions made by Yahoo! and AOL on how to cope with spam. They plan to charge a small amount - no more than half a penny each - for speedier delivery of some emails. Given that 25bn emails are sent every day, according to Ferris Research, it sounds quite a nice little moneymaker.But the point is that 15bn of those daily emails are spam. And the reason for spam is that, unlike any other form of marketing, it costs next to nothing to hit a million people (and next to nothing more to hit 10 million). Thus, it only takes a few mugs to order Viagra by post, or a phony masters degree, to make the spammers' efforts worthwhile. Attaching any kind of charge to email breaks spam, because it makes it too expensive.The similarity with blog comments? Well, we're not going to start charging people to let them have their say. But, just as charging makes it harder to spam, we can think up ways to make life harder for the foul-mouthed or racist commenters who start those virtual brawls, while keeping things simple for the majority.That's why, when it launches, our new Comment is Free blog will ask users to register their username and email address. When they do, they'll still be given rights to post their thoughts instantly, but we hope the process of registration - and the obligation to provide us with a valid email address - will tame the worst of the comments.We are also thinking of revealing on the site every commenter's rough geographical location; information not exposed to the public before. Experiments on other sites suggest debates are more civil when everyone knows where everyone else is.A famous New Yorker cartoon on the anonymity of the net summed it up perfectly: "On the internet, nobody knows you're a dog." We still won't know, even with these precautions. But by forcing a little accountability on our blog commentators, we hope to tone down the barking.&#183;Neil McIntosh is assistant editor of Guardian Unlimited
Nielsen/NetRatings reports that US searches grew by 55% to 5.1 billion searches December 2005, with Google growing faster than rivals Yahoo and Microsoft.TechWeb Newssays:Among the top three search engines, Google was the only one to gain market share, rising 5.7% year-to-year to 48.8%. No 2 Yahoo Inc, on the other hand, saw its market share dip by 0.3% to 21.4%, while Microsoft Corp's MSN experienced a 3.1% drop to 14%.In December, searches on Google jumped by 75% to 2.5 billion, Yahoo grew 53% to 1.1 billion and MSN Search by 20% to 553 million.
"NTL, the largest broadband provider in the United Kingdom, will be testing the file-swapping service as a way to deliver video more cheaply than traditional downloads. Another company, called CacheLogic, will add its data-caching technology to improve the network's efficiency," reportsCNet."The deal is the first public step forward for BitTorrent's hope to turn its technology, widely used for swapping illegal copies of video, into a tool used by movie studios and ISPs for legal services."Comment: Both Sky and the BBC are already using the Kontiki peer-to-peer file sharing system to distribute video. See Ask Jack (Sky by Broadband) for more information.
Last year's faintly Grand Theft Auto-style free roaming wild west shooter GUN has been attacked by representatives of Native Americans. According to the Association for American Indian Development, GUN incites players to "slaughter" Apache Indians, thereby condoning "the near genocide of Native Americans".Activision's defence (appended to a slightly reserved apology) is that it was only representing the historical reality of the way its protagonists would have behaved. They could also have mentioned that the lead character actually turns out to be half Indian himself and spends the latter part of the game taking out dastardly cowboys - although you can forgive the AAID not knowing this, having vowed to boycott the title. The controversy continues...
Guitar HeroPS2Although not due in the UK until April, Guitar Hero is already causing enormous excitement in America where its selection of rawk classics (Smoke On The Water, I Love Rock N' Roll and Ace Of Spades all included) and ability to make you feel like an actual guitar hero are making it one very talked-about videogame. Played by holding down the right note on the fret board while strumming in time, you use the large plastic guitar provided, which is at least partly responsible for the unreasonable levels of joy that playing the game engenders. Coming from Harmonix, developer of other defining rhythm-action games Amplitude and Frequency, there is every reason to expect this to become something of a classic when it finally makes its way over here.&#183;RedOctane, out April&#183;Shadow Of The ColossusPS2In Shadow Of The Colossus, your job is to find, climb and eventually destroy a series of giants in the hope of bringing a helpless girl, lying soulless in a vast temple, back to life. Galloping across miles of mysterious and beautifully drawn landscape with only your trusty horse for company, each Colossus is its own enormous puzzle, with patterns of movement and weak points that need to be teased out and exploited. During your quest you'll meet and demolish over a dozen walking, swimming and flying leviathans, and unlike practically any other videogame, after each epic struggle, as the vast quiet beasts crumble to dust, victory is tainted by a feeling that what you are doing might be very, very wrong. Its extraordinary subtlety, the ethereal serenity of its landscapes and the moral ambiguity at its core make this a unique and wonderful gaming experience.&#183;Sony, &pound;40
The copyright owners are in the long-term game of increasing protection from a reasonable term -- perhaps 14 years* -- beyond the unreasonable terms they have already achieved to the point where copyright lasts "forever less one day" (inJack Valenti's phrase).In the US, part of the strategy is to introduce abroadcast flagto control or prevent copying. And America's HBO channel seems to be the first to try to insert the thin end of the wedge. AsArts Technicareports:HBO has joined the fray with arecent FCC filingin which it argues that its video-on-demand programming -- and all "Subscription Video On Demand" services -- should fall into the category of "Copy Never." In a broadcast-flagged world, that translates into consumers not being able to record on-demand broadcasts by HBO. No TiVo, no VCR, no video capturing on your PC, nonada.As Ars technica notes:To be clear, HBO's filing only affects on-demand programming. Currently, HBO broadcasts are DRMed using CGMS-A which allows users to make one copy of regular HBO programming and prohibits them from copying or recording HBO On-Demand broadcasts. Their use of CGMS-A has also led to some users being told that they must delete content due to time restrictions. Given the MPAA's stated desire of having the ability to lock down all programming, it's not a stretch of the imagination to reason that all HBO content will someday be flagged as "Copy Prohibited Content" should our lawmakers fall down on the job.With "Copy Prohibited Content," of course, you have to pay every time you watch something, which is the ultimate point of the game.* The Copyright Act of 1790 "granted American authors the right to print, re-print, or publish their work for a period of fourteen years and to renew for another fourteen." After numerous amendments, it now extends to the life of the author plus 70 years, and for "works made for hire," it's 95 years -- which shows flagrant disregard if not contempt for Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the US Constitution. See:A History of Copyright in the United States.
MondayCan videogame satire work?What you played this weekendGame over for HUDs?Tuesday"I call it 'subtracting horror'" Project Zero creator speaksSensible laughX-men game provides movie backgroundWednesdayReal-world KatamariWe could be heroesThursdayTechnology sectionFun with mini-gamesFridayWill PS3 confuse people?Winter GamesLoose talk, free demos
Campaigners for free speech in China accused the US internet company Yahoo! of providing information that allowed Chinese police to jail a cyber-dissident two years ago. The charge by Reporters Without Borders is likely to provide further ammunition to US congressional members, less than two weeks after Google said it would bend to Beijing's wish to censor politically sensitive content.Members of the US House of Representatives will cross-examine internet executives next week about what they see as ethically questionable ties with China.Reporters Without Borders claims that recently translated court documents show that Yahoo! helped the Chinese authorities to identify the dissident, Li Zhi, through his email address and user name. In December 2003, Li was sentenced to eight years in prison for "inciting subversion" after posting online essays detailing cases of corruption among local government officials and cadres.Yahoo! said it had no knowledge of the case. But a spokesman, Mary Osako, said the company's policy was to follow local law in turning over information requested in government subpoenas. "The choice in China is not whether to comply with law enforcement demands for information," she said. "Rather, the choice is whether to remain in the country."Last September, human rights groups claimed Yahoo! provided data that led to a 10-year jail term for a journalist, Shi Tao.Reporters Without Borders called on Yahoo! to release a list of all cyber-dissidents whose personal information it has handed to the Chinese authorities. "How many more cases are we going to find?" the Paris-based group said in a statement.China, which has 110 million internet users - second only to the US - is an increasingly lucrative market, but it has one of the worst records in the world on freedom of expression. In the past month, one editor has been killed, one dismissed and a leading publication closed down.Earlier this month, Google was widely condemned for voluntarily filtering out information that it believed the government would not approve of, in order to get permission to base its servers in China.Last December, Microsoft came under fire for closing down the MSN Spaces site of one of China's most influential bloggers, Michael Anti.The court material in Li's case was uncovered by a leading Chinese writer and dissident, Liu Xiaobo, who said he had written a letter of complaint to Yahoo's boss, Jerry Yang. "I feel very angry with what Yahoo! did in offering evidence to court. It is disgusting" said Mr Liu.On February 15, the US House of Representatives' committee on international relations will hold a hearing on the ethical responsibilities of companies doing business in China.
Just a quickie in case you missed this. Nintendo of America has officially announced two new DS features. First up, the company will be providing a free game demo download service via participating stores throughout the country. Lucky Americans simply walk up to a kiosk on the shop floor, brandish their DS at it and then download a selection of demos via Wi-Fi link. Featured games include Tetris DS, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day, Mario Kart DS, Meteos, True Swing Golf and Pokmon Trozei.Even more enticingly, Metro Prime Hunters will be the first title to support a previously hinted at Wi-Fi chat system. As the press release explains, "The microphone of the Nintendo DS picks up voice communication and transmits it to the people on their friend list. Players can use the chat function before a match to agree on settings or after a battle to relive their glories." Sounds like there'll be no option for in-game 'trash talk' then...Fed up that our American cousins are getting all the fun? Calm down -accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Nintendo is planning to support both features in the UK...
Graphic:GamespotThere has been some debate (litotes) about the relative merits of Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's forthcoming PlayStation 3 games console, and recently that has turned to drive speeds -- and the thought that the PS3's Blu-ray drive may be slower than the Xbox 360's DVD.There is no answer, because we don't know what sort of Blu-ray drive Sony will fit. Originally it was assumed it would be a standard 1x drive, but when Pioneer starts shipping players this summer, it will start with a 2x drive, and a 4x drive is conceivable.Skektek atGamespothas produced a useful analysis, which shows that a 1x or 2x Blu-ray drive will be slower than the Xbox 360's 12x DVD. You have to go to 4x for the Blu-ray drive to beat a 12x DVD (see graphic). After that, of course, Blu-ray races ahead, and can go up to 12x....But given the horrendous cost of Blu-ray drives (Pioneer'sBDP-HD1player is priced at $1,800), Sony may not want to give away high-end drives in the PS3. And if Sony does do that, it probably kills the standalone player market for partners such as Pioneer....
TheWinter Olympicsstart today. In the UK the event has interest levels that only just pip theNational Tiddlywinks Championship- although curling, bizarrely, did catch the imagination last time round - but you can guarantee there will be a game released around the event. Torino 2006 is no different, with the official game available now. It's utter rubbish as you may expect if you've played recent Olympics videogames.Torino's main failing is to try and dumb down what should be enjoyable multiplayer competition. Sure, Track and Field and the like required stamina but skill was crucial for getting the high scores. Anyone expecting a similar challenge from Torino will be disappointed.But it didn't use to be like this -Winter Gamesanyone? That 80s classic - the bobsleigh being a particular love/hate event - showed the potential which Torino 2006: The Official blah blah etc utterly fails to live up to. I was going to make a 80s-Olympic-games-are-so-much-better-than-today's argument until I rememberedDaley Thompson's Decathlon. But the point is still basically valid - Winter Games over Torino 2006 any day.
We are all Alastair Campbells now. Spin doctors' antennae whirred around this week when the volunteers who run Wikipedia discovered that staff of US senators and congressmen had been busy burnishing their bosses' entries in the internet encyclopedia.Millions of people turn to the reference site to look up facts - and change them. The non-profit making project to build an internet encyclopedia is the 19th most-visited site in the world. Three per cent of all webpages visited are Wikipedia pages. Its guiding, and democratic, principle: anyone can anonymously edit it. Increasingly, it seems, politicians and their staff are among the most dedicated editors.Patrolling the 962,652 entries in the English Wiki - more than double the number a year ago - its idealistic volunteers found other examples of "politically motivated editing" emanating from Washington. In one case, an intern for Democratic representative Marty Meehan deleted a reference to his broken promise to only serve four terms. In another, the office of Senator Norm Coleman deleted an unflattering reference to voting with President George Bush 98% of the time in 2003, despite running as a moderate the year before. Wikipedia took draconian action: all computers connected to servers at the House of Representatives were temporarily denied access to the site.Computers linked to Canada's House of Commons and the German Bundestag also fiddled with entries, according to Wikipedia. But Jimmy Wales, the Florida-based founder who was embarrassingly exposed for tweaking his own entry, said no suspicious activity had yet been recorded on the computers of Westminster and Whitehall.Why do our slow-witted special advisers twiddle their thumbs while websavvy idealists write their bosses' biographies? The Guardian could help. I bring up Tony Blair's entry. It appears a perfect example of a Wiki entry: accurate, informative, well-sourced and neutral in tone. But every choice of fact is a subjective act. And there's one our Tone wouldn't like: "Euan Blair received widespread publicity after police found him 'drunk and incapable'." C'mon guys, the kids are off limits. Snip. I cut it out."While the Blairs have stated that they wish to shield their children from the media, they have not always been able, or willing ... " Hang on, "willing"? What does that imply? Cut. Save. Refresh page. Tony's Wiki entry is now a lot shinier.Time to buff up the Guardian. The stereotypical Guardian reader is, Wikipedia explains, a lentil-munching, sandal-wearing lefty. "Like most stereotypes, to some extent this one is both inaccurate and outdated." Let's get rid of "to some extent", eh?I add some positive spin about our rising circulation. Hang on, there is someone missing from the list of "notable regular contributors (past and present)". Ian Aitken, Julian Borger, Emma Brockes: excellent, excellent. But no "Patrick Barkham". I slip the name in. It looks nice, if suspiciously anomalous.Ah, the sweet power of the spin doctor (tempered by the growing anxiety that a volunteer will hunt me down and attack me with worms or bots or turn my Mac into a zombie computer). Wikipedia records the internet protocol address of the computer on which every edit occurs. They could easily trace my edits to the Guardian. Its volunteers cleverly trapped the US spinners by sending emails to their offices. When they received replies, they found the IP addresses contained in the emails matched those of the dodgy editors.Time to phone Wikipedia. Does the furore over the politicians gilding their own lilies undermine its credibility? "It's more damaging to the persons involved," says Mr Wales. "We were able to catch these bad edits very quickly and good edits were incorporated very quickly."The site is still smarting from bad publicity about the biography of the US journalist John Seigenthaler, which incorrectly linked him to the Kennedy assassinations. The libellous allegations were not spotted for months before they were removed, leading to criticism about its reliability.Mr Wales says the "whitewashing" editors from Washington are treated "just like editors from a grammar school. If they behave themselves, that's fine. If not, they get blocked."What does Wikipedia rule on people adding gloss to their own entries? "It's not absolutely forbidden to edit an article you're involved in but it's not considered good practice," says a UK spokesman, David Gerard.Marty Meehan recanted. "It was a waste of energy and an error in judgment on the part of my staff to have allowed any time to be spent on updating my Wikipedia entry," he said.And so must I. Shamed by my crass attempts to subvert the democratic goal of a free encyclopedia on the internet, I return and remove my "bad edits" to leave the pages just as they were. Will the world's spin doctors suffer similar pangs of conscience?
As I've reported this morning, chunky butler Jeeves is going to be making his final appearance later this month beforebeing "retired"as the face of the Ask search engine.The march of time affects us all, of course. In fact, Jeeves 1.0 (the chubby-necked version seen here on the right) was replaced a while back with the smarter, slicker version that we see above on the left. But the chill hand of death - or the dole queue - has finally caught up with the little guy.Or, as Ask told me:"When we launched it was very strong positioning, but the internet has moved on and consumers have moved on. They don't understand the relevance of him any more: it's time to move the brand on too."Ah, Jeeves, how we'll miss you. Well, maybe not.But I think this little moment in history could mean that the biggest mystery on the internet will go unsolved: we never knew what Jeeves' first name was. Was it, like the PG Wodehouse character, Reginald? I'd like to think, in fact, that perhaps it was simply "Ask". At least then his name will live on into the future.Related:Save Jeeves blogWebsite of Marcos Sorenson, Jeeves illustrator
Oracle boss Larry Ellison, once the world's richest man, reckoned the database world was due for consolidation, and decided to consolidate it by buying the available rivals. Having spent $18 billion taking over Siebel and PeopleSoft (with JD Edwards thrown in), he's now ready to start gobbling up open source companies. According toBusiness Week Online: "Oracle is in talks to buy at least three open source software companies in deals that could be valued at more than $600 million."The firms "in Oracle's crosshairs" are JBoss, Zend and Sleepycat Software, says BWO, and insiders expect more to come:One source close to the talks says these deals may be just the beginning. "Larry and [Oracle Co-President and CFO] Safra Catz have a clear plan to control the entire open source [software] stack," the person says.Since open source suppliers rarely make much if any money, they should be easy pickings for a company that clears almost $3 billion a year.And no one is likey to stop Oracle because it has two larger rivals. It still has to compete with IBM, which has a range of proprietary databases called DB2 (Database 2), and Microsoft, which sells SQL Server.However, the move has risks for Oracle. First, it has to learn how to make money from large support contracts instead of its usual large upfront payments for software. Second, it is collecting an increasing array of software that could be hard to integrate. Previously, Oracle has sold on the basis that it supplies an integrated system.
Business Week Online has just posteda curious articlewhich ponders over whether the many multimedia features of PS3 might confuse consumers who just expect a games machine."Picture this," begins the wide-eyed reporter, "you plug your TV into a box the size of a phone book and go online to check headlines. You get bored and click over to a Giants game. Later you download Casablanca, play Metal Gear Solid against an opponent in Seoul, then chat with a friend in Seattle." Later he warns, "Some question whether Sony is trying to cram too much into the new box."I've scanned the article several times and have found no mention of the fact that Xbox 360 is likely to offer an extremely similar feature-set - or of the general move toward the 'entertainment server' concept in the rest of the consumer electronics industry. Instead there are cautionary references to the failed PSX, Sony's hard drive-equipped PS2 spin-off.Look, if a console that also lets you go online and download stuff is going to confuse you, you may as well give up on digital entertainment right now and save yourself a lot of mental torture in the long run.NEXT WEEK: Consumers bewildered by Sky+ "witchcraft"!
A record number of Japanese committed suicide last year after meeting on the internet. The national police said 91 people - 54 men and 37 women - had died in net suicide pacts, up from 55 people a year earlier.Police have reportedly prevented 11 suicides since regulations were introduced in October under which authorities can ask internet service providers to pass on the names of people they believe are about to kill themselves.Two people survived after being discovered during suicide attempts and others were persuaded to abandon their plans.
Drive wiperI am disposing of my old computer and wish to permanently and securely delete information/data from my hard drive. Are there any programs you recommend? In any case, how does one destroy a hard drive should there be no other reasonable choice?A MaheraliJack Schofield replies:You can't really delete data from a hard drive. When you delete a file, the operating system just deletes the index reference to the file, so the file can often be recovered using an "undelete" program. To destroy the data, you need to overwrite the disk sectors with random data. You need to overwrite the file sectors from seven to 35 times, depending on the importance of the data.There are free programs that will do this: search Google for [hard drive eraser]. I'm recommending Darik Horn's DBAN (Darik's Boot and Nuke). This uses a tiny Linux, so you can boot from a floppy and wipe any size hard disk without using the operating system(s) installed. There is also a Mac version. DBAN is used by the US National Nuclear Security Administration, it's open source, and free fromhttp://dban.sourceforge.net.For more security, remove the hard drive and wipe it with a degaussing machine (http://tinyurl.com/a5lmd). For ultimate security, bathe the disk platters in hydrochloric or sulphuric acid until the magnetic coating is eaten away (http://tinyurl.com/crmll).Wireless speakersMy wife has subscribed to Sibelius Music (http://sibeliusmusic.classical.com) and thinks it is wonderful. The difficulty is that her computer is not where she wants the music. We could extend the speaker cables but that would be messy and inconvenient.Graeme O ChurchardJS:The simplest option is wireless speakers, or wireless headphones. These come with a wireless transmitter that should plug into the PC sound output via a 3.5in jack. Searching for "wireless speakers" (www.buycentral.co.uk/qsh/wireless+speakers.html) finds products such as CGV's wireless speakers (www.cyberselect.co.uk/product/790) and the Rimax Wireless Speakers (www.paramountzone.com/wireless speakersystem.htm). Both are available in several places, so shop around. I have not heard any of these so cannot comment on the sound quality, but perhaps readers can.eMule timeMy son has downloaded eMule. What exactly does it do? Is it safe and legal?John Le VayJS:eMule is a popular file-sharing client: seehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EMulefor details. It uses a credit system that forces people to share (upload) files, not just download them. It is legal to use eMule, but it can be used to share copyright music, TV shows and movies, which isn't legal. Uploaders are more likely to be sued than downloaders, and some eMule/eDonkey users have been sued, but millions of people still use it.Need.net?The latest updates for my ATI graphics card come in two versions, and one says that I needMicrosoft.net. What is it and do I need it on my XP Home PC?Dave SimpkinJS:Microsoft describes .Net (dot net) as its web services platform: it enables a company to develop an IT infrastructure that works across a network, such as the internet. Applications can be developed very quickly using Visual Studio 2005 or the free Visual Studio Express. Most Windows PCs now ship with .Net installed - it should be visible in the Add or Remove Programs panel, or look for its subdirectory in the Windows folder. However, there is no reason to install it unless you want to run a program that requires it. Few do.jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
No, they didn't - although gamblers and bookies did predict the victor of Superbowl XL between the Seattle Seahawks and the Pittsburgh Steelers.The "eBay sales" idea was simple, playing on the "wisdom of crowds" idea which suggests that large bodies of people acting independently will make better predictions than a few acting together. (It's why asking the audience in Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? is the most reliable lifeline.) On that basis, the better team might have more fan support, and so merchandise for that team will sell for a higher price on eBay than the soon-to-be losers. A tool onmpire.com, a site set up for those who sell goods on eBay, kept track of the average price of comparable merchandise for the two teams, and put the two side by side (http://tinyurl.com/bfshw). By the end, Seattle's price was well ahead, at roughly $144 v $99 for Pittsburgh.Part of the uncertainty about the Superbowl result is that the two teams do not play each other in the regular season, unlike British football where Premiership teams play each other twice. In theory, that makes the result harder to forecast - and eBay at least had some data.However, something happened on the way to the meme museum: the Superbowl itself, in which - as the bookies had expected, based on their own experience of making money from American football - the Steelers, who started as favourites, finished as winners by 21-10.So why were the eBay numbers wrong? Lots of reasons are possible, but the simplest may be the best: Seattle is a comparatively wealthy city, with about 60% more people than Pittsburgh, which saw declines in population and jobs during the 90s. That would imply that people most likely to buy Seahawks gear would have more disposable income, and be more plentiful, than those backing the Steelers. But that didn't have any effect on the performance of the teams on the pitch - which, of course, is where it matters.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Shadow of the ColossusPlayStation 2, &pound;39.995/5Most videogames are derivative variations on a range of masculine themes. But occasionally a game arrives that renews your faith in the potential of this fledgling artform. Ico, with its powerful emotional engagement, was one of these. And so is Shadow of the Colossus, the latest effort from Ico's creators. Published by Sony, the game sounds simplistic - using your sword, horse and wits you must defeat 16 huge beasts one by one. But by the time you have clambered on to your first adversary - all of whom dwarf your character - you'll be too busy clinging on to worry. These colossi, with their physical presence, are the stars, but the setting - stark lighting and windswept landscapes - is equally integral. It may lack Ico's intensity, but Shadow of the Colossus is a masterpiece.Greg HowsonWe Love KatamariPlayStation 2, &pound;39.994/5"Bonkers" is not a word I'd often use, but it sums up this one. Katamari Damacy has been a cult hit for a while and the sequel broadens that appeal without quite capturing the magic of the original.The idea is to roll a sticky ball around a series of dayglo 3D levels, picking up anything in your path. Your main goal is to reach a certain circumference before time runs out, but special objectives are handed out for each level, including ball-rolling rivals to defeat.With its retro music, bad translations and psychedelic humour, there's too much going on to summarise. If it's originality you're after, Katamari is like nothing else out there.Mike AnderieszDead or Alive 4Xbox 360, &pound;39.993/5As eye-candy, this hi-tech beat-'em-up is hard to beat - its pin-sharp graphics, with ultra-detailed backgrounds and startlingly synthetic, anime-style characters, are arresting. But they merely add gloss to a workaday beat-'em-up, which at least eschews complex special moves in favour of punching, kicking, blocking and throwing, which must be timed to the microsecond. The throws are particularly tricky, but satisfying, and the different fighting styles add a modicum of variety. Tecmo's trademark touches, multitiered levels, detailed cut-scenes and gratuitous animals are present and correct, adding to the richness of the visual feast and injecting some humour.It should boost the Xbox 360's dismal sales in Japan, but only true beat-'em-up aficionados will be able to generate much enthusiasm.Steve Boxer&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Why aren't you paying attention to attention? The web has always had an attention-based economy, which companies have attempted to monetise, usually via advertising. But for the past year, Steve Gillmor, Seth Goldstein and others have been trying to move this idea to the next level. If you can capture your own "attention data", then two important things follow. First, you could use your time and attention better. Second, you could trade your data with companies for other benefits.The first point is becoming important because of "information overload". There are too many websites to visit, too many RSS feeds for anyone to scan, and people are straining under the volume of their email. That's why we have BlackBerrys. The second point is becoming important because of the volume of information companies are compiling about users and their online behaviour.In the early days of the web, sites measured attention by the number of hits they attracted. Putting ads on a site converted some of this attention into cash. But visitors were generally anonymous, and one hit was as good as another.Today, companies such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, Amazon and eBay are interested in collecting much more specific, and much more personal, data. The things to which you pay attention - what you search for, the products you look at, the ads you click, what you buy - provide a picture of who you are. You even help by creating wishlists, rating or reviewing products, selecting news feeds, and so on. This enables sites to do a better job of targeting ads and suggesting things you might like. That's good for you, and even more profitable for them. But before long they may know you better than you know yourself.One result is AttentionTrust.org, a non-profit organisation cofounded by Gillmor and Goldstein "to promote the principles of user control of attention data" (www.attentiontrust.org). Its four principles are:&middot; Property: You own your attention and can store it wherever you wish. You have control.&middot; Mobility: You can securely move your attention wherever you want whenever you want. You have the ability to transfer your attention.&middot; Economy: You can pay attention to whomever you wish and receive value in return. Your attention has worth.&middot; Transparency: You can see exactly how your attention is being used. You can decide who you trust.AttentionTrust.org offers Attention Recorder, an accessory for Firefox. This lets you save "attention data" (based on your browsing) on your hard drive, and release it to approved services if you wish. This has limits: it doesn't capture important consumer data such as the songs you listen to, the movies and TV you watch, the food you eat, and so on. Also, some argue that the things you ignore are also important attention data. But Attention Recorder is just a start.Separately, Goldstein has set up Root Markets (www.root.net) as "the first trading platform for the pricing and exchange of real-time consumer data". This lets you open an online vault to store your attention data, and analyses it to tell you which sites and subjects you are paying most attention to.This information would be valuable to any company with products to sell. It might also be of great interest to a potential future employer or spouse - and not necessarily in a good way. The problem is that, unless you are browsing anonymously, companies are collecting this information anyway, and they are going to get better at it. Who should own it: them or you?Even if no one pays attention to AttentionTrust.org, at least it is highlighting a problem that may be small now but could become much bigger in the future.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It has been a very difficult week. I have unexpectedly lost two family members on opposite sides of the United States. Needless to say, computer games haven't been on my mind. And most games don't deal with the concept of bereavement and death in a particularly grownup way. After all, they are intended to distract and entertain. Inflicting loss of life is regularly the purpose or at least part of the pleasure, and interactive city streets are littered with the detritus of an armed rampage.Bereavement in games has really only reared its head in two titles: Final Fantasy VII and the Silent Hill series. The former is regularly cited as one of the most emotional products to emerge in interactive entertainment. Many gamers openly admit to crying when the character Aeris dies.Most games feature cliched storytelling in which characters die heroically while brandishing weapons. Aeris's death is unexpected, and the feeling that she has been taken wrongly is surprisingly profound. The loss seems senseless, paralleling the experience of many real-life bereavements. Even more unusual is how her death is portrayed - a pearl rolls down a flight of stairs - which in the over-the-top world of videogaming is a welcome subtle approach to the inner self.The Silent Hill series, on the other hand, recreates the cacophonous emotional earthquake that often follows the loss of a loved one. The plots twist the psychological plights of men trying to come to terms with the deaths of close family, and throw them into nightmarish scenarios filled with horrifying obstacles. In one game, the main character fruitlessly chases the spectre of his missing daughter through zombie-infested schoolhouses, and in another, he desperately tries to save the doppelganger of his recently deceased wife from an onslaught of the undead. While Final Fantasy tries to adapt the symbolism of Battleship Potemkin, Silent Hill borrows liberally from Jacob's Ladder and Don't Look Now.To date, few games have adequately captured the poignancy and the turmoil of real-life emotions. Sorrow, joy and anger are notably absent from interactive experiences, a feature often raised in the eternal battle between games and other mainstream media. Late last year, American film critic Roger Ebert dismissed games for this reason, and while he received an impressive backlash from gamer geeks from around the world, his rationale remains solid. Yet it is accepted in the offices of top-flight publishers and research firms that tapping the emotional font is necessary for games if they wish to continue in their bullish trend.Console game makers can learn from other genres. Online games are great examples of how human beings connect via computer, and use the digital spaces to work through offline issues. After the 7/7 bombings in London, memorials were set up in many online games for players to come together and share their experiences of shock and loss. When actor Christopher Reeve died in late 2004, players in the superhero game City of Heroes recognised their loss by donning Superman outfits and witnessing a moment of silence. More recently, when a game friend died in the real world, players in World of Warcraft had an online funeral to collectively commemorate their loss.Videogames are played by people, not machines. There is room for emotions in entertainment. Films do it, why can't games? It's not impossible, but developers may need more experienced storytellers to harness their emotional impact. The challenge is to capture the truth in the turmoil surrounding death that goes beyond the need for revenge.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A few bumps on the road to online car taxingI was interested to read your article (The long and winding road to taxing your car online, February 2), as I was one of the lucky few allowed to beta test the new online car tax system last November.I entered all the reference numbers without trouble, but the site refused my bank card for no reason. To use another card I had to start from scratch. But I could not do so for four hours. Much later that day, I managed to get my car retaxed, but only after keying in my details three more times. I spent much more time online than it would have taken to walk to a post office and queue, so I shall not make this mistake again.If this is counted as a success story, one can understand why so many e-government systems are a waste of money.Clive PageUniversity of Leicester.&middot; There is another reason for not using the online system. There is a charge of &pound;2.50 for paying by credit card, in effect additional tax. This will stop me using the site. It is things like this that make me question the commitment and the professionalism of the people implementing the systems. I have had similar frustrations with pension application forms. If the powers that be cannot get something as simple as this correct and user-friendly, I, for one, will do all in my power to avoid using online government systems for as long as possible.Alan ChapmanMacclesfield&middot; Twelve months ago I got the car taxed in three minutes, using a telephone.John DekkerTwickenham&middot; I used the online system to tax two cars last week and found it to be very quick and easy - maybe five minutes overall. If, as you say, a million people have already used the new service then there would seem to be plenty of people like me who see an advantage in it.Roger CooperWoodbridgeJust the fax, ma'amMat Smith was of course having a bit of fun in his article (Technobile, February 2). I occasionally use faxes, and the Windows XP fax program, which sends and receives, suits my needs perfectly. No paper jam, no cartridge, no printing (unless you want to). Delete when read. Ecologically pure!Sydney GibsonWalmer&middot; It's 3am. Suddenly the little beige fax machine springs into life. A few seconds later, out comes a hand-drawn plan from our man in Australia. Five hours later, I walk in the office, pick it up and read it in seconds. I do a couple of quick sketches, drop them and the 20 pages of timesheets I got this morning into the feed tray, punch in the number and nip off to make a cuppa. I do have an easy life, and a green one, too. My fax uses 5W; Mat Smith's computer, printer and scanner uses 200W.Ken GilmourLong EastonBeta than the alternative&ge;Software development ("Are you a dummy for beta software?", February 2) is indeed becoming more organic, without our realising it (or maybe it has been all along, but we've fought its natural state for business reasons - after all, selling upgrades is a lucrative business). Sure, you still have holdouts and beta logos all over the place, but the reality is this: software is a process. It's never really done. The longer we go on pretending that the vaunted one-dot-oh somehow indicates a sense of finality, security or stability, the harder time we're going to have convincing folks not in the geek world that there will always be bugs, that there are no right answers, and that, just like natural systems, we have to design for imperfection, frailty, accidents and irrational humans.http://factoryjoe.com/blogThe beauty of Bleep&ge;Bleep is a service I've admired in principle for ages: you pays your money, and you gets reasonable bitrate MP3s with no DRM. Until yesterday, though, I thought they dealt exclusively in "electronic listening music" as we used to call it at university. They appear to have extended their remit a little (At any rate, it's a bit of a rip-off, February 2).Some &pound;6.99 and 10 minutes later, I had clean MP3s of the Arctic Monkeys album and I expect I'll use Bleep again.www.hartnup.net/wordpress&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because it wasn't selling. No, wait! According to Dell spokesman Liem Nguyan, it was because Dell "saw an opportunity to streamline and consolidate our portfolio". That would be to streamline it from one with a non-selling MP3 player to one without a non-selling player, presumably.The decision to stop selling the player may be the final indication that the economies and tactics of the PC market - where different companies make the computer, the operating system and the software - really don't work in the consumer electronics space. At the launch of the Dell DJ, some observers said that this was the death knell for the iPod, because Dell would use its size and marketing muscle to squash the upstart, as it already sold so many more computers than Apple.Dell's retreat makes an interesting contrast with the optimism displayed at the launch in October 2003 by Donnie Oliphant, the DJ's senior product marketing manager, who said: "As we see it, the Digital Jukebox is a natural fit for our new focus on consumer electronics. With the usability and functionality of this device, it's a perfect complement to our pre-existing product lines."Well, Dell's not selling any of its computers from 2003, either. In fact, the withdrawal provides an insight into the headlock the iPod now has on the digital music player market, particularly in the US. According to researchers NPD Group, iPods made up 69% of all music players sold from January through November in the US, while Creative Technology, Sandisk and Samsung each sold less than 10%. That leaves just a few per cent of the market for Dell and everyone else, and given that the US market was probably about 40m players (or less), that would leave Dell scrapping for sales of 400,000 machines with every other MP3 maker - including itself, as it also sells a Flash memory-based player, the Dell Ditty.The Ditty will survive, for now. Nguyen said: "We made a decision to transition from the hard-drive products to Flash players at the beginning of this year." No word yet on whether the Dell online music store, launched at the same time as the Dell DJ, will survive, or for how long.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
An American friend told me last week that some of the hottest talk among venture capitalists was aboutRevver.com, a website enabling you to upload your videos in an easy way and get paid for them. How much you get depends on how many people click on adverts tagged to your submissions. The point is that you keep 50% of any ad revenue generated, with Revver taking the rest. That is a fair split and could open up a whole new world for content-makers.The revenue split sets it apart from dozens of video sites sprouting up in response to the exploding popularity of digital cameras (including those on phones) and the cut in the cost of storage space. I spotted a clumsily taken, five-second holiday video on my desktop of sea lapping on rocks. It took just over three minutes to upload, after which there was a chance to edit the text and insert tags (France, sun, sea, etc.). This is for the benefit of people searching through the multitude of videos on offer. Tags could also be crucial for attracting advertising revenue. You are given an option to decide if you don't want certain kinds of ads on your site (I said "No" to tobacco) before clicking an icon to make it public.I was impressed with the ease of doing this - although attempts to upload a much bigger file (56MB with a running time of 56 seconds) proved unsuccessful, whether using the standard uploading tool or a more specialised one on offer. Less than a minute after clicking the icon, the site had one view. Two days later it reached 40. That may not sound much but to me it is a world record: it is more views than any photos have had on myFlickr.comsite in months.I clicked on My Account and found that those 40 views of my five second video had earned me 80 cents. Not much, but it is the first time - eBay apart - that I have actually earned any money from the web. The future is just starting.Browsing around the site makes it clear that some people are starting to make real money. Looking beyond the mild porn that inevitably attaches itself to such websites (despite rules drawing boundaries), you can see the obvious potential. There are quite a few videos with more than 1,000, 2,000 and 3,000 views. A brief 16-second one about a martial arts demonstrator falling down registered more than 250,000 hits. If accurate, then on the basis of my experience (roughly a dollar for 100 hits), this meant a profit of more than $2,500 for the originator.Similar revenue-generating schemes are emerging for mobile phones. Mobile Marketing Magazine reports rumours that a service by 3 enabling punters to upload videos from their phones for 50p to a website - and get 1p every time they are downloaded - netted one girl &pound;1,300. In this instance the content was not as modest as the payment - but it does show the potential for harnessing creativity as long as controls over unacceptable content are in place.Although Revver's early videos are dominated by personal experiences, trailers and narcissism, it is easy to imagine other developments. Wannabe pop stars could trail their songs or put complete tracks on the web knowing they have a 50% revenue share. Sites such as this could spark a surge of made-for-web short films, and provide a bespoke payment system for citizen journalism. Instead of hawking video footage from events they have witnessed, video bloggers could post them on sites such as Revver and watch the money grow.Put this with the emerging payment systems for content from mobiles and the combination could be explosive. The key is to give content providers a decent revenue share. For too long, companies have been bragging that content is king while paying the providers a pittance. If Revver marks a staging post in recognition of their importance, then there is no limit to the new opportunities.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because they are trying to thwart spammers, and make a bit of cash on the side. The scheme will only affect organisations that regularly send large amounts of email, rather than the average person who sends a few to friends. And sending emails will remain free.The charging system, to be introduced in the next few months, introduces fees of between 0.25 and 1 US cent per message: it will ensure that the emails do not have to pass through spam filters and are guaranteed to arrive, with a graphic indicating they are authentic.The service, which will be run for the two companies by Goodmail, from Mountain View in California, is allegedly intended to provide protection against "phishing" emails that claim to come from banks and other online companies. Normal spam filters can strip out image attachments and weblinks used by spammers and phishers to infect PCs or take people to phishing websites. But there's no obligation on companies to use the service, which could prove confusing for users, who might not know whether particular companies have signed up to it.The chief executive of Goodmail, Richard Gingras, toldRedherring.comthat the floor price for protecting email is reasonable, since email marketers have told him they can earn on average about 22 cents for every message sent.But equally, with AOL and Yahoo having two of the largest email bases in the world, all three companies stand to become very rich if enough companies cough up. However, it does raise questions about the rise of a tiered internet in which some participants get favoured treatment. "That differs from the basic architecture of the internet from its inception, which treats all data in the same way," Jonathan Spira, chief analyst at Basex, an IT research firm, told Red Herring.Some spammers have optimistically tried to sign up with Goodmail. Gingras says they have been rebuffed.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I can't believe Google gives no results for "Internet Derived Lethargic Episode", because the search engine is a major cause of Idle. It is a particularly destructive illness where the victim, having spent days working at their computer, awakens to discover they can barely recall a single event, save a joke about the Lib Dems.Bombarded by stimuli, the victim ends up in a state of highly excited lethargy where any activity taking longer than 30 seconds is too tiring to tackle. The brain, fizzing with chemicals, produces an effect similar to a caffeine overdose but combined with dangerously high levels of pathos. Overfilled with trivia, the sufferer can often be found transfixed in front of his computer.Electronic doubt and pixelated anxiety drive some to self-harm - purchasing worthless articles of nostalgia from auction sites or entering into fruitless chatroom discussions.Doctors are concerned about the spate of otherwise normal adults presenting with an array of symptoms and emoticons, and have called for an independent commission into Idle. Many fear it is too little, too late."I receive over 3,000 headlines through RSS feeds every day," one man posted on a site dedicated to sufferers. Another spoke of how he hadn't correctly spelt the word "great" in two years.Matthew, 26, boasted of how he would know the details of a major news event minutes before his peers. "I used to have all the facts, plus a witty analysis on my blog before anyone had even heard of it." Now he cuts a forlorn figure in the Berners-Lee hospital in Waddington and can't even remember what the current version of Firefox is.Victims often don't realise they have the disease until it is too late, Idle specialist Professor John Trillian told me. Worst of all, it strikes hardest at those with creative minds. "Ginsberg wrote: 'I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness'," Trillian explains. "Now young minds are being destroyed by the ability to discover within seconds that fact, the date it was first said, where, and who Ginsberg was sleeping with at the time through a simple Google search. As a result, knowledge is built in a haphazard, disconnected fashion with no effort made to discover context. We are building a generation of cultural magpies."As if to explain, Trillian handed over a poem written by an Idle patient.The emails are not wanted now; delete every one,Pack up the Apache and dismantle the Sun,Tear up the superhighway and power down the net;For nothing online will ever give what you get."WH Auden would have flamed him," Trillian said gravely.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Joel Spolsky has probably saved a lot of people a lot of time by looking at some of the new online Web 2.0 calendar applications -- including 30 Boxes -- and finding that none of them meets his needs. He also has a believable theory about why so many are appearing now.He writes:My theory is that about a year ago, there was a lot of buzz (possibly true, possibly false) about Google shipping a calendar, and everybody thought, oh gosh, it's gonna be really good, like Gmail, and then Yahoo! is going to be embarrassed again, and run out and buy the best Ajax calendar company they can find, just like they did with Oddpost, making those very funny kids millionaires overnight. So people aren't really building calendars to sell to people like me who need calendars: they're building calendar companies to sell to Yahoo!But the whole idea of an online calendar is basically ridiculous, because the essence of the thing is that you need it with you, and you can't guarantee online access everywhere you go. Since around 1998, the best electronic solution has been to do your calendar in Microsoft Outlook and sync it with some form of portable device, and while I've done that, even I'm not convinced it's better than a paper diary. Often you just want to take your list of appointments and print it out -- and sometimes you mkight want to print from the online version.We had a number of online calendars that worked pretty wellfive years ago, but none of them got enough users to thrive or (often) survive, and my pick of the bunch,Visto, went paid-for, leaving Yahoo as the line of least resistance.If you want to do online calendaring better, there are three things you can do: (1) provide better sync with Outlook and with more types of device, plus make it easier to do; (2) offer good printing facilities from online calendars; and (3) improve the integration between the online calendar, conacts list, email, messaging and notes. (Yes, Yahoo, this means you!)Prettying it up with an Ajaxing/Web 2.0 interface will no doubt amuse the geeks who hardly ever leave their desks, but is of little or no practical benefit to the people who might actually use the thing.
Microsoft plans to use Halo 2 to sell Vista's new graphics capabilities when it's launched in time for Christmas. The Vista version will include the single-player campaign, the multiplayer version, the extra maps from the Halo 2 Multiplayer Map Pack, and the facility to create your own multiplayer levels. Halo 2 took a record $125 million on its first day of sale on the Xbox.Making it Vista-only will limit sales to people who buy new machines or are willing to shell out for Vista upgrades -- which may not matter much, since Halo wasn't exactly a hit on the PC. However, Halo 2 should provide a good illustration of Vista's graphics potential, and this may impress people who don't actually want to buy the game.
In a welcome break from tradition, Her Majesty's e-taxman did not make the wrong kind of headlines this year. HM Customs and Revenue has announced that a record number of people filed their annual self-assessment return electronically rather than on paper - and that the web systems coped with the last-minute rush to meet the deadline of January 31.According to the agency, just under 2 million taxpayers lodged their self- assessment returns online atwww.hmrc.gov.uk. This was 38% up on last year, and will amount to almost one quarter of all returns, David Varney, customs chairman, says. The exact proportion of returns filed electronically won't be known until the agency has counted its paper forms; 9.8m were sent out.At the peak in demand, on the days before the January 31 deadline, electronic tax returns were arriving at the rate of 8,700 per hour. The system coped - in sharp contrast to last year, when online filing had to be suspended after a last-minute surge in demand brought the website to a halt. That was only one of a series of mishaps to dog e-filing, one of the most important "e-government" services, in its first few years.Electronic tax filing was launched in April 2000, but for the first few years, only a handful of taxpayers could make it work. In 2002, 80,000 filed self-assessments online: four times as many tried and failed. At one stage that year, the service had to be withdrawn because a security breach allowed people to see other taxpayers' returns. In January last year, after major technical changes including a new prime IT contractor, the system was supposed to be up to industrial strength. It wasn't: when files started coming in at the rate of 4,800 an hour, the website ground to a complete halt.Personal numbersDespite this year's breakthrough, HM Revenue and its IT contractor Capgemini cannot yet relax. The British public's takeup of e-tax services is well behind that of Canada and some Nordic states. Meanwhile, another of the agency's e-services, online applications for tax credits, remains suspended following attempted (or possibly successful) fraud in which hundreds of people had their identity stolen and used to claim credits that were funnelled into other bank accounts.Building a critical mass of users is essential if e-government is to save money. Varney says the growth in popularity was due in part to new online services, which allow taxpayers to check their payment details and how much they owe as well as to file their returns. "Much effort has been put into promoting the benefits of online filing, and that's paid off."However, the UK still has some way to go. In Canada, more than 50% of the population file their returns online. Denmark and Sweden have achieved even higher rates. The trick seems to be to design the tax system so that as few people as possible need to interact with government. Denmark's "no touch" tax administration, atwww.skat.dk, was designed so that the vast majority of citizens, including the self-employed, just need to approve their tax return. The country introduced e-filing, originally by telephone, in 1994. Last year, two-thirds of "active filers" - the equivalents of self-assessors in Britain - filed electronically. In all, only 10% of all returns, 400,000, came in on paper.Britain will find it difficult to emulate this example. The Danish taxman has much better running records of who is getting paid by whom. Every citizen has a unique identification number that is used for employment, banking and tax purposes. In the UK, by contrast, personal identity numbers are a mess: the revenue does not even trust the national insurance number, on which employment and social security records are supposed to be based, for its own records.Government's inability to join up information about individuals was one reason why the self-assessment system was introduced in the first place, in 1997. Since then, officials have been struggling to simplify the system and reduce the need for people to calculate their own returns. However, they admit that much needs to be done before many people will be able to follow the Swedish example and approve their tax assessment by text message.In the meantime, HM Customs and Revenue has other IT priorities. One is to sort out the tax credits system, a benefits reform rushed through in 2003 with disastrous consequences. Last November, the government accepted &pound;71m in compensation from EDS, its IT contractor at the time. Treasury minister Dawn Primarolo claimed last week that the IT system is now on the mend. "A significant new software release was introduced without a hitch in November. Although largely invisible to people outside, this exercise delivers real improvements in operational performance," she told a parliamentary committee.However, one key part of the system is still out of action. Last November, the Treasury shut down a service to allow people to apply for tax credits online after investigators found evidence of organised fraud on the system, using stolen identities. It could not say when this e-government service - whose proper beneficiaries should be the needy - would be restored. Amid the success of tax filing, that remains a lingering sore.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's in rude health - but you might as well give up if you ever hope to be able to read everything about a given topic. Dave Sifry, head of Technorati, posted his quarterly report on the world of blogs and blogging earlier this week and revealed that his company tracks 27.2m blogs, which generate 1.2m new posts daily. "It is impossible to read everything that is relevant to an issue, and a new challenge has presented itself - how to find the most interesting and authoritative information," Sifry observes.There are 75,000 blogs created every day - one every second, every day - and 13.7m bloggers still posting three months after their blogs are created. The blogosphere is more than 60 times bigger than three years ago, and is doubling in size every 5.5 months, on average.Yet as everywhere on the net, the growth of a free resource brings problems - in this case spam blogs. About 9% of new blogs are spam or machine generated, Sifry reckons.But it is human events that occupy bloggers: the 7/7 bombings in London saw the highest number of human-generated postings for a sustained period, while Hurricane Katrina caused a sudden spike - abetted by huge volumes of spam.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I am disposing of my old computer and wish to permanently and securely delete information/data from my hard drive. Are there any programs you recommend? In any case, how does one destroy a hard drive should there be no other reasonable choice? A MaheraliYou can't really delete data from a hard drive. When you delete a file, the operating system just deletes the index reference to the file, so the file can often be recovered using an "undelete" program. To destroy the data, you need to overwrite the disk sectors with random data. Since the drive's read/write head may not always hit the same point on the disk platter, you need to overwrite the file sectors multiple times -- from seven to 35 times, depending on the importance of the data. There are lots of free programs that will do this: search Google for [hard drive eraser]. At the moment, I'm recommending Darik Horn's DBAN (Darik's Boot and Nuke). This uses a tiny Linux, so you can boot from a floppy and wipe any size hard disk without using the operating system(s) installed. There is also a Mac version. DBAN is used by the US National Nuclear Security Administration, it's open source, and it's free fromhttp://dban.sourceforge.net/.For even better security, remove the hard drive and wipe it with adegaussing machineas used by organisations such as the USA's National Security Agency. For ultimate security, put the disk platters in a bath of hydrochloric or sulphuric acid until the magnetic coating is eaten away (seehttp://www.whitedust.net/view.php?PageID=7).
My wife has subscribed toSibelius Music's serviceand thinks it is wonderful. The only difficulty is that her computer is not where she wants the music most of the time. We could extend the speaker cables but that would be messy and inconvenient. Graeme O ChurchardThe simplest option would be to buy wireless speakers, or even wireless headphones. These come with a wireless transmitter that should plug into the PC sound output via a 3.5mm jack. Searching for "wireless speakers" (athttp://www.buycentral.co.uk/qsh/wireless+speakers.html) finds a number of products such asCGV's wireless speakersand theRimax Wireless Speakers. Both are available from several sources, so shop around. I have not heard any of these products and cannot comment on the sound quality, but perhaps readers can.Correction:Sorry, the original said "3.5in jack"!
My son has downloaded eMule. What exactly does it do? Is it safe and legal? John Le VayeMule is a popular file-sharing client: seehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EMulefor details. It uses a credit system that forces people to share (upload) files, not just download them. It is legal to use eMule, but it can be used to share copyright music, TV shows and movies, which isn't legal. Uploaders are more likely to be sued than downloaders, and some eMule/eDonkey users have been sued, but millions of people still use it.
