Tiny flying robots to help you clean, a washing machine that uses dry ice  to save water and an insect farm for crunchy treats: scientists are developing them all
Superman is the most likely superhero to inadvertently lure users to be hacked in as little as one click, claims security company McAfee.The Man of Steel tops the list of “most toxic superheroes” for 2014, closely followed by Marvel’s Thor and DC’s Wonder Woman.“While searching for your favourite superheroes online might seem innocent at the time, we need to remember that cyber criminals take advantage of their popularity to target unsuspecting consumers seeking more information,” Raj Samani, chief technical officer for McAfee said in a statement. “These criminals want to lure us into unsafe sites that can severely infect computers and devices, and steal personal data.”McAfee found that searching for “Superman”, “Superman free torrent download”, “Superman watch”, “Superman free app”, or “Superman online” were the most likely superhero searches to land users on a site that could infect their computer with spyware, viruses or other malware, or attempted to steal user data.Top 10 ‘toxic’ superheroesSuperman, 16.50%Thor, 16.35%Wonder Woman + Aquaman (tie) 15.70%Wolverine, 15.10%Spiderman, 14.70%Batman, 14.20%Black Widow, 13.85%Captain America, 13.50%Green Lantern, 11.25%Ghost Rider, 10.83%Superman’s profile was raised by the recent movies, while Thor’s movies and his involvement in the Marvel’s Avengers film made them attractive targets for criminals hoping to capture unsuspecting users. Wonder Woman and Aquaman are the only outliers here.The super-powered heroine had aTV show in the 1970sand apilot for a reboot in 2011, which did not lead to a new show. She is expected to appear in the upcomingBatman v Superman film, which is not scheduled for release until 2016, while Wonder Woman might have her own movie at some stage.Aquaman on the other hand had aTV movie in 2006, and is also expected to make some sort of appearance in the new Superman movie alongside Wonder Woman. Why that makes them targets for cybercriminals is unclear.No such thing as a free lunchUsers searching for pirated content are frequent targets of online criminals. Superheroes have become big business as Hollywood, games developers and TV producers have taken them in and turned them into multi-million dollar franchises.The advice to users is simple. Be careful what you click on, check the web address of links before following them and when somewhere offers something that’s usefully expensive for free it’s normally too good to be true.•How to protect yourself from phising online
More than 10 million people have downloaded Paper, an inventive design app developed by US startup FiftyThree. Now the company is launching its companion accessory,Pencil, in Europe.The device – a sleek stylus that comes in a choice of walnut or graphite versions – was released in the US in November 2013, but will now also be available in the UK, France and Germany through a distribution deal with Amazon.The stylus can be used to scribble on the iPad&apos;s touchscreen when using Paper, but also flipped upside down to be used as a digital rubber – the app recognises which end of the device is touching the screen and reacts accordingly.Paper can also tell the difference between the Pencil stylus and the hand of the person using it, to ensure they can rest their hand on the screen while drawing without creating palm-sized smudges.FiftyThree has not said how many Pencils it has sold in the US, although it claims customers include entrepreneurs, fashion designers, teachers and filmmakers. The device will cost £49.99 and £64.99 – graphite is the pricier model – in the UK.&quot;To date, over 100m designs have been made in Paper and the app has over 10m downloads,&quot; said FiftyThree&apos;s chief executive Georg Petschnigg. &quot;We think anyone can be creative, and for us, Pencil is the most accessible and expressive accessory for this.&quot;A useful tool for tablet scribblers of all stripes, or an expensive novelty that can only be used with one app? Pencil is likely to divide opinion.FiftyThree at least has an answer to the one-app criticism: the device can be used as a regular stylus with other apps, while the company is working on partnerships for deeper integration with apps from other developers.The company is backed by$15m of funding raised in June 2013, which it said at the time would fuel its expansion &quot;beyond touch and into the physical world of accessories&quot;. Pencil was the first of those.&quot;We&apos;re not trying to build a better finger: touch is great, and there is no tool better than the human hand. But there are things that tools can do to complement the human hand,&quot;FiftyThree&apos;s hardware design boss Jonathan Harris told The Guardianin November 2013.There are legitimate questions around whether Paper&apos;s momentum has slowed, though. Launched for iPad in March 2012, it notched up 8m downloads by June 2013, but according to FiftyThree&apos;s latest stats, has only added another 2m in the year since then, taking it to 10m overall.•Paper meet Pencil: FiftyThree launches smart stylus
Users should use and reuse weak passwords for websites which don&apos;t hold valuable information, say researchers from Microsoft, overturning decades of accumulated wisdom on internet security.By not having to worry about remembering complex unique passwords for every individual website, users can focus their efforts on recalling secure passwords for high-value sites like banking or e-commerce.What&apos;s more, the researchers, Dinei Florêncio and Cormac Herley from the Redmond-based software company and Paul C van Oorschot from Carelton University in Canada, argue that password managers introduce more problems than they solve. While they allow the use of fully random, completely unique passwords, they also introduce a single point of failure: users can lose or forget the password to their password manager, or the cloud service that hosts their passwords could be hacked.&quot;Strategies to cope with the human impossibility of using strong passwords everywhere without re-use include single-sign-on, use of email-based password reset mechanisms, and password managers,&quot;they write. If the password manager stores passwords on a users&apos; machine, &quot;the main risk is still … attacks like client-side malware [but] the cost … is that portability across different client devices is lost as the passwords (if they are unique and random) are effectively anchored to the client on which they are stored.&quot;Once users start storing passwords in the cloud, though, they trade &quot;one set of risks for another&quot;. On the one hand, any single password being stolen is less dangerous. But &quot;it introduces severe new risks: if the master password is guessed or used on any malware-infected client, or the cloud store is compromised, then all credentials are lost.&quot;So what should users do instead? The study argues that users should pick and re-use easy-to-remember passwords for &quot;low-risk&quot; sites, in order to maximise their ability to recall complex unique passwords for high-risk ones. &quot;Optimally, marginal return on effort is inversely proportional to account values … Far from optimal outcomes will result if accounts are grouped arbitrarily.&quot; In other words, free up space in your brain to make your banking password as complex as you can recall by using your pets&apos; name for all the things you don&apos;t care about losing.It&apos;s enough to make users want to give up on passwords entirely, as the Wall Street Journal&apos;s Christopher Mims did whenhe shared his Twitter password in his weekly column. Mims relied on the power of two-factor authentication, which sends a text message to his phone with a special login code, to keep his account safe, writing that &quot;it might seem foolish to replace an authentication token that you keep in your head (a password) with one you keep in your pocket (like a phone) but consider: The former can be obtained by hackers, and the latter you can shut down the moment it goes missing.&quot;Hundreds of attempts later, and his account was still secure –although Twitter had revealed his mobile number to every user who attempted to log in. But yet more research from Herley and van Oorschot, in conjunction with Cambridge&apos;s Joseph Bonneau and Frank Stajano, shows that even if Twitter hadn&apos;t made that error,the quest to replace passwords is far from complete.Only one possible password replacement – the chip and pin readers common on banking websites – scored full marks on the researchers&apos; security test, and nothing was as easy-to-deploy as passwords. No single system beats passwords on every metric the researchers looked at, although most were more secure. &quot;Marginal gains,&quot; they conclude, &quot;are often not sufficient to reach the activation energy necessary to overcome signiﬁcant transition costs, which may provide the best explanation of why we are likely to live considerably longer before seeing the funeral procession for passwords arrive at the cemetery.&quot;•Ebay urges users to reset passwords after cyberattack
Google has reversed a policy that forced users of Google+ to use their real names, allowing anonymous commenting to recommence on YouTube after an eight-month hiatus.The search giant’s social network, Google+, required users to register and use a proper name for their accounts, although the company did not verify the name given was a user’s real name.In an attempt to improve the notoriously poor quality comments on most YouTube videos,Google migrated YouTube comments to a Google+powered system bringing with it the real name restrictions of the social network in November 2013.&apos;We apologise&apos;“We know that our names policy has been unclear, and this has led to some unnecessarily difficult experiences for some of our users. For this we apologise,” saidGoogle in a poston its primary Google+ page.Although going some way to reduce the number of poisonous comments, the real-name restrictions forced on to YouTube commenters were unpopular. Other comment systems that use Facebook for instance, post under the user’s real name as it is on Facebook.Google explained that the real name policy on Google+ was critical to building a community. Google+ now has 343 million monthly active user accounts, according to datapresented by Statista. Facebook, the largest social network has over 1.28 billion users, while Twitter has around 255 million monthly users.&apos;There are no more restrictions on what name you can use&apos;“Over the years, as Google+ grew and its community became established, we steadily opened up this policy, from allowing +Page owners to use any name of their choosing to letting YouTube users bring their usernames into Google+,” said the company. “Today, we are taking the last step: there are no more restrictions on what name you can use.”Despite Google’s claims of no restrictions, there are a few criteria for a name that must be followed. Profile names must have a first and last name, but one of them could be an initial, they cannot impersonate another person, and names can only be changed a limited number of times.Google also blocks the use of swear words and other terms that violate Google’s terms of service.•Google fights back against YouTube comment spam, cracking down on bad links, impersonation and ASCII art
Google’s driverless car may remain a prototype, but the FBI believes the “game changing” vehicle could revolutionise high-speed car chases within a matter of years. The report also warned that autonomous cars may be used as &quot;lethal weapons&quot;.In an unclassified but restricted report obtained by the Guardian under a public records request, the FBI predicts that autonomous cars “will have a high impact on transforming what both law enforcement and its adversaries can operationally do with a car.”In a section called Multitasking, the report notes that “bad actors will be able to conduct tasks that require use of both hands or taking one’s eyes off the road which would be impossible today.”One nightmare scenario could be suspects shooting at pursuers from getaway cars that are driving themselves.Self-driving cars use lidar (laser ranging), radar, video cameras and GPS technology to build up a digital 3D map of their surroundings, including buildings, roads, pedestrians and other vehicles. The cars can then be programmed to navigate safely to a destination while avoiding obstacles and (usually) obeying the rules of the road.The report, written by agents in the Strategic Issues Group within theFBI’s Directorate of Intelligence, says, “Autonomy … will make mobility more efficient, but will also open up greater possibilities for dual-use applications and ways for a car to be more of a potential lethal weapon that it is today.”This presumably reflects fears that criminals might override safety features to ignore traffic lights and speed limits, or that terrorists might program explosive-packed cars to become self-driving bombs.It directly contradicts the message that many developers of self-driving vehicles are trying to communicate: that these cars – immune from road rage, tiredness and carelessness – can be even safer than human operators.Google says of its latest driverless vehicles: “They’ll be designed to operate safely and autonomously without requiring human intervention. Our software and sensors do all the work. The vehicles will be very basic but they will take you where you want to go at the push of a button.”The FBI expects that fully autonomous vehicles will help to reduce the high number of accidents in which first responders are involved. “The risk that distraction or poor judgement leading to collision that stems from manual operation would be substantially reduced,” according to its report.In the US,about 80 people die every year in crashes involving emergency vehicles, while London’s Metropolitan police cars have experienced as many as a dozen traffic accidents a day.The report says that self-driving cars can &quot;optimise&quot; three-point turns and similar awkward manoeuvres that might otherwise delay responders pursuing a suspect or heading for a crime scene.The FBI also claims that tailing suspects will be much simpler with the next generation of robot cars. “Surveillance will be made more effective and easier, with less of a chance that a patrol car will lose sight of a target vehicle,” says the report.“In addition, algorithms can control the distance that the patrol car is behind the target to avoid detection or intentionally have a patrol car make opposite turns at intersections, yet successfully meet up at later points with the target.”The FBI believes that autonomous cars could be approved by Congress for use by the American public within the next five to seven years.Sounding one note of caution, however, it admits in the report that “autonomous cars would likely face many hardships with evasive driving or car chases.” Sensible words. Google’s current state-of-the-art vehicle is limited to just 25mph.•Google&apos;s driverless car: no steering wheel, two seats, 25mph
BlackBerry&apos;s latest comeback efforts under new chief executive John Chen have included the willingness to take public potshots at rivals through the company&apos;s official blogs. But now it may have met its match.Toby Weir-Jones, chief executive of SGP Technologies, maker of the security-focused Blackphone smartphone, has responded sharply to aBlackBerry blog postcriticising the device as &quot;inadequate for businesses&quot;.The article, published on 14 July by BlackBerry&apos;s content strategy marketing manager, Joe McGarvey, also described the Blackphone, which went on sale in late June, as only &quot;purportedly secure&quot;.&quot;When it comes to protecting corporate information and end user privacy, meeting compliance requirements and expanding the productivity of your mobile workforce, the similarities we share with Blackphone end with the name,&quot; he wrote.It only took a day for Weir-Jones tohit back with his own blog post on Medium, which pulled no punches in defending his company&apos;s first product, and criticising BlackBerry in return.&quot;Nowadays, the only thing sustaining them is the inertia of their remaining enterprise and government customers, but that too will eventually come to rest while we and others continue to win over those accounts,&quot; wrote Weir-Jones.He took aim at the past willingness company – under its original name of Research In Motion – to &quot;compromise its integrity&quot; when pressured by governments in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and India.&quot;That, along with the restrictive platform architecture, lack of widespread adoption by third parties, and shifting priorities among large enterprise customers, all closed the book on RIM, and the precipitous decline in its fortunes — well-documented by the press — began.&quot;Weir-Jones then delivered a lengthy rebuttal of BlackBerry&apos;s specific criticism that Blackphone – which costs $629 and enables owners to make encrypted phone calls, send encrypted texts and browse the web anonymously – isn&apos;t fit for businesses.As technology spats go, it&apos;s entertaining, but illustrates a wider point: BlackBerry&apos;s future is strongly tied to the quality of its security technology and the trust put in its policies by customers, as much as the qualities of individual handsets.It&apos;s no surprise to find the company going on the offensive against new competitors like the Blackphone, but there are risks to BlackBerry&apos;s reputation too, if they come back with arguments that sow more doubt in the minds of its customers.•Is the Blackphone the ultimate mobile for privacy?
Dropbox has partnered with Deutsche Telekom (DT) in a deal that will see the file-storing and sharing service preloaded on the smartphones of European consumers.Announcingthe deal on Wednesday, Dropbox&apos;s vice president, Marc Leibowitz, said the company considered the world&apos;s entire online population of 3 billion people to be its potential audience, and said that similar partnerships with other operators were forthcoming.The deal with Deutsche Telekom is a significant step into Europe with a key operators, yet Leibowitz added that while several countries in central and eastern Europe would be covered by the deal, its home market of Germany is not included.&quot;Deutsche Telekom is the first of many partnerships,&quot; Leibowitz told the Guardian. &quot;DT is making a big jump in testing this with us, and testing with their own users.&quot;Dropbox said it expects the deal will reach millions of DT subscribers in Europe when it rolls out on customers&apos; Android handsets in October, as well as promoting Dropbox to existing Dropbox customers on Android and iOS devices.Germany has notoriously strict legislation around data protection. Documents revealed byEdward Snowden in 2013showed that in 2013, the NSA stated Dropbox was &quot;coming soon&quot; to the Prism surveillance scheme, and in April 2014 the appointment of the former US secretary of state Condolezza Rice to the Dropbox boardcaused controversyamong users.In early July, Deutsche Telekom opened a large, specialist,high-security data centretwo hours from Berlin and is promoting its high standards of data protection.&quot;Drew [Houston, CEO] has been outspoken on this from the beginning - privacy and trust are the most important attributes for him and that&apos;s part of the reason we were awarded the highest rating ofsix starsby the Electronic Frontier Foundation,&quot; said Leibowitz. &quot;We have invested heavily in physical security and we&apos;re happy with our record.&quot;Leibowitz joined Dropbox from Google in 2013. He said the company has grown 200% in 18 months to 300 million users, and that 97% of Fortune 500 companies now use the service.Leibowitz said there was a symbiosis between Dropbox&apos;s services for consumers and for business and that it is investing heavily in both.He dismissed the concern that Amazon&apos;s rival Zocalo service was a threat.&quot;The market is enormous and we&apos;re happy with the progress that we&apos;ve made so far. We don&apos;t think about what everyone else is doing. We&apos;re just focused on that market of 3 billion people.&quot;What keeps those at Dropbox up at night, he said, is how to bridge the gap between confident tech consumers and the mainstream.&quot;That&apos;s the pea under our mattress. Dropbox is already ridiculously intuitive – and that&apos;s not easy for something as complex under the hood as Dropbox has to be – but we&apos;ve done a good job reaching 300 million people in a way that speaks to them,&quot; he said.&quot;We hire the brightest people and invest in people and in the platform. We deal with an absurd amount of data, so the challenge is how to make the service appear simple to use.&quot;•Dropbox joins tech giants in quest to publish government user data requests
Sony has a cunning master plan to bolster sales of its PlayStation 4 console.Andrew House, head of Sony Computer Entertainment, hastold Eurogamerthat the company will update and re-release classic PlayStation titles, in an attempt to attract gamers who bought a Wii in the last generation instead of a PS3.&quot;I hesitate to say this because I know committed gamers may roll their eyes about it,&quot; said House. &quot;But there&apos;s an opportunity with some of the remastering or re-imagining from PS3 franchises that will potentially find an audience that hasn&apos;t played them in the previous generation because they skipped that generation.&quot;PlayStation 4 has already proved a success with early adopters, shifting more than 7m units since its launch in November. The sales have even bettered the early performance of the PlayStation 2, which went on to sell over 150m units.So far, however, new and exclusive PlayStation 4 titles have been few and far between – the console has relied on &quot;cross-generational&quot; multiplatform hits like Fifa 14, Battlefield 4 and Assassin&apos;s Creed IV, which also released on the last generation of machines. The most exciting forthomcing title is arguably the re-mastered edition of The Last of Us, the hit PS3 game. There is also much anticipation around an updated version of Grand Theft Auto V coming out this autumn.There have already been rumours that Sony is about to re-launch its stealth action series Syphon Filter, a favourite from the PlayStation 1 and 2 era.Speculation also surroundsthe possibility of a return for platforming her, Crash Bandicoot, which would perhaps appeal most directly to the Wii demographic.For House, though, it seems there&apos;s a wider inititaive here beyond attempting to court lapsed Nintendo fans who have not moved on to the under-supported Wii U machine.&quot;I&apos;ve always looked with envy at the movie industry about what a great job they&apos;re able to do with taking content and making it work,&quot; House told Eurogamer. &quot;Disney is the best example of this, right, of taking classic content and reintroducing it to audiences over time.&quot;We as an industry haven&apos;t done that historically. We&apos;re only just getting into our stride with people who now have been playing for 10, 20 years, who have a nostalgia factor, who want to see those franchises come back and be reinvented.&quot;Of course, Sony is far from alone in its attempt to cash in on the nostalgia of mature gamers. One of Microsoft&apos;s biggest announcements at this year&apos;s giant E3 exhibition was the Halo Master Chief Collection,a collection of four previous Halo titlesfor Xbox One. And Nintendo, which trades almost exclusively in the re-invention of classic series&apos; has been steadily working through updates of its greatest Legend of Zelda titles.With the rise of digital games distribution, in which titles are downloaded directly to PC and console, the games industry may eventually adopt the movie and music business tactics of focusing boxed goods releases on special editions and remasters.Even in the foreward-looking video games sector, nostalgia always sells.Which classic PlayStation 1, 2 or 3 titles do you think should be remastered for PS4? Let us know in the comments section.•PlayStation and Xbox bosses discuss the future: &apos;We made the right call&apos;•E3 2014: hands-on with the key PlayStation 4 titles•E3 2014: Sony hits with Uncharted 4, GTA 5 and Grim Fandango
Dating app Tinder is suffering from an &quot;influx of spam bots and fake profiles&quot; according to online security firm Symantec, which haspublished a reportidentifying three different examples.The app has built a large audience of single people browsing one another&apos;s profiles, then swiping them right to indicate interest, or left to reject. The problem is that some of those profiles aren&apos;t what they seem.The report suggests that adult webcam spammers continue to operate on Tinder: bots that engage people in conversation, then try to persuade them to click on links to webcam sites.The second type of Tinder spammer is also a bot, but this time one that tries to direct people to mobile games and adult websites.A campaign to drive downloads of a game called Castle Clash wasexposed by technology site TechCrunchin April, but Symantec says the script behind it has since been repurposed to promote a website called Slut Roulette.However, the report claims that the &quot;overwhelming majority&quot; of Tinder spam is now fake prostitution profiles: images of women with overlaid text giving details of services and rates, as well as website addresses.&quot;If a user manually inputs one of the URLs listed on the image overlay into their address bar and visits the site, they will be redirected to an explicit personals website for casual dating and hookups,&quot; explained security response manager Satnam Narang.The report notes that all three kinds of Tinder spam are hoping to make money from affiliate fees if people download the games or sign up to the adult websites that they are directed to.&quot;Some of the sites pay $6.00 per lead for a successful sign-up and up to $60 if a lead becomes a premium member,&quot; wrote Narang, citing one campaign for a website called Blamcams that generated nearly half a million clicks across seven separate URLs.&quot;Depending on the offers given by the affiliate program and the number of successful conversions of leads, this particular spammer likely earned quite a bit of money.&quot;Symantec is advising Tinder users to report fake profiles to Tinder, in order to help the company clean up its network.Tinder has faced scrutiny from the security industry before. In February, the company wascriticised by Inside Security for its sluggishness in fixing a flawthat enabled hackers to identify the location of individual Tinder users to within 100 feet.Tinder is owned by internet giant IAC/InterActiveCorp, which also owns dating sites Match.com and OKCupid. Both IAC and Tinder are currentlyfacing a sexual harassment lawsuitfrom former Tinder executive Whitney Wolfe.•The Tinder effect: psychology of dating in the technosexual era
Brutal. Uncompromising. Hardcore. These are the words most commonly used to describe DayZ, Bohemia Interactive’s open-world zombie survival sim. Already downloaded over two million times via PC gaming service Steam, this is a game that makes everything difficult for the player, and where death is permanent.There’s no hand-holding, no tutorial, and no over-arching mission. You spawn into the fictitious Eastern European state of Chernarus, site of a devastating zombie outbreak, then you survive for as long as possible – either with friends or alone. Whichever you choose, the odds are stacked mercilessly against you.Newcomers are given short shrift, but with this guide, and some patience, you’ll be able to conquer the near-vertical learning curve and start having fun with one of the most compelling and unique multiplayer experiences on PC.The beginningThe coast is the most populated and therefore the most dangerous part of the map – especially for new players. Get out of there fastWhen you start a new life, you spawn randomly along the coast of Chernarus. All you have to survive is a flashlight and a battery. Your first port of call should be a town. There’s always one nearby; just follow the nearest road or railway. When you get there you need to prioritise food, drink, a backpack, and a melee weapon. Forget about crowbars, fire extinguishers, and other blunt weapons, as they do very little damage. Find an axe – either a red firefighter axe, or a wood-handled splitting axe. They’ll both take a zombie down with one clean swing to the head and deal significant damage to another player if you’re forced to defend yourself.If you enter a town and all the doors are open, chances are the place has already been cleaned out by other survivors. But it’s still worth looking. If a veteran player comes through town they’ll leave a lot of items that are useless to them, but valuable to you at this early stage. If there’s nothing to be found, try the next town. If you’re lucky, the server you’re on will have recently reset, which refreshes all the loot drops on the map. With a backpack containing something to eat and drink and an axe, you’re ready to head inland.Finding your friendsDiscovering where friends have spawned will be frustrating at first, but as you become more familiar with the map it gets much easierYou can play DayZ as a lone wolf, but it’s a totally different – and in many ways better – experience with a group of friends. The problem is, there’s no in-game contacts list or ability to teleport to another player. Instead, you’re going to have to do some orienteering. First, set up a voice call with Skype, or use a program like TeamSpeak or Ventrilo, to talk to the player(s) you’re trying to meet up with. Then get everyone to locate the nearest town to where they spawned and find out its name. Every group of buildings, whether it’s a sprawling city or a remote village, will have a sign on the road running through it telling you what its name is.Once you’ve figured out the name of the town, pull up a map of Chernarus in your Steam overlay’s web browser (try dayzdb.com/map) and use it to pinpoint your location. Since everyone will have spawned on the coast, you can now use the water to guide you towards your buddies. If you’ve spawned at, say, Kamyshovo on the south coast and your friend is in Nizhnoye on the east coast, run along the coastal road with the ocean to your right and you’ll bump into them. If your spawn has placed you miles apart, commit suicide by throwing yourself off a building and hope for a better one.NavigationDon’t heard too far north or west, though. Chernarus is big, but it does have boundaries. You’ll know when you’re heading outside of the map when the environment shifts to flat, grassy plain. Head back the way you came and look for signs of civilisation.Because of the DayZ engine’s roots in hardcore military simulator Arma, there are a number of realistic ways to find your way around Chernarus. At night, as in real life, you can use the pole star to find out where north is. Look for the Big Dipper constellation (you might know it as the Plough) and draw an imaginary line from the bottom two stars up till you see one that’s brighter than the others. Head in that direction and you’ll be moving north. Another way to figure out which direction you’re going in is to look at where the clouds are moving, because, handily, the wind in Chernarus always blows east. Electricity pylons are also useful; they’ll always connect up with towns. Combine these methods with a map and town signs and you’ll never get lost again.Of course, you won’t have to worry about any of this if you find a compass, which is a fairly common loot drop. To use it, drag it to your toolbar, equip it, then press space and enter first-person mode to see the dial. Be careful, though: if the compass is ‘ruined’ (hover over it in your inventory to find out) the reading will be inaccurate and you’ll get even more lost than before.Thirst and hungerYou'll be eating a lot of canned food in the game, unless you forage for fresh stuff. Canina berries are red and will restore hunger and health, but in very small increments.Keeping fed and hydrated is an important part of staying alive in DayZ. It’s easy to forget about it when you’re exploring, dodging other players, or hunting for weapons. When your hydration levels fall to zero, you’ll start losing blood and health and eventually die. Same goes for your hunger. As well as not drinking, eating dry food like cereal or rice will make you thirsty. The best way to keep hydrated is to find a water pump. Most towns have one, and you can middle-click on it repeatedly to fill your belly up with water. Not too much, though, otherwise you’ll puke and both your hunger and thirst will be reset. Alternatively, try canned drinks or water from fresh sources like streams and ponds.As for food, you can eat anything from canned beans to powdered milk, but don’t consume any rotten fruit or you’ll contract food poisoning. If this happens, use charcoal tablets to settle your stomach. Berries are a new addition to the DayZ standalone, and can be foraged from bushes in the wilderness by middle-clicking next to them, although their nutritional value is low. Whatever you do, don’t eat the blue sambucus berries. They’re poisonous and will make you sick.BleedingYou’ll know you're injured when cartoon-like spurts of blood start to squirt from your body and the colour drains from the screen. Now the search is one for a health pack or bandage. Falling can also cause bleeding, as well as breaking your legs. You’ll need a morphine auto-injector to recover from this.If a zombie hits you, or another player shoots or strikes you with a melee weapon, chances are you’ll start bleeding. A bandage is required to stop the flow, but if you don’t have any on you, remove your t-shirt, right click to tear it into rags, then use the rags to patch up the wound. If you’re close to death, the world around you will turn almost entirely monochrome and you’ll need to get a blood transfusion from another player.To create a blood bag you’ll need the following: a blood bag kit, an IV start kit, a blood testing kit, and someone to extract blood from, which could either be a friend who’s volunteered to give up their blood, or someone you’ve kidnapped with handcuffs if you’re particularly cruel. The blood test kit is important, because if you accept a transfusion from someone of the wrong blood type, you’ll fall unconscious and eventually die. Use the testing kit beforehand to make sure you’re compatible. Drag the items together to create the blood bag, then the donor will have to ‘use’ it on the player to begin the procedure. Saline bags, which spawn as loot, also work, but they only restore half of what a blood bag does.Avoiding dangerLook for clothes that are green, brown, or black and you’ll be almost impossible to spot while hidden in foliage from a distance. If you have a large backpack, put your axe inside rather than on your back to reduce the size of your silhouette.Another benefit of DayZ’s background as a military sim is camouflage. Staying hidden is vital when moving around the map, as players who run around in the open will become targets for bandits, thieves, and other mischief makers. Stick to trees and bushes at all times, and make sure you’re wearing colours that will blend in. That fluorescent orange raincoat might have more pockets than your old t-shirt, but you might as well wear a target on your forehead.Get to know the map as well. There are areas where encountering other players is almost certain, which dramatically increases your chances of being shot or robbed. Some danger areas new players should avoid include the city of Elektrozavodsk on the south coast, the north-west and north-east military airfields, and the Balota airstrip. The rarest loot spawns here – weapons, military gear, ammunition – so they naturally draw the attention of players looking to cause trouble. If someone sees you at one of these locations, they’ll probably shoot you on sight. But you will want to head here eventually once you’ve learned the ropes to get your hands on some quality gear of your own.Other survivorsMix your military gear with regular civilian clothes like plaid shirts and cowboy hats, and keep your face uncovered. Some will still kill on sight regardless, but you’re less likely to scare people if you look like a regular person.One of the most tense and nerve-wracking moments in DayZ is running into another player – or worse, a group of them. While a frustrating amount of players will simply shoot you on sight, mostly out of fear that you’ll do the same to them, some won’t, and you might find people to team up with. If you see someone, lower your gun and press F1 to wave. Or try the famous ‘wiggle’ by pressing F2 to put your hands up and alternately tapping Q and E. Playing with a microphone is advised, as a human voice will often put people at ease. Hold the caps lock key to talk in-game, but bear in mind that your voice will be broadcast to anyone else who happens to be in the vicinity of your character.The clothes you wear could also save your life. If you approach someone clad head to toe in green camo, wearing a gas mask, and cradling an M4, they’ll probably think you’re going to rob them. This is the unofficial uniform of the troublemaker.Always be wary of other players. Someone might say they’re friendly, but they could be leading you into an ambush or waiting for the right moment to bludgeon you unconscious and steal your stuff.The golden survival rule of DayZ is a simple one: trust no one.DayZ is available for £20 on PC via Steam. The game is currently in the site&apos;s &quot;early access&quot; area, which means it is not yet finished and is being continually updated•Would DayZ benefit from a touch of humanity?•DayZ hits 1m downloads one year before launch
Educational technology firm LeapFrog is launching a games console aimed at children, promising an emphasis on learning and physical activity alongside gaming.TheLeapTVwill go on sale in October, aimed at 3-8 year-olds. LeapFrog says it will have more than 100 games and videos available at launch, with plans to sell physical game cartridges as well as digital downloads.The new device, which will cost £119.99 in the UK, will compete with consoles like Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4, Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One and Nintendo&apos;s Wii-U, but also with tablets from Apple, Samsung, Amazon and other manufacturers, which are increasingly popular with children.LeapFrog makes tablets too – its LeapPad device is in its third incarnation – but the LeapTV represents an ambitious expansion of its business.The new console will ship with a motion-sensing controller that doubles as an LED pointer, as well as a Kinect-style motion-sensing camera to detect children&apos;s movements while playing.LeapFrog has not yet announced details of the developers and brands who&apos;ll be making games for the LeapTV.Brands including Disney, Ben 10, Barbie, Turbo, Moshi Monsters, Sesame Street and Transformers have released learning games for its tablets, while itscatalogue of educational videosincludes material from Discovery, Disney, Peppa Pig, Sesame Street and Thomas &amp; Friends.&quot;It is shocking that less than one percent of the tens of thousands of video game titles are rated appropriate for children under the age of six years,&quot; said Dr. Jody Sherman LeVos, director of LeapFrog&apos;s learning team, in a statement.&quot;We know that young children want to experience new ways to play through technology earlier than ever, but parents quickly discover that there are very few solutions that are developmentally appropriate or educational for young children.&quot;The LeapTV&apos;s launch will follow the release ofLeapBand, LeapFrog&apos;s new activity-tracking device for children in August. Inspired by Fitbit and other adult fitness-trackers, the device aims to encourage children to be more active by translating their steps into points to be spent on a virtual pet.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children&apos;s media
Fumbling for words in a foreign language? We have the answer.1 Google is splashing its cashGoogle's free online Translate service has been a popular tool, but the company has grander ambitions. In May, it bought Quest Visual, which makes the clever Word Lens app. That involves pointing your smartphone's camera at signs in the real world for instant translations. The technology is to be incorporated intoGoogle Translate.2 Other apps are availableWord Lens isn't the only visual translation app in town.Waygois anotherpopular example for iPhone and Android, capable of recognising and translating Chinese and Japanese menus and signs – again by pointing a smartphone camera. The company behind it says it's working on more languages for the future: "We believe everyone should be able to confidently travel anywhere in the world without language barriers," said its CEO, Ryan Rogowski.3 Translation in your eyesVisual translation is also moving to wearable devices such as Google Glass. Word Lens launched for Glass last November and involves holding your head still while looking at a sign, then saying: "OK Glass, translate this." It's not the only such app available:UniSpeech for Google Glassalso offers similar features.4 There is more to translation technology than visualsMicrosoft, for example, has shown off an app, Skype Translator, which provides translations as people speak to one another in different languages. It will launch for Windows 8 devices later this year and has been compared to the Universal Translator gadget inStar Trek.5 eBay also wants inThe online shopping giant is also very interested in "machine translation" – in its case, to automatically translate listing details on its websites and apps. In June it bought a startup calledAppTek, which specialises in this area. eBay has also said it's interested in making more tools using translation: for example, instant messaging software for sellers and potential buyers to chat about a product even if they don't speak the same language.6 Even Twitter wants to translate  for youIt has addedBing Translate– a feature powered by Microsoft's technology – to translate tweets from different languages. Users who have the feature on the iPhone Twitter app can tap on tweets to see a translation – for example from Spanish to English.7 You've got mail … and it might be translatedeBay might be working on translated instant messaging for businesses, but what about the messaging apps that hundreds of millions of people use?WeChatis one of the first to add translation features: the Chinese app is used by more than 400 million people and is keen to expand in the west. If you long-tap on a message, you can get it translated immediately.8 Sign language is getting translation tech tooIt's not just words that can be translated: sign language is a good candidate too. Microsoft has worked with Kinect Sign Language Translator, using the Xbox camera and motion-detection accessory to translate sign language into text and spoken language. Tech startupMotionSavvyis exploring a similar idea using the LeapMotion gesture controller for computers.9 Your online meeting just got interestingReal-time translation for businesses is in the offing. HP is working with a startup calledSpeechTransto translate conference calls while they're in progress, claiming to be able to handle conversations of any length in 44 languages. Its competition with Microsoft's Skype Translate should ensure swift progress in this field.10 Translation tech can be about more than wordsAlso taking off is visual recognition and search: the ability for a device to recognise what you're pointing its camera at and do something useful. For example, Amazon's Fire Phone, which is to be launched soon, has a feature called Firefly that can, among other things, scan phone numbers to add to your contacts, wine labels to find out which food to eat with them and even artworks to provide extra info.
Paul McCartney is the latest musician to experiment with the idea of albums as apps, following in the footsteps of Björk, Lady Gaga, Jay-Z and Snoop Lion.Five of his classic albums –Band on the Run,McCartney,McCartney II,RAMandWings over America– have been turned into iPad apps by label Concord Music Group, and released through Apple&apos;s App Store.Each app includes remastered audio tracks, interviews, rare photos, album and single artwork, and videos including rehearsal footage and documentaries.The new apps cost £5.49 each, which is less than the remastered albums cost from Apple&apos;s iTunes music store, where they sell for between £7.99 and £10.99.McCartney is one of a growing number of musicians exploring apps as a new, interactive format for albums, withBjörk&apos;s Biophilia appin 2011 the first high-profile example. It turned songs from the Biophilia album into mini-games, interactive art and music creation tools.Originally released for Apple devices, the app wasported to Androidin 2013, and recently became the first app to beinducted into the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.Lady Gaga released acompanion app for her ARTPOP albumin November 2013, after promising &quot;a musical and visual engineering system that combines music, art, fashion, and technology with a new, interactive, worldwide community&quot;.What that meant in practice was a virtual turntable to play songs from the album – if fans had bought them from iTunes – and an ArtHaus feature to create and share animated GIFs of spinning pigs, slogans and other objects based on the album&apos;s lyrical themes.Jay-Z, meanwhile, struck a deal with Samsung in 2013 todistribute up to a million free copies of his Magna Carta Holy Grail albumthrough an Android app, although it was criticised for the level of personal data it drew from fans&apos; smartphones.Screenshots from Paul McCartney's new iPad apps.Other artists to have released apps include Snoop Lion – acompanion app for his Reincarnated album, and a separateSnoopify photo-sharing appselling virtual items including a$99.99 &quot;Golden Jay&quot; spliff– and Crosby, Stills &amp; Nash, whoseCSN app charged fans a monthly $3.99 subscriptionto get exclusive content.The music industry&apos;s desire to make more of apps is understandable, given the growth of Apple&apos;s business in particular.Industry analyst Mark Mulligan noted earlier this yearthat in 2003, music accounted for 100% of revenue on the company&apos;s iTunes store – unsurprising, since music was all it sold. But by the end of 2013, apps represented 62% of iTunes spending, with music less than a quarter.While McCartney&apos;s former band The Beatles&apos; back catalogue remainsexclusive to iTunes, his solo and Wings albums areavailable on streaming music services like Spotifytoo.The five new iPad apps represent a new way to make more digital money from those archives, although it remains to be seen whether fans who may have bought the albums several times already in different formats are tempted – even at the lower price.•The five types of digital music discovery
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMinuum demos non-annoying text entry on an Android Wear watch &gt;&gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe design uses a single line of keys for entry, and a predictive algorithm to make a best-guess about what word it is you&apos;re looking for. You can use the line of text predictions to quickly autocomplete words, or hold the screen down to access special characters. It still doesn&apos;t look quite as easy as thumb typing with two hands on a standard screen, but it&apos;s a lot better than trying to rope a full-sized keyboard onto a tiny screen, and it&apos;s less socially awkward than speaking into your wrist.Looks promising. Android Wear really needs something else other than voice input for typing small notes. You don&apos;t half look like a burke talking into your watch.Nest, Samsung will battle Wi-Fi and Bluetooth with new wireless protocol &gt;&gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe biggest challenge to the Thread standard is that technology like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are both entrenched and universal. Most laptops, phones, tablets, and connected accessories already support one or both, and those standards could evolve to do most of what Thread does before it can gain a foothold in the majority of homes. Competition from other warring 802.15.4 protocols and things like Qualcomm and Microsoft&apos;s &quot;AllSeen Alliance&quot; will also affect adoption. The backing of big names like Google, Samsung, and ARM may help Thread, but a big name isn&apos;t always enough to establish a new industry-wide standard.Despite its possible merits, it&apos;s just another connection protocol. Do we really need another one? And how will smartphones interface with it?Nerf NStrike ProCam: a blaster with built-in camera so you can record your takedowns &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintWhile the camera sadly doesn&apos;t include a zoom function so you can zone in on your target like the pro sniper you probably long to be, you can use the camera with the accompanying controls on the blaster to record those Nerf darts flying through the air to show what an &quot;ace shot&quot; you really are.Insert appropriate &quot;in my day&quot; comment, here. But really, these would have been great in the 80s.Three makes 0800 numbers free on SIM-only plans &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKIn addition, all other numbers beginning with 08, such as 084 and 087 numbers, will now only cost 5p per minute to call. The network&apos;s new SIM-only plans start at £7 and include data allowances ranging from 500MB to all-you-can-eat. Opting for unlimited data and minutes will set you back £23 per month.Free phone numbers are now free. A revelation.HTC marketing chief Ho, engineering head Liu said to quit &gt;&gt;&gt; BloombergThe exit of the senior executives continues a series of management changes that include replacing its finance chief in 2012 and the return of Wang to a more hands-on role at the company last year. HTC has posted 11 consecutive quarters of falling revenue amid increased competition and a cut in marketing spending.Trouble at HTC despite the One M8 picking the company up.&apos;Hidden From Google&apos; lists pages blocked by search engine &gt;&gt;&gt; BBC News&quot;Some seem to have been removed, but are not any longer - that is part of the reason the list remains short. Until I can verify that an article is being censored consistently across European domains, I cannot put it on the list in good conscience,&quot; he said.More controversy in the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot; fall out. People really don&apos;t like having links to stories disappear.All-new Windows Phone experience: Lumia Cyan update &gt;&gt;&gt; ConversationsAnd for people in the US, Cortana is the virtual assistant built around you. She tracks what you care about, helps you become more productive, and even gets better at her job the more she learns about you. Read about the hidden tricks of Cortana here and meet the brains behind it here. She is also pretty good at football predictions.Only for Americans, but good to see Microsoft&apos;s Google Now and Siri rival hit handsets. No word when Cortana will be activated in the UK other than soonish.Google&apos;s BigDog LS3 robot &apos;pack mule&apos; gets military testing, carrying 180kg for 20 miles &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintLance Cpl. Brandon Dieckmann, who was given the task of controlling Big Dog, said: &quot;I was surprised how well it works. I thought it was going to be stumbling around and lose its footing, but it&apos;s actually proven to be pretty reliable and pretty rugged. I&apos;d say 70 to 80 percent of the terrain we go through, it can go through. There are times when it is going to fall over, but most of the time it can self-right and get back up on its own.&quot;Google, now powering battlefields everywhere.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Yahoo’s revenue fell 3% in the last quarter, itsfourth declinein the past five quarters, the tech company announced on Tuesday.The disappointing news comes after Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer has been on a buying spree, hoping to turn the fortunes of one of the first generation of internet giants as it has struggled to keep up with Facebook and Google.Total revenues for the second quarter were just over $1bn, down from $1.1bn for the same quarter last year. Revenue from display advertising, excluding traffic costs, fell 7% to $394m.“Transformation is not a singular event,” said Mayer, who joined the company from Google in 2012.She said on a conference call that the decline in display advertising highlighted “the fact that we need to work faster to ameliorate the negative trends. I believe we can and will do better moving forward.”Yahoo&apos;s share of the $140bn digital ad market will fall from 2.86% in 2013 to 2.52% this year, according to eMarketer. Google dominates the market, with 31.45%.Under Mayer, Yahoo has been trying to reverse that trend by concentrating on content,buying the blogging platform Tumblrfor $1.1bn last May, hiring high-profile talent including former CBS Evening News anchor Katie Couric and broadcasting TV shows, including NBC&apos;scanceled Community.This week the company announced it would be broadcasting a series of live concerts by artists including Dave Matthews Band, Kiss, Justin Timberlake and Usher.The disappointing results come as Yahoo prepares to cut its 22% stake in Chinese internet giant Alibaba, which is planning an initial public offering, the largest ever tech IPO, in August.Yahoo said Tuesday it had agreed to reduce the number of shares it is required to sell at the IPO to 140m shares from 208m shares. Analysts are expecting Yahoo to make $10bn from the sale. The company said it is committed to returning at least half of the after-tax IPO proceeds to shareholders.&quot;Our top priority is revenue growth and by that measure, we are not satisfied with our Q2 results,” said Mayer. She said several areas showed strength, including Yahoo Search, up 6% year-over-year, and social, mobile, video and native advertising, which collectively grew nearly 90% year-over-year. &quot;Overall, I remain confident in Yahoo&apos;s future, our strategy, and our return to long-term growth,” she said.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was forced to extend the deadline for comments over its controversial plans to change the way it regulates the internet, after its systems were overwhelmed by thousands of new submissions.By Tuesday afternoon, more than 780,000 comments had been submitted to the regulator over its proposed “open internet” rules that have cable companies, politicians, consumers and activists at loggerheads over the future of the internet.Thousands more submissions were expected before the planned deadline of midnight Tuesday, as activists and consumer groupsrallied supportersto lobby the FCC to moved: protect “net neutrality” - the concept that all traffic on the internet should be treated equally – and stop cable companies setting up high-speed “fast lanes” for some customers.The FCC, which has struggled to get Congress to fund an upgrade to its antiquated systems, has now extended the deadline to midnight Friday. A second round of comments on the original submissions will then begin, ending in September, with the FCC expected to make its ruling by the end of the year.“Not surprisingly, we have seen an overwhelming surge in traffic on our website that is making it difficult for many people to file comments through our electronic comment filing system (ECFS). Please be assured that the commission is aware of these issues and is committed to making sure that everyone trying to submit comments will have their views entered into the record,” said FCC spokeswoman Kim Hart.Amazon, Google, Facebook, Reddit, Twitter and others submitted a joint comment Monday arguing against an FCC proposal that would allow broadband providers to charge websites for faster service as long as the arrangements are &quot;commercially reasonable.&quot;The Internet Association, a lobby group representing dozens of major tech firms, wrote to the FCC arguing the proposal is a direct threat to the concept of net neutrality.“Segregation of the internet into fast lanes and slow lanes will distort the market, discourage innovation and harm internet users,” said Michael Beckerman, president and CEO of The Internet Association. “The FCC must act to create strong, enforceable net neutrality rules and apply them equally to both wireless and wireline providers.”But the association stopped short of calling for the internet to be regulated as a utility, a proposal that would give the FCC far greater powers, and which the cable companies are lobbying against fiercely.Consumer groups including Common Cause, Fight for the Future (FFTF) and Free Press are pushing for that idea, arguing that the internet should be reclassified as a “common carrier” like the telephone system, which would allow the FCC to ban tiered charging.“The FCC has the power to do that,” said FFTF’s Evan Greer. “At this stage it’s clear that the public want real net neutrality, and that anything short of that is just another example to the undue influence wielded by cable companies in the corridors of power.”Comcast, Time Warner and their cable rivals argue that tighter regulation would deter investment and likely fail in the courts. The FCC is being forced to redraw its rules after a court defeat narrowed the extent of its regulatory powers.The National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA) is expected to file its submission later Tuesday. In ablogpost,the lobby group called on the FCC to reject “extreme voices that wrongly suggest that the only acceptable course for the commission to take is to turn back the clock on progress by reclassifying broadband as a title II common carrier service.“For well over a decade, Democratic and Republican policymakers confronted with the promise of high-speed internet access have embraced a ‘light touch’ regulatory model that has spurred unprecedented levels of investment in our nation’s broadband infrastructure.”Comments to the FCC received a major boost after comedian John Oliverattacked the proposals last monthon his HBO show Last Week Tonight.“What&apos;s being proposed is so egregious that activists and corporations have been forced onto the same side,” said Oliver. He attacked FCC chairman Tom Wheeler, a former cable company lobbyist, saying his appointment was “the equivalent of needing a babysitter and hiring a dingo.&quot;So far, the number of comments the FCC has received on its open internet plans trails well behind the 1.4m comments submitted following Janet Jackson’s notorious “wardrobe malfunction&quot; during the 2004 Super Bowl.
Google is recruiting a team of experienced hackers who will be charged with hunting down serious weaknesses in internet security in the hope they can prevent the most advanced cyber attacks.The Project Zero team, announced by Google’s “researcher herder” and security chief Chris Evans, will look to protect users of some of the web&apos;s most commonly used tools, including Google Chrome, Internet Explorer and other connected software.“You should be able to use the web without fear that a criminal or state-sponsored actor is exploiting software bugs to infect your computer, steal secrets or monitor your communications,” Evans said in ablog post.Project Zero will spend much of its time finding “zero-day vulnerabilities” - tech speak for software weaknesses that are unknown to the wider world and are often used to hack people’s computers or smartphones so they can be spied upon.As these vulnerabilities are usually unknown to the software vendor, there is usually no fix or patch is in place, and so zero-days are hugely valuable to anyone wanting to break into systems with otherwise sound security.A whole industry has built up around uncovering zero-days in popular software. Market players, whoprimarily sell to government agencies and law enforcement, have previously claimed that single zero-days have sold for hundreds of thousands of pounds.Yet these companies, such as France’s VUPEN and America’s Endgame, have come under fire for not sharing their findings. If only a limited people know about a software weakness, they can use it against the wider world, which will not benefit from a fix until an altruistic party uncovers that bug and updates are launched.Project Zero’s bug hunters will hope to address this by uncovering zero-days before those with malicious intent and immediately setting to work on fixes. Details will be published in an open database for transparency, meaning the wider world will know when a vendor is being responsible or not. The team will also work with other vendors to update and secure software.“In sophisticated attacks, we see the use of ‘zero-day’ vulnerabilities to target, for example, human rights activists or to conduct industrial espionage. This needs to stop. We think more can be done to tackle this problem,” Evans added.Brian Honan, a security consultant, believes this altruistic move by Google might negatively affect the market for zero-days. “With such a talented team working on altruistically managing vulnerabilities there could be an impact on the market for such bugs,” said Honan.But in its bid to boost security across the web, the Google security professionals won’t just be going on bug hunts - they will also carry out research into how attacks are executed and how best to mitigate them. There are no “particular bounds” to what Project Zero will do to fix the internet, Evans said.Morgan Marquis-Boire, a former Google security engineer who now focuses on protecting activists as part of the Citizen Lab initiative, said Project Zero was likely to be a boon for internet security.“The security of users doesn&apos;t exist in a vacuum. Project Zero is an intriguing effort to improve the ecosystem in which people conduct their digital lives,” said Marquis-Boire, who was involved in early discussions with Evans around forming such a team.“By focusing specifically on maximum efficacy in killing bugs which are being used to target high-risk users, there seems a good chance this team can have positive real-world impact.”There are already a host of projects designed to uncover serious software flaws. Google, Facebook, HP, Microsoft, Yahoo and many other tech giants already run bug bounty programmes, which give monetary rewards for those who uncover weaknesses.Some experts believe that while such initiatives are laudable, more emphasis needs to go on embedding security in products before they hit the market. “As an industry we still need to drive the message home to many software companies that they have a duty of care and responsibility to ensure their code has security built into it from the very beginning,” Honan added.•UK privacy watchdog seeks stronger powers and better funding
The UK government&apos;s plans to fast track changes to data retention law on Tuesday are &quot;a serious expansion of the British surveillance state&quot;, a group of senior UK academics have said, warning that changes are in potential breach of European law.In an open letter to the full House of Commons, 15 experts in technology law express concern at the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers bill (Drip) which, they say, will increase government access to communications data and content and are being unnecessarily rushed through Parliament.&quot;The legislation goes far beyond simply authorising data retention in the UK,&quot; the letter states. &quot;In fact, Drip attempts to extend the territorial reach of the British interception powers, expanding the UK’s ability to mandate the interception of communications content across the globe. It introduces powers that are not only completely novel in the United Kingdom, they are some of the first of their kind globally.&quot;The academics, who include Professor Ian Brown of the Oxford Internet Institute, Professor Lilian Edwards of the University of Strathclyde, Dr Subhajit Basu of the University of Leeds and legal expert Julia Powles of Cambridge University.Drip was designed to revise UK data retention law, addressing an April ruling by the European Court of Justice which found the 2009 Data Retention Directive to be invalid. Mass data retention law is still covered by the EU and, as such, Drip does not meet the ECJ criteria for digital rights.&quot;Further, the bill incorporates a number of changes to interception whilst the purported urgency relates only to the striking down of the Data Retention Directive. Even if there was a real emergency relating to data retention, there is no apparent reason for this haste to be extended to the area of interception,&quot; the letter states.&quot;Drip is far more than an administrative necessity; it is a serious expansion of the British surveillance state. We urge the British Government not to fast track this legislation and instead apply full and proper parliamentary scrutiny to ensure Parliamentarians are not mislead as to what powers this Bill truly contains.&quot;The government announced the emergency draft legislation on 10 July. Home Secretary Theresa May told the home affairs select committee yesterday that the government wanted to clarify Ripa&apos;s extra-territorial remit. &quot;This has been questioned, and we feel it&apos;s appropriate to, therefore, put that beyond doubt in terms of legislating. But these are powers and capabilities that exist today, that are used today. This is not about extending those to any new remit.&quot;A Home Office spokesperson told the Guardian: “We are not changing or extending any powers to access data or execute intercept warrants.“Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act these powers already apply to any company providing communications services in the UK, even if they are based overseas. The new Bill simply spells this out and puts it beyond doubt.”Signatories:Dr Subhajit Basu, University of LeedsDr Paul Bernal, University of East AngliaProfessor Ian Brown, Oxford UniversityRay Corrigan, The Open UniversityProfessor Lilian Edwards, University of StrathclydeDr Theodore Konstadinides, University of SurreyProfessor Chris Marsden, University of SussexDr Karen Mc Cullagh, University of East AngliaDr. Daithí Mac Síthigh, Newcastle UniversityProfessor David Mead, University of East AngliaProfessor Andrew Murray, London School of EconomicsProfessor Steve Peers, University of EssexJulia Powles, University of CambridgeProfessor Burkhard Schafer, University of EdinburghProfessor Lorna Woods, University of Essex
The independent Scotland referendum has moved to the new .scot domain as Scots get their own domain.More than 45 companies and organisations have already registered new .scot domains, including the Scottish government, NHS Scotland, the Highlands and Islands University and both sides of the referendum campaign -Yes Scotland and Better Together .“It is entirely right that Scotland should have its own distinctive and recognisable internet domain, in particular one that will resonate internationally, helping to promote Scottish business and culture throughout the world,” said Scottish deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon in a statement.“I am confident that the .scot domain name will prove to be a real asset to the people of Scotland and to the worldwide family of Scots,” she said.The time is ripe for the worldwide family of ScotsIndividuals and groups outside of Scotland have also taken advantage of the new domain with the Louisiana Scots and the Clan Wallace among the first international organisations to launch websites using the new domain.“The time is ripe for the worldwide family of Scots to have their own domain, reflecting an online community defined by a shared commitment to Scottish identity, culture and economic promotion,” said Scottish first minister Alex Salmond.The .scot domain will be available to purchase from 23 September by anyone. Europe’s largest domain registrar, which sells domain names to third parties, has already seen considerable interest in new .scot internet addresses, according to Richard Stevenson of 1&amp;1 Internet.“The strongest demand for regional web identity across the British Isles is from Scottish consumers, with 71 per cent admitting they are more likely to buy from a firm that used a .scot web address,” said Stevenson quoting a Fasthosts Internet survey of 2,000 UK consumers.Nine years pay offThe new domain concludes an almost nine-year campaign by for the not-for-profit company Dot Scot Registry to see Scotland join Wales, London, Berlin and New York city in having its own domain name.“This is a fantastic day for Scotland online and gives our nation a chance to stand out, and be seen as the digital pioneer that many know it to be,” said Dot Scot Registry director Gavin McCutcheon.•London gets its own domain name starting new .london property boom
The UK’s privacy regulator has asked for increased funding from government as it seeks to deal with a mounting workload sparked by a series of controversies around data security and privacy.The Information Commissioner’s Office has been swamped with more complaints than ever before, according to itsannual reportreleased today, with its in-tray unlikely to clear any time soon.That is partly due to a recent EU ruling on people&apos;s right to have entries removed from Google&apos;s search results as part of their &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;, which hassince led to a heated debate about censorship of informationthat is in the public interest.The ICO is also already dealing with a number of complaints around the data practices of social networks, including investigating a psychology study conducted by Facebook, in whichresearchers attempted to manipulate users’ moods.Other factors cited by the ICO in its appeal for more funding include NSA contractor Edward Snowden&apos;s leaks about GCHQ&apos;s access to British citizens&apos; data, and the government-led Care.data project, with its plans to give GPs and hospitals access to shared databases of people&apos;s healthcare records also running into opposition.“Facebook, Care.data, Google: it is clear that organisations’ use of data is getting ever more complicated. People need to know someone is watching over their information,” said the information commissioner, Christopher Graham.“A strong regulator is needed if a data breach affects millions of people … But to do our job properly, to represent people properly, we need stronger powers, more sustainable funding and a clearer guarantee of independence.”In his foreword to the report, Graham said the ICO should be given a “guarantee of independence that comes from a more formal relationship with parliament than is the case at present”.The privacy watchdog resolved 15,492 data protection complaints between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014: a rise of 8.5%.It also handles complaints on Freedom of Information requests too, deciding on 5,296 over the last year, representing a 12% year-on-year rise. The ICO also dealt with 161,720 reports from those concerned about spam texts and nuisance calls.The ICO has several reasons to fear cuts to its budget rather than benefit from extra funding. Changes to European data protection law would cut off the money it receives from registration – all companies handling data in the UK have to pay a fee to the ICO.The body, which employs almost 383 people in five locations, has already seen continuing declines in funding for its FOI work over the past five years. Its technology-focused taskforce consists of just three members of staff.While the ICO can fine companies up to £500,000 for breaches of the Data Protection Act, issuing £1.97m in penalties between April 2013 and March 2014, that money goes back to HM Treasury.The data protection barrister and solicitor Stewart Room said this was an “obvious place to start” for providing the ICO with more resources.“Clearly, the data protection issue needs to be dealt with, because ICO cannot be unfunded, but I doubt that there will be a significant increase in the FOI budget,” Room said.“It is easy to have sympathy with the ICO’s position, but I expect they will be told to rely more on the ‘tried-and-tested efficiency savings’ and longer working hours.”•Privacy is at risk owing to basic security failures, warns ICO
Google instigated a policy in 2007 that saw the search giant make generous counter-offers to employees being courted by rival Facebook within one hour, court documents show.The policy was revealed by a leaked Eric Schmidt email, who was Google&apos;s chief executive at the time. It was put into force in November 2007 by Schmidt in an attempt to prevent the rapidly growing Facebook from stealing personnel.Facebook had just raised $240m from Microsoft at the time, shunning investment from Google.The policy was described as &quot;disturbing&quot; by Vijay Gill, a manager within Google’s key engineering organisation. Gill questioned the policy saying it “appears to contravene our equal pay for equal performance policy” and that “it appears to reward folks applying to Facebook”, asreported by Quartz.At the time, Schmidt confirmed the policy and said that Google “should be embarrassed and disgusted by the leak”.Tech talent fightFacebook was not included in the no-hiring pact that existed between the big Silicon Valley tech companies, including Google, Apple, Intel and Adobe. The war with Facebook for software engineering talent was so fierce that Google considered having its cofounders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, personally court Facebook workers.The documents detailing the internal dealings were released as part of the $3bn case sought by technology workers against Google, Apple, Intel and Adobe. The four technology companies are accused of conspiring to fix wages and not recruit other’s technology talent by 64,000 tech workers.Google and Apple haveoffered a settlementof $324m, which has yet to approved by US District Judge Lucy Koh who is presiding over the case.Google declined to comment on the ongoing court case.•Google&apos;s founders Brin and Page on robots, health and solving the big problems
You burst into the apartment and the occupants, an older couple, turn towards you, terrified. &quot;Are you going to kill us?&quot; the man quickly asks. You pause at the door, surveying the room for useful items.&quot;Are you going to kill us?&quot;This was once a lovely home. Antique book cases line the walls; there are comfy armchairs, a huge stone fireplace. But the city is disintegrating and this place is dark and wretched now. You need medicine and the couple say they haven&apos;t got any so you beat the husband. He yells to his wife: &quot;Get away, hide,&quot; but you bludgeon him unconscious and then you go for her. Somewhere outside the battle has been going on for weeks. You are tired and desperate. A blackness is upon everything.This War of Mineis a startling strategy game from Warsaw developer 11 Bit Studios. Set in an unnamed city amid a modern military conflict, it gives the player control over a group of civilians as they attempt to survive from one day to the next. Each night, you must direct the strongest members of the party out into the streets to scavenge for food, medicine and other useful goods. How they get this stuff is up to you: bartering, stealing and murder are all possible. But there is danger everywhere – from snipers to other civilians to the diseases that come when cities break down. The one thing you don&apos;t do is pick up a gun and fight back.&apos;Civilians are score mechanics&apos;Most war games are about the unquestioning excitement of military action. Call of Duty, Battlefield, Sniper Elite … none of them really challenge the violence they depict or wonder what it must be like to live amid this madness – they are about soldiers fulfilling their destiny as heroes, whatever the cost. In these fantasies, civilians are only ever tests of the player&apos;s target acquisition skills. Shoot a bystander in Call of Duty and you fail a mission. Humans are reduced to scuttling score mechanisms.But some game designers have started to think about conflict in a different way, and from different perspectives. Last year, Lucas Pope&apos;s clever strategy title Papers, Please allowed players to become border crossing officials in an eastern European country, deciding who got in and who didn&apos;t based on an endlessly reconfiguring set of official passport criteria. You had to process as many people as possible to earn money to feed your family, but this often meant treating these anonymous masses like cattle. Tense, challenging and darkly humorous, the game told us more about the casual evil of oppression than a hundred first-person shooters ever could.This War of Mine was inspired by a magazine article entitled One Year in Hell about a city blockaded during the Bosnian war. &quot;If there is no water, no power and no pharmacy to get drugs for your sick wife, what do you do? You struggle for it,&quot; explains the senior writer, Pawel Miechowski. &quot;You trade for it, or your steal it because you have to. We did not set the game in any particular city, because when society breaks down it doesn&apos;t really matter if you&apos;re British, Polish or American: we&apos;re all the same species when we&apos;re struggling for food.&quot;Using a simple point-and-click interface, players can collect items and build useful stuff like beds, radio transmitters and rain water collectors. Each member of your small party has different skills, but also their own weaknesses. They may be sick or injured, or they may have small children to care for. Some can&apos;t cope with hurting others – send them out to batter an old couple for medicine and they may return haunted by grief and guilt. The next night, they&apos;ll refuse to go anywhere, sitting in the darkness, hugging their knees and crying.This is a game about the psychological mechanics of survival – what are we prepared to do to help our loved ones, and what price will it exact? &quot;There are no good or bad decisions, it is all morally grey,&quot; says Miechowski. &quot;You&apos;ll often have to sacrifice someone to save someone. It will create terrible remorse, but this is what people deal with in war.&quot;Personal drama within global conflictIn Sunset, you play an African American woman caught in a violent military coup – but her role is far from a resistance fighter or spec-ops warrior.Recently funded through Kickstarter, Sunset is a very different take on a similar concept: civilians coping in a city torn apart by military conflict. Developed by Belgian studio Tale of Tales, the game follows immigrant Angela Burnes who travels from the States to a troubled Latin American country just as a bloody military coup takes place. Now trapped in an occupied city, she takes on a job as a housekeeper to mysterious bachelor Gabriel Ortega. Burnes gets one hour every evening to investigate the apartment, learning about her employer. Is he part of the resistance movement? Could she persuade him to get involved?Tale of Tales describes Sunset as a first-person exploration game in the style of experimental indie titles Dear Esther and Gone Home. But the game is also a confrontation of typical first-person shooter conventions.&quot;In the beautiful first chapter of Half Life 2 you get chased by policemen,&quot; explains Tale of Tales co-founder Auriea Harvey. &quot;On your route, at some point you jump into someone&apos;s apartment. You don&apos;t get much time to contemplate the situation but on the bed is a couple, a man and woman, embracing each other in fear. They look at you, not as the savior that the game pretends you are, but as someone who has violently disturbed their privacy. We thought: &quot;Why can&apos;t I play those people? Instead of this Gordon Freeman character.&quot; The couple on the bed seemed so much more complex, and interesting, and real, than the hero of the game. Ever since then we&apos;ve been dreaming about making a videogame about people like them.&quot;In this game then, the military story – the Battlefield story – is happening elsewhere, outside the windows. Tale of Tales want players to understand what it feels like to be trapped within it. There is no narrative arc as such, no win state, but the player can influence the actions of Ortega, build a relationship with him, and maybe imprint on the wider conflict. The point is the experience.&quot;We want to know how we would feel in such a situation,&quot; says co-founder Michaël Samyn. &quot;It helps us understand the world, understand people. The game doesn&apos;t tell a story in the sense that it shares a message or makes some sort of declaration. Any conclusions that you draw from the game are your own. We just want you to think, to live through this a little bit. We seldom get the opportunity to imagine being somebody else, somewhere else. Definitely not to the extent that videogames allow us to. And it&apos;s so important.&quot;How games can challenge the idea of warFor years, films and literature have explored the desperate lives of those caught up in wars; the civilians, the refugees, the victims. Games have struggled in the past, but now smaller independent studios are producing beautiful, interesting, shocking titles that challenge the orthodox military messaging of mainstream shooters – and they can freely distribute them via the web. Importantly too, they are finding a willing audience. Tale of Tales is unashamedly an arthouse studio, its previous titles have been avant garde experiments, often described or dismissed as &quot;notgames&quot;. But when the studio launchedits Kickstarter appeal, it attracted more than twice the funding target.There is a growing realisation that games can be used as a medium to challenge, to ask difficult questions and to help us understand the world from different perspectives. This May, the first everNews Game Hackathonwas held in Cologne; newspaper journalists from all over Europe were invited to join small teams and, over the course of two days, make games based around current affairs stories. Various international media companies took part, including Deutsche Welle, Le Monde and the Guardian.The news game creator Tomas Rawlings of Bristol studio Auroch Digital was a guest speaker. &quot;In the past few years games have grown in scope as new voices use the form to talk about war,&quot; he says. &quot;First Person Victim turns Call of Duty on it&apos;s head, giving you the experience of being in a war zone but as a civilian, not soldier. With our game NarcoGuerra we used the conventions of games like Risk and the idea of the &apos;War on Drugs&apos; to present what seems to be a war game, but one that actually has a very different way to end the conflict – via politics. We explored similar ideas with Endgame: Syria where you can win the war but lose the peace – as seems to sadly be happening in reality.&quot;&quot;While non-gamers may only see the occasional tabloid story about some first-person shooter, within gaming we&apos;re having a much more nuanced look at human conflict; we&apos;re now using the established conventions to question both war itself and how it is represented.&quot;In This War of Mine, you could have bartered with the old couple, you could have ransacked the house, taken the supplies and left them to recover. At that moment, in that room, in one fascinating game, no one had to die.•Newsgame hackathon: can we make a game with no coding experience?•The Last of Us, Bioshock: Infinite and why all video game dystopias work the same way•News as games: immoral or the future of interactive journalism?
Flagship smartphones such as the iPhone might getall the attention, but something exciting is happening with the more affordable smartphones.Companies includingNokiaand Motorola have released very good phones at prices below £150 – which makes you wonder why anyone would ever pay more for a smartphone, something that certainly wasn’t the case even just a year ago.So which is the best £150-and-under smartphone, and will it really do everything you’d want?ZTE Blade VZTE Blade V is a cheap quad-core Android smartphone. Photograph: ZTE£80 sim-free, 4” display, 5MP camera, 130gChina&apos;s ZTE is known for making affordable phones and the Blade V is just the latest. Costing as little as £80 on a pay-as-you-go plan, it is one of the cheapest here, and has a powerful quad-core processor, its main advantage over rivals. The phone has an acceptable five megapixel rear camera, and a front camera for video chats and selfies. The screen is relatively low resolution – a factor that helps to keep the price down, but it should be fine for surfing the web or watching YouTube.Built-in storage is limited to 4GB, but a micro SD card slot means more can be added for photos, videos and music. The Blade V runs an older version of Android than both of the Motorola phones reviewed here, which can make it feel dated. The powerful processor also takes its toll on battery life, compared with some of the other budget phones, but it will last for about a day on one charge.Verdict:Fast quad-core processor, but at the cost of too many cut cornersNokia Lumia 630The Nokia Lumia 630 is a cheap Windows Phone that gets most things right. Photograph: Nokia£100 sim-free, 4.5” display, 5MP camera, 134gMicrosoft’s cheapest new Windows phone can cost as little as £100 with a pay-as-you-go plan and brings the latest Windows Phone 8.1 software to the budget market. It has Nokia’s customary solid build quality, a removable coloured back shell, and is light and comfortable.The Lumia 630 feels like it could take a knock or two, and has a five-megapixel camera without a flash that can capture slightly more detail and has a better colour-balance than similarly priced rivals like the Moto G. Microsoft hasn’t included a front cameras, so selfies will be difficult.The biggest drawback of this model is the screen, which is low resolution compared to the Moto G, and can appear blocky. It doesn’t have adaptive brightness, so manual adjustment is required, or the screen may appear too bright indoors or unreadable outside.The Windows Phone software also lacks the large catalogue of apps available on Android, but does have snappy performance.Verdict:a solid and cheap phone, but there are better options available.Motorola Moto GThe Moto G is Motorola's first UK phone since being bought by Google with a fast processor, decent screen and slick Android. From £100 Photograph: NELSON ALMEIDA/AFP/Getty Images£100 sim-free, 4.5” display, 5MP camera, 143gArguably one of the first smartphones to shake up the budget market, the Moto G offers more features than any other currently available. Priced at less than £100 with 3G only and about £150 with the faster 4G mobile broadband connection, it is a mid-range phone costing the same as a budget version.The Moto G has a sharp 4.5in screen, the latest Android software, a snappy experience and a solid build quality. Like the Moto E, the G has Corning’s toughened “Gorilla Glass” on the screen to resist scratches, and is also coated with water-resistant nano coating made by P2i.The five-megapixel camera is good enough for basic pictures, while a front camera allows for selfies and video chats. Two 3G versions are available, it is worth buying the one with 16GB of storage over the 8GB.Verdict: at under £100 the Moto G is the best value smartphone by miles.•Motorola Moto G full review: the best budget smartphone is just £135 or lessEE KestrelEE Kestrel is the cheapest 4G smartphone available. Photograph: EE£99 PAYG, 4.5” display, 5MP camera, 145gThe cheapest smartphone with faster 4G capability, theEE Kestrelis built by Huawei of China for the UK’s largest 4G network, EE.Available for £99, the design is a little drab – another black rectangle – but it is light and thin, especially compared to some chubby competition. The odd placement of the headphones socket on the side may cause issues for some.The Kestrel feels a little cheap, while the 4.5in screen is not particularly crisp; good enough for the odd YouTube video or browsing, while the 4G makes downloading and playing videos faster than most 3G phones.The phone has a powerful quad-core processor, which makes it snappy. A micro SD slot allows addition to the 8GB storage, while a decent-sized battery keeps it going for a good day without activating its battery-saving modes. A five-megapixel camera and one-megapixel front cam produce serviceable photos, but struggle in low light. The Kestrel also has the option of a simplified software look, ideal for the non-tech savvy.Verdict:the cheapest 4G phone available, with solid performance.Motorola Moto EMotorola Moto E review - a solid build Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian£80 sim-free, 5MP camera, 4.3” display, 142gOne of the cheapest phones in this group, the Moto E costs about £80 with a pre-pay plan, and gets the basics right. It does a good job balancing price and quality, with a good feeling frame, decent screen and a responsive, snappy experience – leagues apart from most of its competition for the same price.The Moto E has the latest version of Android with a guaranteed update to the next version from Motorola – something that most other budget smartphones don’t offer.Features like toughened Gorilla Glass to prevent scratches to the screen, a water resistant P2i nano coating and all-day battery life are good for the price. But some concessions have been made to keep the price down: the five-megapixel camera is poor, there is no front camera and storage is just 4GB (2GB user accessible), but there is a micro SD slot for adding more space for music, movies and photos.Verdict:a very cheap phone that does the basics right.•Motorola Moto E full review: is this the best smartphone under £90?
Microsoft is on the verge of announcing its biggest round of job cuts in at least five years, as the software giant looks to slim down its operations in the face of fierce competition from nimbler rivals such as Apple and Google.According to aBloomberg reportthe reductions will be in its Nokia handset business, as well as marketing and engineering divisions. Some of the marketing job losses are expected to hit Microsoft's European Xbox team based in Reading. Anonymous Microsoft executives told the news wire the cuts could exceed the 5,800 jobs lost in 2009, the biggest in Microsoft's history.In a memo last week to the company's 127,000 employees, Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella said "nothing was off the table" as Microsoft changed its culture. Bristling with references to Friedrich Nietzsche and Austrian fin de siècle writer Rainer Maria Rilke, his 3,200-word memo contained no specifics on jobs, but Nadella said Microsoft needed to be leaner, with more emphasis on mobile devices and cloud computing.Nadella, a company veteran whobecame chief executive in February, has promised to reveal more detail on his strategy when he reports Microsoft's latest quarterly earnings on 22 July. He is only the third person to lead Microsoft in its history. He has a low-profile outside the company and remains less well-known than founder Bill Gates, whoretains a role as technology adviser to the company. In April Microsoft reported better-than-expected net profits of $5.7bn (£3.4bn), when it reported an uptick in demand for its cloud-computing products and subscription-based Office programmes.The Microsoft job cuts are not a surprise following the software giant'sacquisition of Nokia's €5.4bn (£4.6bn) mobile phone business in September, when it promised $600m (£350m) cost savings in the 18 months after the deal, against a backdrop of broader changes in the industry. Hewlett Packard, another tech titan of the 1990s, announced in May it was laying off up to 16,000 workers amid declining sales.
Google’s launch of brand new Android software for wearables, first seen running ona few smartwatches, finally means that wearable technology has a solid lowest common denominator.Until now, no two wearable devices ran the same software, which meant apps and services for one smartwatch wouldn’t run on another.Android Wear has essentially made other smartwatch operating systems, like Sony’s custom software based on Android for its Smartwatch 2, redundant. Others like Samsung’s Tizen, which powers the Korean manufacturer’sGear smartwatches,no longer seem quite so attractive for developers.Google has gotten a lot right in this, the first release of Android Wear, but not everything about the way it works and what it does is fantastic. After a solid week using it, here are some mixed reactions.The goodGoogle has taken a less is more approach, which is a good thing. Simple swipes and gestures navigate menus and expand notifications – there are barely any buttonsWhen buttons are needed, they are big and only one is visible on the screen at any one time – a lot easier to hit while moving aroundTight integration with Android makes notifications useful – without any effort from developers, all apps can send notifications to Android WearGranular control over which apps can notify users – disabling noisy apps prevents notification overloadNotifications only show up when needed – reduces clutter and keeps things simpleThere is something really quite satisfying about archiving email or dismissing notifications from your wristMenu transitions are smooth and fluid, no stutter or lag to be seen unlike some other smartwatchesAlway-on screens with easily read watch faces make Android Wear some of the best smartwatches for actually telling the timeVoice recognition is some of the best seen so far, often better than on an Android smartphoneThe “no I said” feature for correcting misheard words is particularly natural and user friendlyA quick Google search from the wrist works very well when trying to settle an argumentThe badMost advanced features need to be performed via voice, which means talking out loud in public – you will always look like a fool talking to yourselfAccessing installed apps requires launching via voice or digging through to the “Start” menu beneath the search app – a lot of unnecessary swiping and scrollingA battery life of under two days is poor for a wearable gadget that is attempting to usurp a watchThere is no way to input text without speaking to the watches beyond simple yes or no replies – babbling something into the microphone and hoping it gets it right can be tediousThere&apos;s seemingly no way to insert punctuation or proper sentence formatting making you look lazy in your responses to messagesSome things like music controls could be persistent – there have been multiple times where I would have liked to start playing something again without having to ask Google to play a track in hushed tones while on a packed commuter train, which is a bit hit and miss in my experienceThe possible fixesLike Android on a smartphone, Android Wear supports third-party apps that can patch the holes in Google’s softwareWear Mini Launcher – this app adds a little drawer that slides out from the top left with all your Android Wear apps, something that should have been baked into Google’s softwareMinuumandFlickKey– two Android keyboard apps that are looking to move to Android Wear. Just some rudimentary text entry for short private messages would be usefulMusic apps – a persistent music app or dedicated player with popular playlists or recently played artists would allow instant playback of songs without having to resort to voice commandsKinetic charging could help extend battery lifeAndroid Wear doesn’t do a lot beyond notifications, including information from Google Now. That makes it only really applicable for the kinds of people, like myself, who are constantly dealing with notifications, who pick up their phone immediately when something goes off.For others that are less glued to their phones, emails, tweets and text messages, the smartwatch experience doesn’t really provide enough to justify buying a £160 accessory.But third-party apps like Evernote, IFTTT and Google Mapsare already beginning to exploit Android Wear’s potential. Google’s first stab at Android Wear is user-friendly and relatively polished, making a great platform to build upon. Developers and Google alike will have to be careful not to overcomplicate the experience while doing so, however.•Google smartwatches reviewed: LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live•Pebble review: simple, efficient and a good watch
Germany may have beaten Argentina to win the World Cup, but Twitter and Facebook have been engaged in their own battle for social supremacy during the football tournament.This particular competition is stretching beyond the final, as the two social networks continue to release stats on how popular the World Cup was among their users. Twitter&apos;s latest salvo focuses on the 672m related tweets sent during the competition.&quot;While this is the highest number we’ve announced related to an event, it’s hard to compare the 32-day, 64-match World Cup to, for example, the single-game Super Bowl, the one-night Oscars, or the 16-day Olympics,&quot;wrote data editor Simon Rogers in a blog post.The most popular match on Twitter wasGermany&apos;s 7-1 victory over Brazilin the semi-final, which sparked 35.6m tweets: more than the final&apos;s 32.1m.However, Germany&apos;s defeat of Argentina was the World Cup&apos;s biggest moment,generating more than 618,000 tweets per minute, ahead of the 580,000 tweets per minute sparked by the team&apos;s fifth goal against Brazil in the semi-final.The Brazilian star Neymar Jr was the most-mentioned player during the tournament, followed by Argentina&apos;s Lionel Messi and Urugay&apos;s Luis Suarez – the latter more due to his infamous biting episode in a group match against Italy, rather than his footballing skills.Facebook has already announced that 88m people generated more than 280m posts, comments and likes on its social network during the World Cup final, beating its previous record of 245m &quot;interactions&quot; set by the Super Bowl in 2013.The two companies have been keen to flag up the use of their apps by players during the competition, from Mario Götze on Instagram and Wayne Rooney apologising to England fans on Facebook, to Rihanna&apos;s new sideline as a Twitter pundit.•Brazil 2014: where politics and social media invaded the pitch
Google's latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Emmeline Pankhurst, the leader of the British suffragette movement who helped women win the right to vote.Born Emmeline Goulden in 1858 into a radical Manchester family, she attended the École Normale Supérieure in Paris and, in 1879, married Richard Pankhurst, a lawyer and supporter of the women's suffrage movement who was also the author of the Married Women's Property Acts of 1870 and 1882.She founded the Women's Franchise League in 1889 as part of a campaign to allow married women to vote in local elections before going on to establish the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) in 1903.Members of the latter organisation, an all-women suffrage advocacy organisation which was dedicated to "deeds, not words", were the first to be described widely as 'suffragettes'.As the movement forced itself into the national consciousness through a campaign of protest and direction action, Pankhurst and other WSPU activists –including her daughters – were sentenced to repeated prison sentences, where they staged hunger strikes.Emmeline and her daughter Christabel, who had taken on the leadership of the WSPU, called a halt to militant suffrage activism with the advent of the First World War and urged women to aid industrial production. The Representation of the People Act, in 1918, granted votes to all men over the age of 21 and women over the age of 30.In later years, Pankhurst was drawn towards conservative politics and was selected as a Conservative party candidate for Stepney in 1927. Her death in June 1928 came weeks before the Conservative government's Representation of the People Act (1928), which extended the vote to all women over 21 years of age in July 1928.Meryl Streep is set to star as Pankhurst in a forthcoming film, Suffragette, which stars Carey Mulligan as Maude, a "foot soldier of the early feminist movement". The film, to be directed by Brick Lane's Sarah Gavron from a script by Abi Morgan.More on Emmeline PankhurstGreat speeches of the 20th century: Emmeline Pankhurst's Freedom or deathGermaine Greer on Emmeline Pankhurst's extraordinary 'Freedom or death' speechFrom the archive: Mrs Pankhurst is arrested once more
Controversial tech mogul Kim Dotcom is planning to raise AU$4.5m (£2.5m) for his new digital music service Baboom by taking it public on the Australian Securities Exchange by the end of 2014.The plans were revealed in a41-page prospectusbeing distributed to potential investors, as well as published on Baboom&apos;s website. The company is hoping to issue up to 11.25m shares at AU$0.40 each.Baboom is a cross between iTunes, Spotify and MySpace in its heyday: a site where artists will be able to upload their music and make it available for fans to stream or download.Dotcom soft-launched the site in January with a single artist: himself.The prospectus outlines its strategy of blending streams, downloads, artist profile pages and social updates, with musicians able to sell downloads as well as give them away, while also selling tickets and merchandise.Visitors to Baboom will also be able to earn &quot;credits&quot; for free music if they watch targeted ads, while storing their existing music collections in digital lockers up to 50GB in size, and playing those songs from Baboom&apos;s website and mobile apps.The prospectus reveals that Baboom plans to launch an &quot;open (controlled) beta&quot; in the third quarter of 2014, before a full launch by the end of the year.&quot;While services like Spotify, Rdio and Pandora have set the pace as to what is expected for music streaming services, there is still a long way to go before streaming fully replaces other audio formats.Baboom is entering a crowded market, but by differentiating itself with key features such as lossless audio, in-depth artist profiling and backwards compatibility with legacy audio formats (through digital locker functionality) Baboom will usher in a new generation of streaming.&quot;Baboom will initially be promoted to the 8.4 million users of Dotcom&apos;s other new venture, cloud storage service Mega. It plans to make money from its 10% cut of music downloads sold through the site, as well as advertising and subscriptions for &quot;original, exclusive or first-listen content&quot;.Kim Dotcom's profile page on Baboom.If Baboom was being launched by almost anyone other than Kim Dotcom, you&apos;d expect music labels and publishers to be jumping at the chance to license it.However, his background – the former chief executive of Megaupload is still facingcriminalandcivilcopyright infringement charges, and isbattling extradition from New Zealand to the USto face the former – is likely to put many artists and rightsholders off Baboom.The company&apos;s prospectus acknowledges this:&quot;Owing to Kim Dotcom’s Megaupload heritage, some users and music suppliers may not favour using or engaging with Baboom, and labels may be reluctant to license material.Baboom intends to assure labels and collecting societies they will be appropriately recompensed for all material used. Baboom will also acquire music from friendly major artists and will host original independent artists who choose to upload their own material, creating a new repository of music no matter how much major label material is available.&quot;As with Mega, Dotcom is not actually running Baboom himself: its chief executive is media and entertainment lawyer Grant Edmundson.•Kim Dotcom: &apos;I&apos;m not a pirate, I&apos;m an innovator&apos;
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.National Parks to get mobile signal boost &gt;&gt;&gt; TelegraphThe aim of the deal is to help communities living in National Parks to benefit from consistent high quality mobile connectivity, while minimising any adverse environmental impacts.Nowhere will be safe from the gabble of phone calls.Former Google [X] director and head of Glass Babak Parviz joins Amazon &gt;&gt;&gt; 9to5GoogleThere&apos;s no word on what he&apos;s going to be doing at Amazon, but he did lead some of Google&apos;s more &apos;futuristic&apos; endeavours, an area that Amazon has yet to at least publicly make an entrance. He mentions doing work on a &quot;few other things,&quot; but it&apos;s unclear whether he means within Amazon or elsewhere.Is Amazon moving in on wearables? Possibly not, unless it can leverage its existing services.LinkedIn buys Newsle to show relevant news about people in your network &gt;&gt;&gt; Mashable&quot;LinkedIn and Newsle share a common goal: We both want to provide professional insights that make you better at what you do,&quot; Ryan Roslansky, head of content products at LinkedIn, wrote in a blog post announcing the deal. &quot;For example, knowing more about the people in your network - like when they&apos;re mentioned in the news - can surface relevant insights that help you hit your next meeting with them out of the park.&quot;As useful as LinkedIn can be in finding a job, do people really want to use it like Facebook?Competition vs. Community &gt;&gt;&gt; Jay Freeman (saurik)I always then feel like I have to ask people who see jailbreaking as an &quot;opportunity to better monetise what that saurik chump won&apos;t&quot;: are you actually prepared to handle the situation where I get fed up and leave? Do you rely on my software? Are you relying indirectly on the people who in turn rely on me, or my friends?Things are not all happy and bliss in Apple jailbreaking land. Do people still feel the need to jailbreak after the recent iOS 7 and incoming iOS 8 updates?A Warhol with your Moose Head? Sotheby&apos;s teams with eBay &gt;&gt;&gt; NYTimes.comStarting this fall, most of Sotheby&apos;s New York auctions will be broadcast live on a new section of eBay&apos;s website. Eventually the auction house expects to extend the partnership, adding online-only sales and streamed auctions taking place anywhere from Hong Kong to Paris to London. The pairing would upend the rarefied world of art and antiques, giving eBay&apos;s 145 million customers instant bidding access to a vast array of what Sotheby&apos;s sells, from fine wines to watercolours by Cézanne.Do eBay users really want access to Sotheby&apos;s? I can&apos;t see their clientele overlapping considerably.Google brings Ingress location-based game to iPhone and iPad &gt;&gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe game also features a rich storyline complemented by video and other media assets, just like any other large-scale MMO. But despite all of its success, it still manages to fly pretty much under the radar for the general user population, and a launch on iOS could help propel it to a more mainstream audience.I gave Ingress a chance on Android, but after wandering around for 45 minutes I got bored and jacked it in. Nothing in the recent updates and releases has tempted me to go back.Analyst Ming-Chi Kuo: Apple&apos;s 5.5-inch &apos;iPhone 6&apos; faces production issues, launch may be pushed to 2015 &gt;&gt;&gt; AppleInsiderAccording to Kuo, Apple is already facing production bottlenecks on the 4.7-inch model related to the new technology for the device&apos;s in-cell touch panel, as well as colour unevenness on the redesigned &quot;iPhone 6&quot; metal casing. Those problems are said to be even worse with the larger 5.5-inch model.Sounds familiar. Perhaps producing all that sapphire for the screens is harder than anticipated.MakerBot 3D printers arrive at select Home Depot stores &gt;&gt;&gt; SlashGearThe printers are available as of today, marking the start of a pilot program to see how sales fare. If you wander into one of the retail stores, you&apos;ll find them set up in a kiosk that will showcase the technology. Staff trained to use the printers will also be around to offer demonstrations.Putting 3D printers in the US equivalent of B&amp;Q is a master stroke towards mainstream adoption. Can I have a printer with that pack of screws?You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Ebay and Sotheby’s are partnering to stream high-end auctions online, the firms announced on Monday.Starting in the fall, a portion of Sotheby’s New York auctions will be live-streamed on a new section of eBay’s site, opening up the 270-year-old auction house’s refined collection to eBay&apos;s 145m customers.Sotheby’s already hosts online bidding on its site – that’s where John James Audubon’s folio The Birds of America sold for $3.5m in April – but its online strategy has been criticized internally and externally. The company’s largest shareholder, Daniel Loeb, saidin an October 2013 letterthat: “Sotheby’s is like an old master painting in desperate need of restoration.”He also expressed concerns aboutthe company’s declining performancein relation to that of its rival, Christie’s, which has announced its own forays into online sales. The auction house is scheduled to launch a redesigned website in October that is partially guided by experts at high-end online retailers like Gilt.“There is a demoralizing recognition among employees that Sotheby’s is not at the cutting edge – demonstrated by the company’s inability to even develop a coherent plan for an internet sales strategy, much less implement one,” Loeb said.This deal seeks to challenge that characterization, and is marked by a careful integration of online live auctions to eBay’s site. Initially, New York auctions for 18 collecting categories will be streamed on the site, not including the legendary evening sales where works by renowned artists likeYayoi Kusama and Jackson Pollock go for millions. The companies also hope to eventually broadcast auctions from its global locations like Milan and Doha.EBay’s general manager of emerging verticals, Gene Cook, told the Guardian that the company was compelled to enter the live auction world after discussions with customers and sellers of collectibles on the site. “A lot of this inventory that is upmarket, but still at an accessible price point, lives in a live auction experience,” Cook said.More than half of all lots sold at Sotheby’s in 2013 were between $5,000 and $100,000 – a price range Cook believes will appeal to eBay customers who bid for collectibles on the site. Each day, more than 3,500 eBay auctions close at more than $5,000, according to company figures.“The growth of the art market, new generation technology and our shared strengths make this the right time for this exciting new online opportunity,” Bruno Vinciguerra, Sotheby’s chief operating officer, said in a statement. “We are joining with eBay to make our sales more accessible to the broadest possible audience around the world.”The announcement comes more than 10 years since Sotheby’s failed partnerships withAmazonand eBay.Vinciguerra told the New York Timesthat those deals may have been ahead of their time.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSAstropolo (£1.99)If you have children who are starting to show an interest in the world(s) above their heads, Astropolo is the perfect download. It&apos;s a space-themed collection of mini-games for 4-8 year-olds from developer Les Trois Elles, with lovely papercut graphics and easy-to-grasp controls.iPhone / iPadSpruce (Free)Spruce is an app released by the British Liver trust: its attempt to improve the liver health of binge-drinking Brits by helping them take three days off the sauce a week. You can use it to track your dry days and feel good about your resolve, while the charity will use the (anonymised) data to understand whether the app is working.iPhoneNike Football (Free)The World Cup may be over, but the war of football-related marketing between Nike, Adidas and other brands continues. Nike&apos;s latest product is a free iPhone app offering a mixture of product info, interviews with its roster of footballers, and features for group messaging including branded emoji and five-a-side arrangements.iPhoneTake Creative Vocal Recorder (Free)This app comes from Propellerhead Software, which makes pro musicmaking software like Reason and ReBirth, but also playful loop creation app Figure. Take sits neatly alongside the other: an accessible way to &quot;sing, hum, rap, strum&quot; musical ideas as you go about your business.iPhoneCapo touch (£2.99)More music here: an innovative app that you use with your iTunes song library when trying to learn how to play tracks: it slows them down and detects the chords being played, so you can play them too. Based on an existing Mac version that won an Apple design award, it works really well on smaller devices too.iPhone / iPadBrain+ Brain Training (Free + IAP)Brain training has been very popular on mobile devices from the days of Nintendo&apos;s Dr Kawashima DS games, through to Lumosity on modern smartphones and tablets. Brain+ is a new challenger for the latter, expanding to the UK after big success in its native Denmark. It&apos;s a collection of simple but fun exercises to stretch your grey cells.iPhone / iPadLINE Webtoon (Free)Line is the social networking app that&apos;s enormously popular in Japan and south east Asia, but which has ambitions to take on WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger in the west too. This is one of its spin-offs: an app for downloading and reading free digital comics (or &quot;webtoons&quot;). Given the background, they&apos;re Japanese in origin – although they&apos;re translated. The link above is for iPhone buthere&apos;s the iPad version.iPhone / iPadPolymo (£1.49)Polymo is the latest iPhone app angling for a slot on your homescreen as a mobile photography aid. It lets you tag photos before taking them, for later organisation as well as automatically appending them as hashtags when shared to social networks. It&apos;s also a neat way to scroll through your pics by theme, if you keep up the tagging.iPhoneDino Dog - A Digging Adventure with Dinosaurs (£1.99)This children&apos;s app comes from publisher StoryToys: a mix of animation, education and light gameplay with a dinosaur theme. Kids have to help its Dino Dog and Bonnie the Bear characters dig for ancient bones, then clean them up and assemble them into full skeletons. It&apos;s colourful and fun, and the factual content is never dry.iPhone / iPadHook&apos;d - Video Music Messaging (Free + IAP)Finally: karaoke meets mobile messaging. With my singing skills, it&apos;s a cease-and-desist order waiting to happen. But if choosing a famous song – properly licensed, so it&apos;s the actual tracks – shooting a video of yourself singing it and then sending it to friends appeals, Hook&apos;d is worth a look. A monthly subscription gets you access to all its songs.iPhoneGAMESPyramid Solitaire Saga (Free + IAP)Another Saga? Yes, this comes from Candy Crush maker King: its take on the pyramid form of card game Solitaire, as you match cards to clear the screen. The Egyptian theme is reflected in Scarabs that you have to catch by tapping on them, with plenty of layouts and score comparisons with Facebook friends.iPhone / iPadIngress (Free)Until now, Google&apos;s location-based game Ingress has only been available for Android. It&apos;s an intriguing massively-multiplayer game that gets you to explore the real world around you in search of energy and objects in the game, with a storyline bubbling around it about scientists, spies and a battle between two factions. A very deep rabbit-hole of gameplay in the making.iPhone / iPadSonic Jump Fever (Free + IAP)The original Sonic Jump game saw Sega&apos;s Sonic the Hedgehog travelling upwards at pace, rather than along: more Doodle Jump-y than his traditional platform adventures. This sequel looks better, throws in new world based on Sonic&apos;s console adventures, and adds social high-score tables to compare scores with friends.iPhone / iPadMagic 2015 (Free + IAP)This is the latest iPad instalment of deck-building card-battling game Magic, as you gather your deck and battle against AI opponents or real humans online. I&apos;m not really qualified to sell you on its intricacies compared to previous versions, but I can say that if you&apos;re a newcomer, the tutorial is a good way in to its charms.iPadWatercolors (Free + IAP)Described as a &quot;mind-painting puzzle game&quot; in its App Store listing, this is a breath of fresh air: a colour-based game that involves playing with blue, yellow and red paints on-screen, combining them where necessary across Moves, Time Trial and Challenges modes – the latter involving taking on your Game Center friends.iPhone / iPadTransworld Endless Skater (Free + IAP)Forget endless runner games: this is about endless skating as you work your way along jumping, spinning and grinding with your virtual skateboarder – including the option to play as some famous (to people who know their skateboarders, obv) names. It works well on the touchscreen too, which is a decent achievement for this genre.iPhone / iPadHercules: The Official Game (Free + IAP)Once upon a time, mobile games based on movies were rubbish nine times out of 10. In 2014, thankfully, things are different: Hercules is the latest example of something that feels like a decent game in its own right, rather than marketing ballast. It&apos;s a beefy beat &apos;em up with excellent graphics, and well-done online features too.iPhone / iPadPick A Pet (Free + IAP)This may be the heyday of the match-three puzzle game on mobile devices, even if some (Candy Crush) critics would argue it&apos;s more like a nadir. Still, the games keep coming: Pick a Pet looks good fun, as you match its obligatorily-cute characters by colour, rescuing pets for a collection that grows as you progress.iPhone / iPadBlackwell 1: Legacy (£1.49)As someone who grew up with point-and-click adventure games, something like Blackwell 1: Legacy is a welcome blast from the past: the tale of a woman named Rosa who discovers she can talk to ghosts, then sets off on a suitably-spooky quest. This first episode will be followed by four more, and the series is already shaping up marvellously.iPhone / iPadMighty Adventure (£0.69 + IAP)Finally, a colourful platform/runner game with lots of character. Well, three characters, anyway, each of which has their own special power. Your job is to switch between them to make best use of each, while exploring the bright virtual world created by developer Pixel Trap.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
Google’s smartwatches haveonly just arrived in the UK, but apps that show off what a good smartwatch can do have already appeared.Running on Android Wear, Google&apos;s smartwatch-specific software, the best apps are beginning to show the potential for wearable gadgets. Here&apos;s nine of the best.EvernoteEvernote's new Wear extension app puts notes on your wrist and lets users dictate new notes directly from the watch. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianDictating voice notes into your watch has never been so much fun. TheAndroid Wear extension of Evernoteallows users to pull up recent notes on their smartwatch – more useful than it sounds if you’re travelling and have book references and other things on your wrist – as well as dictate new notes without having to pull out a smartphone.Google KeepShopping lists on your wrist - saves getting your phone out and having to juggle it with a basket or trolley. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianGoogle’s free Evernote competitor,Keepputs notes and lists on your wrist – great for shopping lists – and allows users to dictate new notes much like the Evernote app.IFTTTIFTTT is probably the most powerful app available. Using it to mute the ringer is just one example of hundreds of actions that can be triggered from the Android Wear app. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIf This Then That, or IFTTT, is one of the most powerful services to grace smart devices and the web. It performs a set action if an event happens, like firing off a text message to your phone if you receive an email from your boss, or automatically uploading photos to Dropbox that you post to Instagram.On the wristIFTTTgives users a big button that triggers some user configurable action. Perhaps that’s turning off all the lights in your house, or sending a canned response to friends and family via text message. It could even turn off your Nest thermostat, if you have one installed. The possibilities are numerous.RunkeeperRunkeeper for Android Wear puts at-a-glance running info on your wrist. Photograph: /RunkeeperFitness trackers should be quaking in their boots right now, because smartwatches seem to be able to do pretty much anything they can do. Android Wear has built-in step counting (whichI found a bit offcompared to aMisfit Shine) butRunkeepertakes it a stage further offering much more information and run tracking.It provides at-a-glance information on your run pace, distance and calorie burning, plugging into the existing service and app, which starts free with an option to upgrade to a monthly &quot;elite&quot; service for $9.99 (£5.85 in the UK) a month.Runtasticis a similar app that does the same job and which one you pick up is probably determined by which one you already use on your phone.Google MapsTurn-by-turn, step-by-step directions on your wrist are surprisingly useful when wondering around a town or city. Plug in some headphones and you'll get voice prompts too. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianGoogle’s built-in mapping for Android Wear works surprisingly well for walking directions, vibrating when it’s time to take another street complete with on-screen directions. It saves pulling out a smartphone and making yourself a mugging target when out on the street.Wear Mini LauncherMini Launcher slides out from the top left with a little draw for all your Wear apps, including quick access to brightness and settings. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianShowing that Android Wear is just as adaptable on a smartwatch as Android is on a smartphone,Wear Mini Launcheris a custom application launcher for your watch.To access apps normally you have to launch them via voice, or dig into the apps menu about three scrolls down within the Google search app. Wear Mini Launcher shows a draw of all the Android Wear apps installed on your smartwatch, which appears with a quick swipe from the top left.The free app is so well integrated it looks like it should be baked into Android Wear; it even allows you to quickly adjust the screen brightness with a small slider.Phone FinderPhone Finder blasts out an alarm sound on your smartphone while this little symbol is displayed on your watch. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianLG claims that the G Watch will still connect to a smartphone some 15m away, which gives quite a lot of potential for inadvertently leaving your phone behind somewhere while engrossed by something on your smartwatch.Wear Aware – Phone Finderlets you know when you’re leaving your phone behind by buzzing on your wrist when out of range and allows users to trigger the phone’s alarm sound to find it if it’s buried in the sofa.Wear-a-tronOne-tap door unlocking right on the wrist. Photograph: Wear-a-tronAn app that shows the potential of Android Wear-powered smartwatches as part of the Internet of Things movement we’ve been heading towards for about 10 years.Wear-a-tronis essentially a button on your watch that connects to a Lockitron-powered lock (a door lock controlled by a smartphone). One press and your door unlocks. Not particularly useful unless you have a Lockitron setup for your house, but shows that a smartwatch could be a great device for controlling and interacting with various connected devices as they become dotted around the home.New apps appear on the Google Play store on a daily basis, so if you spot any good ones you think people should know about, tell us about them in the comments below.•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live so real promise
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.To be brutally honest, it&apos;s not been a super week for apps, but it&apos;s been a fantastic week for games: usually this column aims for 10 of each, but this week, the balance is tilted towards games. It&apos;s perhaps the best single week ever for new Android games since the platform launched.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSFlavourit - My Cookbook (Free + IAP)Even with all that flour and eggs, tablets and smartphones are becoming a staple in many kitchens, as an easy way to pull up recipes. Flavourit is the latest app hoping to become the provider of choice, helping you create a collection of your favourite recipes, add your own photos, and (if necessary) share with friends.Climatology (Free)This app is the work of Microsoft: a surprising diversion into weather apps that &quot;gives you climate information for anywhere on Earth: temperature, rain and sunniness&quot;. The company admits it&apos;s an &quot;experimental&quot; app with room for improvement based on feedback, and the Google Play reviews are certainly providing that...QCast Music (Free)One of a steadily-growing number of apps for people who own Google&apos;s Chromecast TV-dongle, this is all about shared music playlists. The theory being that guests can add songs to your playlist, although as host you still have ultimate control. For now, it also relies on you having a Google Play Music All Access subscription, so Spotify, Deezer, etc users will have to look elsewhere.Pullshot - Screenshots (Free)I might be biased in favour of this due to being a journalist who writes about apps, but anyone else who takes lots of screenshots of their Android device will appreciate it too. It&apos;s a tool for organising the screenshots you&apos;ve taken into folders, pulling them out of your basic photo gallery. Simple but useful.The Active Channel (Free)The Active Channel is new to me, but if you&apos;re more diligent at this getting fit malarkey, this mobile app may be just the thing to watch its mixture of fitness, weight loss and muscle-upping on the go. TV shows can be downloaded to the device for offline viewing – just the thing for the gym, perhaps.Wear Mini Launcher (Free)This was inevitable, and it surely won&apos;t be the last: a launcher app for Android Wear smartwatches, making it easier to open apps once you have a bunch installed on the device. You install it on your Android smartphone, then can open it on your paired watch. Note: I&apos;ve yet to get one of the latter, so haven&apos;t had a chance to use this app yet. It looked potentially interesting enough to include anyway.Typhoon Time (Free)Finally, an app from plucky young startup BAE Systems, which... Oh, hang on. Yes, the defence and aerospace giant is releasing apps nowadays: this one is part flight simulator and part game, where you get to whizz around piloting a virtual Eurofighter Typhoon.Leo's Fortune for Android.GAMESLeo&apos;s Fortune (£2.99)Leo&apos;s Fortune has won bags of critical acclaim – and a design award from Apple, no less – since its release on iOS. Its Android debut is welcome news, then: this is a beautifully-crafted platform game with varied levels, lush graphics and just-right controls. Marvellous from start to finish.Fish Out Of Water! (Free + IAP)Developer Halfbrick made its name with Fruit Ninja, but Fish Out Of Water deserves to sit alongside that casual classic. It sees you skipping a group of colourful fish across the waves, each with their own bouncing pattern. Your job is to make them go as far as possible, while being scored by crab judges. Sounds weird, plays excellently.Lost Toys (£1.75)Lost Toys is another lovely game that&apos;s been winning awards on other platforms: an eerie 3D puzzler where you have to mend broken toys by spinning them around and fiddling with them. With 32 levels to work through, there&apos;s plenty of challenge: the perfect challenge if you&apos;ve already played through the two The Room games.Wayward Souls (£2.73)If you like your action-roleplaying (RPG) games, then Wayward Souls is an absolutely essential buy on Android: it sees you exploring dungeons full of monsters, traps and loot, with each procedurally generated to keep things fresh. A well-designed control scheme and plenty of scope for battle tactics help too.Pyramid Solitaire Saga (Free + IAP)Another Saga? Yes, this comes from Candy Crush maker King: its take on the pyramid form of card game Solitaire, as you match cards to clear the screen. The Egyptian theme is reflected in Scarabs that you have to catch by tapping on them, with plenty of layouts and score comparisons with Facebook friends.Sonic Jump Fever (Free + IAP)The original Sonic Jump game saw Sega&apos;s Sonic the Hedgehog travelling upwards at pace, rather than along: more Doodle Jump-y than his traditional platform adventures. This sequel looks better, throws in new world based on Sonic&apos;s console adventures, and adds social high-score tables to compare scores with friends.Star Realms (Free + IAP)My general strategy for deck-building card games like Hearthstone and Magic is &quot;over-impulsive idiot&quot;, so my recommendation may not count for much... but Star Realms looks to have all the ingredients for a classic of the genre. It&apos;s a sci-fi themed game where you build your deck and pit your wits against your device and real human players alike. There&apos;s plenty of polish, and it&apos;s very accessible too.Hercules: The Official Game (Free + IAP)Once upon a time, mobile games based on movies were rubbish nine times out of 10. In 2014, thankfully, things are different: Hercules is the latest example of something that feels like a decent game in its own right, rather than marketing ballast. It&apos;s a beefy beat &apos;em up with excellent graphics, and well-done online features too.Evolution: Battle for Utopia (Free + IAP)More space sci-fi, although in this case it&apos;s more of an action-RPG. Evolution sees you exploring a &quot;deadly post-apocalyptic planet&quot; (my favourite kind) fighting, building and terraforming your way to top-dog status. There&apos;s lots of depth to it, but you won&apos;t find yourself lost as you get to grips with its controls.Transworld Endless Skater (Free + IAP)Back to earth here – well, some of the time. Forget endless runner games: this is about endless skating as you work your way along jumping, spinning and grinding with your virtual skateboarder – including the option to play as some famous (to people who know their skateboarders, obv) names. It works well on the touchscreen too, which is a decent achievement for this genre.Mucho Party (Free + IAP)If you&apos;re a fan of &quot;microgame&quot; collections like Nintendo&apos;s Wario Ware, you&apos;ll find plenty to like in Mucho Party: it has 30 short, sharp games to play alone, or against another human – the latter is most fun. There are plenty of ideas fizzing within this collection, and (important for this genre) a sense of humour too.Pick a Pet (Free + IAP)This may be the heyday of the match-three puzzle game on mobile devices, even if some (Candy Crush) critics would argue it&apos;s more like a nadir. Still, the games keep coming: Pick a Pet looks good fun, as you match its obligatorily-cute characters by colour, rescuing pets for a collection that grows as you progress.Fightback (Free + IAP)Finally, another beat &apos;em up, this time from publisher Chillingo, which involves battering the bejaysus out of anyone in your way en route to rescuing a kidnapped sister. It&apos;s a bit like Double Dragon reinvented for modern, 3D, touchscreen devices, although also for their freemium business model with its in-app purchases.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
It's a Wednesday, 6.30am. The bedroom door slams open. My youngest son, three, shouts: "Daddy, can we playAnki Drive?" His brother, five, is right behind him. This is not the first time I have heard this plea. For a week now I have been hostage to a kind of science-fiction version of Scalextric.Anki is a San Francisco robotics startup that was founded in 2010 but kept itself off the radar while it developed an AI gaming platform. Last year, it caused a minor furore at the Apple worldwide developers conference when Apple CEO Tim Cook invited the company's founders on stage to demonstrate their first consumer product: a car racing game that operates on Apple's operating system. The game was subsequently named one ofTimemagazine's inventions of the year.A mashup of Hot Wheels,Mario KartandTron, Anki Drive is very simple to play. All the action takes place on an eight-foot vinyl racetrack that will probably mean you have to pile up your living room furniture to lay it out. You race one of four small cars against either a friend or a robot car round the track for a set number of laps and the first past the chequered flag wins.Your car (8cm, glossy, shades ofKnight Rider) is controlled using an app downloaded onto an Apple mobile device. Your iPhone's motion detectors enable you to use it like a steering wheel: swerving in and out of lanes. Meanwhile, you can "disable" or slow down your opposition with virtual weapons mounted on your car triggered by buttons on the phone interface. The idea is that the basic tenets of a physical racing game (go faster, steer well) are enhanced by the sophistication of video games (each car has unique characteristics; you can accrue weapons and better skills) and artificial intelligence (the cars improve as they "learn" from each race; anki means "learn by heart" in Japanese).Unboxing the kit, I shared the unfettered excitement of my sons (the older was literally hopping round the room). It's refreshing that this game is a tactile entity: played for real and not on screens and the kids were instantly gripped. Even when they weren't playing they were hypnotised by the smooth action and cheered on their favourite car with all the verve of a die-hard Formula One fan.Unlike Scalextric, where you were always retrieving cars that had flown off the slotted tracks, Anki cars (each has a 50mhz microprocessor, camera and infrared light) can "read" through the vinyl mat to work out their position so they always know where they are, where you are and as a result will never leave the track. This means any novice (even a three-year-old) can complete a race.The controls are simple enough to manage, if not exactly master. This is a plus for the kids: the AI whizzes the cars safely around while they happily mash the keypad with their sticky hands. After bedtime, I get the chance to get to grips with the more complex stuff; learning how to decelerate, tuck myself behind a robot car and nail him with my rotor cannon.Even for a big boy's toy, Anki Drive is expensive: £179 for a two car plus track starter kit; extra cars are £50. It's probably best suited to kids of about eight and up, and requires obsessive hours of play to get the best of the tech. But, no doubt, it's a leap forward. At the end of our first game, as all the cars unexpectedly scuttled into position of their own accord and a voice on my phone announced the winner, I felt the same weird chill I had when someone first showed me the swipe motion on a smartphone screen. Something from the future's here in my hand!
The games industry has a glorious future planned for us. It is a future of seamless co-operative and competitive gaming, where every single-player adventure will magically segue into multiplayer face-offs; where your friends will be able to drop into your game world at a moment&apos;s notice and join you as you fight dragons or attack battleships.Activision&apos;s forthcoming space epic Destiny, likely to be one of the biggest releases of this generation, is entirely built around this whole idea of community interaction. But it is far from alone – Watch Dogs has drop-in competitive matches, Far Cry 4 will allow instant online co-op, while Forza Horizon 2 and Sunset Overdrive both tempt you in and out of competition with friends and strangers from within the main campaigns. This is the way things are going.There&apos;s just one problem: plenty of gamers don&apos;t want it. Plenty of gamers, even in this age of cloud computing and continuously connected games consoles, just want to play alone. The industry may be mystified by these digital era luddites, but there are good reasons for their intransigence: they represent a whole way of thinking about what games are and the experience they provide.Everyone was alone in the olden daysPartly, of course, it&apos;s a preference that&apos;s steeped in the history and tradition of gaming. The chances are, if you played games before 2000, you mostly played alone by default – or you occasionally allowed one friend into splitscreen sessions.&quot;I grew up in the 1980s when single player games were – with few exceptions – all there really was,&quot; says veteran gamer Dave Kirk. &quot;Maybe that&apos;s a subconscious influence on me even today. I really liked Grand Theft Auto V, and I&apos;m big-time into racing games such as F1 2013 and Forza Motorsport, but I play all of them exclusively single-player.&quot;Talk to gamers over 30 and they&apos;ll often be nostalgic for classic adventures like Secret of Monkey Island, Deus Ex and Final Fantasy, games that wrapped you in a world for many hours – days even – and allowed you to wallow in them alone, like good books or epic TV series. A great single-player game is the perfect solipsistic fantasy, it&apos;s you by yourself, saving the world – and everything revolves around you, not a guild of friends, or an army of strangers.Many players still want those epic all-consuming narrative experiences, and that sense of personal responsibility. &quot;The earliest I remember was Wing Commander on the Amiga,&quot; says Simon Matthews, a PR manager based in Egham, Surrey. &quot;It really felt like I had an impact on the story and the game; I remember feeling upset and angry when Iceman died, but I had the sense that it was my fault for failing missions. Not enough games let you fail anymore.&quot;There are gamers, then, who play games as a form of pure escapism – not just in terms of escaping to new worlds, but also escaping other people. &quot;I prefer to play alone,&quot; says April Pereira-Finn. &quot;I&apos;m very people-focused at work and it&apos;s nice to switch off for a few hours, weld my jaw shut and get into a great story ... I&apos;m a single parent, too, but when it&apos;s bed time for my son, it&apos;s game time for me.&quot;&quot;I don&apos;t have the time to get good at Call of Duty&quot;This need to condense gaming sessions into narrow periods of valuable free time is another reason why plenty of people – especially those with kids and careers – want to play alone, in their own way, at their own pace.&quot;Having a job and an adult life means I can&apos;t start playing a game on the day of release, and be up to level 45 by the end of that weekend,&quot; says Richard Hancock, a local radio producer. &quot;Sticking with the single-player, finishing it, and then moving on to the next game also allows me to play a wide range of titles, rather than spending all year playing the same game, just waiting for the next map-pack to freshen things up.&quot;Another big factor is alienation from the online gaming community. Multiplayer shooters particularly are dominated by young men trash talking each other, often with sexist, racist and homophobic slurs. The experiences some people have had while trying games like Call of Duty and Halo online have put them off forever.&quot;Playing with jerks is no fun,&quot; says internet cartoonist and keen gamer Jeffrey Jaques. &quot;Having a stoned college kid tell me I suck and can’t fucking shoot when I’m just learning an FPS is no fun. Being stuck at level 40 in World of Warcraft when all my friends are level 60 and don’t have time to help me catch up is no fun. Having to play any multiplayer game for 25 hours a week to remain competitive ... that&apos;s not fun, that&apos;s an unpaid part-time job.&quot;The money behind multiplayerSo if there are plenty of gamers who still want to play lone campaigns, why is game design orthodoxy moving toward shared narrative experiences? Is it just that a majority of people welcome our seamlessly connected future? Perhaps. But we shouldn&apos;t rule out the commercial imperatives.Multiplayer games are easier to monetise after release, allowing developers to sell extra downloadable content like maps to fight in, and new weapons and scenarios. They also encourage players to buy in early – because everyone wants to get good at the game as quickly as possible – which means a nice flood of upfront sales.&quot;With boxed products, I think it is because assets are so damn expensive,&quot; says industry analyst Nicholas Lovell, author of The Curve, a book on the future of the video game business. &quot;Multiplayer can keep gamers playing for a much smaller underlying cost than single player, particularly when it is narrative led. And multiplayer has viral acquisition techniques, which reduce market costs, and viral retention techniques, which keep players in your game, and not your competitors&apos;.&quot;[A focus on multiplayer] can also lead to microtransactions or other advertising revenue. It enables business to switch, as I believe nearly all businesses need to, from being volume-led (how many did I sell) to ARPU-led (how much money am I making from this customer, and do I keep satisfying this customer so he or she stays with me).&quot;The future is socialSo are we looking at the end of pure single-player experiences? Are the gamers we spoke to facing a future in which their way of interacting with games will no longer be catered for? It&apos;s unlikely. Hopefully. The recent success of The Last of Us and Grand Theft Auto V, both games that appealed mainly due to their campaign content, shows that there is still a mass market for lone narrative experiences.The growing indie sector is also supplying a steady stream of highly subjective single-player titles from Dear Esther and Gone Home to FasterThanLight, to Telltale&apos;s episodic adventures, Walking Dead and Wolf Among Us.The latter examples hint at where the traditional narrative experience is going. In Walking Dead, each instalment closes with some data on how every other player made their decisions.In the coming years, we&apos;re likely to see a new era of campaign modes, which can be played alone but are enhanced with social elements. We&apos;ll be able to record and share key moments in our adventures, and we&apos;ll have seamless online venues to talk about what we&apos;ve seen.Indeed, more titles are now using procedurally generated landscapes and narrative elements, which supply every player with unique experiences, formed on the fly just for them – games like No Man&apos;s Sky and Fortnite. Through this technology, certain games will naturally become both more insular and individual, but also more open to sharing. We will see things no one else will.&quot;Developing and supporting a multiplayer mode is expensive and not all games suit this type of play,&quot; says Piers Harding Rolls, head of games at industry analyst IHS Technology. &quot;So, actually, although all content is becoming connected, I believe the new social and community features we see – streaming via Twitch or uploading to YouTube for example – offer publishers an alternative engagement feature set beyond the multiplayer mode.&quot;I think single player games still have a strong role to play in the future.&quot;•The five most disruptive ideas in video game design•Why gaming needs its Game of Thrones moment•The identity paradox: why game characters are not us, but should be
"I wish I was that big....". Taken in Valencia's fab zoo. Photograph:moses67/GuardianWitness"Piccadilly dinosaur". A tiny toy dinosaur shot as a silhouette looking up at the lights of Piccadilly Circus. Photograph:ID5127206/GuardianWitness"Air show!" Took this shot from RAF Air show in London. Used Nikon D800. Photograph:nexteye/GuardianWitness"Pigeon in the Eye". A pigeon overlooking the London Eye. Photograph:AnitaMichalkiewicz/GuardianWitness"Helping Daddy". My son (favourite colour pink) aged around 18 months 'helping' daddy in the garden; both wellies and gardening implements on very different scales. The scales have since been rebalanced, as erstwhile small son now towers over father. Photograph:Jenny Downing/GuardianWitness"Penny Farthing race at the London Nocturne 2014". The penny farthing race was much faster than expected and an exciting race to watch as it looked like hard work . A great sight to see them all cycling together. Photograph:jshilvock/GuardianWitness"Mini St Paul's". From the Tate Modern. Scanned 35mm print. Photograph:Tim Ranson/GuardianWitness"Giant Redwood Trees in California". Taken back in 1991 I was with friends camping in Yosemite national park. Given the trees were so big it seemed only natural to compare their size against something else. I had my friend walk close to the cabin so had two comparisons to the tree size. Photograph:timandespen/GuardianWitness"Weighing kittens as hard as herding cats". Kittens in foster care being plumped up. They have to weigh at least a pound before they can be adopted. Second kitty awaits her turn to jump and purr about. Photograph:fourthplinth/GuardianWitness"Anza Borego Metal Cactus". Photograph:Jaana Lunny/GuardianWitness
Activision Blizzard is playing a high stakes game these days. The veteran video game publisher is now betting on a handful of billion dollar franchises – Call of Duty, Skylanders, Destiny and World of Warcraft – and it is betting big. There are rumours (recently denied by developer Bungie) that Destiny cost $500m to develop.Like Electronic Arts, Activision is characterised by the hardcore gaming community as an unimaginative production line of bland money-spinners; a corporate machine where innovation is outlawed.But is that how it sees itself? During the E3 conference, Simon Parkin asked Activision Publishing CEO Eric Hirschberg about the company&apos;s approach to development, and the risk of relying on these giant brands.How much creative freedom do you afford your studios?We try to make the guardrails as wide as possible. Obviously there are specific things that make a Call of Duty game feel like a Call of Duty game and Sledgehammer is well-versed in what those things are having worked on the series before.But we feel like this series has stayed relevant longer than anyone thought that it could. Therefore the need for innovation, new voices and personality is greater than ever. It was not accidental that we allowed fresh talent to come in and develop their take on the series. I told the team at the beginning that I’d prefer to have to pull them back on if they weren’t going far enough than vice versa. So they came in right at the start with some grand ideas.How do you manage when something’s too far or not?It’s more give and take. The process of evaluating the game as it goes along involves a huge number of people, including the team itself at Sledgehammer. They are very good at self-regulating in terms of what is and isn’t working in the game. That said, there’s always a conversation when you inherit an IP that brings certain expectations along with it. The balance that you’re trying to strike is between delivering what people love about the franchise, while simultaneously bringing new ideas in.As the cost of development increases your portfolio shrinks. How can you develop new types of game in this kind of economic equation?Yes, on one hand we deal in big budgets and gambles, but I don’t think there’s been any shortage of bold new ideas in terms of building the portfolio. Skylanders was not only a new IP but also an entirely new play pattern. It was something that we created and believed in. We got into kids games at a time when other publishers were exiting. It was hard to find the graph that made it a ‘no brainier’.With Destiny, the fact that it’s a Bungie-developed title helped. They have a great track record: they can make lasting franchises. That was part of the calculation for us. At the end of the day it comes down to: are we making something that people are going to want to play. It’s a hard judgement but getting it right is something we are good at.OK, but with Destiny your solution was to hire a top-flight studio to mitigate the risk. That’s not always possible so what other mechanisms do you have in order to develop new ideas?All kinds of ways. It wasn’t just a case of hiring a top-tier team. It was also the specific idea that they presented. They had a vision of combining two genres that Activision-Blizzard is known for: first person shooters and MMORPGs. Those are the company’s two biggest genres. They planned to the best bits of both and merge them together in an interesting way. That’s a big part of what got us excited. It wasn’t just that they had made Halo.It was very different from Skylanders’ gestation. That came from a small team skunk-works project. At any one time across the company there are probably fifteen similar skunk-works projects going on. We encourage those and make time for them. They are official/unofficial but great ideas come out of that process.At other times it&apos;s about bringing new talent into an existing franchise as with Advanced Warfare and asking them to make us uncomfortable, to go further in their experimentation than people might think they should.How is the rise of Spotify-style cloud gaming services going to impact Activision&apos;s business over the next few years?I don’t think the games that we are making right now are headed into that sphere. It’s an interesting thing to look at. But latency and performance are so critical to the experience of these games. Milliseconds matter. So far, for games like Call of Duty and Destiny we prefer global delivery onto the specific devices.More interesting to me is the way that people are sowing a new willingness to consume entertainment: new ways to pay for it, to pay for products. We are looking at that and learning about it, but our fundamental strategy remains straightforward: make strong content that people believe is worth paying for.What responsibility do video game creators have when drawing inspiration from real-world military technology and events?Well, our responsibility is to make an awesome game.But when you’re dealing with entertainment that’s based on conflicts that, in some cases, are historical,isn&apos;t there a responsibility to deal with the subject matter sensitively?These games are part of a long line of pop cultural institutions that have good guys and bad guys, people trying to save the world and epic heroics. I think Call of Duty fits into that well-established territory in pop culture. It’s entertainment. While yes, a lot of the creativity comes from looking at science and avant-garde ideas and developments in weapon design and military technology, at no point are we trying to make a game that is rooted in a real world conflict.Advanced Warfare is set forty-five years into the future and the bad guy isn’t a country or a government but a CEO of a company. That is a brilliant fictional leap from today’s headlines with PMCs. We are imaging the ‘what-if’ scenarios if certain forks in our future’s road were taken. So I think we do a good job of creating conflicts that feel compelling and authentic, but that are purely fictional.It’s been four years since the mass walk-out at what was Activision’s primary studio, Infinity Ward. How have you worked to ensure this kind of thing doesn’t happen again?First of all, the Infinity Ward stuff happened before I joined the company so I don’t have much insight into that. What I can say is that that in the intervening years since then we&apos;ve launched three of the best-selling games ever. We have all of the confidence in the world in our teams and they’ve earned that by putting out great titles since that event.•E3 2014: Call of Duty Advanced Warfare – the future of CoD•Destiny – how the makers of Halo plan to change the future of shooters•Skylanders Trap Team – the billion dollar series gets a new generation
Apple has denied allegations from the Chinese state broadcaster that the location-tracking function of its iPhones poses a ‘national security threat’.Appleissued a responseon its Chinese website stating that the firm has never “worked with any government agency from any country to create a backdoor in any of our products or services&quot;.“We have also never allowed access to our servers. And we never will. It’s something we feel very strongly about,” said Apple.Frequent locations could leak state secretsMa Ding, head of the online security institute at People’s Public Security University of China, reported on Friday via China Central Television – the state-owned television broadcaster – that Apple’s iPhone location functions can collect data and may result in a leak of state secrets.The iPhone’s &quot;frequent locations&quot; tracking function is used to record frequently visited locations in order to speed up applications that show a user’s location or for driving directions that avoid traffic. The function was introduced as part of the iOS 7 software update last autumn and can be turned off.Apple states that personal location information is stored solely on the smartphone and protected by a user password. The data is not shared with third parties.&apos;Apple does not track users’ locations&apos;“We appreciate CCTV’s effort to help educate customers on a topic we think is very important,” Apple said in the statement on its Chinese website. “We want to make sure all of our customers in China are clear about what we do and we don’t do when it comes to privacy and your personal data.”“Apple does not track users’ locations – Apple has never done so and has no plans to ever do so,” said the company.Apple officially began selling the iPhone in China in January through the world’s largest mobile phone carrier China Mobile, which has more than 760 million subscribers in one of the world’s fastest-growing markets.Before the China Mobile deal was struck, sales of the iPhone 5S was comprised 12% of smartphone sales in the country, sold through smaller carrier China Unicom, during October, according to data from research firm Counterpoint. China Mobilerecorded 1.2m iPhone pre-ordersbefore its release on the network, which Apple chief executive Tim Cook labelled a “watershed moment&quot;.•Smartphone sales pass 1bn as China booms•The NSA targeted China&apos;s telecom giant Huawei
The UK-based Raspberry Pi foundation released a new version of its tiny, adaptable computer on Monday, revealing a third iteration that includes USB ports for a keyboard and mouse, an Ethernet port, an SD card slot, and an HDMI port for connecting to a monitor or a TV.The Raspberry Pi Model B+ is the third iteration of the credit-card sized computer, which has sold 3m units since launch in 2012.It runs a variant of the free open-source operating system Linux, which powers many web servers and Android smartphones.More ports, smaller design, lower powerThe new board costs the same $35 (£20) as the original but has two more USB ports, bringing the total to four, a microSD card slot for memory and a neater design, which should make fitting the board into custom projects easier and Raspberry Pi cases smaller.“In the two years since we launched the current Raspberry Pi Model B, we’ve often talked about our intention to do one more hardware revision to incorporate the numerous small improvements people have been asking for,” said Raspberry Pi founder Eben Uptonin a blog post.The new board also lowers power consumption, which should make battery-powered projects easier, while improving the audio output quality and adding more possibilities for expansion with add-on hardware like cameras and microphones.More than 3m soldThe original Model B board will remain available, primarily for industry that has adopted the board for machines and other equipment, while the new B+ computer is described as “the final evolution of the original Raspberry Pi,” indicating a completely new Raspberry Pi design could be in the pipeline.The Raspberry Pi took a year to sell the first million of the small computers, but sales accelerated hitting the 2m milestone in 21 months and 3m six months later, far outselling iconic computers such as the BBC Micro and Amstrad and rapidly closing on Clive Sinclair’s Spectrum, which sold around 5m over 10 years.Raspberry Pi-founder Eben Upton displays new Raspberry Pi computer.•School computing managers warn IT equipment is not keeping step with developments like the Raspberry Pi
If there's anything guaranteed to mark you out as a hopeless geek, it's surely an interest in role-playing games. They are a perfect storm of all the "non-manly" things, a combination of "female" imagination and childish let's-pretend play with the too-clever-by-half, maths-based dice-rolling and the vague sense that games really should involve men sliding around in mud and grabbing other men's taut, muscular thighs. Not to mention that role-playing games are co-operative rather than competitive and there's never really a winner. Just imagine if that were an ethos we taught our children. I shudder to think.Let's put aside our fear of being considered not macho enough and celebrate thefifth edition of the classic tabletop role-playing gameDungeons and Dragons, which launches this year. You don't have to be intending to settle down with 20-sided dice (D20s, to get technical) to be interested in how role-playing games work. You don't even have to ever play one to learn a lot about character development from them. They might even hold the key to solving some of the  greatest technological challenges of our time.Dungeons and Dragons, first published in 1974, is the old and venerable grandaddy of a format that once looked as if it might vanish, but has been revived. This is how it works: you and a bunch of friends sit around a table. You each create a "character" by rolling dice to determine basic skills and attributes such as strength, agility, intelligence, even wealth, beauty or charm. You give your character a name. You have a think about what their characteristics might suggest about their personality.Then one person – the dungeon master – explains what kind of adventure your characters will go on. You might be going to steal something, to investigate mysterious lights in the caves, to protect a cartload of valuables through a thief-infested forest, or any scenario you've ever seen on TV or in a movie or read in a book. You tell the games master what your character is doing. You might get into a fight and have to roll dice to decide whether you've dealt a killing blow or dropped your sword on your toe. The adventure won't go the way you thought. There'll be story twists, and battles will go wrong, and you'll have to make clever split-second decisions to bring your character (to whom, by this time, you'll be quite attached) safely home. This stuff has constituted some of the most fun evenings in my life.What role-playing games do so beautifully is to provide a structure for non-writers, people who might say they're not very imaginative, to create characters. Those dice rolls, those bare-bones statistics – like the two dots and a line that suggest a face – start to encourage anyone to imagine a character. If this woman has come out through some random number generation to be physically agile, not very attractive, but skilled at thievery, how did she end up working in this library?If this man's got a lot of money, is quite bright, but is only averagely strong and catastrophically clumsy, what's he doing on an Arctic expedition? So much of storytelling is in the gaps, in allowing the imagination to work.Tabletop role-playing games translated seamlessly to video almost as soon as they were devised.Microprocessors could deal easily with the maths of deciding who had won a battle and how many hands they had chopped off. The dnd videogame appeared in 1975.Ian Livingstone– who with Steve Jackson wrote the role-playing games-with-training-wheelsFighting Fantasy Gamebooks, some of which I knew almost by heart as a child – later founded Eidos, creators of, among other things,Tomb Raider. Since the 1970s, role-playing games have been among the top-selling videogame genres, including the wildly popularDiablo II(to which I lost four months of my life in 2001-02), and the online mega-hitWorld of Warcraft.The stickiness of these games has been much discussed – and there's certainly something tremendously satisfying about the constant progress. Every time your character uses a skill, her or his stats in it increase. Unlike in real life, everything that you do, whether it succeeds or fails, improves you, and things are always getting better. I've heard role-playing games summarised as "get better trousers" games – and there's a bit of that too, an acquisitive lust for imaginary objects to improve your character. This side of things is well-parodied in the online comedy gameKingdom of Loathing. But you feel affection for the unique character you've developed – not much different to the affection I feel for my own cackhanded attempts at pottery: I love them because they're mine.Generating a character through simple algorithms and then trying to make it rounded and real enough to generate emotions is one of the big challenges in modern computing. It's the quest for artificial intelligence. Or at least the quest for something that might be artificially intelligent enough to pass the Turing test. How do humans behave, how do they come to seem real to us, what character developments are realistic and which are out of place? Role-playing games, novels, psychology and work on artificial intelligence are all trying to answer questions in this area.And that's the thing; though individual characters might be wooden, something feels real about these number-based systems for generating workable models of human beings. Perhaps it is the spread of humans you get if you keep on rolling up characters. Some have brains but no charm; some the looks but not the money. Some lucky bastards get a row of high scores. Some poor sods get nothing much in any category. And then you try to do the best with the character you've got. Role-playing games might not yet be creating imaginary characters you could confuse with real people, but they've got the fundamental unfairness of human life nailed.
We live in an age of "networks not hierarchies", Labour policy chief Jon Cruddas told the RSA earlier this month. He described a new era of partnerships and participation between the public and government, and an end to the top-down, state-driven institutions of the last century.How long this new world order takes to move from an aspiration to political reality is up for lively discussion, but acknowledging the disruption is the easy part. The Labour party was conceived, he said, in response to an era of mass production and a large and stable workforce; we are now a deindustrialised workforce shaped instead by fragmented technologies.More challenging for most organisations is encouraging a new working culture, turning a typical resistance to change into an appetite for one. How does that happen? Most organisations of any scale have multiple layers of management and hierarchies, but much further along the same fault line of deconstructed hierarchies is an alternative, 1,500 miles away in Helsinki.One experience stuck with me on my last visit, that of superstar mobile games firm Supercell. Helsinki is also home toMinecraftcreators Mojang, Grand Cru ofSupernautsfame andAngry Birdsmakers Rovio, and has a strong claim on the title of European games capital. But it's Supercell that has real fire in its belly after taking investment in October 2013 that valued it, at the time, at $3bn (£1.75bn). It now earns,according to Midia Research, $5m in revenue per day. Not bad for a company with little over 100 staff."I want to be the least powerful CEO in the world," Supercell's Ilkka Paananen said when I met him in the autumn. You might expect this in the famously egalitarian Nordic states but his point is that in the fiercely competitive games industry, Supercell has to be centred on the talent it recruits."Happier developers mean better games, so we have no vice-presidents or directors and very few management. We create the right environment for people and get out of the way," he said.Crucially, its teams are small – Paananen thinks eight to 12 people is optimum for close working relationships, creativity and communication. The model balances those small, productive teams who have creative autonomy, with a brutal data-driven assessment where games that don't make the numbers will be killed off. Every employee is sent performance targets and data every morning.Teams can scale up to 15 people as a game really takes off, to provide extra community managers for a large audience of gamers. But Paananen said even he doesn't have the authority to kill a game – and once they decide to launch a game in the usual testing ground in Canada, the power then shifts to the players. If the players don't respond well to a game, or a focus group slates it, it gets dumped.While Supercell launches new mobile app games regularly, it usually kills most of them because they don't meet their targets. That approach means not being risk averse. "If there's no risk, "says Paananen, "there's no innovation, and if there's no innovation there are no hit games."Paananen says that games is a people business (though it's hard to think of a business that isn't) but Supercell has the benefits of being a young business in a young industry, has – as one of a handful of lucky big-name companies – huge revenues, and has an obligation to attract developers who expect to be able to play. It is a games company, after all.Something else Paananen said stuck with me too: about empowering those creative people. "I'd give all the power to the creative geniuses, put creative people front and centre and give them permission to fail." And creativity doesn't have to mean artistic people, but those in the business that are often best-equipped to meet change with imagination and resilience. The best strategy is not always the one that appears to have the most solid return on investment. Small teams, data-focused targets, experimentation, no middle management – it's a bold legacy business that takes on that model. And it's very far from the abstract concepts of the new social structures with which politicians are grappling. But there are visionary people urging us to rethink our place in a networked world.The internet, Cruddas said, "can be used to rebalance power between citizens and the market, and between citizens and the state".Labour, he says, will "share more power with people" – though in the times of networks over hierarchies, is it really Labour's power to share?
It&apos;s been 20 years since Namco first launched its seminal fighting game series into Japanese arcades – now it has announced a seventh instalment.Revealed at the Evo 2014 tournament in Las Vegas on Sunday, the new Tekken 7 will once again revolve around the endlessly bickering Mishima family. Father Heihachi, son Kazuya and grand son Jin have been pummeling each other throughout the tortuously complex narrative that surrounds the game&apos;s King of the Iron Fist Tournament setting.Judging by the short teaser, Heihachi&apos;s wife and Kazuya&apos;s mother, Kazumi Mishima, has returned from the dead to defeat her evil husband. Or it could be Jun, mother of Jin, who was apparently killed during Tekken 3, spurring Jin&apos;s own homicidal quest for revenge. We then see Heihachi and Kazuya (or maybe Jin) squaring up to each other possibly on the edge of a volcano, as the latter snarls: &quot;You killed my mother.&quot;The sequence ends with the worlds &quot;final battle&quot;.So, does this mean the end of the fight between the Mishimas, the end of the Iron Fist Tournament, or the end of Tekken itself? Namco, of course, isn&apos;t saying.Certainly, for the last 20 years, this extravagant series has been one of the key fighting game franchises, bringing 3D polygonal graphics to the genre, and battling it out against Sega&apos;s more complex Virtua Fighter series.With its outlandish characters, intuitive controls and slick visuals, the first three Tekken titles were vitally important in the early years of the PlayStation when Namco was bringing its hit arcade titles exclusively to Sony&apos;s console.No platforms or release dates have been revealed, although series producer Katsuhiro Harada has confirmed that the title will use Epic Games&apos; Unreal Engine 4, a new multi-platform technology also being employed in Fable: Legends, Grasshopper Manufacture&apos;s forthcoming brawler Let It Die, and Epic&apos;s own procedurally generated shooter Fortnite.“With Unreal Engine 4, we could rapidly achieve visual quality expected on next-gen platform and go beyond it,&quot; said Harada. &quot;Not only is Unreal Engine 4 powerful and easy to use, but it allows us to immediately bring Tekken 7 to any platform we desire.”Although mainstream interest in fighting games has waned since the glory days of the 90s, the later Street Fighter and Tekken titles have continued to review well, and have a large following.With their complex character animations and stupendous &quot;special move&quot; effects they also provide excellent showcases for new console hardware – so whether or not gamers still want to smash each other with Fisherman&apos;s slams and idiot kick flips, Tekken 7 may well provide a fascinating graphical workout for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.•Tekken over – Japan&apos;s gaming future•Street Fighter X Tekken – review
THE GOALMy posture has been terrible for as long as I can remember. As a child, my parents would constantly tell me to sit or stand up straight and as an adult, a pilates instructor friend informed me that my bad posture is due to a weak "core".Her tip, which years later comes hurtling back whenever I catch my slumped reflection in a shop window, is to imagine I'm gripping a satsuma under each armpit. It works for a bit, but then I forget. A desk-bound job doesn't help matters, so I have all my hopes pinned to theLumo Back BodyTech. I want to learn to stand tall.THE METHODAn elasticised belt with a sensor attached communicates wirelessly with an iOS app. The Lumo Back BodyTech promisingly bills itself as the "world's most advanced biochemical model of pelvic tilt and core body movement".This basically means that it picks up on your slightest movements. If you slouch, the sensor vibrates, alerting you to sit or stand straight. The belt goes under my clothes with the sensor on the small of my back, and I get things started by calibrating the sensor.The Lumo adapts to individual users' body types so the calibration stage is crucial. Once it's ready to go, it zaps me each time it senses I've slumped a little. For the first two days, it vibrates well over 100 times. The app keeps track of my movements, giving a "Total Straight Time" and "Total Slouch Time" score every day, week or month so I can keep an eye on how I'm doing.There's also a little pedometer, so you can see how much walking you do. I end the first two days using more "zap time" (my term) than "straight time".By the third day, the vibrations ease a little. Tracking my progress on the app keeps me going.THE VERDICTThis is a great idea in theory, and the technology used is impressive, if a little too sensitive - the slightest move equals a zap and is quite a distraction. I wore it for five days. It has made a difference.A week later, I'm more aware of my posture. Every time I look at the belt – now in its box on my desk along with a satsuma – I de-slouch, so annoying were the constant vibrations.
US startup Rap Genius made its name with a website for hip-hop fans to explain the lyrics of their favourite tracks, before expanding to provide similarly-crowdsourced annotations for poetry, rock songs and news stories.Now the company has raised $40m in funding to fuel further expansion into pop music, history, literature, sports, television and films, rebranding itself as Genius to match its wider focus.In a blog post, co-foundersIlan Zechory and Tom Lehman describe the move as inevitable. &quot;Any text can be as layered, as allusive and cryptic, as worthy of careful exegesis as rap lyrics,&quot; they wrote, as the funding was announced.&quot;Furthermore, it’s simply not possible to create a website that annotates rap alone, just as it’s not possible to create a website that annotates any individual slice of human culture—because no slice of human culture stands on its own.&quot;The funding round included venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, which had led a $15m round for Rap Genius in 2012. Financial mogul Dan Gilbert also chipped in to the new round, in a busy week that also includedre-signing US basketball star LeBron Jamesto his Cleveland Cavaliers team.Alongside the new funding, Genius unveiled plans to launch tools to embed its technology on other sites, which Zechory and Lehman said &quot;will allow anyone to make their website annotatable&quot;.Raising more money was essential for more than just new subjects and tools. In the last year, Genius has been signing licensing deals with music publishers for the rights to carry their lyrics on its site, agreeing to pay them royalties.As Rap Genius, the site toppeda list compiled for US trade body the National Music Publishers Association(NMPA) in November 2013 of websites engaged in &quot;blatant illegal behaviour&quot; by publishing copyrighted lyrics without licensing deals.Rap Genius reached a settlement with the NMPAin May 2014, and has also signed deals with major publishers Warner/Chappell, Universal Music and Sony/ATV.$40m of new funding will help the company pay those royalties, while figuring out how best to make money from its large audience on the web, and in itsrecently-launched iPhone app.It remains to be seen what Apple makes of the company&apos;s rebranding as Genius, given that its own iTunes store&apos;s tool for recommending music, apps and other purchases to customers is also called Genius.The company&apos;s expansion shows its grand ambitions. &quot;&apos;Genius&apos; is the term you should add to your Google searches whenever you’re looking for deeper meaning and context,&quot; wrote its co-founders as the news was announced.&quot;Genius is the verb you can use to describe looking something up on Genius or decoding something in general... We believe that an Internet that is Genius-powered will help us all realise the richness and depth in every line of text.&quot;As Rap Genius, the company courted controversy several times. In December 2013, itclashed with Google over its approach to search engine optimisation(SEO).The site was demoted in Google&apos;s search-engine rankings and lost up to 80% of its daily traffic over Christmas, but afteradmitting to SEO practices that were &quot;more or less totally debauched&quot;and changing its ways, the ranking was restored.In May 2014,the site&apos;s third co-founder Mahbod Moghadam resignedafter fierce criticism of his annotations of a manifesto, published online by Elliot Rodger before hekilled six people in California that month.Moghadam described the manifesto as &quot;beautifully written&quot; and guessed that Rodger&apos;s sister must be &quot;smokin hot&quot;, and despite apologising publicly, was forced to resign as Lehman criticised his &quot;gleeful insensitivity and misogyny&quot;.•&apos;We&apos;re trying to make Rap Genius into Everything Genius&apos;
Musician Neil Young is now also a technology CEO, after taking the reins at PonoMusic, the high-definition digital music company that raised $6.2m on crowdfunding site Kickstarter earlier in 2014.Young founded the company, but until recently its chief executive was veteran tech executive John Hamm, one of its investors. Now Young is replacing him ahead of the company&apos;s commercial launch later in the year.Young helped to persuademore than 18,000 people to back PonoMusic&apos;s Kickstarterin March. The company is making a portable digital music player called PonoPlayer, as well as an online store that will sell music downloads at a higher resolution than rivals like Apple&apos;s iTunes.&quot;PonoMusic has been a mission of mine for many, many years, and I’m more passionate than ever about the prospects for its success,&quot; said Young ina statement posted as an update on Kickstarter.&quot;I want to use my time and abilities to bring the fullness of music, as the artists created it, to as many music fans as possible.&quot;Young is building a team of trusted executives around him ahead of PonoMusic&apos;s full launch, with the first PonoPlayers due to ship in October.PonoMusic is working with British music technology firm Omnifone on its store, which the latter company says will launch in the US, UK and Canada by the end of 2014. Albums are expected to cost between $15 and $25 on the store.Young has appointed longtime adviser Rick Cohen as chief operating officer, and music producer Bruce Botnick as head of content acquisition, in charge of signing deals with music labels to add their albums to the PonoMusic store.Former Apple exec Phil Baker, who led teams working on its PowerBook computers and the second-generation Newton tablet between 1994 and 1997, is PonoMusic&apos;s vice president of product development and operations.The Pono music player. Photograph: Franz Krachtus/APSome Kickstarter backers have expressed concern at the timing of the changes, as well as Young&apos;s new role.&quot;I&apos;m a great admirer of Neil Young, but it&apos;s a matter of record that we backed a company with him as its creative visionary, not its CEO,&quot; wrote one, in a comment on the company&apos;s update.&quot;I undoubtedly love Neil and know he&apos;s a smart guy, but I am concerned 1) whether his very hectic music career will allow him the proper time to serve as the CEO and 2) whether he has the professional experience to properly serve as the CEO of a corporation,&quot; wrote another.With the promotional campaign out of the way for Young&apos;s most recent album,A Letter Home, time commitments may be less of a concern than the second question, which besides covering the launch of PonoMusic&apos;s hardware and store, also relates to the company&apos;s ability to raise more funding from traditional investors if required.•Kickstarter&apos;s biggest hits: why crowdfunding now sets the trends
THE GOALI hate housework. Who doesn't? Some say they find ironing and washing up therapeutic, but there can't be anyone who seriously looks forward to rolling up their sleeves and actually doing it. And it's disturbing how much dust and detritus can accumulate in a few days, especially under the kitchen table: quite embarrassing if people pop in unexpectedly. So imagine my delight at meetingRoomba, a robot that promises to liberate me from hoovering for ever, by cleaning the floors by itself.THE METHODRoomba is a cute-looking machine, shaped like an ice-hockey puck, which charges up at its minimalist docking station. Introduced more than a decade ago, to lukewarm reviews, the manufacturers claim it has reached the tipping point into the mainstream. You plug it in, set the date and time and programme it to do the housework when it suits you. Driven by an algorithm that sends it trundling across every inch of the floor, it goes from room to room and returns to its docking station when finished. It comes with two slim pillars, which emit an infrared beam that acts like a virtual wall, so you can fence off areas you don't want cleaned or prevent the Roomba from knocking into pet bowls or valued posessions on the floorIt's loud and slow, but who cares? You don't need to be there when it is hoovering and it could free up hours of your time every week.THE VERDICTiRobot Roomba Photograph: Gary SloanRoomba is simple to programme and pleasingly effective. When it comes up against a bit of dirt, it focuses on it, swivelling around until it digests the problem. A small twirling brush pushes the dirt into two rotors that never seem to clog up with hair and dust. Why? They have no bristles. The robot beeps when it's bin is full and when I went to empty it there was a gratifyingly large clump of cat hair and dust inside. If anything, it is perhaps too powerful. On day two it started emitting the most alarming rattling sound, which turned out to be caused by a magnetic dart from a children's game. The worst drawback is that it can't see what's in its path or assess if hoovering is the best way to clean the mess that confronts it. I left it running in the living room with all the doors closed, not realising that one of the cats was in there. Pussy needed her litter tray but, unable to access it, pooped on the floor. The Roomba trundled on, smearing the poop everywhere, including over its own underbelly. Gross.Despite this, would I like to own one? Yes, yes, and yes. Roomba doesn't get you out of vacuuming altogether because it can't manage stairs and, being round, finds it hard to get into corners. But it does the hardest bits of the job – and a handheld dustbuster could everything else.Is it worth the money? At £649 for the basic model, it's expensive. But hoovering the entire house could take up at least three hours of my time every week, maybe more. Over a year, that's 156&nbsp;hours, or more than six days. Pricing my time at £10 an hour means the Roomba could save me more than £900 a year. What's not to like?
