As a computer dummy, I cannot follow the directions to move My Documents from disk C: to D: on Windows XP. How do I find D?Ron MartinA lot of laptops ship with the hard drive divided into two or probably three partitions, including a hidden "recovery" partition. Windows uses the C: drive for all programs and data, unless you tell it something different. As a result, C: fills up while the D: drive remains empty. Moving the special My Documents folder – along with its special subdirectories – is one way to do this. It's not the approach I prefer, but I'll talk you through the process for Windows XP.1. Run Windows Explorer, go to the left-hand pane, and select My Computer. You should now be able to see all your hard disk drives and any optical drives (Blu-ray, DVD or CD-Rom) in the right-hand pane.2. Double-click the D: drive icon to open that drive, and create a folder called 'documents' (or 'my documents', or whatever). You can either do this via the File menu, or by right-clicking in the right-hand pane and selecting New then Folder from the drop-down menu. Type in the folder name you have chosen (eg Documents) and press Return/Enter.3. Click in the left-hand pane, and select Desktop, the top entry in the list. Now, the top entry in the right-hand pane is My Documents, the folder you want to move. Right-click on My Documents to get a drop-down menu and select the bottom item, Properties. This opens a properties sheet called My Documents Properties.4. Click the button marked Move. This will bring up a dialogue box headed "Select a destination". Click the plus sign (+) next to My Computer to show all your drives, then click the + for the D: drive, select your new folder (such as D:\Documents) and click OK. This should move your files. It may take a while.Windows 7 works in a similar way except that Documents Properties has half a dozen tabs. You have to click the Location tab to find the Move button.Create a file structureThe problem with My Documents is that it starts with a number of subfolders (My Pictures, My Stationery, My Videos) and you will probably add many more. If you happen to save complete web pages, each one will create its own subfolder, so the system can soon become unwieldy.The idea behind having all your personal files in one folder is that it's easier to back up. However, if you take a lot of photos and use My Documents to store music and music, it can become very large. Separate folders may become too large to back up to CD or even DVD. I prefer to use My Documents as a receiving and holding area, and move data from My Documents to a more structured set of folders on the D: drive.For example, you can set up a series of folders on D: called audio files, documents, downloads, graphics, music, my photos, my videos, photos, spreadsheets, videos, web pages, work and so on, depending on the kinds of files you create or save. Each folder can all have several subdirectories. For example, the music folder might have subdirectories for classical, jazz, pop, and so on, and each directory can have its own subdirectories. Finally, each album is stored in its own folder at the bottom of the tree.Note that if you right-click on any folder, select Properties and click the Customize tab, you can customise a folder to hold a particular type of file. The options include pictures, photo album and music artist – see the screen grab below.In general, a folder should hold between a dozen and about 250 files. If a folder has more than 500 files, I usually look for a way to subdivide it. Windows Explorer lets you order things in different ways, which makes this easier than it sounds.For example, if you go to the My Documents folder and click on the Type heading, it will sort the files by type. This will probably include bitmap, jpeg and other images, HTML documents (web pages), Microsoft Office files, PDF files, text documents, zip archives and so on. This allows you to select all the HTML and MHTML files and move them to their own directory. (Their subdirectories will move along with them.)Clicking on the Date Modified heading will sort files by age, so you could select all the Word documents created in 2009, 2010 and so on and put those in separate directories. Right-clicking on the title bar will also allow you to add other fields to sort, including author (for documents), album title (for music) and camera model (for photos).Of course, you can also select groups of files by using the search function. Press F3 and you can select files with certain words in the file name or contents. This is very handy if you have previously made good use of long file names.No doubt there will be a few subdirectories that you use a lot. If so, add them to the favorites list in Windows Explorer. In XP, I moved the My Computer entry to the top of the list of favourites for quick access, with an Ask Jack folder at the top of the list. That could link directly to something like D:\My Work\Guardian\AskJack\2013 (it doesn't quite). The trick is to create files in situ (eg File New, name it, double-click it to run Word) so you don't have to file them later.Programs and librariesNote that some Windows files are not so easy to move. When you install a program, for example, it registers the location of some files in the Windows registry, so if you move the program, you'll break the links and it will stop working. You should also be wary of moving photos and music files if you use album software to organise and possibly annotate them. This includes Apple's iTunes. You can always recreate a library, but you may well lose metadata such as ratings and access records (how often you played a song).Apple has a support document:iTunes for Windows: moving your iTunes media folder.I know this is old-fashioned: well, I've been doing it for decades. The modern idea is that users shouldn't even know they have any files, let alone know what kind of files they have, or where they are stored. Your stuff gets tipped into a giant slopbucket, with a few folders/tags if you're lucky, and you use search to find things. However, this works badly when you have hundreds or even thousands of very similar files, which I do, and when you want to process them in batches, which I also do.In the long run, it's better to start with a structured approach than to try to sort out the slopbucket when it becomes unmanageable.
A penchant for Japanese RPGs – known universally as JRPGs – is one of the classic indicators of someone whose self-image paints them as a hardcore, committed gamer. The JRPG is the genre that just won't die: characterised by lush, anime-inspired visuals allied to turn-based battling, it ought to be seen as antediluvian in this age of full-action RPGs like the Elder Scrolls series. But when the likes of Ni no Kuni continue to arrive, even in the 21st century, you can see why the JRPG persists.Ni no Kuni certainly has impeccable credentials: its graphics were created by Studio Ghibli, the outfit behind some of the best and most popular anime feature films ever (2001's Spirited Away, for example, grossed over $270m). While they are jaw-droppingly beautiful, though, they initially give a slightly false impression of the game, as they're certainly kid-friendly. Ni no Kuni puts you in control of Oliver, a young boy from a town called Motorville, whose mother dies after rescuing him from drowning. His tears fall on his favourite soft toy, lifting a curse, and it turns into Mr Drippy, self-styled Lord High Lord of the Fairies, who spirits him away to the fantasy land of Ni no Kuni, where the pair embark on a quest to defeat the evil Shadar, who looms malevolently over the otherwise idyllic land.So far, you might think, so cutesy. But one of Ni no Kuni's most impressive aspects is that, while it is constantly enchanting, it never, for a moment, descends  into mawkishness. Most of the credit for that goes to Mr Drippy. Possibly the most Welsh character ever to appear in a videogame, he's a constant fount of the sort of wisecracks and buffoonery that will appeal to kids and adults alike.Ni no Kuni's gameplay helps in that regard, too. While it keeps things simpler than the average JRPG (the Final Fantasy series, in particular, would do well to copy its battling system), it preserves plenty of depth and demands a tactical approach without ever confusing you. Oliver acquires a menagerie of familiars with different skills, which can be swapped around on the fly in battle, according to the strength and weaknesses of the enemies and bosses you come up against. And it achieves a very happy medium between turn-based and action: you have to move around constantly in battles, picking up orbs that replenish your hit points and magic and avoiding incoming attacks. Very occasionally you acquire gold orbs, which fully refresh your attributes and let you unleash a super-powerful attack.Once you hit a certain stage in the game, you acquire a companion, too, at which point the battle system develops even more depth and subtlety (you can use her, for example, to heal you while she deploys the most suitable familiar in either party's armoury), still without drowning in complexity.Ni no Kuni is by no means merely about battling. Oliver learns a battery of spells, which must be used to solve puzzles as well as in battle. There are towns in which you can buy helpful items and pursue side-quests at your leisure. Often, you have to return to Motorville, in order to sort out problems that occur in Ni no Kuni. And the storyline ebbs, flows and evolves brilliantly.Ni no Kuni, in other words, is a full-blown, grown-up RPG (never mind having all the trappings of a JRPG) in which you can immerse yourself for ages, and which will fully test the skills of any RPG devotee. Don't be fooled by its wide-eyed, naive appearance: even those who routinely deride JRPGs at the expense of their Western equivalent will find it a revelation. And it delivers a welcome slab of one-upmanship to PlayStation 3 owners.
When I was 12, I spent a lot of my Saturday afternoons hanging out in the Stockport branch of Debenhams – and already you know this isn't going to be a story about how cool I was as a child. I was there because this ugly old department store had a little computer section where you could buy – but much more importantly,play– the latest Commodore 64 and Spectrum titles. I would spend many happy hours testing the likes of Sabrewulf, Mercenary and Paradroid while the rest of my family were elsewhere buying, oh I don't know, legwarmers? Pinstripe jeans? This was the 80s, it was a weird time.I'm recalling this now because of the collapse of HMV and the ramifications this may have for entertainment retailing. Obviously, the tragedy is that 4,000 employees are facing redundancy, but beside that, a lot of the narrative has been dictated by music lovers, reminiscing over the old days of meeting friends in noisy stores, browsing vinyl records, and discovering new artists. Somewhat overlooked at times is the fact that HMV also sold video games and its possible demise will rob huge numbers of people of the opportunity to buy and browse games in their local high street. After all, specialist retailer Game almost collapsed last year and survives now with a far reduced chain of stores. As for the independents – I recently emailed Matt Martin, editor of Gamesindustry.biz to ask him if he knew of any indie game shop owners I could speak to for a feature I was writing. "There are no retailers left, Keith," was his stark reply.There are, of course, a few determined survivors, littered here and there. But while small book and music stores have managed to maintain a presence, trading on the romance and cultural prestige of their goods, game shops are disappearing fast. There are, after all, plenty of old music lovers who spin misty-eyed yarns about buying the latest Bowie or Cure album and then obsessively reading and re-reading the sleeve notes, and they can be reasonably confident that their peers will nod sagely. We all understand that music is important, we get it that books and records are artifacts of great tactile and design beauty. And true enough, people have been nodding sagely all this week as bloggers and journos have lined up to bemoan the death of the record store. Ironically, many readers peruse these stories on their iPhones; the very vessel of the digital audio revolution.What of games? Who cares, right? I mean, what difference does it make, buying these cold technological playthings on Amazon rather than on the high street?And yet, game shopping is just as social, just as resonant, as searching for books or albums. I didn't have many friends at school, but a small band of geeks would pool our resources, meet in Stockport and play the latest games. It was important that we all bought different titles so that we could swap and share; the big releases were usually priced at around a tenner back then, and I got two pounds a week pocket money – maximising my exposure to masterworks from companies like Beyond, Gremlin, Ocean and US Gold meant taking a collective approach to buying decisions. It was a serious business.And then on the bus home, I wasn't ogling the latest Smiths album cover with an expectant yearning for Morrissey's latest works of miserablist wisdom, I was reading the instructions to Lords of Midnight or Elite. I can remember once buying the brilliant beat-'em-up Way of the Exploding fist while my family and I were staying with an elderly relative in Bradford. It was one of the first fighting games to feature an extensive range of different moves and I spent the three days of our visit engrossed in the wad-like instruction book, memorising leg sweeps and flying kicks. To be so far away from my computer, from the chance to load this thing up and play it, was tortuous.Lots of my contemporaries in the games industry recall the game-buying experience of the 80s and 90s. They remember hanging out in cramped, untidy stores, chatting with staff, poring over import copies of Japanese games mags such as Famitsu, ordering in hugely expensive import cartridges for exotic consoles such as the PC Engine and FM Towns Marty. The rarity, the exclusivity, the ritual – it was there for games retail as it was for music.HMV made intermittent attempts to revive those days. Several of its stores had game demo areas with large screens and multiple consoles. Its famous store on Oxford Street held launch events for major titles – that sense of ceremony and a shared passion, lingering on into the digital era. I went to a few of these and enjoyed the atmosphere, the camaraderie, of a shared passion. The surviving Game stores will no doubt carry this fading torch of spontaneous retail excitement.But mostly we buy games online and in supermarkets, and many will not miss HMV, with its haphazard pricing, poor back catalogue and over-reliance on used titles. I wonder though if anything else can emerge from the ashes of major chain store retailing. I'm convinced independent stockists of books, music and DVDs will find ways to attract customers who want a more pleasant personable buying environment, who want to browse and be seen browsing in cool little indie stores with plump armchairs and coffee on tap.Games buying has always been different, the atmosphere of the best stores, more seedy, more secretive; much more like comic shops. I'm not sure the experience can be repackaged and resold as retail theatre. I hope it can.Because there are still kids like me, or kids like the one I was, awkward but bright and enthusiastic, whose social lifeline may be games. You can do that stuff online now, and in some ways that is the beauty of the internet: the ability to play against anyone, anywhere. However, to be in a physical space with your friends and rivals, to be surrounded by shelves filled with games, the little plastic boxes and paper instruction manuals; the excitement of a new demo, there in the store, on a big CRT television – that was an experience as rich and memorable as flicking through 12in records. If we are to get misty eyed over a retail business we all helped to see off, at least let us understand that games were there too.I still have that copy of Way of the Exploding Fist, bought in a computer store in Bradford in 1985. The clear sleeve around the box is torn and held together by yellowing sellotape; the cassette label is worn, the instructions smeared and tattered. It is a relic, like any much-loved LP, of a moment long ago and of the boy who bought it and played it, and of the boys who shared it with me.
The US attorney accused of hounding internet activist Aaron Swartz to his death has responded by saying that her office's actions were "appropriate", and that she had only been seeking a six-month sentence in "a low-security setting" rather than the 30 years' jail that his actions might have attracted.Carmen M Ortiz, the federal prosecutor for Massachusetts, defended her actions, said her office acted reasonably and had recognised that Swartz wasn't trying to gain financially from his actions.Ortiz has come under sustained pressure since Swartz, 26, was found dead less than a week ago. She has been described as a "bully" after the death of the activist and co-founder of Reddit caused an outpouring of grief online – an online petition at the White House calling for her removal from office attracted more than 25,000 signatures.The backlash from what has been seen as an insensitive approach to a case, in which nobody lost money and no complaints were raised, could damage any further political ambitions she might hold.Swartz's parents reacted furiously, accusing prosecutors of being over-zealous, while Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat representing part of Silicon Valley, says she willtry to narrow the scope of the law under which Swartz was prosecuted. Though Swartz's lawyers were trying to work out a plea bargain before his death, a key sticking point was apparently that the prosecutor was insisting on a jail term of some kind.Swartz, 26, was found dead at his home in Brooklyn on January 11, apparently having committed suicide after repeated failure to get the charges brought by Ortiz dropped or reduced. He was accused of using the computer network at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to download about 4m academic articles from the JSTOR database, with the intention of redistributing them for free. JSTOR did not object to his actions, but Swartz was arrested and charged in January 2011 with a number of offences including wire fraud and computer fraud, which in the US attract significant penalties.Ortiz, the federal prosecutor who led the case against Swartz, said in a statement on Wednesday evening that she extended her "heartfelt sympathy to everyone who knew and loved this young man", and that as a parent and a sister "I can only imagine the pain felt by the family and friends".But she insisted that her office "took on the difficult task of enforcing a law they had taken an oath to uphold, and did so reasonably". In the statement, she accepts that "there was no evidence against Mr Swartz indicating that he committed his acts for personal financial gain, and they recognised that his conduct – while a violation of the law – did not warrant the severe punishments authorised by Congress and called for by the Sentencing Guidelines in appropriate cases. That is why in the discussions with his counsel about a resolution of the case this office sought an appropriate sentence that matched the alleged conduct – a sentence that we would recommend to the judge of six months in a low security setting."Swartz's lawyer could have called for probation, she noted, but warned too that "ultimately, any sentence imposed would have been up to the judge".That is at odds with the position frequently put forward by Ortiz herself, who said after Swartz was charged in July 2011 that "stealing is stealing, whether you use a computer command or a crowbar, and whether you take documents, data or dollars."Swartz apparently sought to redistribute the papers online because he objected to the principle by which JSTOR paid publishers rather than the papers' authors. JSTOR said publicly that it would not seek to bring any civil charges against him, and shortly before his death announced that it would make about 4.5m of its articles available online for free.Ortiz's statement reads: "As a parent and a sister, I can only imagine the pain felt by the family and friends of Aaron Swartz, and I want to extend my heartfelt sympathy to everyone who knew and loved this young man. I know that there is little I can say to abate the anger felt by those who believe that this office's prosecution of Mr Swartz was unwarranted and somehow led to the tragic result of him taking his own life."I must, however, make clear that this office's conduct was appropriate in bringing and handling this case. The career prosecutors handling this matter took on the difficult task of enforcing a law they had taken an oath to uphold, and did so reasonably."The prosecutors recognised that there was no evidence against Mr Swartz indicating that he committed his acts for personal financial gain, and they recognised that his conduct, while a violation of the law, did not warrant the severe punishments authorised by Congress and called for by the Sentencing Guidelines in appropriate cases. That is why in the discussions with his counsel about a resolution of the case this office sought an appropriate sentence that matched the alleged conduct — a sentence that we would recommend to the judge of six months in a low security setting. While at the same time, his defense counsel would have been free to recommend a sentence of probation. Ultimately, any sentence imposed would have been up to the judge. At no time did this office ever seek – or ever tell Mr Swartz's attorneys that it intended to seek – maximum penalties under the law."As federal prosecutors, our mission includes protecting the use of computers and the internet by enforcing the law as fairly and responsibly as possible. We strive to do our best to fulfill this mission every day."
This week on Tech Weekly Charles Arthur, the Guardian's technology editor and telecoms correspondent Juliette Garside discuss how the sale of the UK's 4G spectrum will take place, what it might net the exchequer and what it will mean for customers.Also Jemima Kiss, the Guardian's digital correspondent talks to Mike Bracken, executive director of digital for the Cabinet Office, to discuss theirSprint 13workshop taking place on January 21, 2013, and why the UK is leading the way in best digital practice for the delivery of government services.We also have a tech news round-up and the music featured in this edition is byKristor Moberg aka DJ Crizz.
The release ofTemple Run 2is big news in the mobile gaming world, not least because developer Imangi Studios managed to keep it a secret Bowie-style right up until its release on the New Zealand App Store.With more than 170m iOS and Android downloads of the previous game and its Temple Run: Brave spin-off, Temple Run is one of the breakout mobile gaming brands to have reached a mainstream audience, alongside Angry Birds, Cut the Rope and Fruit Ninja.The first game was released in August 2011 as a 69p iOS title, but a switch to freemium the following month lit a fire that still burns bright: Temple Run wasdownloaded 2.5m timeson Christmas Day 2012 alone. The sequel has been in development since March 2012, though."We'd been focusing all our company's efforts on Temple Run with updates and new content, but we kinda ran into a barrier," explains Keith Shepherd, who co-founded Imangi with his partner Natalia Luckyanova."The original is an awesome game, for what it was, but we wanted to do some radically different things, and improve the graphics, so we knew we'd have to start afresh. Take a step back and rewrite the game from scratch, taking the lessons on what worked well and what didn't work so well in Temple Run."Developed on the Unity platform, the new game's visual leap forward is obvious, right from the first five seconds when players whizz down a zipline in a lush 3D world.Shepherd said Imangi worked hard to keep Temple Run's familiar swipe-based controls intact, as players turn, jump and slide their way through the game. Which is not to say Temple Run 2 is a pure rehash."If the tilts and touches and swipes are the language of the game, we wanted to expand on the vocabulary: to have more things you can do with those actions, says Shepherd.Hence the zipline, and a later section where you leap into a minecart and race along a track tilting to steer clear of dead-ends. Other new features include a different power-up for each playable character so their differences are not just cosmetic.IAP strategyImangi also put a lot of thought into how to make money from Temple Run 2, based on lessons learned from the first game. This time round, there are two virtual currencies – coins and gems – which can be both earned through play and bought using in-app purchases."In Temple Run, you earned things at a reasonable pace: it was really generous with how many coins were distributed on the path, and that resonated well with fans because we weren't trying to nickel-and-dime them every step of the way," says Shepherd."That helped it spread, because people thought 'this is great, it feels free'. And it got so popular, the small percentage of folks who actually buy stuff ended up being significant for us. We wanted to keep that feel in the second one."Buying coins speeds up the process of unlocking new charactersSplitting the in-app purchases into gems and coins has given Imangi a bit more flexibility though: coins are still dished out generously and unlock new characters and power-ups, while gems are rarer and used for consumables, like restarting from the point a player died at or augmenting those power-ups."Having something a little bit slower-paced helps balance the game out a little bit more," says Shepherd.Imangi Studios is still a small, independent developer. Temple Run was the work of a three-person team: Shepherd, Luckyanova and artist Kiril Tchangov. The sequel was made by five people: that trio plus Jeff Ruediger and Pete Parisi from FuzzyCube Software.Shepherd admits that Imangi has fielded plenty of interest from investors keen to inject funding to beef the company up, but it has declined the offers."What's important to Natalia and I, and the folks on our team, is that we really enjoy making games and the creative aspect of what we do. If we really tried to blow this up and make it the biggest thing possible, we'd be more removed from that," he says."We've been very successful as a small team: we're highly profitable, can fund what we're doing, and we don't have to answer to investors. Our goal isn't to grow this thing as big as possible then sell to someone else. Our goal is to build something that lasts for the long term."Does that mean Imangi Studios focuses entirely on Temple Run from now on? Or does the firm intend to use the popularity of that franchise to try to break other own-IP games, as Cut the Rope developer ZeptoLab is doing with Pudding Monsters, or asRovio tried to do with Amazing Alex?"We've really focused all of our efforts around Temple Run in the last year and a half, and there's a little bit of a tradeoff: being small, we don't have a lot of things going on in parallel," says Shepherd."I would love to work on some new things, we have some ideas. But we also feel a real sense of responsibility to all the fans out there. They're the reason we've been so successful, and if they want more Temple Run, let's give them more Temple Run! But there is something to be said for also doing something completely new once in a while…"Developer as brand-ownerThat mention of responsibility does highlight one big change for Imangi: it's now the owner of a big, global entertainment brand, despite remaining a small company. There aren't so many case studies of small developer as brand-owner on this scale, so Imangi has had to grow into the role through experimentation.For example, the company was badgered by potential licensors for several months last year wanting to make t-shirts, toys and other merchandise. Shepherd admits that for a while, he and Luckyanova tried to ignore them."We don't know anything about that stuff, so let's focus on what we do best. But it became apparent that it wasn't going away, and everyone's seen how amazingly Angry Birds has merchandised, so we started to think we were being really silly in ignoring this stuff," says Shepherd.Imangi chose to partner with San Francisco firmDimensional Branding Groupto help it venture into the licensing market. There is now an official online store run by CafePress selling clothing, mugs, wallets, iPad and Kindle sleeves and even shower curtains.Separately, there are deals for branded card and board games, arcade machines and other products. Meanwhile, a partnership with Disney saw the release of Temple Run Brave on iOS, based on the animated film Brave.Oh, and comics. The officialTemple Run comics, published byApe Entertainment– which has similar deals for mobile games including Pocket God, Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope – might just be the most interesting spin-off from Imangi's games.The Temple Run comics flesh out the game's world and charactersPublished as print and digital issues, they show the potential to create stories from the Temple Run world, in the same way that Rovio's work on animated shorts has shown similar possibilities for Angry Birds."When we developed the first game, we had the sense that 'this is the game, the world and maybe some characters', but we didn't really have a big opportunity to flesh all of that out," says Shepherd."Working on the comic book gave us a great opportunity to explore all that in more detail. Ape Entertainment are a fantastic company too: they get the digital side of things as well as doing print. We have the first four issues out so far and it's been doing really well. We have a bunch more coming down the pipe."In the meantime, Imangi is focusing on Temple Run 2, and not just on iOS. While Apple got first bite of the new game, the Android version is due to be released on Thursday 24 January, just a week later."We really wanted to try and do a simultaneous release, but being a small team I feel that the iOS launch is overwhelming enough! Let's give ourselves one more week to iron out any problems we haven't spotted," says Shepherd.A week's delay is at least better than the gap between the iOS and Android versions of the first game, which although it was only four months, felt like a lifetime for Android users champing at the bit to play the game as it blew up on iOS.Shepherd talks about iOS as having "always been our home and where we're most comfortable", but he also stresses how important Android is to Temple Run, with downloads from the Google Play store well past the 50m mark."We designed Temple Run 2 from the get-go to be cross-platform, and using the Unity technology and engine really helped us with that. We are excited about launching on Android next week," he says.And elsewhere? Unity is pretty handy for taking games beyond iOS and Android too, and Shepherd says Imangi is keen to take advantage of that with the new game."It's pretty easy to do a desktop build, and that's something we're going to explore a little bit more with Temple Run 2," he says. "We've also gotten requests for Temple Run to be on any platform you can imagine – some things we haven't even heard of! We'll try to do a little bit more of that this time round."
It's Thursday – how is everyone?
The original Temple Run game was (and still is) a phenomenon, with 170m downloads so far across iOS and Android.Its sequel is thus one of the key game releases of 2013 on any platform: big news for tens of millions of people who couldn't give two hoots about the next Call of Duty. Its sequel –out on iOS nowwith Android following in a week's time – won't disappoint them.If you're new to Temple Run, here's a primer: it's an "endless runner" game where your character has to run (and leap, turn and slide) for as long as possible without falling to their doom, smacking face-first into trees or bridges, or getting caught by the giant monkey that – for reasons unexplained – is chasing you. If you die, you go back to the start. Well, usually.Temple Run 2 doesn't mess with the successful formula, with a simple set of touchscreen gestures used to control your runner. Swipe up to jump, swipe left and right to turn and swipe down to slide. These are the basic tools for avoiding the obstacles in your path, while collecting coins and power-ups along the way – the former by tilting your device right and left to run over the lines of coins.So what's new? The graphics have been noticeably bumped up in quality, with the scenery around you noticeably richer in detail. Developer Imangi Studios used the Unity development platform for Temple Run 2, and has convincingly fleshed out the game's world.There is some obvious "pop-up" on display – rocky crags and scenery that seems to pop up out of nowhere – but there's never any slowdown that impacts on the gameplay.Also new: a mine-cart section where your character reaches the mouth of a mine then leaps into a cart, which you then steer safely through forks by tilting left and right, while ducking under stray beams. If Temple Run already had a dash of Indiana Jones in its DNA, it's even clearer here – and a welcome inclusion.As before, there are several characters you can play. Four initially: Guy Dangerous, Scarlett Fox, Barry Bones and Karma Lee. Unlike the first game, the differences between them aren't purely cosmetic, thanks to the use of power-ups.Shield protects you from obstacles, Boost whizzes you ahead at a faster pace, Coin Magnet attracts all the coins – all for a limited time.Any character can grab these power-ups within the game by jumping into the air when they spot one hovering, but each character also has one power-up built in, triggered by double-tapping when they've collected enough coins to fill up a coin meter on the left-hand side of the screen.The mine-cart section complements the core endless-running action wellAh, coins. Temple Run 2 is a freemium game, like its predecessor. This time round there are two separate virtual currencies: coins and gems.Coins are used to unlock Scarlett, Barry and Karma and upgrade their abilites – increasing the distance and duration of their power-ups, making the coin meter fill faster, increasing their score multiplier and so on. Each ability has five levels to upgrade to with increasingly powerful effects, and your upgrades are carried across whatever character you play as.Gems are the other currency, and these are used for consumable items, like restarting from the point you died rather than the very beginning, or one-time boosts of power-ups.You earn coins fast, and gems slow. Or you can buy both in the in-app store: coins run from 69p for 5,000 to £13.99 for 400,000, while gems go from 69p for five to £13.99 for 500. A one-time £2.99 payment for the Coin Doubler feature will help you earn coins faster, meanwhile.Some freemium games can be over-aggressive with their in-app purchases, actively making the experience frustrating if you try to play too long without paying. Temple Run 2 isn't one of those: Imangi have judged the balance between free-play and paid features just about right.As I said at the beginning of this review, Temple Run 2 is big news for tens of millions of gamers of all ages and abilities. And while it is a casual game in the sense that it's simple to pick up and play, it's also very easy to get sucked in to playing it in a hardcore way.Lots of people who don't consider themselves gamers will love it. Kids will love it, but so will grandparents. Footballers will love it – Wayne Rooney has famously bragged about his Temple Run scores on Twitter.But many veteran gamers – the people who DO give many hoots about the next Call of Duty – will also love Temple Run 2. It crosses demographic and gaming boundaries as easily as Guy Dangerous hops over dangling footbridges. An excellent sequel.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI used a Samsung Chromebook for two weeks - here's what I learned &gt;&gt; CITEworldRon Miller:The machine is ideally suited to someone who uses a lot of Google services, which I do, so from that perspective it's a good choice for me. But you can use any cloud-based or browser-based app that works in Chrome. I have to say there are aspects of this diminutive laptop that I've really enjoyed, but the drawbacks were so many, and the hardware so cheap, and I can't see buying one of these as constructed.The lightness and price are a plus; not being able to create a new spreadsheet or presentation while offline isn't.How Anonymous got Westboro to back off Aaron Swartz's funeral &gt;&gt; The Atlantic WireThe story doesn't really explain how it did, or why Westboro backed off; only that it did. But the conclusion makes a good point:As we've seen withthe ongoing impact&#160;of their involvement&#160;in the Steubenville rape case, Anonymous in 2013 is transforming from notorious to notable, and more than just the hacker community or close watchers of online controversies are starting to take notice on a wider scale. Perhaps Westboro didn't want to deal with that, especially after their&#160;plans to picket the death of some of the children murdered in Newtown, led to the hacking of Westboro spokesperson Shirley Phelps Roper's Twitter feed theleakingof personal information of its members. When Anonymous&#160;wins, it seems, their enemies just keep losing.Apple's New Reality &gt;&gt; LinkedInHerb Greenberg:My bottom line: As good as the iPhone is, the average consumer always wants something new and better. They don't just want the same car after three years. It had better look different or have better features inside. It's human nature. Phones and computers are at that point now. And what's hot, especially with teens and 20-somethings/trendsetters, can go old - no matter how good it is. Apple's saving grace is that it has created an eco-system of iMessage, music and photos that some people may be loathe to give up. Personally, I believe we're at a point that phone and computers are reaching the point of flat-screen TVs and old landline phones: Appliances that, for all but early adopters, we will increasingly keep longer than we used to. The moral of the story for Apple: As great as it may be, it's still merely mortal.Post Office wants to get to bottom of IT system allegations &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyA troublesome IT system that set out to modernise the Post Office in 1996 is under the spotlight as the Post Office investigates claims that its Horizon accounting system is error prone.Over the years, dozens of postmasters have been charged and even jailed for accounting shortfalls, while others have had to make up cash discrepancies following prosecutions (see case studies below).Despite years of allegations that the Horizon system - which was developed by ICL/Fujitsu Services - is at fault for many accounting shortfalls, the Post Office has unrelentingly defended it.Troubling.Stats: Twitter's relationship with TV revealed &gt;&gt; EconsultancyThere are more than 10m Twitter users in the UK, of which 80% access the platform using a mobile device.60% of Twitter users access the social network while watching TV.40% of all UK Twitter traffic around peak time is about TV.More than 90% of online public conversations about TV are on Twitter.Includes graphs showing relevant tweets about Homeland, and X Factor, and other shows. The tweets around Homeland follow a bathtub shape - start and end, almost silent in between. X-Factor, everyone's shouting all the time.Google flags ad network isocket for alleged malware; Chrome blocks TechCrunch, Cult of Mac, others (Updated) &gt;&gt; The Next WebGoogle blocked Chrome and Firefox users who were headed over to a number of big sites, including Techcrunch. The denouement:"So far we have zero indications of malware actually being distributed by our ad server, and zero traces of any breaches to our industry-standard security," isocket Founder &amp; CEO John Ramey told TNW in a statement. "Google's malware system is often contradictory and prone to false positives that inappropriately cripple good websites. We are vigorously investigating what the issue may have been and trying to get our publishers back online. It'd be nice if Google was as quick to fix a false positive as they were to cripple good businesses."Here's why Surface Pro is less portable than an Ultrabook &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatthew Bater-Reynolds points out that the Surface Pro, even though it runs full-fat Windows 8, points out that its design - heavy screen, light keyboard, stand stuck out the back. And then he looks at some use cases for that. They aren't promising. He sums up:So at this point we have:- Surface on a desk. Fine (but the screen is too small).- Surface on a lap. If you're under 5'7", you will likely not be able to fit it on your lap. And if you are 5'7" or over, it really is a case of proactively balancing with a much higher risk of it falling to the ground than a laptop.- Surface on a plane or train table. Your mileage may vary, but it's likely to be much less usable than an Ultrabook with a similarly-sized screen.The benefits of the detachable keyboard on the Surface Pro might be outweighed by the problem of actually using it. Any Surface owners able to comment?Samsung smartphones gaining momentum while iPhone has levelled off &gt;&gt; ForbesChuck Jones, on a US-based survey:While Apple still has almost a 2.5x higher purchase intention vs. Samsung (50% vs. 21%) Samsung's result was even greater in the December quarter than the June quarter when the Galaxy SIII became available (21% vs. 19%).  Also the percentage of people who are planning on purchasing Samsung has increased over 4x from just 5% in the September 2011 quarter to 21% in the December 2012 quarter.The more worrying thing, as he points out, is that when you combine the intent to buy an Apple or Samsung handset, it's around 70% - which doesn't leave much room for HTC, Motorola, RIM or Nokia to make any money. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google sends invites for first Project Glass hackathons, coming January and February &gt;&gt; The Next WebThey're being held in San Francisco (natch) and New York:Both events will include an introduction to the Glass product, the Mirror API and development, with a host of Google engineers present to help out with questions and details as the developers get to work building things. The second days will include demos and as-yet-unnamed guest judges will make appearances.While developers won't be given a Project Glass device free of charge, they will get one to play with while they are at the events, Google's invitation explains.Wearable is going to be big. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A congresswoman from Silicon Valley is planning to introduce legislation to amend the law used to prosecute Aaron Swartz, the free information activist who killed himself on Friday.Representative Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat who represents California's 19th district, launched "Aaron's law", her draft bill to change the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, on Reddit on Tuesday night.Swartz, a co-founder of Reddit, was charged with wire fraud, computer fraud and other crimes for allegedly accessing and downloading academic documents from the JSTOR online database through the network of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.The prosecution against him has been criticised as over-zealous and disproportionate and his family have accused MIT and prosecutors of being complicit in his death. If found guilty, he faced up to 35 years in jail, and although lawyers said plea bargain negotiations were underway before his death, his request for a solution which did not involve a prison term was denied.In a post on Reddit,Lofgrenwrote that she was "deeply troubled" that the government were able to bring such charges against Aaron.She said: "His family's statement about this speaks volumes about the inappropriate efforts undertaken by the US government. There's no way to reverse the tragedy of Aaron's death, but we can work to prevent a repeat of the abuses of power he experienced. We should prevent what happened to Aaron from happening to other Internet users."She continued: "The government was able to bring such disproportionate charges against Aaron because of the broad scope of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) and the wire fraud statute. It looks like the government used the vague wording of those laws to claim that violating an online service's user agreement or terms of service is a violation of the CFAA and the wire fraud statute."Using the law in this way could criminalize many everyday activities and allow for outlandishly severe penalties."It invited "dangerous legal interpretation", she said, which Congress had a responsibility to change.Her amendment excludes access in violation of an agreement, such as an acceptable use policy or terms of service agreement, with an Internet service provider, in cases where such a violation is the sole reason for determining that access to a computer is unauthorised.Lawrence Lessig, a friend of Swartz and Harvard law professor, gave the amendment his blessing. He wrote: "This is a CRITICALLY important change that would do incredible good."The CFAA was the hook for the government's bullying of [Aaron]. This law would remove that hook. In a single line: no longer would it be a felony to breach a contract. Let's get this done for Aaron – now."Marcia Hofmann, a senior staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, welcomed the bill but said that, as it stood, it would not have prevented Aaron's prosecution.In a tweet, she saidL "Kudos to Rep Lofgren for her swift response. But her bill wouldn't have prevented Aaron's prosecution under the CFAA or wire fraud law." In another message, she said the bill needed strengthening before it went before Congress.The Justice Department's prosecution of Swartz, which has been widely criticised since his death, is to be investigated by the House Oversight Committee.Darrell Issa, Republican representative for California, praised Swartz's work on open government and free access to information. Hetold the Huffington Posthe thought the government's case against Swartz is problematic enough to merit investigation."I'm not condoning his hacking, but he's certainly someone who worked very hard," Issa said, of Swartz. "Had he been a journalist and taken that same material that he gained from MIT, he would have been praised for it. It would have been like the Pentagon Papers."Issa said he didn't have enough information to say whether the US Attorney's Office in Massachusetts over-prosecuted Swartz. He said he had asked an investigator to gather more facts.
Employees of the US Congress were found to be downloading a host of television shows and movies illegally on congressional computers, according to a report by anti-piracy service ScanEye.The report shared byUS News and World Reportsshowed that since early October, congressional employees have downloaded movies and television shows including The Walking Dead, The Dark Knight Rises and 30 Rock.The report demonstrates that even though Congress has found itself at the forefront of measures to stop piracy, including the much-maligned Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa), its staff do not always follow the legislators' lead.By tracking IP addresses associated with Congress and running them through location services, ScanEye was able to determine which addresses were illegally downloading. It is possible that more people than shown could be illegally downloading from congressional networks because not every congressional IP address is accounted for.ScanEye's data showsthat the downloading tastes of congressional employees vary greatly – with some choosing to pirate the British chat show Alan Carr, Chatty Man, and others opting for the documentary The Queen of Versailles.The blog TorrentFreak has found that IP addresses associated with the biggest players in the anti-piracy legislative campaign are used for illegal downloading. People atHollywood studios,major record labelsandthe US department of homeland securityhave downloaded music, film and television on their employers' networks.As TorrentFreak noted in a 2011 blogpost, Congress was illegally downloading television shows and self-help books around the same time some members were drafting Sopa.Hollywood studio employees were found to be downloading the likes of Downton Abbey, Top Chef and The Hunger Games in December 2012. This discovery presents an internal contradiction for the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), one of the most vocal lobbies in support of strict anti-piracy laws.The MPAA's musical counterpart, the Recording Industry Association of America (Riaa) had employees who downloaded music – which might have been for professional purposes – and the television shows Dexter and Law and Order SVU.
Microsoft's Surface(from £399) offers a serious alternative in the tablet market, with its integration of a traditional Windows desktop behind the scenes and the dual cover/keyboard allowing for proper typing on the integrated Office apps. However, while the preloaded Microsoft offerings are largely excellent (including Smartglass, which allows for control of PCs and Xboxes from the tablet), the Windows Store isn't up to pace yet. Despite Xbox Live integration, games are lacking and there's no compatibility with Windows Mobile titles.Still, there's fun to be had.Jetpack Joyride(free, Halfbrick) is a blast of retro entertainment. You steer through a forward-moving jetpack adventure, touching the screen to fire up the eponymous device and control vertical movement, while the usual obstacles are dodged and power-ups gathered.Great Big War Game(£1.99, Rubicon) may be familiar to iOS gamers, but it suggests that the Windows Store will soon offer as much choice as the others. It's an excellent turn-based strategy game, putting you in charge of an army of units – snipers, grunts, tanks etc. It shines in online multiplayer, with asynchronous play – skirmishes can last for as long as it takes, as opponents play whenever they have a spare minute. A sure way to counteract any productivity the Surface's keyboard has encouraged.
Facebook doesn't hold many press conferences. But when the world's biggest social network does talk to journalists, the briefings are always best when founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg goes off script.The 28-year-old did so on Tuesday,at the launch of Graph Search, when he openly described a "wider strategic rift" with Google and revealed for the first time why negotiations between Facebook and the search giant broke down over privacy.According to Zuckerberg, Google was less willing (or able?) to change its search algorithm so that once a wall post or photograph was deleted from Facebook it vanished from the rival company's search results. Microsoft was able to do this and haspartnered with Facebook since 2010."Trying to think whether it's reasonable to get into this," said Zuckerberg in a Q&amp;A session, prompting a flurry of sudden interest from the assembled journalists. "I think the main thing is about when people share something on Facebook, we want to give them not only the ability to broadcast something out but also change their privacy settings later and take the content down."That requires incredibly quick updating ... We need that content to be gone immediately ... You need infrastructure that can support that and that takes a lot of commitment from the partner."Microsoft was more willing to do things that were specific to Facebook. Google has a system that works really well for them about how they treat information across their company, and I think that our system was different in ways that people share information and want to give them flexibility after the fact – that was the biggest stumbling block."That may have just been the specific thing in the negotiation, it may have been a symptom of a bigger strategic rift, but that is at least where the discussion fell apart the last time we spoke about it."Zuckerberg was responding to a question by Search Engine Land's Danny Sullivan, whocovered the launch of Graph Search in depth on his site.According to Facebook insiders, Zuckerberg was not referring to fresh discussions with Google ahead of the launch of Graph Search. The dispute goes back to the "cold war" days when Google and Facebook fell out overthe ownership of personal dataand, latterly, Google's move into social with Google+.It is significant because, if correct (and Google refuses to comment), it adds to the emerging theory that Google's highly complex search algorithms are increasingly at odds with the social web. Put simply: how would you feel if a photograph you removed from Facebook could still be found by people searching Google? Or an embarrassing Facebook video that appeared in Google searches for your name even though you had been de-tagged on the social network?The worry for Google is that it will come to be seen as the reason why nothing can ever be fully removed from the internet. That is a problem for Google's brightest brains to address as Facebook and Twitter expand the social web into more areas of our lives.
Personalised radio service Pandora is big in the US, with 67.1m active listeners at the end of 2012. 77% of Pandora's listening happens on mobile devices through its apps, too.For now, Pandora isn't available in the UK, so there's an opportunity for other companies to explore the demand for personalised radio – essentially streaming stations based on specific genres, artists or songs, or your personal tastes.Bloom.fmis the latest.Rising from the ashes of music downloads store mFlow, it has initially launched as an iPhone app, although an Android version is being beta-tested.Bloom.fm is free to download, and free to listen to if you just want the radio stations – more than 100 based on genres and artists, backed by a catalogue of 16m tracks thanks to licensing deals with major labels Universal, Sony and EMI, as well as independent group Beggars and other indie distributors.The app also scans songs you already have stored on your iPhone using iTunes, and can play them too.How does Bloom.fm make money? You pay if you want to "borrow" tracks, which means cacheing them locally on your iPhone. It costs £1 a month to borrow 20 songs at a time, £5 a month for 200 and £10 a month for as many tracks as you have space for, which turns Bloom.fm into a Spotify-style full on-demand service.These prices are what you pay if you do it through Bloom.fm's website, at least. To factor in Apple's 30% cut of in-app purchases, the three tiers cost £1.49, £6.99 and £13.99 respectively if bought in-app. As a launch promotion, Bloom.fm is offering one free month of the highest tier.The app itself sports an impressive design – floating, rotating bubbles for genres and artists as you explore the music available, with a teardrop-shaped icon in the bottom menu-bar that you tap once to borrow the song that's currently playing.A search icon enables you to search for specific artists, albums and songs, adding them to your collection or – in the case of artists – firing up a "Related Radio" station of similar artists that you might like.When tracks are playing, a tap on their artwork brings up a menu from which you can add that track to a playlist, browse the artist or album page, and give it a thumbs-up or thumbs-down to let Bloom.fm know whether it's a good fit.The sharing is interesting: you can share details of songs you like on Facebook or Twitter, or use the camera and an on-screen QR code to ping a track to someone next to you in the real world. In truth, this feels a bit fiddly: I wonder if using the API fromsomething like Bumpmight work better, to tap iPhones together to share tracks.As an app, Bloom.fm is very slick indeed, doing for personal radio what something like Path has tried to do for mobile social media. It's playful and intuitive to use, with pop-up tips early on to explain some of the buttons and gestures that might not be obvious.As a way to discover new music, it's also interesting: from my use of the radio so far, it's throwing up a good mix of songs I know and songs I don't, with the one-tap borrow mechanism working very well.There's the odd clanger – Dido popping up in a station based on Burial, Coldplay and Avril Lavigne springing a surprise in the Black Crowes station etc – but if more people use the app AND make use of the thumb ratings, this will improve.As a "mobile-first" service, Bloom.fm is very on-trend in 2012, although I'd also use it as a website when working at my computer – a web version is in the works, apparently, along with an iPad app.Bloom.fm isn't a direct rival to Spotify, Deezer and other subscription music services. Well, it is at the £10 tier, but it's the free mobile radio and the £1 / £5 tiers where it provides an intriguing alternative to those services.Music geeks like me who are already paying for a streaming service won't be weaned off those by Bloom.fm, especially as they already include their own personalised radio features. They may use it as a complementary way to discover music, though.But actually, this app should have a wider appeal beyond the music geeks: people who don't currently pay £10 a month for a streaming music service, and who also want something a bit more radio-like, rather than having to go searching for songs.The kind of people who've made Pandora a big hit in the US, in other words. It's far too early in Bloom.fm's life to predict similar success in the UK, but it's an intriguing and different addition to the digital music market here, so will hopefully find its audience.
Facebook'sGraph Searchis as much a search engine as Google's Google+ is a social network.Depending on your viewpoint, that means either that Google should be worried, or that it has absolutely nothing to worry about. The more you pick at it, though, the more it feels that these two companies are on a collision course. A very slow, gradual one, but collision nonetheless.Which end should we start at? The Google+ one, or the Graph Search one? Since Google+ has been around for a while, we have a bit more data about it. Though, if we're honest, not a lot that one can really put a finger on.What do we know about Google+? Google launched it in June 2011, amid much fanfare; the problem was that it looked very like a social network - in which you'd put people into Circles to indicate their intersection with your interest. So you could have a "family and friends" Circle, and perhaps a "Work" Circle, and a "Hobby" circle. Perhaps you'd have lots of Circles, perhaps you'd have few; it might depend how obsessive-compulsive you were about putting people into boxes. For most people, the simple form - "family/close friends" and "all the rest of the world" - worked fairly well. But there was still the problem of discoverability. Unlike Facebook, which could suggest friends (having grown organically from US universities, where people would be expected to be friends already), the problem with Google+ was that even though it could filter through your email address book to try to figure out who you might like to talk to, it couldn't decide which Circle they should go into.All the feeling has been that Google+ has remained a hangout principally for Googlers and techies. It does let you upload pictures automatically from a smartphone; that's certainly useful for some. But you don't hear people talking about their great Google+ collections; and despite Google artificially pushing it up its search results, there isn't any obvious sign of enormous activity on Google+.And yet Vic Gundotra at Googleannounced in December 2012that "Today Google+ is the fastest-growing network thingy ever. More than 500 million people have upgraded, 235 million are active across Google (+1'ing apps in Google Play, hanging out in Gmail, connecting with friends in Search...), and 135 million are active in just the stream."You'll notice how he doesn't call it a social network - a very careful bodyswerve around any comparison with Facebook - but does talk about people being "active".However those figures contain their own questions. There are 500 million people who have "upgraded", yet less than half of them are active by doing one of +1'ing apps, "hanging out" in Gmail (isn't that chat?), or connecting with friends. And when you get to the people who arereallyactive in "the stream" - which one has to assume means Circles - you're down to 135 million.How did it get so big yet so inactive? Because Google forces people to "upgrade" to Google+ in various ways (uniting YouTube logins, Gmail, and making it an inescapable default when you sign up for a Gmail account). So they get a "profile", but never do anything with it. Why should they? For vast numbers, Facebook serves all their needs - and the people they know are there. Alternatively, the social network LinkedIn serves business needs. Google+ is the third wheel on the social networking bicycle.So Google+ is an unconvincing social network. It's like the school sports vouchers you get at the supermarket checkout. Some people find them great; lots of people discard them.But when it comes to web search, Google really knows what it's doing. It's been in the business, doing it best, for almost 15 years now, and has billions invested in databases, caching, tuning, and storing the history of what you and millions of others have looked for at particular times, and places, and it has put huge effort (helped by Google+, because that ties together your identity to Google) into delivering really good search results, so that it can serve ads against them.It would be foolish for Facebook, which only started in 2004, to try to go up against that sunk cost. So instead it's leveraging what it has and knows best: peoples' social connections. You can search for restaurants serviing Indian food that your Indian friends like. Or people who know your friends who liked a film that you liked. And so on. It's already been called a stalker's tool - but Google has always been pretty handy for that; its first mention in a mainstream paper (the Telegraph-Herald of Dubuque, Iowa, on 14 January 2001) was to say that "To Google someone means to gather information on them using the search engine Google. The most popular application is to Google a potential date."The restaurants example, though, points to something Facebook can do that Google can't (though it's definitely trying with Google+): find things that you like in common with your friends. Google aches to be able to do this: the whole rationale behind the relentless pushing of Google+ is to get people to sign up with their real names (pseudonyms are very hard to deploy) so that it can try to push searches your friends like higher up.But that's not the same as the fluid way that preferences change among friends on Facebook, and the dynamic way that those social searches you make will change. So in that sense, Graph Search stands well apart from web search.But it's noticeable that both these giant companies are starting to move into the same place - social search. Google's coming at it from the "search" side, and Facebook from the "social" side.That means, as such searching becomes more useful, that the two companies are on a collision course. It won't happen immediately; these are more like two icebergs heading towards each other across a calm sea.But in time, the crunch will happen. Google is using its automatic signup to get more Google+ users, but that doesn't automatically make them sociable. Facebook has the benefit that (pretty much) everyone is there - but as we get more conscious about privacy settings, we're not necessarily going to make ourselves searchable.
Facebook has unveiled a new feature to allow users to sift through pictures, posts and messages in a way that the company's founder and chief executive,Mark Zuckerberg, claimedcould transform how people use the social network.Unveiling the tool, Graph Search,at its first major product launch since the company's IPO last May, Zuckerberg described it as the site's "third pillar", after Timeline and News Feed."Graph Search is a completely new way for people to get information on Facebook," he told a packed press conference at the company's headquarters in Menlo Park on Tuesday.The function will initially let users search four categories – people, places, photos, interests – and gradually expand to cover all content, Zuckerberg said."Graph Search is a really big project. Eventually... we want to index all the posts and all of the content on Facebook. I thought it couldn't be done. This is just some really neat stuff. This is one of the coolest things we've done in a while."A limited rollout began immediately, with Zuckerberg stressing that Graph Search is a "beta" product which will expand slowly and be built on over the coming years, evolving in response to how people used it."Graph Search is designed to take a precise query and return to you the answer," he said, "not links to other places that might take you to the answer."Lars Rasmussen, a former Google executive who is now one of Facebook's top engineers, cited as an example a search for a spicy meal in San Francisco. A search for "restaurants liked by my friends from India" revealed a long list. Narrowing that to "Indian restaurants liked by my friends from India" yielded another list. Then he searched for restaurants in San Francisco liked by Culinary Institute of America graduates.In cases where Graph Search comes up blank – which is likely to be a frequent occurrence in its infancy – the service defaults to the web search engine Bing, which is run by Google's rival Microsoft.Industry analysts have long waited for Facebook to develop new ways to tap its lucrative mountains of data. Its stock rose last week, in anticipation that the announcement would involve a search engine. Zuckerberg said talks with Google over a possible collaboration had broken down over Facebook's insistence on greater privacy protection. He said the new service would not reveal additional information but instead collate and organise in new ways information to which users already had access.He and fellow executives showed, however, how users could find a wealth of previously overlooked photos and posts and "likes"."I want to invite friends over for Game of Thrones," he said, "but who among my friends likes Games of Thrones? Graph Search tells me."Graph Search also enables the user to search, for instance, for "photos of my friends taken in national parks" or "photos of my friends taken before 1990". The latter revealed a gallery of Facebook employees as babies, prompting guffaws from assembled staff.Tom Stocky, another Google import, showed what appeared to be a market researchers' dream tool: the new feature allows users to ask, for instance, what TV shows are most liked by doctors (Grey's Anatomy, House, The Doctors), or software engineers (Big Bang Theory).A search for music liked by those who like Mitt Romney revealed Johnny Cash. Obama-likers liked Michael Jackson.The tool could help Facebook wean users away from Google, Linked-in and dating sites, but Zuckerberg said the priority for now was improving existing customers' experience, with business applications to be considered later. There is no timetable for when Graph Search will be available on mobile."This is a really big project," Zuckerberg said. "It will take years and years to map the whole index of the graph."His downplaying of immediate revenue sources dented markets' exuberance: shares dippled 1.5% to $30.46 immediately following the announcement.Brian Blau, who tracks social media for the tech research firm Gartner,said the service offered a brand new way for users to experience Facebook. Confined to Facebook's eco-system, the service was not an immediate threat to Google but would gradually increase in importance, he said. "In the future, you know Facebook will figure out how to monetize this. It's going to change the way people think about search."The respected news site TechCrunch gave Graph Search a thumbs-upand said investors who considered the announcement an anti-climax – prompting a dip in Facebook's share price – had missed the point."What's interesting is that Facebook does not shy away from introducing radical changes to its products," the site said. "As always, it focuses on what's best for the user and will stand behind an innovation if it believes that it will improve the user experience."Investors, in contrast, liked conservative choices, security and stability, said TechCrunch. "That's why they should adapt to Facebook's way of doing things if they want to understand the company's long-term perspective, because Graph Search is clearly an important move for Facebook."
Hello Wednesday, it's very cold up here in York.
Facebook wants each journey on the web to begin and end on its site. Its first significant move into search is designed to provide all the answers to users' questions: which of my friends like Rihanna? How many of my friends speak German? Which TV shows are my colleagues watching?Graph Search,which was announced by Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday, is a clear statement of intent. It is designed for the age of the social web, when internet users spend more time on Facebook or Twitter than they do searching the outside web.How does it work? Users can search their friends, based on the information they have given Facebook permission to publish. For example, users will be able to quickly find "photos of my friends taken in Paris, France" or "Restaurants liked by friends in London".Zuckerberg described Graph Search, in typical start-up fashion, as the "beta of version one". But he also described it as the "third pillar" of Facebook, after the news feed and timeline. He later said Graph Search could be a business in its own right – a remark that will prompt anxiety among Google executives.The announcement – the first since Facebook's disastrous initial public offering in May last year – was strategically timed, ahead of its fourth-quarter earnings call on 30 January. Facebook has already succeeded in lifting its share price above $30. The announcement of Graph Search also comes as Facebook faces questions about whether its growth to 1bn users is petering out. Facebook's UK user totaldropped by 600,000 in December, according to data from SocialBakers, a social-media monitoring company.Nate Elliot, a social-media analyst at Forrester Research, said the graph search announcement was part of Facebook's ambition to keep users coming back to its site."Facebook's worst nightmare is a static social graph," he said. "If users aren't adding very many new friends or connections, then their personal network becomes less and less active over time. Terrifyingly for Facebook, that threat is very real. We haven't seen significant growth in the average number of friends per user recently."Graph Search seems designed to encourage users to add more friends more quickly. If it means users' personal networks change more frequently, and become more active, then that keeps them coming back to the site – which is vital to Facebook's success. If Facebook and Bing can bring elements of Graph Search to Facebook's web search tool, then that's great. But it's not the point; the point is to keep Facebook users more active within the site."Facebook was quick to rebut many of the privacy questions that it expects to be raised about Graph Search, which essentially helps to surface photographs or other data which before may have been buried. Graph Search does not make public any information that was not previously public, so users need not rush to change their privacy settings. But some users may be surprised to be presented with photos that they did not know they had been tagged in.Zuckerberg, a man whose past tangles with privacy still make him visibly nervous on stage, spent longer talking about privacy safeguards than at any other Facebook announcement I have seen. That may be a symptom of Facebook becoming a public company, or it could simply be a sign that it is simply growing up.Whatever the cause, the prize for getting graph search right first time is very real: search makes up the largest portion of digital advertising spending in the US, up from $15.1bn in 2011 to $17.58bn in 2012. And which company commands 74.5% of that $17.58bn ad spend? Google.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface estimate cut in half to 1 million units at UBS &gt;&gt; BloombergMicrosoft's fiscal second-quarter earnings will be less than previously expected due to weak demand for personal-computers and the company's new tablet, Surface, according to Brent Thill, an analyst at UBS AG.Thill cut his estimate for Surface sales in half, to 1 million units for the period, which ended in December, citing "gloomy sentiment" after the holiday shopping season, he wrote in a research report today. He cut his earnings per share projection for the quarter by 8 cents to 76 cents.Stop us if you've heard this one before.Y Combinator is funding the future of spam in Windows - drive-by crapware installers &gt;&gt; istartedsomethingLong Zheng explains how all that crap gets onto your computer: VC funding.If you lose your cellphone, don't blame Wayne Dobson &gt;&gt; ReviewJournal.comWayne Dobson doesn't have your cellphone.Even if it looks like he might.In the past two years the 59-year-old retiree has been pestered by people showing up at all hours of the day and night at his house, demanding their phones. They've yelled, shown him evidence, called the police - sworn that their phone is in his house.But he's no thief.Bizarre.Why the WSJ got the 'iPhone demand is crashing' story all wrong &gt;&gt; ForbesMark Rogowsky:Cnet was very excited about Samsung's announcement that the Galaxy S phone line hadcrossed the 100 million mark in total sales. The phone is so desirable, "Sales of the flagship Galaxy S3 reached 30m units in 5 months, and 40m in 7 months, with average daily sales of about 190,000 units." You'd think that it's the hottest thing going with those numbers. Of course, as we were just discussing above, in the quarter just ended, Apple will have sold about as many iPhone 5?s as Samsung has sold Galaxy S3?s in 7 months! This is what the "experts" are already calling trouble and they haven't seen the numbers yet.Now, of course, Samsung is also selling the prior generation S2, which Cnet tells us, "...is described as a steady bet after recording sales of over 40 million in 20 months." So that's about 2m a month for that model to go with the 17m S3 phones Samsung apparently moved in Q3. In other words, if we just compare the last two generations of phones, Apple sold somewhere around 35-45m last quarter while Samsung moved about 23m. It's certainly true that Samsung has a number of less-expensive entry models and will outsell Apple in raw numbers. But when one looks at "profit share" and wonders why Apple will continue to earn more of it in smartphones than Samsung, those numbers tell the story.SAP is using more than 20,000 iPads, says CIO &gt;&gt; CITEworldRight now, SAP manages more than 20,000 iPads and a similar number of iPhones, plus 4,000 Android devices (mostly from Samsung) and some smaller number of BlackBerry and Windows 8 devices. Not to mention 5,000 devices that employees have brought in themselves.Bussman also reveals that SAP is testing BlackBerry 10, and will be supporting the new platform internally this quarter.There's a video too.iPhone 5 demand got you worried? Relax, analysts say &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSterne Agee analyst Shaw Wu today wrote in a research note to investors that Apple's reported cuts to component orders have nothing to do with weak demand. Instead, Wu said that while component orders are lower, they're due to "much improved yields meaning lower component builds and supplier shifts.""As far as we can tell, iPhone 5 demand remains robust," Wu said.Baird analyst William Power offered up a similar evaluation to investors today, saying that he was "actually raising our calendar fourth quarter iPhone forecast slightly," adding that "most demand indicators remain favorable."DisplaySearch said that Apple's expected 19m iPhone 5 screen orders for January was cut to "between 11m and 14m". Better yield? Demand management?Leap Seconds &gt;&gt; What-if-XKCDFor example, the clock in your smartphone's GPS is 16 seconds out of sync with the phone's system clock. This is because the system clock uses Coordinated Universal Time (which has leap seconds), but GPS time doesn't. They were in sync in January of 1980 and probably never will be again.Don't worry, there's a solution.What is it like to be exposed to new technology after a 20+ year prison sentence? &gt;&gt; QuoraTechnology has changed considerably during the 25 years that I served.  I read extensively during my term of incarceration, but reading about technology felt a bit like reading about typing.  Regardless of how much I read, I wouldn't grasp the power of technology until I started using it.  Forget the power, I don't even understand the language of technology.  For example, I never understood what people meant when they spoke of a "browser."  In fact, I just asked my wife to define a browser, and when she described it as a program that would allow me to access the Internet, I gave her a blank stare."But I thought the browser was the little text box on top of the screen, where I type in what I'm looking to find on Google.""No honey," she said.  "That's the URL bar."Marvellous answer. (Via @jasonhesse on Twitter.)The Panasonic Toughpad Press Conference &gt;&gt; LOOK, ROBOTA second man takes the stage. His name is Jan something, Head of something at Panasonic. His presentation uses multiple greyscale graphs to illustrate technical points. I write down anything I don't understand. A lot of the other journalists stop writing so much. I wonder if I should do the same. This is cargo-cult reportage, a Simon Says version of journalism, copying the surface actions of those around me in an attempt to produce the same result.Jan talks about retina displays and the way that the human eye can only perceive a certain number of pixels at a certain range and something about PPI. I think Panasonic has invented a new kind of pixel. A bendy pixel. I don't understand. What does PPI stand for? What am I doing with my life? Why am I here in this basement in Munich at the age of 26 staring at a man fire a laser pointer at a graph? How did this happen? I wanted to be a Sky Pirate. I don't understand any of this.If you were Panasonic's marketing chief, you'd probably be pleased about now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google's latest doodle marks the 112 birthday of Frank Zamboni, the inventor of the world's first self-propelled ice-resurfacing machine, which the Italian-American trademarked in his own name and is now commonly known as a "Zamboni".The playable doodle, which involves manipulating an ice-cleaning machine after a number of animated skaters depart from a rink, is inspired by the Zamboni ice resurfacer itself.Born in 1901 to Italian immigrants in Utah, the family later moved to Los Angeles, where Frank Zamboni ran an auto repair shop with his older brother and later opened an electrical supply business with a younger brother.In 1927, the two younger brothers entered the block ice business after opening an ice-making plant, which they used to open an ice rink shortly before America's entry into the second world war.Zamboni found a way of preventing rippling on the rink's surface as a result of the pipes put down to keep the rink frozen, an idea which he patented in 1946.However, his real breakthrough came in 1949 when he produced a machine that turned the job of resurfacing the rink into a one man job that could be done in 10 minutes. Previously, it had taken three men, working for 90 minutes.He died from cancer in 1988 at the age of 87. Today, the Zamboni company has sold more than 10,000 units of its signature piece of equipment, the Zamboni Ice Resurfacer.
Myspace timed the public unveiling of its revamped site to coincide with the release of singer – and prominent Myspace investor – Justin Timberlake's much-anticipated new single.Unfortunately, the under-the-radar revelation was met with little excitement. Perhaps it was because the tech media's focus was on Faceboook's grand "graph search" launch in California, which had been preceded by a mysterious invite with only a date and time.Or perhaps it was because nobody's much interested in Timberlake (or indeed Myspace) any more. When Timberlake tweeted that he had released his first song in seven years, it was rather overshadowed by the announcement that his fellow 90s musical superstar brethren, Destiny's Child, were back together.Timberlake had previewed the new look in a tweet last year, and told the Hollywood Reporter in September that the new Myspace could bridge the gap of people who are from a generation less familiar with social media."But with every obstacle comes an opportunity and I see this, as it speaks to somebody like me, as bridging the gap," Timberlake said. "It's just bringing the connection that much closer while still making the artist feel comfortable that they can make their art, lock themselves in a room and torture themselves as they do, and still find a way to comfortably connect with their fan base."The music-oriented Myspace allows users to stream music in an always-present music player at the bottom of the page, and allows musicians to track where there top fans are, determined by which Myspace user plays the artist's music the most. Thus far, most of the site's pre-launch users (allowed on the site with a special invite) are comprised of musicians, actors, models and inquiring tech reporters – general social networking is clearly not the focus.On first glance, the site looks promising. It utilizes an attractive interface that melds the functions and appearance of sites like Pinterest, Rdio and Instagram. And as arguably the first big social networking site, it remains an important destination for music publicists to maintain as fans search for information on bands and Myspace routinely appears in the top results.However, clever design and useful functionalities do not a successful social network make, and on Tuesday social media attention was fully on Facebook.
The husband of the US district attorney involved in the Aaron Swartz prosecution has publicly criticised the activist's family for accusing his wife of complicity in the suicide, amid claims the aggressive litigation was driven by their desire for a test case.Tom Dolan, an IBM executive married to Carmen Ortiz, used his Twitter account to attack the family of Swartz, who died on Friday. One tweet, posted on his @TomJDolan feed, said: "Truly incredible that in their own son's obit they blame others for his death and make no mention of the 6 month offer."His comments, made three days after Swartz's death, attracted outrage on social media. The account has since been deleted.When asked about Dolan's tweet and whether it was appropriate, Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for Ortiz, told the Guardian she had "no comment" to make at this time.Swartz, 26, who helped create Reddit, had been facing charges of breaking into Massachusetts Institute of Technology's computer system to access academic articles from the JSTOR digital library with the intention of making them freely available.His family have accused prosecutors and MIT officials of contributing to his death by pursuing a harsh array of charges for "an alleged crime that had no victims". His death, and what critics have denounced as an over-reaching prosecution, have prompted calls for changes to the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and for a halt to such prosecutions.If he had been found guilty of the charges, Swartz faced up to 35 years in prison and millions of dollars in fines, although it has emerged that negotiations between his lawyers and prosecutors had included a potential plea bargain of six months in prison.Condemnation of prosecutors over the litigation against Swartz continued on Tuesday. A petition to the Obama administration to remove Ortiz from office reached 28,188 signatures, past the crucial 25,000 signatures needed for a White House response.In July 2011, Ortiz said in a statement about the case: "Stealing is stealing whether you use a computer command or a crowbar, and whether you take documents, data or dollars. It is equally harmful to the victim whether you sell what you have stolen or give it away."On Monday, academics paid tribute to Swartz by putting PDFs of their copyrighted work from JSTOR online, on their personal websites and on university databases. Many linked their actions on Twitter under the hashtag #PDFTribute.Lawyers for Swartz said that, despite their best efforts, prosecutors had refused to negotiate a plea bargain which did not involve jail time. One also said that MIT refused to agree to a plea bargain in which Swartz did not serve time.Andy Good, Swartz's initial lawyer,told the Boston Globethat he had warned one prosecutor, Steve Heymann, that his client was a "suicide risk".Good said: "His reaction was a standard reaction in that office, not unique to Steve. He said: 'Fine, we'll lock him up.'  I'm not saying they made Aaron kill himself. Aaron might have done this anyway. I'm saying they were aware of the risk, and they were heedless."Lawyers for Swartz said they had offered to accept a deferred prosecution or probation, so that if he did it again he would serve time.Marty Weinberg, who took over from Good as Swartz's lawyer, confirmed to the Guardian that during negotiations for a plea bargain, MIT refused to take a position which could have helped his client.Weinberg said: "During pleas negotiations for Mr Swartz, he attempted to negotiate an agreement that would not subject him to any risk of going to prison. We asked them to support this initiative but they declined. As a matter of fact, MIT as an institution communicated to myself that they would not take any position in ongoing pleas negotiations between Mr Swartz and the government.""There were subsets of the MIT community who were profoundly in support of Aaron," but that support did not override institutional interests, Weinberg told the Globe.Another of Swartz's attorneys, Elliot Peters,said on Mondaythat MIT officials were "very cooperative with prosecutors" during the investigation."MIT could have handled things differently, rather than inviting law enforcement and turning it into a federal criminal case," Peters said.Swartz's funeral was due to take place on Tuesday, in Highland Park, Illinois.Westboro Baptist Church, which had threatened to picket the funeral,reportedly backed offafter hacktivist collective Anonymous and other Swartz supporters promised to block any protests.
Research In Motion's announcement of its new BlackBerry 10 software is only a couple of weeks away, on 30 January, more and more detail has begun to leak about the phones involved, and especially their new operating software.The latest video, fromTelekom Presse, shows what is reckoned to be a working - but possibly not feature-complete - version of BB10.The audio description is in German, and the phone itself looks very like an iPhone 5 with its metal back (though it looks like an unfinished prototype) - though the winking red light on the top right will indicate to any existing (or former) BlackBerry owner that you have some email waiting.It's a 4.2in full touch HD display, 1200x860: 8MP rear camera, LED flash, 2GB RAM and 16GB of storage. The weight (if I heard correctly) is 153g.The video then goes through demonstrations of the various elements of the interface. It doesn't show the camera in action, nor any typing on the touch keyboard - probably because those wouldn't really have worked very well given the fixed camera position used to film it.There's a main screen that shows which apps are running, and a "BlackBerry Hub" which appears to be emails, along with the address book, Facebook, Gmail and other data sources. From that screen, there's a pull-down lock screen (which shows a clock). Or you can drag upwards from the bottom to switch between apps, if you're running an app. (Anyone who has tried out a PlayBook may be familiar with that.)The app collection is in screens on the right of the BlackBerry Hub - the phone here shows three, though there might be room for more. Among the apps that are shown - very briefly - is Dropbox, which is an extremely important one to get onto any mobile device these days.Perhaps confusingly, if you pull down while you're in the "apps" screens, then you don't get the lock screen - you get a set of functions, such as alarms and Bluetooth, completely different from the main screen.So here's the video. Does it begin to interest you in BB10 - and do you think it will persuade people to switch back to RIM?
Facebook is remaining tight-lipped about its mystery press event on Tuesday amid speculation the social network will announce its first branded smartphone or search engine to rival Google.A cryptic invite sent to the media last week invited journalists to "come and see what we're building", prompting a guessing game among industry analysts.The planned announcement has even revived suggestions that Facebook wants to muscle into the booming smartphone market – despitean emphatic denialby Mark Zuckerberg in September.Dr Richard Windsor, thetechnology analyst, said he expected Facebook to announce a "hardware strategy" that would see it become more like Google rather than Apple."I expect that hardware announced will be an Android based tablet or smartphone or range of devices," he said. "The Android [tablet] will have been modified and optimised to embed Facebook deep into the user experience. It could also include other functions such as search powered by Facebook or an optimised browser on these devices. This would basically have the effect of taking search and browsing traffic away from Google and putting it through Facebook's own servers."The press event starts at 6pm UK time on Tuesday (1pm ET or 10am PT). Here are four other possible announcements Facebook could make:An(other) overhaul of the news feedThe news feed acts as the Facebook homepage for each of its 1 billion users so its success is critical to the future of the social network. Traditionally, the news feed was the place where people found out what was going on and told friends what they were up to. It still does that, but several changes over the past two years suggest that Facebook wants the news feed to become the No 1 entertainment hub on the web; a place to listen to music on Spotify with friends, watch YouTube videos, and share updates from your favourite comedians or athletes.According toBusiness Insider, Facebook now wants to turn the news feed into an "information distribution hub for the entire internet". This would mean two things: 1) The news feed will pull in content directly from other sources based on what its data suggests you like; 2) That Facebook users will leave the news feed more often and go to other websites, which could be part of any potential ad network.Charging for messagingFacebookannouncedlast year that it was testing plans to charge users a small fee – starting at $1 – to send a message to another user's inbox. This would only apply between Facebook users who were not friends on the site.An enterprising Mashable reporterlast week tried to message Zuckerberg directlyand received an alert asking him to pay $100 (!) for it to be sent to his Facebook inbox. If Zuckerberg had $100 for everytime a reporter tried to message him ... Oh.Facebook moves into searchOne thing Facebook bought when it paid $1bn for Instagram was its vast library of retro-style photographs. At present, there is no simple way to search these photos based on their Instagram tags other than through the Instagram app. That would be a starting point for any Facebook move into search, but Zuckerberg harbours plans for the site to answer more local queries for its users, for example finding nearby restaurants or job vacancies."Facebook is really uniquely positioned to answer a lot of the questions that people have," he said in September.An advertising networkOne problem for Facebook has been its mobile advertising. Analysts have questioned how the site will continue to grow ad revenue in a world dominated by smartphones and tablet computers. Like Google, Facebook has adapted slowly to this change, introducing mobile ads towards the end of 2011. In the first nine months of 2012 mobile advertising as a percentage of Facebook's total ad revenue was 6%,according to its latest financials, and brought in $339m in the 2012 calendar year.Any significant announcement on its mobile advertising strategy would be well timed ahead of its fourth quarter earnings call on 30 January.
In 1913, the audience of Paris's Théâtre des Champs-Élysées flirted with full-scale riot during the lusty premiere of Rite of Spring. That flirting no doubt felt like uninhibited manhandling for the poor, soon-to-be-bruised souls in the orchestra, pelted with whatever objects were to hand by an audience driven furious at the avant garde-ness of Stravinsky's work. But no lasting damage was done that night.A century later and the odd Steve Reich knees-up aside (New York, 1973: a performance of Four Organs where an audience's jeering climaxed with a woman repeatedly banging her head on the stage, wailing "Stop, stop, I confess." A Steve Reich knees-down, then) rioting and the classical music concert have parted ways.The riot lingered, coiled and brutish for quarter of a century in the rock gigs of nethertowns; spilt-pint punk, grunge brawls, hard-rock suckerpunches backed by guttural power chords. But rock music wears its anger on its sleeve (as a patch?). When you get down to it, the music's where the real fight takes place, and the mosh-pit provides a peer-refereed boxing ring for those who need to pretend otherwise.Today, music is often the accompaniment to rioting, but rarely its instigator. Still, one hundred years on from the Stravinsky revolt, and a mile and half down the road at the cavernous Palais des Congrès de Paris, this aromatic crowd carry with them a threat of injury. Yeah, this sell-out throng seems a bit fighty. Front-row VIP tickets cost a sharp €130, and their purchasers are lacking a certain joie de vivre on finding squatters emigrated from the cheap seats into their own, hoping for a better view. It's a quiet pandemonium, for sure – the attendants all raspy whispers and fly-swat points as they seek to shepherd disorder into order – but I can't help but feel happy I'm not on bassoon tonight. I bruise too easily.That responsibility falls to a member of the The Orchestre Lamoureux, a concert society founded in Paris by Charles Lamoureux in 1881 that performed the premieres of Debussy's Nocturnes in 1900 and 1901. Tonight they debut in France a selection of pieces from Final Fantasy – a video game series currently celebrating its 25th year – under the baton of Chicagoan Arnie Roth at an event dubbed Distant Worlds.Classical music, much to the showy mortification of its most dedicated followers, has kept its well-dressed foot in mainstream culture via film scores for the past 50 years.But for the young audience of the Palais des Congrès, it's the video game medium that's brought them out en masse tonight. A lowbrow victory perhaps, but it's difficult to imagine many other classical billings that would assemble a European city's youth gratis, let alone at these prices.The concert starts 30 minutes late, but at least everyone has a seat. Nobuo Uematsu, the Japanese composer responsible for the vast majority of music found in the series slides onto stage wearing an Axl Rose bandana and Super Mario moustache to riotous noise (the good sort, not the Stravinsky sort), before descending into the audience to howls of excitement to take his position in an un-squatted seat in the crowd.The set (and this is the correct terminology, as Distant World's conductor has chosen a small selection of greatest hits for the night, pulled from the many hundreds of compositions that have soundtracked Final Fantasy's 20-odd game releases) opens with the series' signature harp arpeggio before seguing into Fithos Lusec Wecos Vinosec, an operatic piece sung with gusto by Le Choeur Lamoureux. A screen sprawls high behind the stage displaying visuals from the eighth game in the series, set to the music. I'm surprised to find myself gulping back emotion.Music is all sorts of magic, of course, and in the most literal sense of the mystical word. Music has the power to transform the mood and temperature of an auditorium and, for the individual, it can conjure not just the emotion of memory, but also its very flavour and experience. Music is many spells – it has the power to reorder the mind, to raise or lower the blood, to produce tears or set teeth on edge – but its most powerful trick is one of transportation and, the combination of that warm Niagra of sound with these old images takes us individually and collectively to another place.Roth turns to the French and offers a "mercy bow-coop" before asking who in the crowd likes Final Fantasy XIII? This is the most recent core title in the series, one of the first produced without the steer of originator Hironobu Sakaguchi, who left the company under a black cloud worth $120m of lost money at the box office following his movie flop, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within. The game was poorly received by many, something evidenced by the crowd's reluctant applause. But Roth has another surprise for us: Final Fantasy XIII's creators Yoshinori Kitase and Motomu Toriyama are in the crowd! The spotlight thwacks and swivels; more muted applause. I feel sorry for those guys. The billing's all wrong, you see. Kitase has worked on Final Fantasy games for 20 years, while Toriyama was responsible for some of the most memorable scenes in the seventh game, widely considered one of the best. Still, I guess you're only as good as your last game.Uematsu, close friends with Sakaguchi, has had a rough ride of it too in recent years, somewhat unceremoniously dropped from Final Fantasy XIII's compositional duties.This accounts for the cool response of the crowd to the next piece, composed by his successor. It's not like Stravinsky, you see. When it comes to Uematsu, this crowd has his back. Uematsu joined Square, the company behind Final Fantasy in 1986, when an employee from the game developer walked into the Tokyo music rental shop where he was working and asked if he'd like to write some music for a video game.Uematsu, a self-taught pianist and graduate of Kanagawa University agreed, but never thought any of it would amount to much.It's likely these humble beginnings that account for his attractive humility today. He approaches his career with a mixture of wide-eyed wonder and gratefulness. The excitement hasn't dulled in him with age or accomplishment. A few years ago, after I interviewed Uematsu for a magazine, we stood eating cucumber sandwiches in a hotel lobby when he pulled a CD:R of tracks from his side-project band The Black Mages (the band played arranged rock versions of his Final Fantasy compositions – the music's where the real fight takes place), and slotted it into my hand. It's the behaviour of the wannabe college band member, not the multi-million selling, award-winning classical composer.Uematsu joins the orchestra for just one song. He is a proficient pianist, but the pressure of performing in these surroundings (cavernous, fighty) evidently puts him off. Roth provides some backup on violin (the Grammy-award winning conductor is an exceptional player, despite his faux-protestations) and the crowd is a sea of screens, mobile phones acting as the 21st Century's lighter of choice, recording for YouTube what was once the preserve of the bootlegger. The piece reaches its delicate conclusion and the lights wink out. Nobuo exits into the audience to yowls of appreciation.The pieces come more eagerly now: boy band fanclub-esque whoops and screams accompanying the audience's moment of recognition for each. A medley of four battle themes (the looping score that plays out behind fight scenes in each of the games) ends with a victory fanfare and the choir (who we'd forgotten were standing there, present and erect) punch the air in unison with a shout. The night is almost at an end and nothing much has been thrown when Roth asks if anyone has any requests.For the crowd this is an invitation to riot and the Palais des Congrès groans and holds a hand to the brow at the detonation of cacophony."Se-phi-roth!", "Se-phi-roth!" they scream with the sort of co-ordinated timing that Le Choeur Lamoureux would be pleased to end a fanfare with. Roth, unable to stray from his pre-scripted banter says: "Well, we can do one final song, but it requires you to be able to sing a word? Can you manage that?"The crowd continues, indifferent to his contextually ridiculous question. "Se-phi-roth!" they scream."Can you guess what it is", he asks. "Se-pi-roth!" they scream."Sephiroth!" he says. "Se-phi-roth!" they scream.In Final Fantasy's peculiar police line-up of arch-villains it's the seventh game's antagonist, Sephiroth, that time has proven to be players' fondest. And the piece that accompanies his on-screen swagger is one of Uematsu's finest. One-winged angel, a brooding, rolling piece of music, all scampering timpani and hysterical brass, backed by a choir repeating the villain's name over and over: "Sephiroth!"Outside, the venue's forsaken halls await the impending merch stampede. But in here Roth has found the Final Fantasy series' spiritual centrepoint, one that the games have moved away from in recent years, much to the angst of fans. "Sephiroth!" is a reminder of the passion that brought the crowd here tonight, transporting them en masse to a younger place, where the games did the things they wanted to, where Sakaguchi, like a father, would never leave them, where everything would stay the same and remain just as exciting, despite its constancy."Sephiroth!" they chant, on their feet now. Music is all kinds of magic. I predict a riot.
Tuesday!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy companies fail - the rise and fall of HMV &gt;&gt; Philip BeechingAugust 2012:The day of the presentation came and we stood in the boardroom in front of the new MD, Steve Knott and his directors. For some time we had felt the tides of change coming for HMV and here was our perfect opportunity to unambiguously say what we felt. The relevant chart went up and I said, "The three greatest threats to HMV are, online retailers, downloadable music and supermarkets discounting loss leader product". Suddenly I realised the MD had stopped the meeting and was visibly angry. "I have never heard such rubbish", he said, "I accept that supermarkets are a thorn in our side but not for the serious music, games or film buyer and as for the other two, I don't ever see them being a real threat, downloadable music is just a fad and people will always want the atmosphere and experience of a music store rather than online shopping". It's important to remember that the dotcom bubble had just burst and many people were mistaking this stockmarket meltdown for an internet meltdown. As we sat reflecting in the pub afterwards we felt decidedly winded by his onslaught but a few weeks later we were to discover, somewhat to our surprise, we had held on to the business.(I had much the same feedback around the same time, post-Napster 1.0, with a small group of directors from companies including HMV. - CA)Color Me Stupid - The Daily WTFAndy's company develops solutions for "Industrial" handheld devices. To make deployment and updates easier, they each run a thin client so only the server is different from project to project. This client was written by a long-gone employee in the early nineties, and had barely changed since because it "just worked". Updating it was discouraged for fear of breaking backward-compatibility.If you do any coding in a large organisation, your day might go a bit like this. The Daily WTF is a bit like real-life Dilbert.BlackBerry 10 handset price &gt;&gt; QQThe Chinese site shows the price as $799.99. Let's call it $800. That's quite expensive, if correct.Chinese industry: From guard shack to global giant &gt;&gt; The EconomistLenovo started humbly. Its founders established the Chinese technology firm in 1984 with $25,000 and held early meetings in a guard shack. It did well selling personal computers in China, but stumbled abroad. Its acquisition of IBM's PC business in 2005 led, according to one insider, "to nearly complete organ rejection".Fascinating article which edges around the question of where Lenovo got the funding for its many acquisitions (a pliant government-backed bank, maybe?). It's definitely headed to be the world's biggest PC vendor, so take this chance to read up on it.Lenovo entering 'PC plus' era, CEO says &gt;&gt; ReutersPC demand growth has waned over the past year as more consumers flock to ultraportable and increasingly powerful tablets and smartphones for basic computing. Hewlett Packard, Dell and other stalwarts of the PC industry are now fighting to sustain growth as tablet computers eat into their PC-related businesses.But PCs aren't disappearing anytime soon."We don't live in a post-PC world," Lenovo Chief Executive Yuanqing Yang said in an interview in Las Vegas on Wednesday. "We are entering the PC plus era."Yang said it is a post-PC world for one group: companies that do not innovate in PCs."In our industry many players think PCs have become a commodity product," he said. "We have never thought this way."Dell said to be in buyout talks with private-equity firms &gt;&gt; BloombergDell, the personal-computer maker that lost almost a third of its value last year, is in buyout talks with private-equity firms, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The shares surged.The company is discussing going private with at least two firms, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. The discussions are preliminary and could fall apart because the firms may not be able to line up the needed financing or resolve how to exit the investment in the future, the people said.Would going private really help Dell in the long run? What change could private equity (what Mitt Romney used to do) effect there that the company hasn't been doing for years already?An inside look at Internet Explorer 10's mysterious Flash whitelist &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:For Internet Explorer 10 on Windows 8 and Windows RT, Microsoft has tried to walk a delicate balancing act with Flash. The underlying theory is that Flash itself isn't evil. Instead, its bad reputation can be traced to the impact of poorly written Flash programs, which drain batteries and hog CPU resources, or malicious Flash content that exploits weaknesses in the Flash runtime to spread malware.There are, in fact, many well-written Flash-based programs that behave like model citizens. So why should they be punished for the sins of a few bad actors?That's the philosophy behind the Internet Explorer 10 Flash compatibility whitelist. Alas, it's not well documented, which is why I decided to write this post.Wonderfully comprehensive (the list is online), as well as intriguing. You could spend all day saying "Why that site? Why this site?"Just months after being ejected from Microsoft, former Windows Head Steven Sinofsky is already Tweeting from iPhone &gt;&gt; 9to5MacWe were tipped to a tweet from Sinofsky (@stevesi) fromJanuary 11ththat was sent from Twitter for iPhone. We soon discovered a second tweet from the same platform onJanuary 4th. Sinofsky is still tweeting from his Microsoft Surface and the Web, but we don't see as many Windows Phone-based tweets as we do earlier in his Twitter timeline.Sinofsky spent the last week at CES wherehe documented the 15 hours he spent on the show floor.His CES report is well worth reading. On Twitter heexplained:Sure I use an iphone at times. I have a Samsung too that i use. I want to be familiar with the work of all companies.(That too came from an iPhone.)At last the OS app ! &gt;&gt; edparsons.comFor a number of years the OS has relied on apps produced by it's partners to distribute its mapping products on PC"s and the increasing important market of mobile devices.The distribution of OS maps digitally is strategically important to the agency as it represents the future where paper maps are increasingly a niche specialised product, expensive and difficult to buy outside of specialist stores..  The only surprise therefore is how long it has taken the OS to enter this market, and the app in my opinion is a really good first effort.Parsons (if you didn't know) is geospatial technologist and evangelist at Google. And he used to be chief technology officer at Ordnance Survey - the first it ever had.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hacktivist group Anonymous has attacked the Massachusetts Institute of Technology websites and posted a memorial to Aaron Swartz, following accusations the college had contributed to the free information activist's suicide on Friday.Swartz, 26, who helped create Reddit, had been facing trial over allegations of breaking into MIT's computer system to access academic articles from the JSTOR digital library with the intention of making them freely available.His family have accused prosecutors and MIT officialsof being complicit in his death.On Sunday, a memorial to Swartz and a message calling for an overhaul of US computer crime laws appeared on MIT websites. The message, in red type, said it did not hold MIT responsible, and apologised to the institution for the "temporary use of their websites", but described Swartz's prosecution as a "gross miscarriage of justice". It said:"Whether or not the government contributed to his suicide, the government's prosecution of Swartz was a grotesque miscarriage of justice, a distorted and perverse shadow of the justice that Aaron died fighting for – freeing the publicly-funded scientific literature from a publishing system that makes it inaccessible to most of those who paid for it – enabling the collective betterment of the world through the facilitation of sharing – an ideal that we should all support."Moreover, the situation Aaron found himself in highlights the injustice of U.S. computer crime laws, particularly their punishment regimes, and the highly-questionable justice of pre-trial bargaining. Aaron's act was undoubtedly political activism; it had tragic consequences."The post, which also called for reform of copyright and intellectual property law and a "free and unfettered internet", linked to a petition for the removal of US district attorney Carmen Ortiz, who has been accused by Swartz supporters of using "overreaching charges"."We call for this tragedy to be a basis for a renewed and unwavering commitment to a free and unfettered internet, spared from censorship with equality of access and franchise for all" the message said.The attack on MIT's website cut off campus users from internet access for three hours on Sunday evening,according to The Tech, MIT's newspaper.Astatement issued by Swartz's familylate on Saturday blamed MIT for the prolonged legal battle for a "crime with no victims", and said it "refused to stand up for Aaron and its own community's most cherished principles"."Aaron's death is not simply a personal tragedy," the statement said. "It is the product of a criminal justice system rife with intimidation and prosecutorial overreach. Decisions made by officials in the Massachusetts US attorney's office and at MIT contributed to his death."In a statement on Sunday, MIT president Rafael Reif said he had appointed a professor to review the university's involvement in the case.The institute did not immediately respond to questions from the Guardian about the Anonymous message.JSTOR, which settled a civil claim against Swartz in 2011 after he returned the files he downloaded, said the company was "deeply saddened" to hear about his death.In a statement released over the weekend, it said it had regretted being drawn into the case from the outset.Lawrence Lessig, a friend of Swartz and the Roy L Furman Professor of Law and Leadership at Harvard Law School, echoed the claims made by Swartz's parents, and was scathing over the approach taken by MIT to the case as compared to that of JSTOR.In ablogpost titled Prosecutor As Bully, Lessig wrote:"Early on, and to its great credit, JSTOR figured 'appropriate' out: They declined to pursue their own action against Aaron, and they asked the government to drop its. MIT, to its great shame, was not as clear, and so the prosecutor had the excuse he needed to continue his war against the 'criminal' who we who loved him knew as Aaron."Swartz's trial was due to begin this spring. The Wall Street Journal reported that his attempts to reach a plea bargain with the government had broken down andhe faced up to 35 years in prison, and up to $1m in fines.He faced charges of wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer and recklessly damaging a protected computer.
Apple's shares dipped below $500 on Monday as Wall Street took fright over reports that it had cut orders for parts from screen suppliers for its iPhone 5 – but others said the reaction was overdone.The Nikkei newspaper in Japan reported on Monday that Apple has cut orders for the LCD screens used in the iPhone 5, launched last September, and suggested that it indicates weakening demand for the phone. A number of analysts downgraded their estimates for the number of iPhones sold, which Apple is due to announce in its quarterly annual results on 23 January. That hit stocks as investors took fright, because the iPhone is Apple's biggest revenue generator."Apple has cut its component orders for the iPhone due to weaker-than-expected demand," the Wall Street Journalreported, citing "people familiar with the situation". Its sources said orders for iPhone 5 screens have "dropped to roughly half of what the company had previously planned to order".The news hit Apple's shares, which have fallen from a high of $702.10 in September ahead of the iPhone's launch. They began 2012 at $424, but after ramping through the year fell sharply from autumn onwards after two disappointing sets of quarterly figures and cautious guidance from the company on margins and revenues.Carol Pepper, chief executive of Pepper International in New York, told the Reuters news agency: "There is this speculation building 'Is this the end of Apple?'. But, she added, it "doesn't have to grow at the rate it was to do extremely well. It's still going to be one of the marquee companies of the US and the world."But others cast doubt on the WSJ report, pointing out that supplier companies would be unlikely to know about demand, or Apple's inventory levels. "We don't know the whole picture," said Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst for Enders Analysis. "It's not a press release from the company or the suppliers. We're like the blind men trying to descibe an elephant. Halving orders would imply some fundamental collapse in Apple's operation, and there's simply no sign of that."Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy, said: "a simple explanation could be that yields from manufacture of the screens have gone up. Usually they have to throw away about 90% because they don't meet standards. If it has improved, the amount you need to make goes down."Apple made exactly the same move tocut orders for parts in 2011following the launch of the iPhone 4S, with a similar effect in which it was interpreted as weak sales. That year-ago quarter saw Apple sell a record 37m iPhones. With reports from AT&amp;T and other US carriers, along with an earlier launch this year than in 2011 of the iPhone in China, some analystsreckonit could have sold between 48m and 55.6m iPhones in the quarter, which ended on 31 December.Evans noted: "the 2012 quarter was 13 weeks - compared to 2011, which was 14 weeks, so even on a like-for-like basis Apple would show a 7% fall in revenue."Dediu also pointed out in November that Apple has made colossal capital investment amounting to tens of billions of dollars, recorded in its financial statements, on manufacturing facilities. That, he suggested, could mean that it has funded a display production facility owned by Sharp, which has been teetering on the edge of bankruptcy despite being a major supplier to Apple. That, too, might mean that it could cut orders from other suppliers. "They just won't know what Apple's inventory is, or what they need," said Dediu. "A supplier there won't have any visibility on demand, and Apple would never tell them."The news came as Samsung, the world's largest mobile and smartphone manufacturer – and a key supplier to Apple – announced that it has shipped 100m of its Galaxy S devices since April 2010, including the original Galaxy S, the Galaxy S2 in 2011 and Galaxy S3 in May 2012. The latter made up 40m of the sales, it said.Rumours have been swirling that Apple is preparing to launch a cut-down version of its iPhone, using cheaper materials, some time in the spring. "So far Apple has had about 40 to 45% of global handset revenue, because the iPhone sells for around $650 – while the fastest growth segment in smartphones is around $150," said Evans. The majority are cheap phones used on pay-as-you-go contracts. "Apple always aims for a quality point and then decides the price to charge," said Evans. "But I can certainly see them making a $200 phone."
This is how console development usually works: a major consumer technology corporation spends several years and millions of dollars in R&amp;D, putting together a piece of hardware that's jammed with high-end proprietary components. The tech is launched region by region over a period of months, and it is then left unmodified until a smaller, cheaper-to-produce model is rolled out some years later. This happens every five years until the company runs out of money. That is the past.This is the future. A small team of engineers at a pretty much unknown company based in London starts playing around with the Android OS. This company has been making games for pay TV networks since 1999 and is now working on casual titles for the emerging smart TV market. But they've got a new idea. A cheap portable console, built around smartphone components, running Android. Heck, they have the back-end technology to develop and run the device, they've been doing that stuff for years, so R&amp;D is comparatively cheap.And now there's this thing called Kickstarter where offbeat tech projects can be funded by enthusiasts. 12 months later, Playjam Announces theGameStick, it hits Kickstarter and with 18 days to go has already made four timesits initial $100,000 target.GameStick, of course, is not alone. The big gaming hardware story of 2012 might not have been the launch of Wii U and almost certainly wasn't the arrival of PlayStation Vita. It wasOuya, another Android-based console that hit Kickstarter in July, reached its goal in several hours and went on to attract more than $8m in donations. That machine is due out in April with a price tag of $99. GameStick should arrive in the same month at $79. Traditional games consoles usually debut at around $400-500. What is going on?"There's a multitude of reasons for Ouya and GameStick's success on KickStarter," says Patrick Goss, editor-in-chief at news site,TechRadar. "First of all, gamers tend to be very invested in their hobby and KickStarter gives them a chance to feel ownership of a project from the very beginning and for not much money.But, he adds: "I think it is the media's coverage of the projects that has really made the difference. Both of them have had the kind of publicity that would usually cost tens of thousands of pounds to garner. The real question is why the media have seized on the projects and I think that it comes down to a desire for something new and different and an awareness that the lines between casual and core gaming have blurred into insignificance."Certainly, two important factors have co-aligned here. Sony and Microsoft have chosen to delay the usual five-year console cycle this time around, stretching out the lifespan of the PS3 and Xbox 360 with hardware extensions such as the Move and Kinect. They've done this because of the punishing cost of developing new machines, but it's meant that both tech fans and tech journalists have been denied that excitement of anticipating and gossiping about forthcoming platforms.At the same time, we're now used to the hyper-accelerated smartphone pipeline which sees shiny new handsets going from exciting first glimpse to bargain bucket obsolescence in barely two years. The news churn is constant and there's always a new chipset or product line on the near horizon. It makes the five-yearly console cycle look positively geological.What a lot of observers at CES noticed this year was the general industry shift away from big, sexy landmark products to services, software and solutions. Increasingly, what consumers care about is not the hardware itself, but what it's running and how it augments the stuff they already use such as social networks and content-on-demand services. The brands everyone cares about these days aren't Sony and Microsoft, goes the thinking, it's Facebook and Google. And this has opened the industry up.At the same time, the availability of cheap, powerful components and the prominence of platform agnostic solutions like the ARM Cortex processors has emboldened industry stalwarts to strike out into hardware.At CES, we saw Nvidia announcing itsProject Shieldhandheld device, featuring its new Tegra 4 chipset. And then modular PC maker Xi3announcedthat it would be making a compact gaming PC designed to compete with the whole concept of the dedicated games console. It's called Piston and it looks cute, but the big news is that the project has support from Valve. For years the company teased that it would enter the console market with a "Steambox", a cheap PC-like unit dedicated to running high-end downloadable PC titles. Now that process has started.What links all of these systems? It's not really the hardware specs. Although the GameStick, Ouya and Project Shield are all Android-based, and are all offering essentially a smartphone gaming experience but with dedicated controllers and the ability to play on a large screen, they have very different implementations."Ouya and GameStick have specifications akin to an Android tablet like the Nexus 10 in terms of RAM and onboard storage," saysT3writer Michael Sawh. "And while both have Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity the GameStick does lack Ethernet support. PlayJam believes GameStick has satisfactory components to run the most demanding Android games and while that may be true, the overclocked Tegra 3 quadcore processor inside the Ouya console may crucially give developers greater scope to make more innovative, visually appealing games."The Nvidia Project Shield console hosts the new Tegra 4 quadcore chip which Nvidia claims is the world's fastest processor, but is also future proofed with 4K resolution support to display content in ultra high definition and has the capabilities of streaming games from a PC. This sounds like it has the kind of power that could definitely be compared or even surpass the capabilities of Nintendo and Sony's portable handheld devices."But really this is about ideology. When I asked Anthony Johnson, CMO at PlayJam, why he thought GameStick and Ouya had been so successful on Kickstarter, his response was unequivocal. "I think, overwhelmingly, the feeling is that the traditional console market is running a closed shop in an increasingly open world. The advent of smart devices changed the face of the games world for ever."Affordable, high-quality games are here to stay and playing them on a big screen has got to be attractive. From the developer standpoint, many are fed up with the cost, red tape and publishing restrictions imposed upon them by the traditional console market. For the vast majority of developers, that road is not even an option. GameStick solves this."Ouya, GameStick and Piston are all based around this idea of the open system, a machine that can be modified and manipulated by the user to run whatever they want. While PlayStation and Xbox run "walled garden" online services and heavily protected software, these newcomers will let users download and run whatever's compatible with their machines."We are of the opinion that if someone buys a piece of hardware, they should be free to do with it as they please," says Johnson. "GameStick will ship with a purpose built UI designed to support games that have been mapped to our controllers and certified by us. However, if they want to root the device, they can. We hope they do and see what they are able to do with it!"This all fits with the ethos of the growing indie games community. "These platforms are ideal for concept-driven indie gaming," says Richard Leadbetter ofDigital Foundry. "Also, the fact that they're open and that the hardware can be used for whatever the end-user wants is highly appealing for amateur coders, hackers and of course end-users. Open up a platform and it encourages creativity from a vast range of developers. I've no doubt we'll see plenty of Ouyas ending up as retro emulation platforms or Smart TV extenders. Part of the fun of these devices is seeing them subverted into performing tasks they were never designed for."But, of course, the open system movement isn't one giant utopia – there are drawbacks. Without the region locks and digital security of traditional consoles, piracy can run rife – and has done so on Android smartphones: some developers are reporting piracy rates of up to 90% on their games. The problem is also there on iOS, where hardware hacks have intermittently made the distribution of pirated games more straightforward.There's also a question of content aggregation and management. Closed consoles such as the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 ensure all games will actually run without crashing and that each title is age-rated – these factors are harder on open platforms. As Sawh points out: "In the case of Ouya, games will still be screened for appropriateness to make the platform safer, more secure and more family-friendly, so there is still some element of a closed platform."But while piracy must be a concern, it's been interesting to see the developer community line up behind the consoles. Ouya has attracted vocal support from Square Enix and indie stars such as ex-Infinity Ward staffer Robert Bowling, while Johnson claims 200 studios have registered on the GameStick site: "The larger players are also interested and we are in the midst of some great conversations, which unfortunately we cannot yet reveal but we fully expect to have some very well-known titles available at launch."With support from hardware fanatics and developers, it could be that all of these platforms prosper, to a modest extent, in their own micro niches. With its lower price point and reasonable Amlogic CPU and Mali 400 GPU, the GameStick could well be the perfect solution for families who want a cheap console they can cart around to keep the kids happy at granny's house. It'll do online multiplayer gaming and allows the connection of up to four controllers to one device. From September there will also be a firmware update to support  XBMC and DLNA allowing video playback.Ouya and Project Shield could well be more aimed at hardcore gamers, the latter the most powerful, but also likely to be the most expensive. "Graphics chip giant Nvidia is a familiar name with gamers and that could well suggest more stability," says Goss. "But Ouya's openness and attitude has resonated with gamers and Android fans and has a whiff of the fresh and non-establishment about it."So should Sony and Microsoft be concerned? Both are announcing new consoles this year - and although they're likely to be based on off-the-shelf PC hardware rather than proprietary tech, they'll still be comparatively expensive closed systems in the traditional mould. What they have however, is an established market, huge distribution networks and massive brand awareness.The next Xbox and PS4 machines will be packed with state-of-the-art hardware, they'll have deals with the world's biggest developers and content providers; they'll get masses of mainstream coverage. This is the sort of war they haven't fought before, against a rabble of upstarts. But it is unlikely to end in their demise.Johnson, certainly, is realistic in his ambitions: "We're not trying to compete with hardcore gaming solutions today. We simply cannot support the highest end games and people that play them will want to continue using those products. We are targeting causal to mid-core gamers and there are plenty of them out there - thanks in large part to the mobile games scene."Rich Leadbetter, however, sees Valve has holding the ace in this emerging sector. The developer that revolutionised PC gaming with its Steam service has the ambition, ability and credentials to make a dramatic impact on the console industry. Piston is only an opening gambit, essentially a Mac mini-like project; there will be other iterations."In addressing the more hardcore games market, I'd imagine that Valve's offering stands the best chance of competing," Leadbetter says. "I see this as a long-term strategy, establishing Steam as a cross-platform brand that will work on PCs and then move on to other devices. The Steambox itself is a Linux PC, but there were Linux smartphone prototypes at CES too – it's a platform that's bound to evolve, and it won't be constrained by Microsoft, as Windows is.He adds: "Another element of Steambox worth mentioning is that entry-level sub-$100 devices will be out there that will stream gameplay over the internet in the way that OnLive does either from remote servers or the user's own PC, and I'd expect Valve to be targeting Android phones and tablets with that. This is Valve effectively divorcing itself from Windows and defining its own destiny – it's really exciting stuff."And with Apple, Google and countless TV manufacturers also circling the living room, looking to put their own hardware into the corner, the battle is only going to get more complex and more intriguing.Ouya, GameStick and Project Shield are perhaps niche solutions for a fragmented market, but they are also at the vanguard of something much bigger and more disruptive. The future is about software services supported by modular technology. The five-year cycle, artificially extended in this console generation, is about to be crushed – the big question is, by whom?We approached Ouya and Nvidia for comment while writing this article but they are yet to respond. We'll update accordingly.
The story for the PC business keeps getting worse. Figures released by the research groupsIDCandGartnershow that in the fourth quarter of 2012 sales of PCs dropped by about 6% year-on-year to 90m, as the business undergoes what Gartner analyst Mikako Kitagawa called a "structural shift", with people buying new tablets instead of updating older PCs."Tablets have dramatically changed the device landscape for PCs, not so much by 'cannibalising' PC sales, but by causing PC users to shift consumption to tablets rather than replacing older PCs," said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner.The launch of Windows 8 at the end of October 2012 didn't lift the market, said Gartner: "consumers no longer viewed PCs as the number one gift item" but instead "directed their attention elsewhere. Analysts said there was uptake of very low priced notebooks as a part of mega holiday deals, but this uptake did little to boost holiday PC sales".That poses a problem for Microsoft, which derives roughly half its profit from sales of Windows licences.Speaking last week, Tami Reller, the new head of the Windows division following the abrupt departure of Steve Sinofsky, who oversaw Windows 8's development,told attendees at a JP Morgan forumthat there had been shortages of touch-enabled screens and devices which otherwise could have boosted sales: "Frankly, the supply was too short," she said. "I mean, there was more demand than there was supply in the types of devices that our customers had the most demand for. And there was some misalignment between where products were distributed and where there was demand."Reller said that Windows 8 had sold more than 60m licences in its first 10 weeks, "roughly in line" with Windows 7 at the same time. But that includes licences sold to companies which do not buy PCs, and sales to PC manufacturers whose products have yet to reach customers. The global PC base is also substantially larger than when Windows 7 was released in October 2009.IDC added that "the fourth quarter of 2012 marked the first time in more than five years that the PC market has seen a year-on-year decline during the holiday season".Collapsing sales in the US and, particularly, in Europe point to a future where PCs are replaced less often, which would slow down sales substantially. There are slightly fewer than 2bn PCs in use worldwide, and corporate sales make up around half of PC sales during each quarter.But as companies have slowed down their replacement of PCs, while consumers have begun looking at other products such as tablets, in more saturated markets such as the US – and smartphones in countries such as China and Brazil where PC penetration is lower – market growth has begun slowing abruptly, and even gone into reverse.Neither company classes Microsoft's new Surface – a tablet with a detachable keyboard – as a PC. Independent estimates have put sales at around 700,000 for the quarter, not large enough to move the market even if it were classed as a PC.IDC and Gartner offered slightly different figures for the quarter – 89.8m for IDC, a 6.4% drop against last year, and 90.3m for Gartner, down 4.9%. But both agreed on the direction and the problems that it poses for PC manufacturers and for Microsoft, which derives roughly half its profits from sales of Windows licences, and whose new Windows 8 product was released at the end of October 2012.The US market dropped 4.5% in the quarter, and 7% for the whole year, said IDC; Gartner put the fall at 2.1% for the quarter, though both companies' figures are for inventory to wholesalers and retailers, not actual units sold to consumers and companies.The story for PC makers, already fighting for margin, is likely to get worse as companies such as Asus and Acer finally abandon the netbook market and turn their focus to tablets. Almost all tablets run Google's Android mobile operating system rather than variants of Windows.For the year, IDC's figures show a total of 352.4m PCs shipped, down 3.2% on 363.9m 2011, while Gartner says 352.7m were shipped – a 3.5% fall on 2011's 365.4m.The numbers indicate how rapidly tablets have begun eating into the PC replacement business – especially since they pushed out netbooks as the preference for people buying a new computing device for portability. In June 2011, IDC's forecast for total PC sales in 2012 was 400m, and even in September 2012 it was forecasting total sales of 364m for that year.Instead the market headed downwards. "Consumers expected all sorts of cool PCs with tablet and touch capabilities," said David Daoud, IDC's US PC research director. "Instead, they mostly saw traditional PCs that featured a new OS – Windows 8 – optimised for touch and tablets with applications and hardware that are not yet able to fully utilise these capabilities."Apple, whose computers do not come with Windows installed, has not yet said how many computers it sold; that data will be released with its financial results on 23 January. Gartner reckons that its sales grew by 5.4%, amid a market that shrank by 2.1%; IDC, that they fell by 0.2% in a market that shrank by 4.5%.Both research groups saw HP regaining the lead it lost in the previous quarter, as the world's largest supplier of PCs, ahead of China's Lenovo. The two companies shipped roughly 15m and 14m PCs respectively. Dell saw a dramatic fall in shipments, by 20% to about 9.3m, according to both groups.
In the interest of saving some of our readers some time, I will begin this review by addressing the DMC faithful first. It's the combat you're worried about, isn't it? You know that Ninja Theory has made two hack 'n' slash adventures so far. You also know that while both of them boasted decent stories and characters, as well as swoon-worthy presentation, they were somewhat lacking in the mechanics department.This is the main reason some of you – not all of you, mind, but some – howled with rage on internet forums and social networks the moment you heard Ninja Theory was to produce the latest installment in the DMC franchise. The fact that images depicting Dante as some sort of My Chemical Romance reject emerged shortly after this announcement didn't help much either.Well, you can all breathe a sigh of relief. DmC: Devil May Cry may look a little different to its forbears, but as far as its combat is concerned, it's as rock solid as any entry in the series. This is probably due in no small part to the fact that Capcom and Ninja Theory worked very closely to make sure that the reboot/re-imagining came loaded with the fluid, intuitive and deep fighting mechanics that this series is known for. In Ninja Theory's hands, Dante kicks just as much arse as he did in previous iterations and looks achingly cool doing it.Now, before interested parties on the periphery depart thinking that DmC is aimed solely at the resolutely hardcore, it's worth noting that Ninja Theory's latest offering accommodates players of pretty much any skill level. This isn't to say anything's been dumbed down, but if you're a player who finds the prospect of tackling DmC intimidating, don't worry. It's possible to dial the difficulty all the way down to the easiest setting and enjoy the glorious scenery and passable storyline in an experience that equates in DMC terms to a bit of a hit and giggle.Players who want more of a challenge will kick things up to "Nephilim" immediately, and then jump right into the "Son Of Sparda" difficulty once they've completed the game for the first time.On the initial play-through, Ninja Theory works hard to introduce players to the classic DMC controls. Dante starts off wielding only his sword, Rebellion, but in short order, Ebony &amp; Ivory (his twin shooters), Arbiter (a massive axe with a slow, but damaging attack) and Osiris (a quick, less damaging scythe) are added to his arsenal. Players can switch between edged weapons by pulling the left and right triggers (X fires any handguns) and as more weapons are added to the mix, players can switch between using the D-pad.The enemy design is a little uniform in its aesthetic (most enemies look like slimy, broken marionettes) but they're effective, nonetheless. After the initial stages, where players simply slice through cannon-fodder, the difficulty level rises as enemies who can block attacks, can only be affected by certain weapons and can't be hurt unless attacked from the rear enter the fray.It should also be noted the AI is a right sod; gangs of demons will circle the player, wait for them to attempt a combo, and then stab them from the rear. Now, as was mentioned, it's possible on the lowest difficulty to button-bash your way through the game, but it's hardly rewarding.Furthermore, DmC offers players incentives to juggle Dante's weapons while attacking enemies. First off, they'll cause more damage; if players vary their attacks, the overall rating of each combat encounter rises and the damage of Dante's weapons increases. Sure, you can defeat an enemy by spamming a couple of moves, but if you flick them into the air with Osiris, keep them airborne with Ebony &amp; Ivory, slash at them on the way down with Rebellion and then slam Arbiter onto their bonce, you'll finish them off more quickly. You'll also look a lot cooler doing it, which half the point of playing Devil May Cry.Second, the more players vary their attacks, the more they're rewarded for it. First, there are the all-important bragging rights; players are awarded a score for each level they complete, which is then entered onto an international leaderboard – and varied attacks push their score higher. Second, there's Dante's upgrade meter, which players fill faster by mixing up their attacks. When filled, the meter bestows points that players can use to unlock moves and attacks in lengthy combo lists for each of Dante's weapons.Along with upgrades, players collect souls from nearly every enemy or inanimate object they smash. These are used as currency in the Shop, where they can buy items such as Green Stars that replenish health and Golden Orbs, which allow a quick resurrection if the worst should happen. Players also collect souls from Lost Souls attached to surfaces dotted around the levels. At times these are in plain sight, while at others, they're hidden; players can hunt for them by following their tell-tale rasp.Along with the Lost Souls, levels also contain hidden rooms that can only be unlocked with certain weapons, and a series of challenge rooms that the player unlocks with keys dotted around the levels. The challenge rooms are mostly well designed, offering time challenges, platform races and fights in which the player is hamstrung in some way (such as, for example, only being able to hurt enemies by causing them to attack each other). In most instances, the player receives more souls as a reward and an overall increase to Dante's health bar.Some challenge rooms and some areas can't be accessed on the player's first play-through of the game, which offers incentives to revisit to rinse it for content and achievements. For those brave, hardcore souls, there are also the higher difficulty settings to consider. The "Son Of Sparda" level, for example, is a world away from "Nephilim"; here, enemies from the fourth or fifth level start showing up in the opening stages and group battles require deft thumbstick and button-work.Then there's the super-hard "Dante Must Die" setting, "Heaven &amp; Hell", where both Dante and his enemies die with one hit – and the utterly insane "Hell &amp; Hell", where Dante dies with one hit and no one else does.So the game's combat is present and correct, and players can take it is as easy or as rock-hard as they like. On top of that, players will be required to solve the occasional puzzle and overcome the odd platforming level through a combination of double jumps, glides and chain-grabs. To be honest, the platforming and jumping takes a bit of getting used to and quick fingers are needed to slice open Lost Souls, which the level designers place annoyingly beyond reach. There are also a couple of platforming sections that take place on crumbling segments, which invariably kill the player the first time round, making the game feel a little trial-and-error at times.That said, one is tempted to forgive DmC these issues, just because of the way it looks. As was mentioned earlier, Ninja Theory has a well-earned reputation for creating worlds that look both beautiful and unique, and DmC is no exception to this rule. Here, Dante and his war against the forces of hell have been recast in a more modern and more western aesthetic.The world of DmC is a place where demons walk among humans. Their overlords aren't snarling, feral creatures; rather they're the erudite schemers who brought about the banking crisis. They control the world through debt, rightwing media and poisoned fizzy pop. The only thorn in their side is an underground hacker group (firmly in the mould of Anonymous) called The Order. Oh, and an arrogant, supernatural hedonist called Dante.Dante's cynical detachment andbon vivantattitude are borne out of his ability to see straight through the magical cloaking the demons use to mask their true nature from their human pawns. Because of this, he's hunted and forced to make frequent trips to a pocket dimension called Limbo, where all of his fights against the demons take place. In Limbo, the world itself moves to destroy Dante, closing off escape routes when he's surrounded by enemies and ripping up the ground to prevent him moving forward. Here, corruption crawls on every surface like fungi, inanimate objects buckle and break and heat waves waft on the wind.It's actually impressive how far away from DMC's visual roots Ninja Theory has cast their game's presentation, but it works nonetheless. It's just a pity that the story at the game's centre doesn't really have a lot going for it.Beyond Dante hooking up with The Order and some compelling scenes in which he uncovers the keys to his past and his true nature, the story of DmC mainly involves Dante hunting down the key operatives of a demon named Mundus. The characters surrounding him – most notably a witch named Cat who uses spray cans and street art stencils in her conjuring  – are pretty one-note and most of the plot's major developments are signposted from miles off. Dante, himself, remains a cocky douchebag – as he has been since the first DMC game – although it has to be said that the actor playing him here succeeds in making him very likable indeed.But then, DMC has never been very big on story or characters. Players pick up this game to slice their way through the forces of hell in the most stylish and visually stunning way possible, and here, DmC succeeds with aplomb.This is the first game that Ninja Theory has produced where it can be said the mechanics are as compelling as the visuals they come packaged with. Like Dante, DmC isn't perfect and it's occasionally frustrating, but it's always appealing and it demands your attention. And damned, if it doesn't always look cool.• DmC was reviewed on the Xbox 360
The number of Facebook's UK users dropped by 600,000 in December,according to databy social media monitoring firm SocialBakers.Though representing a typical seasonal dip in use over the Christmas period, the UK was the only one of Facebook's 10 busiest territories that saw a seasonal fall, with user numbers dropping 1.86%.OnSocialBakers'index the UK ranks as the world's sixth most active Facebook user base, with more than 33 million unique users in December, although that figure duplicates users who access from multiple devices.That user base would be equivalent to 53% market penetration last month, second only to the US with 54%. The US tops the list with more than 169 million unique users per month, followed by Brazil with 65 million and India with 63 million.SocialBakers, a Czech-based startup backed by Index and Earlybird venture funding, has gained significant traction among big business and brands keen to assess their impact on social networks.Data fromcomScoreshows Facebook's UK monthly active users plateauing at just over 31 million between September and November, falling to 31,456,000 at the end of the three-month period.The data chimes with speculation that Facebook is reachingsaturation pointamong the web user population in its core markets, and that continued growth is increasingly dependent on the developing world.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (31)Wii (5)162 (2)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)PC (4)73 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (2)94 (4)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)PC (2)85 (5)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (42)VITA (12)PC (1)116 (7)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (2)Wii U (1)157 (6)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)108 (13)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (96)PSP (4)119 (10)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (80)PS3 (15)PC (5)5610 (9)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (23)Wii (21)DS (8)811 (11)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (35)PC (4)Wii U (3)1112 (14)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)Wii (2)1113 (12)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (29)Wii U (11)VITA (9)614 (8)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)815 (15)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (30)PC (6)1316 (–)Anarchy Reigns (16+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)117 (17)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (37)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (20)1318 (16)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)1219 (18)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2720 (20)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (16)DS (16)PS3 (14)27UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Oracle has issued an emergency fix for its Java software, which security experts said is being exploited to carry out identity theft and other crimes — but flaws remain which can still be exploited, researchers say.The fix,available from the Oracle website, is intended to block an exploit in Java from running in web browsers, which the US Department of Homeland Security said was being "actively exploited".The new fix from Oracle, which updates Java to Java 7 update 11 (known as 7u11) sets the default Java security settings to "high", so users are prompted before their systems will run Java applets from an unknown source — as a hacker's code would be.But such permission systems are vulnerable to what security researchers call "social engineering", where the code can be made to appear to come from a trusted site despite the threat it actually poses — and users will give it permission to run.The US Department of Homeland Security's Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) warned on Sunday that despite the fix, "unless it is absolutely necessary to run Java in web browsers, disable it, even after updating to 7u11".Adam Gowdiak, a researcher with Poland's Security Explorations, told Reuters that several critical security flaws remain in Java: "We don't dare to tell users that it's safe to enable Java again," he said.HD Moore, chief security officer with online security company Rapid7, told Reuters it could take two years for Oracle to fix all the security bugs already identified in the Java used in web browsers. "The safest thing to do at this point is just assume that Java is always going to be vulnerable. Folks don't really need Java on their desktop," Moore told Reuters.Java is unrelated to Javascript, though either may be required to make a webpage function. When used on websites, Java is typically used to run small apps that are loaded from inside the browser, but are downloaded to the user's machine. There they are meant to run inside a "sandbox", which strictly limits their ability to read or write data to the PC. But the exploit shows that that has failed.CERT warned on Thursday thatJava's security manager could be bypassedso that "arbitrary code" — that is, code written by a hacker — could be run.Typical exploits used in such cases are to install "keyloggers", which silently record every keystroke and send them to remote sites, or code that turns a PC into part of a "botnet", which can be used to send millions of spam emails or to attack third-party sites."Reports indicate this vulnerability is being actively exploited, and exploit code is publicly available," the CERT said, advising users to disable Java in web browsers.Apple, which has a built-in software update system capable of blocking malware, blocked Java from running in web browsers for computers running versions of it.The flaw was reported byKafeine, a malware researcher who first spotted it being offered on an underground site that was receiving "hundreds of thousands of hits daily". Kafeine said its unreported use "could be a cause mayhem" [sic] and added "I think it's better to make some noise about it".• Most browsers will have settings that can directly disable Java. Both Windows and Apple Mac systems have control panels that allow it to be disabled completely.
It's Monday - DmC reviews are out today!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFeb 2003: Google's Privacy Problems &gt;&gt; Aaron SwartzFebruary 2003:Conclusion: Google needs to stop sending the cookie and promise to only store aggregate data, with no connection between users and search terms. This issue waspublicly raisedalmost a year ago; that Google still hasn't dealt with it is inexcusable.Google's gone in completely the other direction, you'll have noticed.The Tech's coverage of Aaron Swartz &gt;&gt; TechBlogsMIT's inhouse publication:26-year old Aaron Swartz was an accomplished man -- it's not difficult to see his influence on today's web. He co-authored the specification for RSS 1.0 at age 14 and was a prominent internet activist throughout his life. Hacker News went ablaze with comments of support for his work.The Tech was informed of Swartz's suicide by his uncle Michael Wolf and confirmed the news with his lawyer early this morning. The Tech has covered Aaron Swartz's case since August 2011, and we've compiled our coverage below.The 12 cognitive biases that prevent you from being rational &gt;&gt; io9Note this:we're subject to cognitive biases, those annoying glitches in our thinking that cause us to make questionable decisions and reach erroneous conclusions. Here are a dozen of the most common and pernicious cognitive biases that you need to know about.Consider, as you pick apart others' arguments, that you might be exhibiting one of these. The anchoring effect, mentioned briefly at the end, is one of the most important when pricing is mentioned in any context. So: consider the price of the last individual item you bought, and write it down. Now write down the amount you think Microsoft should charge for Office on iOS.Dish Hopper with Sling - Digital Video Recorders (DVRs) &gt;&gt; CNET ReviewsSpec spec spec spec feature feature feature feature app app. Footnote:Editors' note: The Dish Hopper with Sling was removed from consideration for the Best of CES 2013 awards due to active litigation involving our parent company CBS Corp. We will no longer be reviewing products manufactured by companies with which we are in litigation with respect to such product.They should patent that.Surveying the swag of CES 2013 &gt;&gt; The Atlantic WireAt CES there's a fantasy that the makers of the 4K TVs, waterproof camcorders, or even just phone cases glittering on display are going to give it away for free. You can see it in the eyes of the conference-goers as they linger in front of displays, wait to touch something wonderful and new.Yes, CES is dead and gone for another year, but this is a marvellous look at one aspect of the show. And, oh, the pictures.US warns on Java software as security concerns escalate &gt;&gt; NBCNews.comThe US Department of Homeland Security urged computer users to disable Oracle Corp's Java software, amplifying security experts' prior warnings to hundreds of millions of consumers and businesses that use it to surf the Web.Hackers have figured out how to exploit Java to install malicious software enabling them to commit crimes ranging from identity theft to making an infected computer part of an ad-hoc network of computers that can be used to attack websites.Remind us again how much Oracle paid for Sun?Close-up: Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft® Pixel Sense(TM) &gt;&gt; Samsung CES 2013From Samsung's official CES blog:From afar it looks like a simple table. But when you touch its surface, it comes to life like a body of moving water. This 40" full HD 1080p Touch table uses PixelSense(TM) technology to see and respond to touch and objects with optical tags. It recognizes and reacts to over 50 points of contact. Plus it's just beautiful to look at. Watch it move.It does look very cool. No price tag, though.Black Market Pharmacies And The Big Business Of Spam : Planet Money : NPRAn apparent feud between two black market pharmacies has shed light on a shady global industry."Rx-Promotion and SpamIt probably are responsible for upward of 50 or 60 percent of spam that you and I got in our inboxes over the last five years," said Brian Krebs, a cyber-security reporter who chronicled the alleged feud on hiswebsite. "It's just a ridiculous amount of problems that these two guys cause for everybody."Absolutely. Though this is surprising: the researchers did tests, making 800 orders separately:"We've maybe only had one time where we didn't get anything," said [Stefan] Savage [of the University of California at San Diego]. They tested some of the drugs they received, and all had the proper amount of the active ingredient.Savage says the vast majority of customers are ordering erectile dysfunction drugs. Others order painkillers or stimulants for recreational use. But up to 15% of orders come from people seeking medications to treat chronic health conditions, likely because they can't afford to purchase them through legal avenues.In other words: might the US's health care system partly be to blame for spam?Landmark agreement may make wayleaves easier for rural broadband &gt;&gt; thinkbroadband"Wayleaves" are permissions - usually rentals - for utility companies to put pipes or lines over or through private property. Now read on:To the average person wayleaves seem a very simple issue, but for broadband projects they can be critical both in times of deployment time and cost. Traditionally every landowner had to be approached individually and negotations taking place, with solicitors on both sides generally being the biggest winner. The Country Land &amp; Business Association (CLA) and the National Farmers Union (NFU) have now created a package to help advise landowners how to approach wayleave agreements with both community broadband solutions and commercial providers.Sounds trivial, but this could be enormously important for big projects.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Ignore the controversy over leading man Dante's redesign – the revamp and revitalisation of Capcom'sDevil May Cryfranchise is an exceptional offering. Along with Dante's new look – all punk attitude (see picture below) and brooding swagger, complete with a cheeky union flag on his coat, courtesy of Cambridge-based developer Ninja Theory – comes a fresh approach to the series' mythology.The demons plaguing the world are now creatures of the age, viral marketers and propagandising TV pundits. The approach feels amazingly pertinent, touching on the fears and oppressions of modern life, and the monsters feel all the more powerful for not merely being slavering beasts from the pit. The omnipresence of the villains extends into the environment itself, with the setting of Limbo City itself actively trying to kill you, creating a perfect level of tension.Gameplay remains reassuringly familiar, a flurry of melee attacks linking into brutal shooting combos, thanks to an endless supply of ammo. Performance is once again ranked on style and efficiency, and Dante's impressive abilities grow at a steady pace, tempting you to replay to improve your score. However, chaining together some of the more navigation-oriented skills can require overly precise timing, leading to frustrating repeats of platform-esque sections. NonethelessDmCremains a fantastic, refreshing effort that even the early naysayers will enjoy immensely.
The web programmer and open-data crusader Aaron Swartz has beenfound deadin his New York apartment, having apparently taken his own life at the age of 26. Swartz made a notable impact  on the web: when he was 12, he wrote his first serious programs, and at 13 won an ArsDigita prize for creating a non- commercial website. He co-authored the RSS internet syndication standard, an automated system for distributing blogposts, at 14, and then contributed to the development of Lawrence Lessig's Creative Commons copyright system.Later, he was a prime mover inhalting the US government's Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), which could well have led to widespread censorship of the internet. He co-founded theDemandProgressorganisation to continue the fight for internet freedom and openness.His family said: "Aaron's death is not simply a personal tragedy. It is the product of a criminal justice system rife with intimidation and prosecutorial overreach." Swartz was being threatened with more than 30 years in jail and up to $4m in fines fordownloading 4.8m academic articlesfrom theJSTOR(Journal Storage) database. He had already returned the hard drives to JSTOR, which wanted to drop the case.Previously, in 2008, Swartz had written a similar program to download millions of federal judicial documents from PACER, America's Public Access to Court Electronic Records database, to make them freely accessible to the public. The US government investigated that case, but did not take him to court.As Lessig has written, Swartz never did anything to make money: he was "always and only working for (at least his conception of) the public good". He did make money as one of the co-owners of Reddit, the web's most popular bulletin board and discussion site, when it was taken over by the publisher Condé Nast in 2006. He hated office life and was soon fired, but he had enough to live on, until his funds were depleted by the costs of the JSTOR case.Swartz was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Robert Swartz, a software executive, and his wife Susan, a knitter, quilter and fibre artist. In aninterview with Philipp Lenssen, he said: "I was around computers from birth; we had one of the first Macs, which came out shortly before I was born, and my Dad ran a company that wrote computer operating systems. I don't think I have any particular technical skills; I just got a really large head start."His father ran the Mark Williams Company, which sold Coherent, a Unix-like operating system, from 1980 to 1995. The company name derived from Robert Swartz's father.After working on RSS with Sir Tim Berners-Lee's World Wide Web Consortium and on the Creative Commons with Lessig, Swartz spent a year at Stanford University, before dropping out. Much more interesting things were happening inweb start-ups, and he founded a company calledInfogami.This was merged with Reddit, andReddit was rewrittenfrom the Lisp programming language into Python, using Swartz's web.py framework.The Condé Nast takeover made him rich but not happy. Reddit was relocated to Wired magazine's office in San Francisco. In a blog post in November 2006, Swartz wrote: "The first day I showed up here, I simply couldn't take it. By lunch time I had literally locked myself in a bathroom stall and started crying."Friends remember Swartz as, in Lessig's words, "brilliant, and funny. A kid genius. A soul, a conscience." He spoke confidently when he gave talks, some of which are available on YouTube. He had close friends and partners, and the support of a loving family.However, he also suffered from deep depressions, and sometimesposted his thoughts online. It was sometimes distressing reading. After his death, his mother commented on Hacker News: "Aaron has been depressed about his case/upcoming trial, but we had no idea what he was going through was this painful."Swartz is survived by his parents, his younger brothers Noah and Benjamin, and his partner, Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman.• Aaron Swartz, web programmer and activist, born 8 November 1986; died 11 January 2013
The family of celebrated internet activist Aaron Swartz has accused prosecutors and MIT officials of being complicit in his death, blaming the apparent suicide on the pursuit of a young man over "an alleged crime that had no victims".In astatement released late Saturday, Swartz's parents, Robert and Susan, siblings Noah and Ben and partner Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman said the Reddit builder's demise was not just a "personal tragedy" but "the product of a criminal justice system rife with intimidation and prosecutorial overreach".They also attacked the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) for not supporting the internet activist in his legal battles and refusing to stand up for "its own community's most cherished principles".The comments came a day after the 26-year-old killed himself in his Brooklyn apartment on Friday night.A committed advocate for the freedom of information over the internet, Swartz had been facing a trial over allegations of hacking related to the downloading of millions of documents from the online research group JSTOR. Swartz pleaded not guilty last year; if convicted, he could have faced a lengthy prison term.News of his death resulted in anoutpouring of tributesover the internet. Tim Berners-Lee, the man credited with inventing the world wide web, tweeted: "Aaron dead. World wanderers, we have lost a wise elder. Hackers for right, we are one down. Parents all, we have lost a child. Let us weep."Swartz dedicated much of his time to fighting online censorship and his court case had become a cause célèbre for many similar-minded figures.The trial was due to begin next month. He faced 13 felony charges including computer and wire fraud. Prosecutors accused him of stealing millions of scientific journals from a computer archive at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with the intent of making them freely available.If convicted he could have faced decades behind bars, alongside a fortune in fines. A spokeswoman for the US attorney's office in Massachusetts said it was inappropriate to comment on the case at this time.MIT president L Rafael Reif said he had appointed a professor to review the university's involvement in Swartz's case."It pains me to think that MIT played any role in a series of events that have ended in tragedy," Reif said in a statement emailed to the university community on Sunday."Now is a time for everyone involved to reflect on their actions, and that includes all of us at MIT. I have asked Professor Hal Abelson to lead a thorough analysis of MIT's involvement from the time that we first perceived unusual activity on our network in fall 2010 up to the present."I have asked that this analysis describe the options MIT had and the decisions MIT made, in order to understand and to learn from the actions MIT took."Prior to the MIT case, Swartz had aided in the release of court documents free of charge, rather than through the pay-per-download government website PACER. It is thought that a fifth of all data was made available through a programme Swartz wrote in 2008, before officials shut it down. The FBI investigated, but never charged Swartz over the PACER case.The organisation Demand Progress, which Swartz helped to found, had compared the activities of which he was accused to "trying to put someone in jail for allegedly checking too many books out of the library".David Moon, programme director at Demand Progress, told the Guardian that he was "shocked and saddened" by the news of his colleague's death.He added that the organisation would pay "proper homage to Aaron at the appropriate time" but for the time being it was "simply spending the moment reflecting on his life and work".Alongside his activism, Swartz, a prodigious computer talent, helped create the RSS protocol which revolutionised content delivery across the web. He was also an early architect of Reddit, the popular social media platform.As news of Swartz's death spread online Saturday, numerous tributes were posted. The author and web expert Cory Doctorow, who was a friend of Swartz,posted an article on BoingBoing. Doctorow wrote that Swartz may have been afraid of the idea of imprisonment but that he had also suffered with bouts of depression. He also paid tribute to the young activist's achievements and dedication to his causes. "We have all lost someone today who had more work to do, and who made the world a better place when he did it," he wrote.In their tribute, Swartz's family wrote that the internet activist had left behind gifts that "made the world, and our lives, far brighter".They added: "He used his prodigious skills as a programmer and technologist not to enrich himself but to make the Internet and the world a fairer, better place. His deeply humane writing touched minds and hearts across generations and continents."Swartz regularly blogged about his own life on the website aaronsw.com. In a post written in January 2007, he discussed the nature of suicide."There is a moment, immediately before life becomes no longer worth living, when the world appears to slow down and all its myriad details suddenly become brightly, achingly apparent," he wrote.His funeral is due to take place on Tuesday in Illinois.• This article was amended on 13 January 2013. It originally stated that prosecutors accused Swartz of stealing scientific journals from a computer archive and making them freely available. Swartz in fact never made the articles available to the public.
Anarchy Reignsis a strange game, a contradictory mix of the chaotic and the methodical, the cutting edge and the quaintly old-fashioned. On the one hand it's a throwback, an arcade-style brawler indebted toSpikeout,Power StoneandStreets of Rage.On the other, it's evolutionary and experimental, an attempt to translate Platinum Games's patented brand of "character action" into a multiplayer form. Not that the game is devoid of single-player content, mind; the offline story mode is a decent length, and boasts all the personality (if not the polish) that characterisedBayonettaandVanquish. The mechanics ofAnarchy Reigns, however, were clearly built with the online multiplayer format in mind.Here, the game's title proves apt, for better or worse. Random "action trigger events" – airstrikes, black holes, marauding 16-wheeler trucks, triffids – ensure the balance of power is always shifting, but can reduce matches to crazed free-for-alls.Persistent players will eventually discern method in the madness, but many will lose patience after they are swatted into the path of an oncoming freight train or the jaws of a kraken for the 50th time. That's a shame, because while not as accomplished as some of Platinum's past releases,Anarchy Reignsoffers an entertaining twist on their blueprints.
The strange thing about the internet is that it went from being something exotic to something mundane almost without us noticing it. As a consequence, our societies have become frighteningly dependent on a system that almost nobody understands, and that nobody – except for techie types – thinks about very much. It has become the electronic plumbing of our world, with the difference that we pay far more attention to our actual plumbing than we do to its virtual counterpart.In fact we take it for granted. We regard the internet as having almost magical properties and as essentially limitless. Someone comes up with a bright idea – for example internet telephony or VoIP, as it's called – and adds it to the things that the network is expected to do. And the network obliges, with the result that many voice calls are now handled by the network. Same story with e-commerce, streaming media, file-sharing, social networking, web mail, and all the other online services that we now assume to be among the appurtenances of civilised life. We assume that we can continue to add tasks of greater and greater complexity to what the network already does and that it will continue to deliver.It is extraordinary to think that a network designed to facilitate communication between a few hundred research laboratories and a few hundred researchers could have scaled up to the point where two billion people now use it, and where large swathes of our commercial life depend upon it. In large measure, this is a tribute to the ingenuity of its original architecture. Its designers were faced with a tricky problem: how to design a network that was as future-proof as possible? Their solution was based on two core principles: there should be no central ownership or control; and the network should not be optimised for any particular application. It should be a simple-minded system that essentially did only one thing – take in data packets at one end and do its best to deliver them to their destinations at the other. "Dumb network, smart applications" was the mantra that they used to express the philosophy that all of the ingenuity should be left to those people developing applications at the edges of the network.These turned out to be very good ideas. They enabled the "organic" growth of the network to happen. And they triggered an explosion of creativity as smart people thought up clever applications that the network could be used for. Some of these applications (for example the web) were beneficial; some (viruses, worms, and malware generally) were destructive. And many (file-sharing) were somewhere in between. The consequence was that, over time, a network that was originally seamless and uncluttered came to be overlaid with a grotesque accumulation of add-ons and patches, to the point where it begins to resemble a baroque excrescence rather than a classical design.This is beginning to concern some people whose job it is to worry about these things. Some find the baroque complexity of the contemporary internet offensive on geeky-aesthetic grounds, much as modernists detest the excesses of Victorian architecture. But others – notably one of the original internet architects,David Clarkof MIT – worry that the higgledy-piggledy evolution of the network means that it is now intrinsically fragile and may therefore be prone to catastrophic failure. Sometimes,Clark says, the worst disasters are caused not by sudden events but by slow, incremental processes that humans are good at ignoring. "Things get worse slowly. People adjust. The problem is assigning the correct degree of fear to distant elephants."Clark's fear is that some of those distant elephants are closer than we think. He sees evidence in things like "plunging security" and the network's decreasing ability to accommodate new technologies. And he thinks that the only way forward is to rethink the architecture of the network from the ground up.A good many computer scientistshave been worrying about thisfor at least a decade, funded by bodies like theUS National Science Foundation,which has put upwards of $300m into the quest for a "new" internet design incorporating some of the things – such as security and authentication – that the original architects didn't worry about (partly because they were designing a system for researchers who knew and trusted one another).It all sounds eminently reasonable, but there are two bluebottles in the ointment. The first is whether or not we are already in too deep – that we are too dependent on the network in its current form to be able to do a root-and-branch reconstruction of it. The secondis the concernthat a new network architecture, with all its desirable "security" features, might stifle the creativity that the old, open and uncontrolled, network enabled. And if that happened, we really would have thrown out the baby with the bathwater.
Aaron Swartz, the 26-year-old who helped build Reddit.com as users know it,diedon 11 January. He was facing a trial related to allegations that he hacked into the online research group JSTOR and downloaded of millions of documents.Within hours, the more prominent of Swartz's supporters took toTwitterandtheir blogsto express sadness, anger and disappointment that Swartz was gone.Redditusers, some unknown in the public sphere andsome known, immediately began memorializing Swartz's legacy in a way that is specific to the site he helped build: through a lengthy debate about the price of internet freedom, the grip of depression and Swartz's exact place in Reddit's firmament. Was he a co-founder or not? This is a quibble co-founder Alex Ohanian haspublicly addressedas recently as 2011.You can see the larger discussion on Reddithere. Below is a sample of commentary from Redditors. Some knew Swartz and some didn't, but most supported his mission, from Redditor (and former principal engineer for Technorati)KevinMarksto Redditorleopardprintlife:"."RedditorNeebat:With all due respect, this is meaningless to most readers without an explanation. The single dot, by itself as a comment, represents a moment of silence and respect.."Very few people can say they had a deep impact in forming a culture"RedditorFrankocean2:Very few people can say they had a deep impact in forming a culture in the internet, one that translated into real life and gave us this site. With all his flaws, virtues and grey areas, reddit is now a social landmark because of its reach and Aaron was instrumental in shaping that."We have a problem in our Justice Department"Redditorleopardprintlife:Aaron was the co-author of RSS 1.0, the co-creator Reddit and founder of Demand Progress amongst other contributions to this world in his short time here. We as a nation drop multiple indictments from a federal grand jury on this 26 year old genius for file downloading! We have a problem in our Justice Department... it's owned by Wall St."I only hope it shakes up the academic publishing world and forces some movement to more public distribution"Redditormichaelfosterfromku:As someone who has had several articles published on JSTOR, I would have fully supported Swartz making those pieces publicly available by any means necessary.We academics are NOT PAID A PENNY by these journals to publish these documents, and we really want our work read by as many people as possible. Swartz was doing good work, and it's a real shame things ended this way.I only hope it shakes up the academic publishing world and forces some movement to more public distribution."He really did manage a DDoS with one computer"RedditorKevinMarks:He really did manage a DDoS with one computer. When I was at Technorati (which indexed blog posts in real time when Google updated their index once a month), we had an API contest. Aaron decided to track mentions of every member of congress and rank them. He noticed that some of these API calls were a bit slow, so he forked off lots of instances to do them asynchronously. Which is how our indexing backlog got huge as all our slaves were tied up doing the expensive queries for the name of each member of congress OR their URL. We weren't expecting that, but I saw it was his API key so pinged him on IRC to back off a bit."Aaron Swartz Censored SOPA."Redditorteeno731
We used to have a fight about how much the internet would grieve if he died. I was right, but the last word you get in as the still living is a hollow thing, trailing off, as it does, into oblivion. I love Aaron. I loved Aaron. There are no words to can contain love, to cloth it in words is to kill it, to mummify it and hope that somewhere in the heart of a reader, they have the strength and the magic to resurrect it. I can only say I love him. That I will always love him, and that I known for years I would. Aaron was a boy, not big, who cast a shadow across the world. But for me, he will always be that person who made me love him. He was so frustrating, and we fought. But we fought like what we were: two difficult people who couldn't escape loving each other.On the last day I saw him, he grabbed me in the rain while my car was blocking the road and held me and said "I love you." I don't know if I said it back. Not that time. I had always told him. Sometimes I told him when he didn't have it in him to say. I'd say "I love you, and you love me, too" and he would just hold me.When he was 20, he carried me through my divorce. We promised each other a year. I apologized so many times: that I was better than what he was getting, that he got me destroyed. Still, what a year. Later, I tried to take care of him while he was being destroyed, from inside and out. I struggled so hard, but not as hard as he did. I told him, time and again, that this was his 20s. It would be better in his 30s. Just wait. Please, just hold on.He read to me and Ada compulsively; he read me a whole David Foster Wallace book. He read Robert Caro to me, countless articles, blog posts, snippets of books. Sometimes, he would call, just read, and hang up. He loved the Very Persistent Gappers of Frip, and the three of us read it together many times. We loved George Saunders. We loved so many things together.He loved my daughter so much it filled the room like a mist. He was transported playing with her, and she bored right into his heart. In his darkest moments, which I couldn't reach him, Ada could still touch him, even if only for a moment. And when he was in the light, my god. I couldn't keep up with either of them. I would hang back and watch them spring and play and laugh, and be so grateful for them both.More than anything, together we loved the world, with the kind of love that grips and tears. We were fearsome creatures, chained to our caring, chained to other people.We were destroyed by the investigation, and by enduring so much together in the five years of the difficult love affair of difficult people. In the end he told me he needed to get away from me. I let him go, and waited for the day he'd come back. I knew that one day we'd have a day to be together again, though probably not as lovers. Together, as something that doesn't have a word. He went on to another relationship, and I know he touched her like he did me, because that's how he touched people.A part of me died with him. A part will always be with him.•This tribute originally appeared on Quinn Norton's website,quinnnorton.com. She has kindly given permission to the Guardian to reproduce the piece.Internet activist Aaron Swartz dies at 26Twitter users pay tributeTech bloggers pay tribute
The death of the internet activist Aaron Swartz,at the age of 26, prompted a stream of tributes from major figures in his field. Swartzwas reported to have killed himself in New York City on Friday.The author and bloggerCory Doctorowwrote an extensive tribute entitled RIP, Aaron Swartz,which he published on boingboing.netunder a disclaimer waiving "all copyright and related or neighboring rights" "to the extent possible under law". In the lengthy tribute, Doctorow wrote:My friend Aaron Swartz committed suicide yesterday, Jan 11. He was 26. I got woken up with the news about an hour ago. I'm still digesting it – I suspect I'll be digesting it for a long time – but I thought it was important to put something public up so that we could talk about it. Aaron was a public guy....Aaron accomplished some incredible things in his life. He was one of the early builders of Reddit (someone always turns up to point out that he was technically not a co-founder, but he was close enough as makes no damn), got bought by Wired/Conde Nast, engineered his own dismissal and got cashed out, and then became a full-time, uncompromising, reckless and delightful shit-disturber....His stunts were breathtaking. At one point, he singlehandedly liberated 20 percent of US law. PACER, the system that gives Americans access to their own (public domain) case-law, charged a fee for each such access. After activists built RECAP (which allowed its users to put any caselaw they paid for into a free/public repository), Aaron spent a small fortune fetching a titanic amount of data and putting it into the public domain. The feds hated this. They smeared him, the FBI investigated him, and for a while, it looked like he'd be on the pointy end of some bad legal stuff, but he escaped it all, and emerged triumphant.He also founded a group called DemandProgress, which used his technological savvy, money and passion to leverage victories in huge public policy fights......Aaron had an unbeatable combination of political insight, technical skill, and intelligence about people and issues. I think he could have revolutionized American (and worldwide) politics. His legacy may still yet do so.Somewhere in there, Aaron's recklessness put him right in harm's way. Aaron snuck into MIT and planted a laptop in a utility closet, used it to download a lot of journal articles (many in the public domain), and then snuck in and retrieved it. This sort of thing is pretty par for the course around MIT, and though Aaron wasn't an MIT student, he was a fixture in the Cambridge hacker scene, and associated with Harvard, and generally part of that gang, and Aaron hadn't done anything with the articles (yet), so it seemed likely that it would just fizzle out.Instead, they threw the book at him. Even though MIT and JSTOR (the journal publisher) backed down, the prosecution kept on. I heard lots of theories: the feds who'd tried unsuccessfully to nail him for the PACER/RECAP stunt had a serious hate-on for him; the feds were chasing down all the Cambridge hackers who had any connection to Bradley Manning in the hopes of turning one of them, and other, less credible theories. A couple of lawyers close to the case told me that they thought Aaron would go to jail.This morning, a lot of people are speculating that Aaron killed himself because he was worried about doing time. That might be so. Imprisonment is one of my most visceral terrors, and it's at least credible that fear of losing his liberty, of being subjected to violence (and perhaps sexual violence) in prison, was what drove Aaron to take this step.But Aaron was also a person who'd had problems with depression for many years. He'd written about the subject publicly, and talked about it with his friends....I'm so sorry for Aaron, and sorry about Aaron. My sincere condolences to his parents, whom I never met, but who loved their brilliant, magnificently weird son and made sure he always had chaperonage when he went abroad on his adventures. My condolences to his friends, especially Quinn and Lisa, and the ones I know and the ones I don't, and to his comrades at DemandProgress. To the world: we have all lost someone today who had more work to do, and who made the world a better place when he did it.Goodbye, Aaron.The writer and consultantClay Shirky, who is a professor at New York University's interactive telecommunications programme, wrote:The last time I saw Aaron, we were talking about Demand Progress, progressive politics, and ways of producing citizen-driven political change. What was so striking about Aaron is that he always wanted to solve the harder problem, not just to find some issue-specific workaround, but to understand how whatever system he was thinking about worked, and then to understand how to make it work better, however unusual such changes might be.This is what he did over and over, from syndication of web content to pro-freedom copyright tools to aggregating editorial judgement to, at the end, driving political change. The most important thing about Aaron's life is that he always picked the hard problems. The saddest thing about his life is that the hardest problem he faced – his own depression, which he wrote about so bravely and movingly – wasn't the kind of thing that yielded to his extraordinary intellect.He will be missed, both for who he was but also for all the good things he was clearly planning but will never do.Birgitta Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament and a leading campaigner for freedom of information on the internet, told the Guardian:Aaron Swartz was the embodiment of the future for the information age and its freedoms we hold so dear. The internet was our mutual home and I feel even if I never met him in person that I lost someone from my tribe. He was and will be an inspiration to carry on our fight to keep the internet free, wild and borderless. Rest in Pixels.The tech bloggerJoey deVillawrote a tribute to Swartz, which was published on his blog,The Adventures of Accordion Guy in the Twenty-First Century. DeVilla, like Doctorow, suggested that a fear of imprisonment may have contributed to Swartz's death. He wrote: "I believe, as does Cory, that the fear of imprisonment for a period longer than his lifespan to date, for doing the right thing, helped drive him to despair and to take his own life."DeVilla also wrote:Aaron was a mere 26 years old, and he'd been doing all sorts of things on the Internet for at least a decade already. When most of us were still playing with toys, he was already playing with code and becoming an adept Python programmer, whose code showed an appreciation for clear, reasoned thinking. At the age of 14, he co-authored the specification for RSS 1.0, which specified how posts on blogs and other new sources get syndicated; even today, this blog uses an RSS feed......The time for anger and resulting constructive action will come, but for me, it's not that time yet. For now, it's time for those of us who knew him to remember the young man we knew and admire. This is my tribute to Aaron.Larry Lessig, a Harvard professor and founder of thenonprofit Creative Commons, wrote a pieceon his blogdiscussing the MIT and JSTOR case and entitled Prosecutor as Bully. Lessig wrote:Some will say this is not the time. I disagree. This is the time when every mixed emotion needs to find voice......As I saidwhen I wrote about the case(when obligations required I say something publicly), if what the government alleged was true – and I say "if" because I am not revealing what Aaron said to me then – then what he did was wrong. And if not legally wrong, then at least morally wrong. The causes that Aaron fought for are my causes too. But as much as I respect those who disagree with me about this, these means are not mine.But all this shows is that if the government proved its case, some punishment was appropriate. So what was that appropriate punishment? Was Aaron a terrorist? Or a cracker trying to profit from stolen goods? Or was this something completely different?The historian and journalistRick Perlsteincontributed a tribute tothe Nation, in which he wrote:I remember always thinking that he always seemed too sensitive for this world we happen to live in, and I remember him working so mightily, so heroically, to try to bend the world into a place more hospitable to people like him, which also means hospitable to people like us. I like what the blogger Lambert Strether wrote on my Facebook page (in Aaron's memory, friend me!): "Our society should be selecting for the Aaron Swartz's of this world. Instead, generous and ethical behavior, especially when combined with technical brilliance, turns out to be maladaptive, indeed lethal. If Swartz had been Wall Street's youngest investment banker, he would be alive today."Alex Stamos, CTO of Artemis Internet,wrote on his blog:I was the expert witness on Aaron's side of US vs Swartz, engaged by his attorneys last year to help prepare a defense for his April trial... I know a criminal hack when I see it, and Aaron's downloading of journal articles from an unlocked closet is not an offense worth 35 years in jail.Other tributes, including a statement from Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web,were made through Twitter.Morris Davisis a retired US air force colonel who served as the chief prosecutor for the military commissions at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, from 2005 to 2007. He said:I never met Aaron Swartz, but as I read about him I empathized with the pressures that seemed to push him to conclude enough is enough. I have been locked in a legal battle with the Justice Department for more than three years over the government firing me for writing an op-ed saying it would be a mistake for the Obama administration to revive the Guantanamo military commissions. My firing was a warning to government employees to keep their heads down and their mouths shut.  Recently, after I was named as a potential witness for Bradley Manning, the Justice Department began attacking my integrity and hinting at criminal charges. Facing their seemingly limitless power and resources month after month takes a toll on your spirit and your finances.The Obama Justice Department made an example of whistleblower Thomas Drake. It is about to make an example of former CIA agent John Kiriakou, and it hopes to do the same with Pfc Bradley Manning. Aaron Swartz was going to be an example, too. The rule of law means equal justice for all, not impunity for some and a total lack of perspective for others. Justice means more than another notch on some government attorney's belt. The government wanted to make an example of Aaron Swartz. It did.
The death of Aaron Swartz,the Reddit co-founder and internet freedom activist who is reported to have killed himself in New York on Friday, prompted a flood of tributes on Twitter.Given Swartz's status as a committed and prominent advocate for online freedom, it was fitting that Tim Berners-Lee was among those to honour him. The inventor of the world wide web was one of many friends, colleagues and supporters who took to social media to pay their respects.Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide webAaron dead.World wanderers, we have lost a wise elder.Hackers for right, we are one down.Parents all, we have lost a child. Let us weep.&mdash; Tim Berners-Lee (@timberners_lee)January 12, 2013Cory Doctorow, author and bloggerI just woke up to find out that my old friend Aaron Swartz committed suicide. If you are depressed/hopeless, please talk to your friends.&mdash; Cory Doctorow (@doctorow)January 12, 2013Larry Lessig, professor and founder of Creative CommonsThere is no way to express this sadness. @aaronswRIP.&mdash; Lessig (@lessig)January 12, 2013Glenn Greenwald, Guardian blogger and columnistThis is so unbelievably sad and horrible on so many levels - RIP @aaronswis.gd/eZrSXZ(via @lessig:is.gd/C47FtH)&mdash; Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald)January 12, 2013Birgitta Jonsdottir, Icelandic politician and free speech campaigner26 yr old Aaron Swartz has committed suicidetech.mit.edu/V132/N61/swart…He was facing 25yrs for sharing info to the public#JSTOR#demandprogress&mdash; Birgitta Jónsdóttir (@birgittaj)January 12, 2013Trevor Timm, activist at Electronic Frontier FoundationAaron Swartz's brief but brilliant life was dedicated to the access of information. Read his own words, an inspirationaaronsw.jottit.com/howtoget&mdash; Trevor Timm (@trevortimm)January 12, 2013W3C Team, a web-based community dedicated to internet growthWe are saddened that Aaron Swartz, long-time collaborator, ended his life yesterday. Rest in peace, young bright mantech.mit.edu/V132/N61/swart…&mdash; W3C Team (@w3c)January 12, 2013
Aaron Swartz, a celebrated computer activist and builder of the popular internet community website Reddit, has died. It is believed that the 26-year-old killed himself in New York City on Friday.A committed advocate for the freedom of information over the internet, Swartz had been facing a trial over allegations of hacking related to the downloading of millions of documents from the online research group JSTOR. Swartz pleaded not guilty last year; if convicted, he could have faced a lengthy prison term.The MIT university newspaper The Tech received an email from Swartz's lawyer, Elliot R Peters,which confirmed the news. The newspaper reported the email as saying: "The tragic and heartbreaking information you received is, regrettably, true."Swartz dedicated much of his time to fighting internet censorship and his court case had become a cause célèbre for many similar-minded figures. A social-justice lawyer, Bettina Neuefeind, had established awebsiteto raise money for his defence.The organisation Demand Progress, which Swartz helped to found, had compared the activities of which he was accused to "trying to put someone in jail for allegedly checking too many books out of the library".David Moon, programme director at Demand Progress, told the Guardian that he was "shocked and saddened" by the news of his colleague's death.He added that the organisation would pay "proper homage to Aaron at the appropriate time" but for the time being it was "simply spending the moment reflecting on his life and work".As news of Swartz's death spread online,numerous tributes were posted. The author and web expert Cory Doctorow, who was a friend of Swartz, posted a tribute on the website Boing Boing. Doctorow wrote that Swartz may have been afraid of the idea of imprisonment but that he had also suffered with bouts of depression. He also paid tribute to the young activist's achievements and dedication to his causes. "We have all lost someone today who had more work to do, and who made the world a better place when he did it," he wrote.Swartz regularly blogged about his own life on the websiteaaronsw.com. In a post written in January 2007, he discussed the nature of suicide."There is a moment, immediately before life becomes no longer worth living, when the world appears to slow down and all its myriad details suddenly become brightly, achingly apparent," he wrote.
The world's biggest gadget show has ended in Las Vegas and, like a prophet in the desert, it has revealed the future: bigger televisions, smarter watches, thinner humans, bendy phones and pointy computers.That, at least, was the vision peddled by technology companies which unveiled 20,000 products over five frenzied days of networking and promotion at theConsumer Electronics Show, which wrapped on Friday. Some 150,000 industry professionals sifted through gadgets sublime and ridiculous, pointless and ingenious, seeking the next big innovation which will change the way we work, live and play.Some ideas which provoked guffaws and headlines –the vibrating fork which chastises you to eat slower,the i-potty training system to keep your toddler on the bowl– may not endure but others seemed certain to have a future.As ever at CES, televisions were everywhere. Samsung, Sony, Toshiba and other manufacturers unveiled bigger screens – ranging from 50in to 110in – with "ultra high definition" four times sharper than traditional HD. Prices range from $20,000 upwards. The South Korean firm LG promoted a rival technology called OLED (Organic Light-Emitting Diode), offering more vibrant colours. Its $12,000 sets will go on sale in the US in March.Manufacturers did not want to speak the name, as if it were Voldermort, but in private they fretted about Apple. Would the Cupertino behemoth conjure a TV to bewitch consumers later this year?The 2D prototypes marked the quiet death of 3D TV, a much hyped innovation at last year's CES which flopped in stores. The technology may be resurrected if the likes of StreamTV Networks convince consumers to buy 3D TVs, due out later this year, which do not require glasses. "If you do 3D right, it's better than 2D," said Walther Roelen, a company engineer.If CES 2013 is remembered for one thing, it is likely to be the coronation of the smartphone as ruler of a kingdom of multiplying subjects. Developers embraced mobility and connectedness to create countless products linked to smartphones.Pebble, a Kickstarter darling, blazed the way with a much-ballyhooed smart watch with e-paper display which connects to a smartphone and can receive emails, control music and track your movement. Priced $150, there are 85,000 pre-orders. "It will complement your smartphone," said Pebble's founder, Eric Migicovsky.The show signalled an accelerating effort sell the the idea that technology is key to mental and physical well-being. A quarter of displays were devoted to gadgets for losing weight, getting fitter and improving health. They harnessed smartphones and tablets to "wearable" fitness devices, which monitor your exertions and store them in the cloud. Diabetics were offered apps to monitor their condition. "It's an inherently data-driven activity," said Joseph Martorano, of iHealth.Samsung unveileda prototype phonewith bendy display technology – super-thin plastic replaces traditional glass – which lets you fold it almost like paper. The technology, called Youm, will spread to other devices.Smartphone covers at CES 2013. A saturated market? Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesSwathes of the 1.85m sq ft convention space were colonised by firms offering a seemingly infinite variety of cases and accessories for phones and tablets. Too many firms chasing a maturing market – there will be blood, predicted some analysts.Computers will not be pointy exactly, but Leap Motion, a Californian start-up, demonstrateda USB-sized device which creates an invisible field around a computer, letting you control the screen by pointing and waggling your fingers. "This could fundamentally change how people interact with computers," said Michael Zagorsek, vice president of product marketing. Many hailed the Minority Report-style gizmo as a revolutionary advance.All the gadgetry, however, did not dispel doubts that the expo is losing relevance. The event focused on hardware in a software-obsessed world and contained no major surprises. Car makers seemed to be keeping powder dry for next week's auto show in Detroit. LG, among others, decided to wait for next month's World Mobile Congress in Barcelona to unveil its latest phone technology.CES, long ignored by Amazon, Facebook, Google and Apple, suffered another blow when Microsoft, whose chief executive traditionally gives the keynote address, handed the baton to chip-maker Qualcomm.Whether the show is fading or not, the hordes leaving Las Vegas with their bags of swag were happy. Morgan Spurlock, the filmmaker, nominated the i-potty as his favourite gadget, followed by a robot on wheels which massages your back. "Look at this," he marvelled, showing a recording on his phone. "Now tell me, isn't that cool?"
