It's beenafewmonthssince we last reported on the ever-intriguing topic of gender bending in those interactive spaces which allow it (most prevalent, then, in virtual worlds), and rather than rehash old news and old statistics, we thought we'd turn toTerra Nova'slatest discussion on the subject. We know that it's mostly men who don female avatars, but - asks the virtual world blog -who are they?Heroine-Sheikand TN author Bonnie Ruberg offers testimonies of some of the people who responded to her informal survey. She's also provoked some inspired commentary from the men and women who adopt another gender's clothing.If you read between the lines of the post, however, the use of female avatars by male gamers has an interesting twist: when you take away the disparity of strength between the sexes and are left with only the superficial shell of gender clothing, female avatars wield much more social power than male.From one of Bonnie's respondants:When playing a female avatar, I enjoy feeling popular, sexy, beautiful, and more than a little powerful. it's amazing how much power a smart female can wield over the desperate, the socially awkward, and the stereotypical unwashed masses of geeks that typically inhabit an MMO setting. And I play that up. Even something as simple as using an atypical male response (like using "cutie" when addressing a male or demonstrating "physical" affection) is enough to convince all but the most jaded skeptic that I am female.From one of the comments:I play female characters exclusively; I like to make them as small as possible (even if it means sacrificing a slot to accommodate a size reduction appliance.) and as beautiful as possible. I've found this type of character perfect for manipulating other, mostly male, gamers; I think it triggers not only the male desire to protect, but also incites them into competition...either way I profit. ;)TL Taylor's ruminationson female players of EverQuest suggest that the design of MMOGs "levels" out differences in ability, strength and power. When the physical strength imbalance goes out the window, and the primary difference we're left with between male and female characters in a MMOG is purely one based upon embodied gender.The men in this (opportunistic) sample use female avatars as tools to get what they want. Sure, it happens the other way (and one of the post's commenters makes this point eloquently). According to research into women's use of online games, often female players adopt male avatars to slough off the unwanted attention and play around with anonymity. Their use has been put down to personal empowerment, yet the above suggests female avatars are adopted for social betterment.Why, then, are theyworth less financiallythan their male counterparts?So confused.
Robert Scoble's announcementthat he was leaving for Google was followed by an amusing string of changes. The best was when Yahoo blogger Jeremy Zawodny announced he was alsomoving to Googlewhile Google bloggerMatt Cutts said he was joining Yahoo. "Anyway, to lessen the confusion (or maybe increase it), I'll be blogging on his site from now on and he'll be here," wrote Zawodny, Then there was a Matt Cutts blog post,Working at Google is full of surprises, signed "Jeremy".Elsewhere on the web, a lot of sites decided to appeal to girls by going pink -- including Slashdot. Ask did a nice job of launchingRhymeRank, "an innovative search technology capable of producing related search results that rhyme with a searcher's original query." MSN brought back its popularMy MSN Searchspoof.I particularly liked the newslist atMacRumours.comwhich included:03/31 : Apple renames Bonjour to Aloha and drops French Language Kit 03/30 : New Apple Ad Features John C. Dvorak 03/30 : iPod Sock Benchmarks 03/29 : Mac OS X 6 to be named Felix 03/29 : Apple Merges iTMS Classical/Country Genres to Save Disk Space 03/29 : Press Ignores Apple Media Event 03/28 : iPod Pro to include bottle opener, screwdriver, scissors, nail-file, corkscrew, and toothpickAs usual, Urgo.org compiled a huge list ofweb-based pranks.Wkikipedia also has a round-upof web, TV, radio and other spoofs, including stories that turned out to be serious after all.
Nissan Micra C+C&pound;13,150Top speed:109MPHSeats:4Good for:ShoppingBad for:SchleppingFrom 'My other car is also a Ferrari' to 'Bastard on board', I'm a big fan of bumper stickers, my favourite being: 'Get even with your children - live long enough to become a burden'. One slogan I hadn't come across before was 'Show your breasts some TLC' - until I found it emblazoned in Barbie pink across the rear window of the Nissan Micra I've been driving this week. Before you jump to any top-shelf conclusions, it was part of an awareness-raising exercise from the Breakthrough breast cancer charity to promote its 'Touch Look Check' campaign. And Nissan got in on the act by donating money for every review of one of its new Micras ... So, Mr Nissan, chequebook out.The C+C (which stands for coupe and cabriolet) is chic and cheeky, and offers the sense of a coupe with all the sensations of a convertible. When the original Micra came out it was as boring and predictable as wind after a bowl of branflakes, and it became an immediate hit with grannies and retired woodwork teachers. Then, three years ago, the model was relaunched and teetered on the edge of being desirable. Now it has taken the next leap in its evolution and, with the C+C, has become ... well, actually very cool.Turning a hatchback into a convertible is, needless to say, a lot more complicated than simply sawing the roof off, which explains why it's taken three years since the initial concept car appeared for the road-going version to roll out. The biggest problem facing convertibles is a loss of 'structural stiffness' (surely a bumper-sticker opportunity there), which affects the way a car handles, its long-term durability and its level of safety. Nissan turned to German company Karmann to fix these problems, but otherwise the Micra is a true Brit: it was designed in London, developed in Bedfordshire and built at Nissan's colossal Sunderland factory, where the Japanese giant will soon be celebrating its 20th anniversary. It now employs 4,000 people and makes a fifth of all cars built in the UK.The Micra is a high-tech supermini. Usually, bottom-end car builders keep things simple so they can keep their prices down. But at Nissan they've taken the opposite tack and shoehorned as many gizmos and gadgets into their nifty motor as possible. It comes with automatic wipers, an on-board drive computer, ultrasonic parking, and a friendly lighting system which means your lights stay on for 60 seconds after you've locked the car, so you don't stumble into the lavender on the way to the front door. The Micra also has an intelligent key: the car senses your approach and unlocks itself. You then hop in and turn on the engine with the 'engine start knob'. Great, but it does mean you'll never again know the bittersweet joy of going through your pockets with a lurching heart before finding you're actually holding your lost keys.The drive is assured, but does tend to err on the competent rather than the inspired. And the front lights are a bit Marty Feldman. But with the roof down, this perky little Micra offers all the TLC a motorist could need.martin.love@observer.co.uk
For decades we have been told that technology will put an end to household chores, but it never quite seems to work out that way; so many will react with scepticism to an invention that purports not only to wash your clothes, but do the ironing as well.The world's first steam washing machine, developed over three years by Korean firm LG Electronics, borrows from technology normally used in industrial cleaning. It makes the bold claim to 'bring dry cleaning to your home' and 'remove creases from your garments, eliminating the need for ironing'.Millions of women, who have traditionally taken on the job - and millions of men, still reluctant to do their share - will be enticed by the prospect of an 'iron killer'. Few will mourn the death of a domestic appliance that has evolved from cast-metal flat irons dating back centuries to today's temperature-adjustable 'digital irons', which, despite their shiny features, still require human perspiration.Others will find that the price tag, likely to be between &pound;800 and &pound;1,000, prevents them folding away the ironing board just yet.The Steam Direct Drive Washing Machine, to be launched in Britain this week, in effect doubles as a steam press. Once the washing, rinsing and spinning cycle is complete, a steam generator kicks in for a further 20 minutes, blasting the clothes with hot air to eradicate the creases and wrinkles. It also prevents shrinkage and extends the life of each piece of clothing.It sounds too good to be true, and perhaps it is. Speaking from South Korea, Don Kwack, LG's manager for washing machine overseas marketing, broke ranks from the official publicity line by admitting: 'Ironing is still necessary, but is made a lot easier. In some cases, you don't need any ironing at all.'Kwack added that consumer research by LG - whose off-beat products include a fridge with a TV on the front - suggested that crease removal was not the top priority. Instead people were most anxious to save energy and be environmentally friendly.LG claims that the machine's systems, which involve hot steam as part of the cleaning process, consume 35 per cent less water than traditional washers, which heat water inside the drum. It uses 21 per cent less energy than normal and makes less noise. Moreover, its interior is kept clean by the steam.Put to the test ... 1 2 3Don Kirk travelled to the LG washing machine plant in Changwon, at the far south of the Korean peninsula, to test the company's washer-dryer that also 'irons' clothes.I loaded the machine with a bag full of my laundry (1) and waited two and a half hours to witness the outcome of the experiment - the critical question, as it spun quietly to a stop, was whether my shirts would be wrinkle-free and ready to wear.The chief research engineer, Kim Kwang Soo, seemed nervous as I opened the door and started taking out my laundry. 'They may wrinkle a little while we are waiting,' he said. 'Maybe they don't iron entirely. They steam-dry, and then they are wrinkle-free.' But Kim had little to fear. Holding up the shirt, I had to agree it was wrinkle-free.Although the time required for the machine to wash, dry and, well, get rid of some crinkles, seemed excessive, Kim said that was needed for best results. Inspecting my shirt collars (2), which were ringed with grime when they went in, I conceded that they were miraculously spotless.I could have put them on right there and then (3) and gone off to a business meeting without ever having to resort to an iron.
SCi Entertainment, owner of the Lara Croft computer game franchise, urged the government yesterday to consider introducing tax breaks for games developers.Rob Murphy, finance director of SCi, said the games industry deserved the same fiscal benefits as those awarded to film-makers, who receive tax breaks from the Treasury. "It would be great to get some recognition of the fact that Britain is a major player in the games industry." Mr Murphy spoke as SCi, which bought its British rival Eidos last year, announced a first-half pre-tax loss of &pound;10.9m due to a string of games launches.
Jason Gried'sBuild Your Own Web 2.0 Application Using Fluff and Hot Airis a good candidate for post of the day. It's all about Getting Rich. (Jason Gried is President of the successful Chicago-based web abbreviations company 37singles.)Getting Rich is the faster, easier way to make a killing from your hot web app without even writing the darn thing.Getting Rich is less. Less meetings, less communication, less documentation, less features, less code, less bugs, less pesky customers, and less actual programming.You know the kind of thing: cool name, cool site design, blog, RSS, open API, private beta etc. The main problem with it, from a humour point of view, is that it's almost too true....
Photo fromChina buys Google*at The Register"I just got off the phone with Larry Page. He's offered me a job to run Google's PR department and I've decided to take him up on it. Why? Because I finally realized that Steve Gillmor is right. Microsoft Office is dead and I wanted to be at the company that is the future of everything," writes Microsoft geek bloggerRobert Scoble."Also, as part of the deal, I'll be moving to the new Shanghai Google headquarters sinceGoogle is moving to Chinanow. My first job as PR guy for the new Chinese-run Google is to ban all uncredible journalists from writing about Google. This might sound a little evil, but it isn't, the world is better off without them. Sergey will announce on Monday that they are redefining evil to mean 'whatever Scoble says is evil'."The clincher, apparently, wasthe new Google room search prototype.He'll be convertingthe Scoble Dashboardto Linux.Comment: Don't go looking for Google Rooms, but Google has unveiledGoogle Romance, which offers "contextual dating" under the slogan "don't be medieval". This is extremely funny. Also, do take the opportunity toupload your profile.Also in the news: A Yahoo Search blog post headedAll Your Web 2.0 Are Belong To Usnotes that Yahoo isn't just buying Dogg. "Buying up Web 2.0 companies here and there in piecemeal fashion gets old after a while," it says, so it's just buying the whole lot. It's cheaper that way....* Actually, China has only bought Google to preclude Google buying China....
You can now catch up by viewing all last week's posts: just clickhereThe most-commented topics included the quiz,Are you a nerd?,Classical concerts ready for downloading, andiPhone rumours suggest 2006 launch.
Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten HammersXBOXThe original Full Spectrum Warrior gave you command of two American fire teams as they fought through a fictitious Middle Eastern city. Moral niceties and the question of why you might find yourself there in the first place have no place in this series - part paid for by the US Army for use as a training tool for teaching infantry tactics. The follow-up takes place in Ten Hammers, a corruption of the fictional Tien Hamir district in which insurgents, separatists and coalition forces all fight over the Tien Hamir bridge, and puts renewed emphasis on action, letting you wrest control of any team member's weapon for a spot of DIY bullet riddling.It's not all successful however, and your teams' chatter quickly becomes psychotically repetitive, as do a few ambitiously lengthy checkpoints, forcing you to redo occasional sections ad nauseam. Overall, however, and despite some rough edges, this is a more challenging and gripping game than its accomplished prequel.&#183;THQ, &pound;40Animal Crossing: Wild WorldNintendo DSOriginally released on GameCube, Animal Crossing is actually a complete other existence, lived in a town populated by friendly animals. In this world you arrive, work, pay off your mortgage, dig up items for the museum, make friends, redecorate your house, get a new job, do some gardening and occasionally even get ripped off by animal charlatans - if that all sounds in any way mundane, be assured that the experience of playing it is just as powerfully attractive to the very young as it is to stubbornly cynical grown-ups.The DS version also lets you visit friends' towns via the internet, although practically everything else about it will be instantly familiar to GameCube owners. Wild World proves to be a benign and entirely non-violent addiction.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Electroplankton And Shure E4g Game HeadphonesNintendo DSIt's a sign of the times that Shure's E4g headphones are being marketed as "games" headphones. Partly because Sony's PSP also lets you watch films and listen to music, both of which sound dismal though the system's own flimsy speakers, and partly because gamers' joy in technology may be more likely to part them with &pound;150 for a pair of headphones.Going deep inside your ear, they manage to make games sound staggeringly intense, and the effect is never more pronounced than with Nintendo's forthcoming Electroplankton. Billed as "touchable media art" rather than a game, it lets you interact with miniature musical creatures via the DS touch screen that make sounds in stereo as they move and collide, creating an almost trance-like experience. Due here at the end of April.
It's a niche market I'll admit, but if you like cats and you also like sinks you'll lovecatsinsinks.com- but just wait until you seecatseat.com. If this doesn't satisfy go toinfinitecat.comto look at cats looking at cats looking at cats - you get the picture - until blood pours from your eyes. The discerning among you might also enjoyscarethecat.com, an endless collection of videos of people scaring their pets. Alternatively, if you're sad yet crafty, you could make your feline friends some headgear (penguinx.org/?p=31) or dress them so they're ready for space travel (tinyurl.com/p299n). Finally, crazy cat ladies (mad women who reek of tuna and share their homes with hundreds of rescued feral beasts) are such a common sight in towns around the world that they now have their own action figure (tinyurl.com/quban) in their honour.
Gnarls Barkley does not exist. Nor does his first CD single. Yet tomorrow he is expected to make chart history by becoming the first act to get to number one without anyone handing over their money to a person behind a till.A digital milestone is expected when the UK-signed American debuts in the charts. New rules brought in last month allow digital sales to count towards the singles chart, providing a single is physically released a week later. This week's number one, soul singer Ne-Yo and the song So Sick, has been the biggest beneficiary, rising from his original digital only position of 18. Now Gnarls Barkley - helped by heavy plugging by Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe - is due to go one step further, getting to the top spot purely from the number of people paying about 79p to download his record.Gnarls Barkley is a made-up character consisting of Danger Mouse (the US hip-hop producer rather than the furry cartoon detective) and Atlanta-born crooner Cee-Lo who has described the song as "psychedelic spaghetti-western soul".Warner Bros formally made the song available for download three weeks ago but it has been playing on the radio since Christmas and was being listened to on the internet several months earlier. Toby Lewis, editorial director of digital music consultancy MusicAlly, said the link between digital sales and physical sales should now be removed altogether. "The reason it's there is to protect retailers, particularly small ones. The big retailers like it because they've all got digital stores.Gnarls Barkley's success reflects the changes in the way people are enjoying music. "CD albums aren't going away but a lot of people are coming around to seeing download songs as an equivalent to the single," said Mr Lewis.Record companies are responding by tarting up the physical single with fancier packaging and DVD extras, but many predict its years are numbered. Mr Lewis said the challenge for retailers was to make record stores more enjoyable.He also cited stores like Amoeba in California - vast second-hand record warehouses which brought fun back to browsing. Industry watchers hope that the rule change will bring a return to the days when records entered the charts quite low and clawed their way up. Both Pink and Sean Paul - at four and 11 this week - debuted much lower down the top 75 because of downloads.The truth is that single sales will probably never again hit the heights they once did - and Gnarls Barkley could go to number one with 40,000 downloads or fewer.
SaturdayThe GDC diaries: David MillardThe GDC diaries: Thomas Arundel, day twoMondayOblivion - first weekendPSP ad saturation from todayA Desperate idea?Sega gets busyTuesdayChinese virtual world gold farmers in new documentaryBlizzard exorcises GhostWright's WiredGame designers seek Noble Peace PrizeUK chartsXbox 360 nows plays NES gamesWednesdayMasculinity and online gamingAlways take the weatherI-play reveals its Spring waresPS3 gets FlickredThursdayPSone: 1994-2006. What did it ever do for us?Stay AliveOrganic gamesRevolution tech stormFridayCrucifixtion for errant players in virtual worldTomb raidingIs PSP's movie career over?Spike Lee and Leland Yee
popXpress, which has two shops in London, says it is launching an ipopBra, saucy lingerie "for the popular iPod and other MP3 players". It features a concealed pocket for the player plus control buttons built into the fabric. It costs £29.95.The company claims that "this new accessory builds on the success of the recently launched range ofiBoxer shorts, which have proved extremely popular with popXpress shoppers."The popXpress shops at 1a New Street, Liverpool Street and 166 Piccadilly are "dedicated solely to iPod and MP3 accessories". Another dozen branches may be opened this year.Comment: Since it's April 1 tomorrow, can someone xpop in and see if this is real? ;-)
At the end of the month, I usually get announcements of the most common viruses and worms from the leading anti-virus companies, andKaspersky has just published its monthly totals. Turns out that the Win32 Mytob.c mass-mailing worm has yet again taken the top spot with 33% of the "market". In fact, Mytob variants occupy 10 of the top 20 positions. But why? Mytob exploits a hole that Microsoft patched nearly two years ago, onApril 13, 2004.Is it ignorance, stupidity, lack of consideration for others, or all three?
Microsoft's 10 website has donea short videoabout a private girls school,Forest Ridge, near Microsoft, where all the 5th graders use Tablet PCs (at their parents' expense). There's more on the topic on the blog written byJohn Phillips, Director of Educational Technologyat the school.The schoolsells a packagethat includes a 6lb Acer TravelMate 312 for $2,016, including a four year warranty with protection against accidental damage, configuration and some instruction. They also useGoBinder 2006.Lots of Tablet PC trials are also being run in the UK. For example, the use ofRM Tablet PCs(made by Tatung) is being evaluated in8 Birmingham schools, and many other schools have been trying them. Becta, the British Education Communications Training Agency, hasa report on Tablet PC usein a dozen UK schools.The Becta study was led by the Open University, which providesa more detailed account. This concludes: "Overall the researchers felt that the vast majority of the use of Tablet PCs in the case study schools could have been achieved using laptops, though this view was generally not shared by the schools." Indeed: "there was a strong feeling across the case study schools, which was shared by the researchers, that Tablet PCs are qualitatively different to other forms of computer in the way that children react to them."Comment: Origami-style UMPCs could be much more attractive to schools in being smaller, lighter and cheaper.
Last week'sGuardian Guidehad an excellent interview with famed film director Spike Lee, whose film "Inside Man" came out last week. One of the things that caught my eye was his intention in the film to make a serious comment on the current trend towards hyper-realistic violence in contemporary computer gaming. From the article:The second scene, virtually the only violent moment in the film, features a grotesque depiction of an African-American being shot in the head on a handheld video game being played by a young African-American boy. "I just hope people understand that this is an absolute statement about my horror at how violent these games that young kids play are, and also the infatuation with violence and gangsta rap among the black community. It's not a real game but it's not that far-fetched from the games that are being sold, and more importantly the mindset behind them. There are just too many black men killing each other as it is."Now, lest this post be beleaguered with hundreds of people saying, "I've played games since I was in the womb and if violent video games affected behaviour I'd have gone postal by now," (pun intended), let's think about it for a second. Lee lumps games in with another violent medium, gangsta rap. This means he witnesses any media that is violent as equally contributing to a general "violence" in society.As a director whose films are both controversial and a call to arms, this argument against violent videogames fits in nicely with the anti-games message currently ricocheting around the US court system. Considering the level of response his releases have garnered in the past, there's no way that this damning indictment isn't going to get attention. The big screen treatment may do games much worse in the long term than it does them good.In related news,here'sextensivecoverageofBrenda Braithwaite'spanelat the Game Developer's Conference, Murder, Sex and Censorship. Kudosmustgo to anti-games Congressman Leland Yee for walking into the lion's den by sitting on this panel, and - regardless of whether you believe him or not - remaining steadfast in the fierce face of adversity.
"Contrary to published reports, two independent sources speaking on condition of anonymity recently disclosed toThink Secretthat Apple's cell phone ambitions have been put on hold as the company has encountered 'significant technological hurdles' in developing the product."The site says: "Timelines had originally called for a possible third-quarter release of an Apple cell phone, but these issues have delayed any roll-out indefinitely. Those waiting for an Apple phone, rumored for a number of years, may find themselves waiting into at least 2007."Comment: See also below,iPhone rumours suggest 2006 launch
Like many a young starlet, turning up in Hollywood with a dream and a hot bod only to end up waiting tables or poledancing in some sleazy strip joint, it looks like PSP may not become the big movie star it had hoped to be.According to Hollywood Reporter and Reuters, the flow of movie releases onto the UMD format has slowed to a trickle, with at least two studios - Paramount and Universal - said to be pulling out of production altogether. Meanwhile, retailers are reportedly reducing the space given over to UMD discs.Although a couple of releases did well, most have underperformed to such an extent that even the supportive studios are cutting back drastically on UMD production. From now on, it is expected that they'll carefully select movies for the perceived target audience (that'll be comic book movie conversions from now on then). One exec is quoted thus:""No one's watching movies on PSP. It's a game player, period."Pundits are blaming this disappointing performance on the arrival of Apple's video iPod, while the studios themselves are apparently moving their focus toward HD DVD formats. Sony is not going without a fight, however. As the Hollywood Reporter story concludes:"But next week, Sony Computer Entertainment executives will begin making the rounds of the Hollywood studios to discuss plans for making the PSP able to connect to TV sets"So will the ability to record directly from TV reinvigorate the PSP as a viewing platform, or is the sleek handheld yet another victim of the cruel and capricious Hollywood system, which can lift young hopefuls to the stars or dash their dreams against the barren rocks of apathy in the blink of an eye?
Ahhhh, the weekend approaches. Chat away!
So I was playingTomb Raider: Legendon 360 last night. Much like Oblivion there is an "online embargo" until Monday 3rd so I'm not allowed to tell you what I thought. Stuff that, of course. And anyway, if Eidos read this they'll be pleased to know that so far I've been quite impressed. The obvious initial draw is the graphics, which are simply delicious. It's not so much Lara herself but the environment - think dripping cave walls and temple carvings - that is the real standout. More importantly the controls have been tightened up making the jumping and swinging far more satisfying than in Angel of Darkness. Combat feels a bit loose, and to be honest, a bit superfluous - it's far more fun solving the room puzzles. So far these conundrums have been solved by moving crates around - let's hope there is more variety once the game really opens up. It's only been a few hours and I'll play some more over the weekend but, initially at least, Legend looks like a return to form for Tomb Raider. Of course, I reserve the right to delete this post and plead innocence if it all goes horribly wrong later in the game.
It looks as though the Nintendo Revolution will be slightly less powerful than the original Xbox. This puts it way ahead of the current Sony PlayStation 2, of course, but nowhere near the same ballpark as the Xbox 360 or the roughly similar but delayed PlayStation 3.According to IGN's "variety of trusted development sources" with developer hardware:Insiders stress that Revolution runs on an extension of the Gekko and Flipper architectures that powered GameCube, which is why studios who worked on GCN will have no problem making the transition to the new machine, they say. IBM's "Broadway" CPU is clocked at 729MHz, according to updated Nintendo documentation. By comparison, GameCube's Gekko CPU ran at 485MHz. The original Xbox's CPU, admittedly a different architecture altogether, was clocked at 733MHz. Meanwhile, Xbox 360 runs three symmetrical cores at 3.2GHz.Revolution's ATI-provided "Hollywood" GPU clocks in at 243MHz. By comparison, GameCube's GPU ran at 162MHz, while the GPU on the original Xbox was clocked at 233MHz. Sources we spoke with suggest that it is unlikely the GPU will feature any added shaders, as has been speculated.It looks as though the Rev has 24MB of main memory, though it's hard to imagine anything quite that small, and there will be the option of an external hard drive.Comment: The Revolution spec sounds like an old PC graphics card. The question is whether an unproven TV-style controller plus the usual hype will get consumers to buy Revolution consoles, even though they currently won't buy the very similar GameCube at a knockdown price. As Damon Runyon put it: "The race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, but that's the way to bet."
Get ready to duck from the thrown stones, a novel for of punishment in virtual world Roma Victor is set to daunt future potential troublemakers from causing grief to other players: crucifixion .From theRoma Victorwebsite:Cynewulf, who is the first player within Roma Victor to receive this brutal punishment, will be hung on a cross for a full seven days on full public display in the digital reconstruction of the provincial town of Corstopitum (modern day Corbridge in Northumberland, England).... Crucifixion is to be used as a form of player 'ban' within the virtual world of Roma Victor, with the length of the ban reflecting the severity of the punishment. For cheating by exploiting a bug and advancing his or her character's skills unfairly, for example, a player might typically receive a seven-day ban; multiple or more serious offences will result in a longer (or even permanent) ban.The cynic in me says that the PR team behind the "historically accurate" Roman era-set Massively Multiplayer Online Game have been gagging for someone to step out of bounds so they could coat the world's newsreaders with the controversy-provoking information. Indeed, the source of this story is just about everyone.On the other hand, this is a novel approach to public humiliation in a genre in which consequences are limited and griefers - when caught - simply disappear.Having said that, I prefer the post-modern way whichSecond Lifepunishes its errant Residents. More information on thathere.
Double rooms at Travelodge can now be bought more cheaply than a night in a Youth Hostel. Hikers and Basil Fawltys may find this fact deplorable, but it could prove to be the wake-up call that overpriced British hotels have long needed. Airlines, after all, have had their low-cost revolution. Why not hotels?No matter that Travelodge's &pound;10 Supersaver rooms are non-refundable, not available on every night, have to be booked online three weeks in advance and are limited to out-of-town locations. The proposition worked for Ryanair and its imitators and it appears to be working for Travelodge, judging by the chain's apparently unstoppable march across Britain.In January, Wembley got its own Travelodge; in March, Preston and a roundabout in Cornwall joined the network; and in late April, a 100-bedroom Travelodge will open at Birmingham's recently redeveloped Fort Dunlop.Half of Travelodge's clientele are business travellers, despite a fall in the popularity of budget hotels among businesspeople. Fifty-eight per cent have stayed in a budget hotel in the past year, down from 69% in 2003, according to Barclaycard's Business Travel Survey.Those who haven't cite a lack of facilities and "extras". They also have more to spend on accommodation (an average of &pound;100 a night) and tend to trade up to the best possible hotel within their expenses bracket. Wayne Munnelly, Travelodge's recently appointed director of sleep, is part of the chain's efforts to persuade customers that Travelodges are just as comfortable as more expensive hotels. Until a few weeks ago, he was the area director in the north-east; when I speak to him, he's staying at Manchester Airport on one of the four nights a week he spends in Travelodges."When you go into that bedroom, you're sort of mine," he says. "And I want you to go into that room, close the door and relax."My chosen Travelodge is another recent opening. Shrewsbury Battlefield Travelodge is astutely located on a roundabout very close to the site of the Battle of Shrewsbury in 1403. Most Travelodges either have a Bar Cafe on site or share their plot with a Little Chef or a Burger King. This one adjoins a big new pub called, appropriately, The Two Henrys. The food is not bad at all - the &pound;8.99 chicken fajitas are as good as non-gastropubs get - and although a petrol station is still being built, it's hard to remember that this spot was a T-junction with the occasional Gypsy caravan while I was growing up two miles away.Cut-price comfortI wanted to close the door and relax. And once I'd worked out how to turn off the dreadful overhead lighting and switch on the bedside lights, I had to admit that the bed - a Hypnos with cotton sheets - was just firm enough for comfort. Munnelly describes the current colour scheme as "burnt orange, light orange and apricot white", but confides that he is thinking about changing the palette: "Part of my job is to ensure that we have the right colours in the bedroom." He has also consulted a feng shui expert and is considering how bed position might assist sleep.At his suggestion, London City Travelodge has begun piloting a series of window image transfers, which are fixed behind the curtains. Rather than gazing out on the car park or the early-morning traffic, guests are offered a view of the Taj Mahal, Niagara Falls, Lake Windermere or a selection of other landscapes when they pull back their blue Travelodge curtains.But the transfers are a rare touch of frivolity. Everything in my room conforms to Travelodge's motto, "Everything you need and nothing you don't". A card on the table explains why trouser presses, hairdriers and teapots have been ditched from the chain's rooms: "To keep costs down... You can make a decent cup of tea by sticking the tea-bag in the mug." The savings, Munnelly says, go on the beds and the good-quality showers.This rather Puritan frugality is another strategy borrowed from low-cost airlines. Travelodge also cuts costs by making its rooms as uniform as possible. The duvet is a standard blue check, the Gideon Bible always sits on the left-hand side of the bed, the full-length mirror hangs on the back of the door.A note on the TV (terrestrial channels only) says internet access is "coming soon". Most Travelodges already have it, but it's dial-up and costs extra, so don't count on being able to download large documents.Breakfast is not included. If you want it, the staff will deliver a bag with cornflakes, milk, a banana, a croissant and orange juice to your door for &pound;4.Will guests be able to email Wayne about the quality of their night's sleep? Almost, he promises. "After you've stayed you'll get an email asking you to rate your stay, and we'll be open and honest and publish it on our website."I mention the unprepossessing exterior of Travelodge Farringdon, one of the chain's London branches. Wayne says I should have a look inside: the Bar Cafe is very welcoming, he says. "Not every Travelodge is a redbrick box."His favourite hotel is, perhaps predictably, in the north-east. "Durham used to be an old train station. You can see the cathedral and the other stationmaster's house from a quarter of the rooms." The big stone fireplace at King's Cross, which is Camden's old town hall, also gets a mention.But is Shrewsbury Battlefield good value? For a tenner, absolutely. For the seven-day advance price, &pound;26, it's still a bargain. After that, the price creeps up, and a Friday night stay in London at two days' notice will set you back &pound;66 - a rate easily undercut online by more glamorous establishments, albeit without their own directors of sleep.
This month sees the conclusion of the eBay Business Sense challenge, which we've been running since October last year. Congratulations to Roger Eigenheer, whose Green Wheels shop sells bicycles he's bought up at auction and then renovated. It's an ingenious business, and that great concept - combined with savvy marketing, a keen sense of how the online auction world works, and a willingness to listen to advice - made Roger a worthy winner.But it's also a measure of the quality of the final contestants that the judging panel picked out two who should be highly commended. Clare Tomkins, whose business makes colourful home-made bags for children, and Denice Purdie, whose Scottish Soap Company offers an exotic range of smellies, both impressed the panel with their entrepreneurship and development over the life of the competition.We hope all the businesses we've seen grow since last year continue although, as one contestant admits, he's glad he was given the seed money to give his idea a spin, rather than using his own. Such are the risks of starting your own small business.Elsewhere this month, we speak to some small businesses who are doing business in a more conventional way - via big store shelves - and finding that the supermarkets can be tough trading partners. Given the level of scrutiny the big four supermarket chains are under at the moment, the tale of these innovative small businesses is particularly relevant.Finally, at this time of year you could be forgiven for wondering when the British winter is finally going to end. Nick Clayton's regular Desk in the Sun column offers an inspiring - or, perhaps, sickening, depending on your view - glimpse of what life might be like if you were to sell up and move abroad. He says he's managed to stay in the minds of his clients, and even find new ones, despite being based in Ibiza.His tales are a reminder that, thanks to the kind of technology our challenge contestants were putting to use, running your own business can offer all sorts of unexpected freedoms.
When I moved from Edinburgh to Ibiza two years ago I really thought it would be a case of "out of sight, out of mind". In fact, far from being forgotten, I've not only kept in touch with many of my old friends, clients and contacts, I've managed to broaden the UK circle. And, they've continued to offer me work.I wish I could pretend this was part of some carefully planned scheme, but I'd be lying. What's happened is, almost by accident, I've found myself following a variation on the highly publicised strategy that's supposed to be shaking the music industry to its foundations.Earlier this year the Arctic Monkeys caused a fuss by selling truckloads of their debut album, mostly through an online community called MySpace, bypassing the usual marketing channels and selling straight to their fans.Actually, what they did wasn't all that new. Six years ago the distinctly unfashionable Marillion emailed their fans asking them to pay upfront for luxury copies of their next CD and raised enough to avoid the need for a record-company advance.Before the internet, most of a band's contact with fans came from touring. In business, networking performs a similar function. When I first arrived in Ibiza, almost everybody who was paying for my services was somebody I'd swapped business cards with back in Scotland. Not any longer. A growing number of my clients I've never seen in my life.Instead of conference centres and bars, I now meet most of my contacts online through various discussion forums. Some of these are sophisticated membership organisations based around a website. Others use simple mailing lists. The mechanics of how they function doesn't really matter. It's who belongs and participates that counts.And if you can find the right networks they're a great way of finding work and, from my point of view, they have the unbeatable advantage that geography is no barrier.I can be sitting at my desk in Spain keeping in touch with all the gossip and professional developments while subtly touting for work just as easily as in Scotland. Of course I can't press the flesh as often, but anybody returning from abroad has a little bit of celebrity, which is useful when you do make it to a meeting.Whether networking online or face-to-face, the more you put in, the more you are likely to get out. If your only contribution is the mercenary pursuit of work you may not get much response. If, however, you join in the discussions it's far more likely to be fruitful.As with any group, though, debate tends to be dominated by a small number of participants. So when you first join you can feel ignored. But it is worth persevering, remembering that the vast majority of forum members don't join in most of the time, but just lurk and read the postings. They are often the ones that will offer you work.It is definitely worthwhile setting up your own website or blog. It doesn't have to be complex. But do make sure that it's mentioned in your email signature so when you post to a forum it's easy for people to find out more about your skills and can get in contact easily. The alternative is to display your email address, which may attract the unwelcome attention of spammers.Finding the most useful forums is a real challenge. There are the large generalist networks such as Ecademy and myriad others, generally focused on a specific industry or geographical area. Ask around, as even the most active groups don't necessarily show up on Google and it does help if there are a few members you know already.In the spirit of online networking I'd be interested to share advice and experiences with readers who are attempting to follow the same lifestyle as me, self-employed telecommuters working in one country while living in another. These responses may form the basis for future columns and articles.Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant. Email:deskinthesun@nickclayton.com
There's a big difference between being confident and being complacent. A recent report from AXA Insurance and Henley Management College shows that 46% of SMEs don't have any kind of risk management in place. As Douglas Barnett, AXA's risk control and strategy manager puts it: "Given that SMEs account for over half of the UK's private-sector turnover, failure to make adequate provision against business interruptions has grave consequences to the businesses themselves, to their employees and to the wider UK economy."And Henley's Jean-Noel Ezingeard agrees: "Too many of Britain's SME managers bury their heads in the sand when it comes to continuity planning," he says.Crossing your fingers and hoping you'll be lucky isn't good business sense. So we've put together the 13 ways you can cut your risk. Act now before it's too late.1: The enemy withinProtecting your IT systems from outside attack is money well spent, but what about inside attacks? IT forensics company DGI found that of the 130 investigations they conducted in 2005, there were 47 cases of intellectual property theft, all of which were perpetrated by trusted employees, many of whom were senior managers. Ed Wilding, director at DGI, offers this advice: "You must have a personnel policy that expressly stipulates acceptable computer usage in the workplace, and which also clearly outlines the misuse of technology that will not be tolerated. Without this, you won't have a leg to stand on, as UK employment tribunals have already decreed."2: Fire and brimstoneThe devastating fire at Buncefield has shown that no one knows when a big disaster can strike. But you are not utterly powerless. Ian Cole, manager for Internet Security Systems says: "A thorough risk assessment will address threats such as terrorism, and so on... have a back-up site located at a sufficient distance from the primary site. Having an understanding of what the risk level is to a business from a particular threat will enable an SME to implement suitable controls."3: Inbox nirvanaEmail can seem innocuous, but 28% of the small businesses surveyed in a report by Trend Micro were concerned about junk email and spam. The simplest way of avoiding clogging your inbox with spam is to stop this ever reaching your email program. Put in place filtering systems with your ISP, and set up your email program to act as your last line of defence to weed out any that managed to avoid your firewall.4: People powerCould your business survive if you lost any of your key members of staff? Nigel Chadwick, managing director of Glasgow-based Stream Communications, outlines how it handles this issue: "We have a streamlined operation, but this also means we have three core people, which include two directors of the company. If one of these went down, it could be quite damaging. But we have a high degree of information exchange. In the case of specialised knowledge, we also work with external people who know our business well and can help if a need arises."5: Safe as housesIt's an old chestnut, but daily backups of your data are a prerequisite for long-term prosperity and growth. Research firm Gartner has shown that 6% of all PCs will suffer data loss in any given year, so off-site backup is essential. Peter Groucutt of online data backup specialists DataBarracks says: "The burden of running a small business is onerous enough and this is one element that is often easy to overlook. Now, with the widespread availability of cheap, 'set-and forget', online backup solutions, there is really no [excuse]."6: Boardroom blunderRisk management has to come from the top. Often mistakenly thought to be an IT issue, in reality it is in the interests of everyone in the company. And if your board of directors doesn't take responsibility, a plan won't be implemented before the worst happens. Put someone in charge of your risk assessment and then give them the power to see the project through.7: Virtual businessIf your offices were on fire could your business still continue with the day's work? Many businesses are planning for such an incident by organising remote meeting spaces that allow for virtual working. Emergency meeting centres are now appearing across the UK that allow any business to quickly relocate. David Beesley of Network Defence, says: "An example is flu pandemic management. Remote access can mean you don't need to bring all your staff into one place, thus reducing the risks of cross-infection."8: Risk beyond bordersIf your business is moving into overseas markets a robust risk management strategy is essential. Look carefully at the country and the market you want to enter and identify all the elements that could adversely affect your trading. You don't want to ignore foreign markets, but you should approach them with extra care.9: Watch the wongaHave you planned for a cash drought? Johnson Ventilation, a Scottish company with a &pound;2.5m turnover and strong profits, failed in February 2006 because a creditor suddenly went bust, owing Johnson &pound;300,000. Johnson Ventilation's liquidator, Douglas Jackson says: "Johnson was making very nice profits. It just couldn't support the loss it sustained... they didn't see it coming." Fraser Mackay, head of marketing for local business banking at Barclays offers this advice: "Avoid relying on only one customer. This [reduces] the risk should anything happen to that customer. Consider taking out debtor insurance. This helps prevent financial loss in the event of a [default]."10: Legal eaglesRegulatory compliance can affect almost every aspect of your business. Obvious areas include health and safety, but it's important to look at the other legal liabilities your business might have to deal with. The UK is becoming as litigious as the US, so protecting your business against future claims on its assets is a prudent step to take. Look for expert advice and ensure you are covered with the appropriate documentation and insurance.11: Word of mouthBusinesses rely on customer loyalty, while consumers want brands they can trust. But even a negative weblog can quickly escalate into a problem that can have a lasting impact, so protecting your reputation is paramount. Don't wait until your reputation is irrevocably damaged by negative press. Act now to repair the damage.12: Helping handsCommunications technology such as WiFi, VoIP and instant messaging are all designed to help your business operate more efficiently - but you must know how to manage them. Ian Cook, chief executive of Logicalis UK, offers this advice: "The companies that thrive in the future will be those who can maintain their agility by adopting technology while still managing the risk associated with it."13: Passing the buckOne mistake many SMEs make is to try and handle every aspect of their businesses themselves. Outsourcing some of your business is a great way of reducing the risk. IT is a good case in point, but other areas of your business could benefit by getting expert help. Understand what you're not very good at don't try to be in too many places at once.Case study- Rising from the ashesBased in Cheadle, Cheshire James Galt has been producing quality toys for the last 150 years. Their toys are manufactured to the highest quality - an attention to detail that they carry into every aspect of their business, including risk management. They have in place a comprehensive business continuity plan based on an IT recovery system supplied by SunGard Availability Services. The systems were tested for real in August of 2003 when their offices were the victim of a suspected arson attack.The Saturday August 9 fire gutted the premises, destroying much of their office space. Mark Taylor, IT manager for Galt, began by recovering what he could from the derelict building. This included one of the AS/400 servers, which miraculously survived the blaze and the subsequent dousing by the attending fire crews.SunGard implemented its own recovery plan, which included preparing its Stockport Recovery Centre, where Galt's staff would assemble to start the backup recovery process. The tape backups that Galt had dutifully completed as part of their risk management plan allowed SunGard to recover all the data on the lost servers and be ready for Galt's staff to begin work as usual the following morning.Twenty-five staff relocated to the recovery suite, which was made ready with Galt's standard PC user interface so the staff could carry on as normal.By Monday evening, James Galt was once again fully operational. Staff could access critical applications, customer and accounting data as well as receive calls from worried customers. And as far as callers were concerned, there was no change in the service provided.Galt's office was beyond repair, so they needed to find new premises, and equip them virtually from scratch using money claimed on insurance. This required a vast amount of planning, which resulted in James Galt remaining at Stockport for 13 weeks. Without the backups of its critical data and an off-site venue to work remotely, Galt's 150-year business could have come to an end. Putting in place contingency plans saved the company from possible ruin.
Ten years ago, it was all so simple. You wanted a smaller computer to carry around with you, so you bought a laptop or notebook, and it was a cut-down version of what you'd have on your desk. The price would be higher because it was smaller.But then laptops became more powerful and started to sell more than desktops - no longer was the laptop always the second computer. This means anyone considering buying one has a wide choice depending on what they want it for. There are lots of devices that will more than fulfil the needs of most small businesses. And, as with much technology, it's fairly easy to buy something that's been built for the task you have in mind, and hopefully within your budget.The desktop replacement - hpNC6320It's not intended as a criticism of Hewlett-Packard that they clearly don't rate styling as top priority in the case of this new system, which will be out in April. It looks solid and rather undistinguished, but since you'll be looking at your work rather than cooing over the chassis, maybe the money ought to be spent on the innards.And the innards seem impressive. 60GB on the hard disk, Intel core duo chip, SVGA+ on the screen and a surprisingly resonant bass sound from the speakers. The pre-production model seen by the Guardian didn't have a DVD decoder on it so it's not possible to say how well it will render moving pictures, but that will be fixed by the time it comes out, and the screen certainly seems comfortable to look at for extended periods. Priced accordingly it should be a good buy.Price:TBCMaker's URL:www.hp.co.ukPros:Solid if uninspiring. Value for moneyCons:Very few - a good machine with extra security, but nothing too inspiring.Star rating:***The Mac - Macbook ProThe Macbook Pro is Apple's Intel-powered laptop. Apple says it made this change because its PowerPC chips won't be able to keep pace with the changes it wants to make to what the computer can do. For now, though, the software looks pretty similar to that available on my months-old (and therefore obsolete) desktop iMac, so we'll have to wait for the revolutionary stuff.Once you've added a wireless mouse and keyboard this will pass as a replacement for a desktop. The 17-inch wide-screen screen is beautifully clear, and adjusting font and icon sizes is simple. As with many Apple systems there is plenty of software already installed, and the video camera for video conferencing is so small I didn't notice it until it started taking pictures of me during set-up. There are plenty of ports for networking and USB, and of course a DVD drive plus software, but overall this is one of those systems that just works out of the box, as well as being a slim device with a nice design.The frustrations you'll find with this computer will come from outside - many software companies don't support Macs. This will almost certainly iron itself out, but for now Mac users would be well advised to keep a PC handy in case their gadgets don't yet work with their new laptop.Price:From &pound;1,429 inc. VATMaker's URL:www.apple.com/ukPros:Powerful and lightweight with an excellent displayCons:Apple systems aren't always supported by third partiesStar rating:***The small PC - FlybookThe Flybook is almost certainly not intended as a desktop replacement. Based on MicroSoft's tablet PC design, it runs all the usual applications, has a touch-sensitive screen and is WiFi and Bluetooth-compliant. It also has some nice add-in software, including satellite navigation.All of which is fine - but then you realise it has only 40 gigabytes on the hard disk. This means you could consider it a second computer only. In which case, &pound;1,399 is a lot of money. Check carefully that you need the tablet functions and that the small size - at 8.9 inches widescreen it's a tiddler - is of genuine benefit, otherwise you should look at some of the basic models for under &pound;500 made by firms such as Dell.It's a nice design and comes in a variety of colours, and no doubt there are excellent reasons for the price, but for the moment this has to be a case of "wait until it's down to three figures."Price:&pound;1,399Maker's URL:www.flybook.bizPros:A lot of power in a small boxCons:How much!?Star rating:***The workhorse - Sony Vaio VGN-VBX196SPThe nice 17-inch screen would be even nicer if it weren't so shiny: impractical under bright lights.Otherwise, this looks like a robust, easy-to-use system that's designed to be connected anywhere.Sony has taken security very seriously on this model, including a biometric fingerprint scanner. At first log-in it urges you to scan your print on the scanner next to the on switch. It also has a full set of backup and restore utilities plus extra security from Norton as standard.The screen is big enough for this to be used as a main computer, and there's a bay for adding external media drives. It also has a small integrated camera, and slots for SD cards and Sony Memory Stick Pro.Like the whole Vaio range it's been designed for looks as well as function, but the functions are solid. It's the heaviest computer on trial, but at &pound;999 you were going to have to compromise somewhere.Price:&pound;999 inc. VATMaker's URL:www.sony.com/ukPros:Secure: useful fingerprint scannerCons:The shiny screen could be awkwardStar rating:****The Ultraportable - Fujitsu Siemens Lifebook P7120This is another ultraportable with fewer bells and whistles than the Flybook - there's no GPS, for example, and it's not a tablet computer. What it has for a similar price is 50% more memory and an easier-to-use keyboard. You can just about imagine using this as your main computer - this isn't always the point of a small notebook PC, but for the smaller enterprise, at this sort of price, you have to get a decent amount of use from it.It has all the standard Bluetooth and WiFi and a nice screen for a computer its size. Set-up is as per the usual Windows routine and the range of microphones are clearly aimed at the frequent VoIP user.The XD and SD card slots will accommodate even the most demanding video and still digital camera input.Price:&pound;1,289 plus VATMaker's URL:www.fujitsu-siemens.comPros:Very small indeedCons:Feels a bit fragile but this is a minor, minor quibble.Star rating:***
The Business Sense eBay Challenge, which gave five finalists &pound;1,500 each to build a business through eBay, has a clear winner: Roger Eigenheer, whose Green Wheels shop sells bicycles that he buys from police auctions and then renovates, as well as parts.Eigenheer won on the value of sales. He managed to gain eBay's Power Seller status, which requires three months of sales worth at least &pound;750, in the minimum three-month period. "He was absolutely the clear winner," says Dan Wilson, eBay UK community manager and one of the judges. Overall, Eigenheer reckons he made &pound;1,818 profit on sales of &pound;3,872."It was pretty much cut and dried," adds Sean Jones, a full-time eBay seller and another judge of the decision. "He got the eBay ethos absolutely spot-on."Eigenheer ran almost all his sales as auctions starting at 99p, even for bicycles worth several hundred pounds - a method he had used successfully on eBay before the competition. "I had a really good idea in my head, and I stuck to it," he says.This has its risks, but Eigenheer lessened them by setting a rule when buying his stock at auction: "If I feel I can't make a gross profit of 100%, I won't buy that bike," he says, something he checks by researching models' closing prices on eBay in advance of the auction. Sometimes he adjusts his maximum purchase price based on the condition of the bicycle, but never during bidding - decent advice for any auction, including those on eBay.Eigenheer also won one of two extra challenges in the last month of the competition, to sell a collection of British memorabilia - models of a London bus and taxi, a Mini Cooper and a red telephone box, along with a Union flag mug - to a customer as far away as possible. "I got a map, and New Zealand was the obvious choice," he says.Most of the other contestants sold the items to Australia, but Eigenheer managed to go further by offering free postage only to New Zealanders: the items went to a buyer in the country's capital, Wellington.Eigenheer plans to use his &pound;2,500 prize money to extend a July holiday, although this will not be excessively relaxing: he plans to complete a one-day, 117-mile (187km) stage of the Tour de France that takes in three major climbs totalling 2.8 vertical miles (4,500 metres). Sensibly, he says he will also buy some lighter wheels for his bicycle.But he says he will also reinvest some of the prize in new stock, as he plans to continue the business, despite his full-time job as a management consultant. "I get a bit of a kick out of it," he says, "but the extra cash is also welcome."In the long term, he wants to run his own business: "The competition has given me a schooling in it," he says.Eigenheer spent &pound;407 on eBay's fees and a further &pound;87 on PayPal, the payment system owned by eBay. "The fees are quite high," he says. "But if it wasn't for them providing the marketplace, I would never have made the gross sales to start with."Clare Tomkins, who sold home-made children's bags, reacted to coming a "highly commended" joint second by posting an entry headed "Gutted" on her blog (www.seasidefabrics.com).But judge Sean Jones says she shouldn't worry: "She won in every other aspect, except making money," he says - unsurprising given bags sell for rather less than bikes. "Her blog was absolutely brilliant - it personalised the whole thing for the business," he adds.Cover blownTomkins did best on items sold, repeat sales, overall feedback score and on a specific challenge where Dan Wilson of eBay tried to buy something from each of the five without identifying himself, to assess their customer service skills. In her case, he may have blown the secrecy by asking for his bag to be personalised "Dan".Tomkins says she has worked hard at customer service: "You have to respond to questions quickly as you can, give as much information as possible and be super-friendly," she says. And, when she has finished personalising an item, she emails a picture of it to the buyer, so they can see it before they receive it.Unlike Eigenheer, Tomkins had only sold a few items on eBay before the competition, but like him she plans to carry on: she has recently added young children's clothes made from fair-trade fabric, and is also planning to start making personalised clothes... for dogs. "I want to have something a bit different to do," she says, and has already bought a canine mannequin from Hong Kong.Dan Wilson thinks she has a great future on eBay. "Ramping up [from a very low level of sales] in three months is a huge challenge," he says. "I think Clare will be a huge seller." He thinks her next challenge will be to get more attention - although Tomkins' plan to sell dog tutus might achieve that.Wilson says Denice Purdie, who was also highly commended for her sales of handmade soaps and related goods, sustained a slick image across the design of her online shop, the professionally shot photographs of products and the packaging of goods when they arrived. Also, "it smells magnificent," he says of the whisky and heather soap he bought in the secret shopper test.Purdie, who with her husband had already been selling soaps through shops across Scotland before entering the competition, has found eBay helps publicise her business, as well as providing direct sales: potential distributors and suppliers have got in touch after seeing products on the site. "It's such a big community," she says. "It's not just about selling.""I was reflecting on Denice when I read about the Body Shop being sold for however-many millions," says Wilson. "They [Denice and her husband] put real pride into creating a brand."Sean Jones feels that the Purdie brand may be a little too slick for eBay. "She looks like a company, whereas a lot of people on eBay want to do a private transaction with other people," he says.Wilson disagrees. "Although I do think it looks very good, I don't think it lacks a personal side. I think it says more about their ambition."The Purdies plan to continue use of eBay, although mainly for a specific product line: "I'm looking at soap craft kits, so people can make it themselves," says Purdie. "I will still keep things in the shop, but push the craft kits more."Stuart Reed, who sold new sporting goods, did less well in the distance-selling challenge: unlike the others, who all sent the collection of toys and novelties to the Antipodes, his reached Edgware in North London. "I should have listed in America and Australia before the UK, but it was sold before I got round to doing that," he says.He made relatively few sales - although, as these were fairly profitable, he came second on that category - and blames the lack of volume on initial delays with the seed funding and difficulties in sourcing goods at low enough wholesale prices. "It didn't go as well as I hoped," he admits. Reed preferred to start prices at a realistic level, to avoid making a loss on individual items. He still plans to continue eBay sales, although probably by merging his business with his parents' sporting goods shop near Cambridge.Sean Jones says Reed may have suffered from looking at each item's profit margin, rather than allowing a few loss-leaders to boost other sales. Jones once auctioned a motorbike for &pound;400 less than he paid for it, but this attracted lots of attention and helped his sales from then on.Paul Edwards tried to sell custom-built conservatories and components through eBay, but struggled to do so. Towards the end of the competition, he tried starting conservatories worth well over &pound;1,000 at 99p: the first sold at a small profit, but the second lost him a few hundred pounds, although the auctions did attract a lot of traffic to his pages.Dan Wilson says Edwards was persistent - and delivered a lock quickly. "It's just the wrong time of year," he adds. Sean Jones says that with few sales, and a resulting low feedback score, buyers were unwilling to risk a high-value purchase: "He was in a catch-22 situation."Edwards doesn't plan to sell any more conservatories through eBay, but he is planning to continue to sell online, with a new website for doors (www.suredoors.com/). This will allow users to customise their orders, and see the effect on the price - something eBay is not geared up for, he says."If I tried to have 10,000 combinations on eBay, I would have to pay for every page," he says.There have been some bright spots: Edwards sold the British memorabilia to Tasmania for charity, and is hoping the buyer will resell it to another country, with the eventual aim of listing it on all different national eBay sites.Edwards has found the cost of selling high-value items to be steep on eBay, and he isn't convinced it is the right place for expensive items such as conservatories: "It's an online car-boot sale, and people go to car-boot sales because they expect to get something cheap," he says."It has been fun, and it has been a good learning curve," he adds. However, given the hundreds of pounds he spent on listing, he adds: "I'm glad it wasn't my money."Sean Jones' guide to selling on eBay:http://search.reviews.ebay.co.uk/members/sean_coolnessRoger EigenheerTrading name:green-wheelsShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/green-wheelsOverall ranking:WinnerFeedback rating:106 (100%)Profit ranking:1Conversion ranking:1Number of items sold ranking:2Destination of British memorabilia:Wellington, New Zealand - 11,671 milesClare TomkinsTrading name:book-bagsShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/back-to-schoolOverall ranking:Highly commendedFeedback rating:130 (100%)Profit ranking:3Conversion ranking:2Number of items sold ranking:1Destination of British memorabilia:Burekup, Western Australia - 8,983 milesDenice PurdieTrading name:scottish_soap_companyShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/purdies-the-scottish-soap-companyOverall ranking:Highly commendedFeedback rating:56 (100%)Profit ranking:5Conversion ranking:4Number of items sold ranking:3Destination of British memorabilia:Hobart, Tasmania - 10,795 milesStuart ReedTrading name:sports_and_leisureShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/rrd-sports-and-leisureFeedback rating:18 (100%)Profit ranking:2Conversion ranking:3Number of items sold ranking:4Destination of British memorabilia:Edgware, UK - 9 milesPaul EdwardsTrading name:tfs_conservatoryShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/tfs-conservatoryFeedback rating:14 (100%)Profit ranking:4Conversion ranking:5Number of items sold ranking:5Destination of British memorabilia:Launceston, Tasmania - 10,729 miles"Profit" is defined as sales minus eBay charges and the &pound;1,500 seed funding, with the cost of competitors' stock not included. "Conversion" means the proportion of listed items successfully sold. Distances are from central London to the nearest large town to the buyer. Ordered by overall position. Feedback scores as of 10.30am on 13 March. Other data from eBay.
Bills are the blight of businesses and consumers alike; just when you think your cashflow is doing OK your outgoings start their quarterly exodus and you're feeling cash-poor again.That makes it quite surprising that so many companies, particularly the smaller ones, do so little checking into their telephone charges and whether or not they could be doing better.The reasons are many, but in a lot of cases they come down to time. Nick Thompson is a partner in four-person software house TTP, and he confirms that he can't spare the resources he ought to for checking that his telecoms are in the shape they ought to be.The company uses Skype for internet calls and the occasional 18866 call when they remember, but he accepts he could be doing more. "Time, effort and lack of easily understood technology," he offers up by way of explanation. Yet, given that he's a technologist by background, one would imagine he'd be relatively sophisticated when it came to understanding what was under the bonnet.So, what would make it easier for him to decide to overhaul his system? "In terms of voice-over-internet [VoIP], probably routers that were more configurable, software that would allow us to use more of a Pabx [private automatic branch exchange] style of system in terms of transferring calls around, and just general ease of use. Take some of the technological bullshit out of it, really!"Quality of advice is an issue for many smaller businesses. Mike Griffiths, managing director of Four Point Printing, turns to an online community of entrepreneurs on the Cix conferencing system (www.conferencing.co.uk) rather than relying on professionals who may have vested interests. He hasn't changed his physical installation since 1993 and doesn't believe he needs to, but he keeps an eye on his service provider's charges. "When one comes along cheaper or the incumbent raises the price, we change," he says. Price is the only thing he'll look at as a reason for changing, and Cix remains his home for finding advice. He hasn't done a lot in terms of VoIP: "I saw that it wasn't worth installing now because the kit would have a long cost justification, and it will all be different by then anyway."This is a more sensible attitude than the 'it's new so I've got to have it' view that infests a number of British businesses - although none would admit to it.Suppliers such as BT certainly don't advocate the "newest for its own sake" approach. Mick Hegarty, general manager for VoIP and broadband, says his organisation would always advocate looking at what a small business wants to achieve before advising it on what it needed in terms of communications installation. If cost control is among the criteria then VoIP and internet telephony would be among the items on offer.To many people these appear to be the same thing, but in BT terminology there are subtle differences, he explains. "One of the great things about our industry is that we confuse everybody with jargon - it's our core competence! Typically we refer to IP telephony as running over a private network, whether it's a local area network [LAN] or a virtual private network. So you've got guaranteed call quality, for example." The other sort, VoIP, is more likely to apply to the smaller business as it goes over a broadband connection.So why is your call quality not guaranteed when you're running an "ordinary" broadband connection? Most likely you're paying for a line only, without managing any particular balance between voice and data running over the same line, so realistically nobody can guarantee the level of service for either. This doesn't mean it won't work, it just means you have to trust the technology a little.Moving up the food chain can be quite a jump. "It tends to be companies who have a Pabx who want to buy an IP PBX, which does all the things a switch used to do," says Hegarty. You end up with phones connected to the network rather than to the voice line, and this can work across a wide area network on multiple sites just as easily as on a LAN.WorthwhileVoIP is simpler, and works for many firms. Alan Greensall, managing director of musical instrument distributor Synergy, is among the time-poor who wouldn't normally have considered moving to a new system because of the time spent researching, but his existing installation went badly wrong, so he used the opportunity to investigate VoIP from Vonage. "I'd paid &pound;2,300 the previous year, and was feeling very aggrieved by the way I'd been treated." The cost saving was considerable, he believes, but the change in the way the business operated was also useful. "It saved 50% of the landline cost but also 30% of the mobile cost." The costing structure changed completely. "There was no contract, so I had nothing to lose by trying it." The Vonage system rings multiple lines until someone picks up - an asset for small companies llike Synergy, which can now answer calls wherever the employee is; at home, abroad or in the office.Many people may argue that Vonage and its competitors don't do anything that a standard PC with a reasonably up-to-date Windows installation can't handle if you know where to look in the innards. It's the looking in the innards that makes the difference, though, with these products being easy to plug in out of the box.Even so, VoIP isn't for everyone, believes BT. "Typically there are different sorts of VoIP. One is where you plug your headset into one computer and talk to someone on the same network, and normally there there will be no cost," says Hegarty. "If you call to an outside line there will be call costs." There are instances in which it doesn't make sense to go for the IP solution, he says. "A customer might be a Chinese restaurant, which is taking and making calls all the time but doesn't have a computer on the premises and no broadband account. If we say, 'why don't you get BT Communicator', it doesn't make sense because of the parts they'd have to buy."It's not an easy decision, and evaluating your telecommunications shouldn't be a hasty process. Making the time for that first step can be very difficult, but as Greensall would attest, it's time well spent.
The Sunday TelegraphWhen Sarah Sands relaunched the Sunday Telegraph in a &pound;2m rebranding exercise, she attempted to snare a younger readership by comparing the new-look paper to "your iPod, containing all your favourite things". Not only did this fail to grasp the concept of an iPod, which is not actually capable of containing all of one's favourite things - there is, for example, no room for raindrops on roses or whiskers on kittens, not even on the 60Gb version - it was also something akin to your mum enticing you to eat your greens because "that crackhead Pete Doherty likes them". Thoroughly cringeworthy and, considering Sands got the bullet just nine months after getting the job, not entirely successful.iPadMeasuring 380 sq ft, iPads are essentially tiny little flats, 25% smaller than an average 500 sq ft one-bedroom flat, but larger than a studio apartment, which will presumably be rechristened iPad Nanos before the week is up. Retailing between &pound;80,000-&pound;120,000, and not wholly dissimilar to rival property developer Wilson Bowden's discount housing scheme, which has the remarkably similar name i-Life, the iPad is aimed at those hoping to get a foot on the property ladder, or download a house, or whatever it is young people are doing nowadays.By christening them "iPads" one imagines Barratt hoped to imply that their tininess is in some way a step towards modernity, and that they might appeal to the young and upwardly mobile. Crucially, Barratt claim that the iPad moniker is in no way a play on the word iPod. One has to wonder, though, why, once the similarity finally dawned on them, they didn't call it something a lot less like iPod. SomethingYouCanAfford, for example. Meanwhile, Bodyform is probably kicking itself for not copyrighting iPad as the sanitary towel of the iPod generation.Born To Be WideBorn to Be Wide is an Edinburgh club night, where the DJ booth is graced by luminaries of the Scottish music scene. This was enough for the NME to herald the night as "like an iPod of the arts scene". The logic here is that, like the iPod, Born to Be Wide allows you to have all your favourite bands in one place. The picky might be wont to point out that the crucial difference is the fact it is not so good at fitting into one's handbag.Je JoueJe Joue is the quite, quite appallingly named sex aid for women (to be honest, I'd be hard-stumped to think of a decently named sex aid, though the Hard-Stump isn't bad). Inevitably, it is apparently so technologically advanced that the people who nickname these things have nicknamed it "the iPod of vibrators". The Je Joue "quivers, glides and swirls over your most delicately sensitive areas in patterns of infinite variation for a truly thrilling experience". Its makers have called these patterns "grooves" and there are 10 to choose from, with names such as The Vixen, Sienna and Sunday Morning (which we imagine is not the same groove as the Velvet Underground song of the same name). It even has a little screen to show which track is playing at any one time. Why don't iPods just come with a vibrate function and then everyone would be happy?PenguinNot so long ago, the iconic Allen Lane-designed Penguin books led the style writer Stephen Bayley to declare that "the Penguin was the iPod of its day". Here, he is tapping into the essential must-have-ability factor exerted by the iPod. Nowhere is this more tangible than in commuterville, where the iPod's little white headphones communicate something akin to Lane's paperbacks: I am hip, modern, and cultured, they attempt to say. Sudoku and Now magazine just don't quite cut it by comparison.www.linkedin.com"LinkedIn is the iPod of social networking websites: beautifully designed, visited by tech-savvy business types and urbanistas, and with a deceptive ability to store a mass of information" one article claimed recently. Five years ago, the word iPod would have been substituted by Starbucks in this sentence, with no discernable difference. The main problem here is that LinkedIn is a website promoting social networks, and thus has no similarity whatsoever with the iPod. Or, indeed, Starbucks.iBod airbrush tanning systemArguably, iBod sits at the very bottom of the iPod-association barrel. Employing a soundalike is a little like hiring an Elton John lookalike to open your supermarket: quite immeasurably pointless. iBod is, in short, a fake tan spray grasping for credibility by associating itself with the hipster accessory du jour. Was probably formerly known as DVD airbrush tanning system.The iRemoteThis is, in essence, a remote control that operates like an iPod. Design student Chris Ambrose devised a buttonless TV remote that enables viewers to scroll through listings options by simply stroking it. Any similarity to the Je Joue is purely coincidental.i-dogWhen Hasbro invented a dancing plastic dog - and really, no home is complete without one, etc - they came up with the cunning ploy of ensuring said canine replica could be plugged into an iPod, so that with one fulsome cry of: "Dance little dog! Dance!" he would jiggle about to whatever tunes your iPod cared to play. The i-dog also boasted an additional feature of "developing a personality" in the manner of a Tamagotchi. Indeed, it is almost certain that the phrase "the Tamagotchi for the iPod generation" was bandied about to describe the toy. Despite the fact that an i-dog has an entertainment duration of a couple of Girls Aloud tracks, it still sold 4,000 a week in the lead-up to Christmas. But then, we live in a world where six million people buy James Blunt records. Crucially, the i-dog should not be confused with i-God, the phrase used to celebrate the Pontiff getting an i-Pod.A-podAs the online retailer Amazon eyes up the market currently monopolised by Apple's iTunes, it finds itself contemplating its own downloading service and, curiously, a rival to the iPod. Many are now referring to as the "aPod", presumably for want of imagination.TUNiTAdidas's TUNiT is apparently "the football boot for the iPod generation". Is the iPod generation aware it needs a football boot, one wonders? Anyway, what this bold claim means, we are led to understand, is that the TUNiT is a boot which can be customised to suit your style of play, in the same way you might choose to customise your iPod. Customising involves selecting your own uppers, chassis, studs and colour. Currently, it is customisable in 18 different ways, though by the end of the year there will be 57 different options to choose from. Quite what this has to do with the iPod, apart from showing an interesting policy on upper and lower case, is somewhat mystifying. To my mind it sounds far more like those LA Gear trainers with the fancy plaitable laces everyone wore for a brief while in the 1980s than a portable music device. But one doesn't like to quibble.
When you're a small business, dealing with the supermarket giants can be a bruising affair. Just ask high-end tea supplier the London Cuppa.One day all was well. And then the company's managing director, Philip Philippou, was told by his buyer that his product had been delisted by Sainsbury's to clear shelf space for a new flavour of tea being launched by a better-known brand.While its products are still enthusiastically stocked by Tesco, Asda and Waitrose, the London Cuppa's story highlights just how vulnerable suppliers are to the whims of the large supermarkets.The company's story is a common one. A small supplier with a great product, and a thirsty customer base ready to consume it. The only hurdle standing in the way is the mighty supermarket, which can seemingly make or break a new business with the snap of its fingers.While he is the first to accept that supermarkets have their targets, Philippou is puzzled at the decision, as demand had appeared to be high, and the margins strong, since the London Cuppa is priced at the top end of its sector, typically costing 10p-15p more than Twinings. "We have a high-quality product that's in demand from customers across the world," says Philippou. The London Cuppa, whose products are blended and packed in England, now produces a range of teas for Royal Doulton, sold under the Royal Albert brand. "The only problem we've ever had has been the distribution," he says.The company, which has been around for five years, made a conscious decision not to sell the products directly via the web, believing the additional cost for postage and packaging would be prohibitive. Ironically, now that the product has been removed from more than 150 of Sainsbury's stores, customers have tracked down the London Cuppa and are ordering the product by the case.There is some consolation for Philippou and his colleagues: since the supermarket made its decision, the company has received customer protests by the mailbag."Thanks for your kind offer to send me a packet of tea, but I am pleased to advise you that Asda in Basildon do stock the London Cuppa," writes one loyal supper. "I did get in contact with Sainsbury's customer care department and ascertained that they have withdrawn the London Cuppa from all of their stores due, they said, to low sales."My late father was a tea taster and passed down an appreciation for a good blend, so when I came across the London Cuppa a few years ago, it stood out," the customer adds, wistfully. "I hope you continue to find demand for the product and that it will be on the shelves for some time to come."Supermarkets are under great scrutiny at the moment, as the UK tries to come to terms with the negative impact supermarket convenience is having on smaller retailers and national manufacturers - not to mention the environment.As a small supplier, however, it's hard to ignore the lure of these retail giants, given the percentage of sales they represent. By volume, the supermarkets represent some 70%-75% of the UK's food and drink business, while Tesco alone accounts for &pound;1 in every &pound;8 spent in Britain."We have to be in these stores as a mass manufacturer," says Claire Clare, founder and director of Steadyco, which makes an anti-spill, open-top infant beaker, the Steadycup. "They have fantastic national coverage and sell good volumes across all demographics, making for good numbers."Steadyco is one of the lucky ones. Its products are now stocked by most branches of most supermarkets, and are selling in the high volumes Clare had always hoped for. She attributes this to the product's uniqueness, the gap it fills in the market and its low price. This, in turn, was down to extensive research.Common mistakesKaren Carlyle, executive director of the Regional Food Group for Yorkshire and Humber, agrees: "This is where many small or new suppliers fall down," she says. Carlyle acts as a go-between for small regional food producers and supermarket buyers, but has also been a senior buyer at Marks & Spencer."Suppliers sometimes assume that, because they are passionate about their product, the supermarket should stock it," she says. "But they may not have done enough research about the market they are in, what the supermarket is currently selling, what their competitors are offering and therefore what the opportunity really is. "Above all, they underestimate the pressures the buyer is under."These include aggressive category-based sales targets. If the buyer isn't hitting a quota for revenue by shelf space, they have to take tough decisions.John Gee, now a food and drink industry consultant at recruitment company Nigel Wright, was a buyer at Tesco for four years. During his last year, one of his tasks was to buy continental cheeses for the company, with a sales target of &pound;260 million. "Managing more than a certain number of suppliers is very difficult with that kind of workload," he notes. "It's sometimes easier to source additional products from an existing supplier than it is to take on a new one. If customers are demanding lower prices, which are achieved via volumes and supply chain efficiencies, and if one supplier can make two products instead of one, that policy makes business sense."So how does a new supplier get a look-in? A good person to ask is Adam Pritchard, founder and managing director of the fast-selling pomegranate-based health drink Pomegreat, which some supermarkets have now mimicked with their own brands.Three years ago, the product was first stocked by Waitrose, followed by Sainsbury's almost a year later, then Morrisons and Tesco in 2005. At the end of 2004, Pritchard was selling 20,000 litres of the juice each month; today that has soared to 1.5 million litres per month.So how did he do it? Apart from being a man to spot an opportunity (he left school at 16, travelled for eight years before training to become a stock broker, which he did until a friend insisted he come to Pakistan to see a new pomegranate drink), Pritchard was blessed with excellent timing. And he exploited that to his great advantage."Waitrose took Pomegreat early on, as its consumer base lended itself more to the product at the time," he says. "The other supermarkets were a bit sceptical, but became more interested as the product proved itself at Waitrose.The importance of getting early backing from Waitrose cannot be underestimated either. Considered a higher-end retailer, biased towards ABC1 consumers, and currently commanding just 3.8% of the market, the company can take more risks than the 'big four' supermarkets. For example, it typically introduces 150 new local and regional products on to its shelves every year. Yet, as Pritchard has found, it is large enough to showcase brands to the other, bigger supermarkets.When Pritchard founded his company, he was on his own, having borrowed &pound;150,000 from friends. The biggest part of the job was building the brand, so he enlisted the help of a PR agency. "I worked on that from day one, as I knew that I needed to be in every supermarket in the country," he says."My aim was volume, so right from the start we worked with big companies," he explains. "Pomegreat is packed at a former Coca-Cola factory, for example, so it's all very professional. I think a lot of our success has been down to thinking big from the outset."This was a crucial decision, since many small suppliers come unstuck when demand picks up, leaving them unable to deliver. Or they can run into 'traceability' issues if they have used small manufacturers - supermarkets are under pressure to be able to trace every product to its source and its individual ingredients, which requires sophisticated labelling and tracking.Yet this same big thinking almost cost Pritchard the business when his original investment fund ran out. "I almost went bankrupt and had to refinance the business," he admits. "When you're dealing with supermarkets, constant, on-time supply is vital, yet we were financing the manufacturing ourselves, and had some terrible problems meeting demand. I was experiencing 50% failure with Sainsbury's. I joined forces with a commercial partner that gave us a vital working capital injection, so we were able to turn that around to 98%-99% success. It's a real endorsement of the product that the supermarkets stuck with us throughout.""It comes down to innovation," he adds. "Pomegreat offered something different in a market category that was losing value. We put a brand on the shelf that enabled the retailer to make money. It was as simple as that.""Supermarket buyers appreciate the added value we represent," adds Pritchard. "We are giving them an opportunity to make more money from the same shelf space, and breathe life into a tired food and drink category."Pritchard isn't complacent, though. Although he doesn't see supermarket own-brand products as a threat, he realises that every product has its day and that long-term success depends on broadening the portfolio and continuing to innovate. His second product, which builds on the success of the original Pomegreat drink, is a juice for the chiller cabinet.A final piece of advice is never to neglect the supermarket buyer relationship. "It's true they can be challenging to manage, but they are worth managing," Pritchard notes. "Supermarkets do carry a lot of power, but a lot of business is about relationships, and if you work at them, it does pay off."
Last week, news emerged that Primrose Hill primary school in north London had been fingerprinting pupils without their parents' consent. It seemed shocking yet should not have come as such a surprise. Micro Librarian Systems' Junior Librarian has been marketed in the UK since 2002 and is estimated to have fingerprinted hundreds of thousands of British children.That so many schools have been happy to install such systems, often without thinking it necessary to consult parents, is a reflection of how this technology is infiltrating society. We can expect more of the same, for children and adults, should the ID card, debated once more this week in parliament, become reality.Simon Davies, the executive director of Privacy International, says backing for such systems is "broad but shallow". As more detail, especially the cost, has emerged about the government's plans, support for the ID card has dropped from 80% to about 50%. There seems to be a similar attitude to biometrics in schools. One teacher and governor whose school is considering installing the same system says: "It's all internal so I can't see it's really any different from passwords giving computer access."Davies responds that the demand for privacy "has two key drivers: systematic legal development and public relations disasters. There is something extremely personal about a biometric and if a computer holding children's stored fingerprints were stolen the psychological effect on parents would be massive."Identity theftWhy does it all matter? Because a password is something you have; a fingerprint is something you are. A password can be reset, reissued, forgotten, copied, written down, or changed. A fingerprint is for life. Like the ID card, as biometric systems pervade society they will be used to secure data of a serious nature. Identity theft will become far more dangerous."One of the worries we have," says Terri Dowty, director of Action for the Rights of Children, "is the rather casual use of biometric data. If children get used to thinking biometric data can be used for trivial purposes - and a school library is a rather trivial purpose - how do they learn to be careful where they put their fingerprints and iris scans? The more you use biometric data and the more casually you use it, the more scope there is to exploit it."It is not just to do with library books. A school in Sunderland experimented with iris scanning in the canteen and many schools around the UK are trying fingerprint registration. Dowty thinks the latter a terrible idea. "When I was teaching, attendance-taking was an important part of the day. You would call the name, look up, and make eye contact - notice them for a second. It was an important human part of the day."Andrew Clymer, who fought to keep biometrics out of the school attended by his children, now six and eight, loves technology. An IT consultant who formerly worked for Cisco, he happily hands over his fingerprint to US border controls because "I see the benefit". But he believes the decision to hand over such information could affect his children all their lives.MLS says the Identikit fingerprint module does not store images; it creates a mathematical template stored as a number. The data is encrypted and "cannot be used in any other database" and the fingerprint is immediately deleted when a child leaves school. Vericool, which supplies registration systems, says: "At no time can the encrypted digital signature be turned into usable, hard-copy data."Clymer finds these claims laughable. "What we've seen in the last 10 years is what's true in IT today isn't necessarily true in future. Anybody who says it is secure and can't be compromised is silly."This is the kind of dispute you would expect the Information Commissioner's Office, responsible for enforcement of the UK Data Protection Act, to step into.But a spokeswoman told the Guardian: "We haven't had any complaints. We would look into it if we did and encourage people to complain." The ICO would, she says, look into why schools were collecting information, how long they planned to keep it, what the safeguards were, whether information was obtained compulsorily and how they intended to ensure it wasn't "muddled".Complaints procedureIn fact, the ICOhasreceived complaints - from Privacy International, Action for the Rights of Children, parents like Clymer - and replied to them, saying much the same as the vendors about the system's workings. (MLS uses a letter from the ICO to promote its products as "safe")."The Information Commissioner does not have any specific concerns relating to the use of such technology in schools for such purposes with respect to the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998," wrote Suzanne McKay, the commissioner's casework and advice officer, in an email Pippa King received on Monday after a two-month wait. King has two children, aged seven and eight, whose Hull school did not ask permission before installing a fingerprint scanner in the library. McKay's email goes on to say: "The Commissioner accepts the introduction of such a system may be regarded as a sensitive issue and would suggest schools inform parents of their intention to introduce such a system. However, a failure by the school to [do so] would not necessarily represent a contravention of the Data Protection Act 1998."Stephen Groesz, a partner with the law firm Bindmans, has been consulted by parents from Charles Dickens school in Southwark, and believes the system is illegal on several grounds. "Absent a specific power allowing schools to fingerprint, I'd say they have no power to do it." Police legislation, for example, is specific about when, by whom and how fingerprints may be taken and what they may be used for. "The notion you can do it because it's a neat way of keeping track of books doesn't cut it as a justification."Privacy advocates say these systems have a more subtle danger: habituation. Andre Bacard, the author of The Computer Privacy Handbook, said if he wanted to build the surveillance society, "I would start by creating dossiers on kindergarten children so the next generation couldn't comprehend a world without surveillance." But who needs dossiers when you have fingerprints?If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Probably not. The DVD rental market is in freefall and the traditional bricks-and-mortar rental store is the hardest hit; and last week's announcement of a deal from Universal Pictures UK and LoveFilm to offer King Kong from April 10 as a DVD and video-on-demand package is another nail in the coffin.DVD rentals plummeted from 3.87 million copies a week in February 2005 to 2.6 million copies a week a year later, according to figures from the Media Research and Information Bureau. The dramatic drop was largely due to the closure of 238 independent high street rental stores, which have struggled since film studios eliminated the "rental window" and made rental videos more expensive, costing more than &pound;35.With DVDs now available for purchase on the same day as they are available for rent, the British public last year bought a whopping 170 million DVDs, according to the Official Chart Company. They also get them free with newspapers, download illegal copies and - if they rent at all - are turning to online postal services from the likes of LoveFilm, ScreenSelect or Blockbuster Online (which saw weekly rentals rise from about 450,000 to 580,000 in the past year). Video on demand to the PC via broadband or the television via cable or satellite is expected to be the primary vehicle for future movie rentals. That's more bad news for the high street.LoveFilm already offers a small download-to-rent service with films from Warner Bros and independent studios but the King Kong offer is important because it is the first download-to-buy service in the world.For &pound;19.99 the consumer gets a copy of King Kong in three formats - DVD, download to PC and download to portable. Upcoming releases include Pride and Prejudice and Serenity.Ian Fogg, broadband analyst at Jupiter Research Europe, says the trial will remain niche because of a flawed business model but is a taste of better things to come."The pricing is not especially compelling... it's hard to see what the digital download element adds to just buying the DVD," Fogg says.The downloads are not available until the day of the DVD release in the UK, and the download versions are slightly lower quality than the DVD. And it uses Windows Media for digital rights management, so the portable version won't be playable on the video iPod or Sony PSP. A Universal spokesperson called this as a "highly compelling consumer proposition".If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You've probably already seen this now, butIGN claimto have seen the tech specs of Nintendo's upcoming Revolution console. And, aspredicted everywhere, Revolution doesn't appear to be as powerful, on paper, as the Xbox 360 or PS3. Only read the article if you have an interest/understanding of things like "texture buffer" and "1T- SRAM". Otherwise hold off and remember that "power" is a misleading concept when it comes to games - the Xbox was more powerful on paper than the Gamecube though you wouldn't have always noticed it. E3 will give us a clearer understanding of what really matters - the games themselves. And anyway, is anyone likely to choose their console based on tech specs alone?
It's become something of a standard for technology writers and observers to look to South Korea, generally accepted to be ahead of the pack in terms of internet penetration and use. Super-fast connections, dense population centres, technological prowess and high levels of technological communication have helped push the country ahead of its peers in recent times.But this picture might not be entirely accurate any more, according to a new study. APsummarisesthe results:When pollsters for Ipsos Insight recently asked 6,500 people in 12 countries whether they had used the Internet in the past month, 68 percent of South Koreans said yes. That ranked No. 4, behind Japan (89 percent), Canada (72 percent) and the United States (71 percent).The study also suggests that Chinese and Japanese users spend more time on the net than their South Korean counterparts. Now this doesn't automatically mean South Korea's less advanced than we thought... but does it mean the tides are turning? Is Japan once again the leader in internet and communications?
What in the world is there to chat about?
I can no longer read some old PDD files of scans of photographs I took on film a number of years ago. I have downloaded Total Image Converter Version 1.0 from CoolUtils.com to convert them to JPeg and Tiff files to be able to access the images. Every conversion brings up a black screen with the words "Photoshop 3 is required to open this file". Curiously, this screen comes up when I attempt to open it with Adobe Photoshop Album Starter Edition 3. Julian AmosPDD is or used to be a standard file format for files created in Adobe PhotoShop, so your best chance of reading these files is to use your original program, if it's still available, or another program from the same family. PhotoShop is expensive but you may know someone who has a copy, and will load the PDD files and save them in a more common format, such as JPeg. PDD is a layered format and files can become corrupted, so there are also programs designed to rescue valuable images. Examples include Advanced PSD Repair (www.psd-repair.com), which costs $149.95, and PhotoshopRecovery (www.officerecovery.com/photoshop/) which costs $99.Because there are hundreds of image file formats, many programs will convert between them. The first ones to try are Irfan View (www.irfanview.com), XnView and Nconvert (http://tinyurl.com/4y64r), and both are free for non-commercial use. These are still worth a go, but if Total Image Converter (www.coolutils.com/TotalImageConverter) can't read the files, I would not hold out too much hope. It could be quicker and easier to go back to the original images or have fresh prints made for rescanning.In general, it's a good idea to avoid saving important data in proprietary file formats or formats supported only or mainly by one company. These have their uses, but it's always worth saving a back-up copy of a file in a different, widely supported format. For example, save a JPeg as well as a PDD or PSD file, save an RTF or HTML file as well as a DOC file in Microsoft Word, save a CSV file in a database, and so on.The internet answer to the image file format problem is PNG which stands for Portable Network Graphics or, recursively, PNG's Not GIF (www.libpng.org/pub/png/). However, it has not been as successful as expected. PNG is lossless so file sizes are larger than "lossy" compressed formats such as JPeg.
Today'sNewsBytes(in the printed edition) noted that Avadis "Avie" Tevanian, Apple's chief software technology officer, is leaving at the end of the month.Tevanian worked on Mach OS at Carnegie Mellon University, where he declined Microsoft's job offer and was hired instead by Next's Steve Jobs to create the NextStep operating system. He then became part of what amounted to a reverse take-over when Apple paid $400m to buy Next, to get a replacement for Mac OS. Next's founder, Steve Jobs, became Apple's chief executive, Tevanian took over Apple's software, and Next's hardware guy, Jon Rubinstein, got control over Apple's hardware, including (later) the iPod. Pretty good going for refugees from a small, failing workstation company!Rubinstein had already announced his retirement (he's not old enough, but he's certainly rich enough) and it was something of a surprise when Tevanian decided to leave at the same time. It's certainly possible to imagine that the two events are somewhat related, but who knows?Internet News has a story with mug shots:Two Apple Execs Call it Quits.Mac fans might also find it interesting to read my 1997 interview with Tevanian in Berlin,The nerd who might save Apple, which shows how plans change. This was in the days of Rhapsody, the Yellow Box and the Blue Box. "Rhapsody will be offered for both Intel-based PCs and Macs, so users will no longer need to buy an Apple computer to run the next generation of Macintosh software," I was told. (It's no longer on GU, as far as I can tell.)Rhapsody was basically NextStep, the Yellow Box is now known as Cocoa while the Blue Box became Classic. And while the Intel beta versions of Rhapsody disappeared very quickly, we now know that NextStep's processor-independent features were carefully preserved, allowing Apple to switch Mac OS X from PowerPC to Intel x86.Not everybody has been entirely happy with everything about the Tevanian regime. For example, some people think the Dock, inherited from NextStep, is a bit of a usability disaster (and the Expose kludge doesn't altogether fix that), and that the NextStep Finder isn't as good as the Mac OS original. But 10 years after, we can see that Jobs, Rubinstein and Tevanian did save Apple, and it will be interesting to see how well Jobs manages without them.
I am a software engineer graduate living in Kenya. Can any companies harness my skills over great distances? Norman WanyonyiCompanies do hire remote programmers, but only on an individual basis. Otherwise the web offers a large and growing freelance market for competitive codeslingers. The leading site seems to be Programming Bids (www.programmingbids.com), but alternatives include (Getacoder.com) and (Coder4rent.com).
Many downloads specify particular versions of software, for example IE7 or WMP9. How do I know which version I have? I use Windows XP Home. Dr Philip RaynerYou should always be able to find the version number of a Windows program by clicking the Help menu item and selecting About. The simple version number (eg 5.1) is often followed by a Build Number (2600.xpsp_sp2 etc). Sometimes you can find the information without running the program. Right-click on the program file (whatsit.exe) and select Properties, then click the tab marked Version. This should have the version number at the top, and a box where you can select headings for more details, such as Company, File Version, Internal Name, Language and so on.Backchat: Tony Sweeney has suggested running the free program,Belarc Advisor. He says: "This will determine the version number of every single piece of software on your machine, including patches, verify that all hotfixes are complete and correct, and, when printed from the generated browser page, gives you an invaluable hardcopy record of all your application license keys. It also identifies precisely all the hardware in your machine."
"Here's a selection of some of the most insanely great things the man has said, organized by topic: innovation and design, fixing Apple, his greatest sales pitches, life's lessons, taking the fight to the enemy and Pixar," says Owen Linzmayer atWired News.Obviously it includes the Greatest Sales Lines Ever:"Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water or do you want a chance to change the world?" -- The line he used to lure John Sculley as Apple's CEO, according to Odyssey: Pepsi to Apple, by John Sculley and John Byrne
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday April 19 2006The insurance company Norwich Union used two sets of data From Ordnance Survey in preparing its flood map, contary to information intially supplied to us by the company in the article below. Ordnance Survey says the cost of obtaining the informations was less that 3% of the project budget.&lt;hr size="1"Floods are a nightmare for householders, and for insurers, too; the personal loss is matched by financial damage averaging &pound;30,000 per household. Yet despite the size of the insurance industry, and the regularity in recent years of serious floods, such as in 1998 and 2000, there was never a detailed map showing precisely which properties were at risk.Following the 1998 floods, Norwich Union (NU) - the UK's biggest insurer, with about a quarter of the market, insuring roughly five million of the UK's 20m properties - gave Jill Boulton, its geographical information systems technical manager, the task of creating that map.She hoped some data would be easily available, as the Environment Agency, which gets nearly one-third of its revenues directly from government, was working on a flooding map, linking postcodes with Ordnance Survey height data to calculate possible flood risks.In December 2000 the agency launched a postcode search on its website, showing the "indicative flood plain" where there was a chance of a serious flood once in 100 years. That would have been useful to Boulton - who asked for a copy of the data. "We were prepared to pay," she says. "From an insurer's point of view, we're trying to price the risk according to the conditions in the area."With 1m properties then reckoned to be at risk of a once-per-century flood across the country, even a small improvement in precision would help. But according to Boulton, "in 2001 we talked to the Environment Agency. But they weren't very receptive. So I have spent the past four or five years creating a flood map of Britain." The Environment Agency said this week nobody could comment on the talks from that time."The agency has come on in leaps and bounds since then, but there are still restrictions," says Boulton. "The problem is that the Reuse of Public Sector Information Act hasn't freed access to data in the way that was intended."With a &pound;5m budget, Boulton then sought map data from OS - but found the cost of licensing prohibitive. "It's not just a startup company that would find this too pricey. The MasterMap data [which is detailed to one metre] would have been lovely, but it was too expensive. My budget had to cover all the IT, consultants and data."If even the UK's biggest insurer finds OS data too expensive for a project that could save millions, what hope is there for would-be companies aiming to start up and deliver new services?The result: Boulton's team completed aerial mapping for the whole of the UK sponsored by Intermap, and produced its own flood map. It's mostly good news: rather than the blunt instrument of the postcode, NU can identify a property's risk precisely. And the number considered to be at serious risk of flooding has been cut from 1m to under 200,000.But if the Environment Agency and OS data had been directly available, NU might have been spared &pound;5m in costs - all of which comes out of its customers' pockets. It's a classic example of how a small amount of restrictive data practice has a huge knock-on effect commercially.Visit the campaign site:freeourdata.org.uk
Everyone knows organic food is better for you, right? If you haven't washed the mud off your carrots before cooking then you clearly haven't lived. Honest. But game development? Surely the only organic element here is the month old pizza in the office fridge? Not so. Keithargues in today's Technologysection that the gaming world would be a better place if developers allowed their offspring to grow organically. Think quirky demos rather than set-in-stone concepts - prototypes rather than brainstorming. I think he has a point too, especially for throwing up interesting handheld ideas. But I'm not sure I totally agree with his claim that the transitional period - i.e. now - is when audiences are most receptive to fresh concepts. Yes, new hardware owners are more willing to splash out on something for their new system -Fantavsionfor PS2 anyone? - but give them a choice of quirky leftfield or shiny franchise update and it is obvious what will sell. But still, if developers can create something that appeals to a sizable minority who create a word of mouth around it as hardware penetration rises then Keith is right - thar's gold in them thar hills.
Idel.icio.us'dthetrailerfor the forthcoming movieStay Alivebefore, but thought I would post about it now that the first ten minutes of this computer game-related schlock horror flick have turned up onKotaku. Oh man, are the tabloids going to have a field day with this one...The tag, "You die in the game, you die for real" should say it all. A movie about videogames, addiction and the tenuous link between reality and fiction. All of the Daily Mail's fears rolled into one Hollywood flick!
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..What's eating Microsoft?Delays to the release of its Windows Vista and more structural changes hint at a general malaise afflicting the computer giant, report Jack Schofield and Charles Arthur.Is school fingerprinting out of bounds?Obtaining biometric data from pupils, often without parental knowledge, shows how far this technology has already infiltrated society, writes Wendy M. Grossman.'A lawyer who is also idealist - how refreshing'Eben Moglen, the legal guardian of the free software movement explains why, after 12 years, the time is right to release version 3 of its constitution for public comment.Why a £5m mapping project had to double up on dataFree Our Data: thecampaigncontinues. How the restrictive data practices of the Environment Agency and Ordnance Survey cost Norwich Union £5m when it decided to draw up a flooding map.Secondhand gadgets win reprieve from Japan's "worst law ever"The proposed banning of pre-owned electrical goods spelt disaster for Japan's retro games and music sales before an unprecedented U-turn.Will musical mobiles hit the iPod's figures?Victor Keegan: The rise of user-friendly music phones is bound to make more people question whether they need to carry two devices rather than one.TechnobileIf you're a woman who dares enter a videogame shop, be prepared to be chatted up, patronised and met with cool indifference, warns Laura Parker.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Newly asked questionsCan anything save the high street video rental store?Probably not. The DVD rental market is in freefall and the traditional bricks-and-mortar rental store is the hardest hit.Will a Desperate Housewives videogame pay off?Perhaps if it can find some desperate housewives with a few spare hours.GadgetsSamsung YP-Z5iPod rival looking to call the tuneNikon S6Nikon's camera lights up the marketNabaztagWireless bunny could be geek toy of the yearDevelopers go organic to milk a future cash cowPrototyping - allowing game concepts to evolve via natural selection - is a more sensible approach than trying to create products by brainstorming, says Keith Stuart.Transform government - but get it to join up firstMichael Cross: "Common infrastructure" could cut the cost of running the government machine, but expect it to run into plenty of opposition.Hackers bring host of troublesBe it a company or home user, attackers show no prejudice when there's a security lapse to exploit. Karlin Lillington found her phpBB boards hackedAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsBytesNews in brief: Avie Tevanian unexpectedly quits at Apple, and more
Perhaps if it can find some desperate housewives with a few spare hours. Gaming news sites have been ablaze this week discussing whether the ladies of Wisteria Lane can cut it in the virtual world. "As fans of the show would expect, the game is loaded with gossip, betrayal, murder and sex - all the things women like," claimed Mary Schuyler, producer for Buena Vista Games, which will publish the title. Surely she's forgotten chocolate and shoes?It's not the first TV series to make the move into videogames. Ubisoft's Crime Scene Investigation titles have done well, though the puzzle-orientated nature of the series lends itself to gaming. 24 is another series that has made a similar transition. The initial response to Desperate Housewives erred on the critical. "The news was greeted with a collective groan and world-weary sighs of 'why, why?'in the SPOnG office," reported gaming news site SPOnG.com, adding: "It's not hard to see why making a video game version of the show is a commercially astute move." Meanwhile, technology news site Digg.com headlined it 'This could be the worst videogame ever'.It's not hard to see why such scorn has been poured, especially since Buena Vista Games has gone out of its way to scream "It's for women". This quickly puts off many male and female gamers alike; males because it implies "Stay away, boys, this isn't for you", and females because nobody likes being told they're going to like something purely because of their gender. At best it comes across as patronising; at worst it creates the rebellious little imp on the shoulder that says: "I'm not going to like it, because you think I should."But this isn't going to be a game for hardcore gamers of either sex. It seems to be aimed at women who don't already play games, as much as women that do. However, should this game work well, it has the potential to grow the videogames audience in the same way EyeToy and SingStar have done.So let's put away the daggers for now and see what BVG can do with Desperate Housewives because they might just create something interesting. As long as they remember those daggers can come out again just as fast.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Avie unexpectedly quitsAvadis "Avie" Tevanian, Apple's chief software technology officer, is leaving at the end of the month. Tevanian started the development of Mach, an operating system kernel, at Carnegie Mellon University, and was then hired by Next's Steve Jobs to create the NextStep operating system. After Jobs returned to Apple, Tevanian turned NextStep into Mac OS X - including Mach.Handy spyCan't remember where you were last night? TrackStick, a lipstick-sized GPS logger, could be the answer. (It uses Windows and Google Earth.)www.trackstick.co.ukHotxt stuffHotxt.co.uk is offering "texting" from Java-based phones for a flat rate of &pound;1 per week, though network data charges also apply. Hotxt hopes to become the Skype of text messaging.Worldwide webtalkWWW2006, the 15th International World Wide Web Conference (www2006.org), will be held in Edinburgh from May 23-26.Google badThis week, Google accidentally deleted its official blog on Blogger, and the address was grabbed by someone else. "This was not a hack, and nobody guessed our password. Our bad," said Google.Laps upHela (www.helashop.com) has launched a &pound;49 Lap Up 2340 pivoting laptop stand to improve the poor ergonomics of notebook computers. The company already offers the novel Perific mouse, which can be worn on the hand.Your space?With MySpace at 64 million users and rising, Famoodle.com wants a slice of the action. It describes itself as "like MySpace for families".It's a stealAccording to TechWeb News, CBS Sportsline says it served more than 14m streams of live video from the 2006 NCAA Basketball Championship, breaking internet traffic records. Outplacement firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas estimates that it cost employers $3.8 billion in lost productivity.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mobile phone or iPod? The biggest obstacles to buying music to play on mobile phones are suddenly evaporating. The latest is this week's launch (by mBlox, Vodafone and content provider New-Visions) of an off-portal service costing &pound;1.50 per download with no hidden charges for the amount of data transferred. This may seem like a tiny step for the human race, not least because some people are unaware they could be charged &pound;10 or more for the data transmission, but it has the potential to give a huge boost to music and video downloads.The new service is being done through Vodafone (with Orange and other operators expected to join shortly) but it marks a very important shift away from the power of the portals and will enable record labels for the first time to sell full tracks directly to a customer's phone. It follows 3's success in selling a million downloads in four months with its own service, which, for &pound;1.50 a pop, provides a "dual download" to both a phone and via the web. This allows tracks to be burned to a CD with digital rights protected. 3 claims that 10% of sales of James Blunt's latest UK single were through its download service.A price of &pound;1.50 is a lot when iTunes offers thousands of tracks for much less. But the culture of phones is different: punters will pay up to &pound;4.50 for a ringtone, creating a business that analyst Deloitte says will be worth $5bn this year. If punters pay so much for partial tracks, why won't they pay &pound;1.50 for the real thing? But a price war could break out as new entrants come into the market. Interestingly, 3 is slashing its own downloads to 99p for April and May.This does not mean the end of the iPod, but far more people have mobile phones than dedicated digital music players and they are getting very sophisticated, capable of storing thousands of tracks. Part of the iPod's success is due to mobile operators not providing a decent alternative. But in Japan, says Mobile Entertainment, a staggering 99.8% of digital music downloads are to mobile handsets.There is a huge market for phone downloads that won't necessarily have an impact on iPod sales. Not everyone wants thousands of tracks in their phone's memory, but they may want to swiftly download a hit, especially if they can then burn it to CD. There will always be those who prefer iPods or another gizmo, but the rise of user-friendly music phones is bound to make more people question whether they need to carry two devices rather than one.Andrew Bud, executive chairman of mBlox - which provides the wholesale GPRS service that enables tariffs to be low enough to be bundled into the cost of the song - reckons this is a "massive" step forward, unlocking a big market for rich media such as music and video. He has a vested interest in saying that but he may be right. The gate is now open for record labels and individuals to showcase their wares. Two big off-portal players, Jamster and Monstermob (which advises customers not to download tracks when there are prohibitive data charges), are in the throes of launching their own music services.All this must be seen in context. According to Jupiter Research, despite the hype, digital music only accounted for 2.2% of European music revenues last year and it will only be 16% by 2011. The point is that there is everything to play for. There must be a 50/50 chance that the Damascene conversion of mobile operators to fix price downloads, together with all the other things that are happening, could prove to be the catalyst for a big uplift in mobile music sales. It is now very easy to download a track (a brief message to a shortcode number) and to market it using ambient and viral methods. All it needs is for phone downloads to be included in the music charts and all the big labels will be rushing for a share of the action.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
The reason there are so many poor videogames is that many titles aren't even remotely playable until three or four months before they ship, far too late for developers to make radical changes or, more importantly, admit that, actually, it is a crap idea and always was. Until that point, underlying concepts are often held only within a phonebook-sized design document put together several months earlier.But at the 2006 Game Developers Conference last week in San Jose, several leading developers and interface experts gushed about "prototyping" - creating elaborate playable demos of game concepts before full production begins, allowing a more organic approach to development. Spore, the ambitious evolution simulation from Will Wright, creator of Sim City and The Sims, was an evolutionary experiment, emerging from a primordial soup of prototyped play ideas. Meanwhile, the Japanese studio behind innovative epics Ico and Shadow of Colossus created ambitious, visually astounding promotional videos which conveyed the look and feel of what they wanted to achieve before they started development. The team then used these as a target during production.Interestingly, design flourishes arose by accident. For example, Ico's iconic horned helmet came about because the designers needed a way to distinguish him from other characters when viewed from a distant camera angle. Until recently, putting teams to work on quirky demos for months on end - only for many to prove unworkable - could have been dismissed as risky and expensive. But times are changing. The Experimental Gameplay Project (experimentalgameplay.com) instigated at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh has shown that prototyping can be cheap and quick. Students are asked to create games in seven days based on a single theme such as gravity or vegetation. Resulting titles like Tower of Goo and On A Rainy Day are available to download and have been well received.With the current generation of machines, where strictly defined genres such as the stealth shooter or free-roaming gangsta game are known to be popular, there's less stimulus to innovate. But the next generation is an undiscovered country. This transitional period is when audiences are most receptive to fresh concepts.Whoever creates a new genre will control it, perhaps for several years. We are on the verge of an intellectual property gold rush.Prototyping - allowing game concepts to evolve via natural selection - is a more sensible approach than trying to create products by brainstorming.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Savings from switching would be &pound;50 at mostThe National Energy Foundation has promoted compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) for 15 years. Switching the most used light in a house from a filament bulb to a CFL saves about &pound;10. Oxford's Environmental Change Institute showed the average UK household uses 715kWh a year on lighting at a cost of about &pound;60. Changing to CFLs would save up to 80% of this, at most &pound;50 a year, not the &pound;240 suggested (Let there be light, March 23).Ian Byrne,Deputy Director, National Energy Foundation, Milton Keynes&middot; The article on low-energy light bulbs was so rose-tinted it must have been put together from a Philips' press release. These bulbs are unreliable, can have a life much shorter than the optimistic "six years" quoted on the pack and be slow to warm up, especially outdoors. Extra energy input required in manufacture must be offset against estimated savings, and the bulb contains the pollutants mercury and phosphorous.Robert Auger,Hythe&middot; Using low-energy bulbs doesn't mean energy producers should build fewer wind farms. We must maximise renewable energy production.Paul Parker, via email&middot; Osram's Dhiru Galani says incandescent bulbs convert only 5% to 8% of energy into visible light, the rest is "wasted as heat". In UK homes, heating is wanted for much of the year. The strongest argument for the new bulbs is convenience. They need not be replaced so often and the fittings don't deteriorate through heat damage.Allan Jones, Yardley Gobion&middot; We have regretfully given up on low-energy light bulbs because they interfere dreadfully with radio reception. We'd be glad to hear of any solution.John and Hilary Wakeman,West Cork&middot;Npower has agreed to finance the promotion and discount of energy-saving products such as fridges, freezers, lightbulbs and loft insulation in Argos and Homebase stores. The npower Orb indicates energy-efficient products.Nick McHugh,npower WorcesterSmooth operatorsRegarding XP on an Intel-based Mac (Newly asked questions, March 23), surely the real prize is to be able to run both operating systems simultaneously, as delivered previously via Microsoft's Virtual PC (albeit slowly) so we could switch systems without rebooting.Graham Mitchell,ManchesterRaising standardsIt is reassuring that, though concerned about the price, David Hitchin thinks PAS 78 should be "compulsory reading" (Letters and blogs, March 23). The Disability Rights Commission's publications are normally distributed free but in this case the task required the expertise of a recognised standards body and we contracted BSI. It retains copyright in such publications and charges for the document, but we did negotiate an unusually low cover price of &pound;30. We continue to seek ways of ensuring this valuable document gets into as many hands as possible.Michael Burton,Disability Rights CommissionerCharging awayDitch 3G until battery technology improves (Technobile, March 23). After being tempted to 3 by a generous tariff, I was offered nine months at half price to renew but couldn't stand the thought of charging up every day, so switched networks to get a better handset. I'm happy with my W800, charging is a non-issue and with a 2GB memory card, it doubles as an iPod nano.Paul Sheriffsvia emailCommon groundSailing the River Crouch, I compared charts with an Ordnance Survey map and GPS. OS said we were on land. GPS and the chart agreed our correct position. When OS opens its data, would it be possible to use a common reference point?Clive Durdle,Ilford, Essex
