Monday's competitionto find the best songs for geeks was a rip-roaring success - thanks to all who came up with suggestions.Honourable mentions must go to Jeremy, for his slew of answers, and to Tom , who picked my personal favourite: In The Garage by Weezer. Dermot came agonisingly close with his suggestion of Kate Bush's Deeper Understanding (opening lines: "As the people here grow colder/I turn to my computer/ And spend my evenings with it/ Like a friend".But victorious it was not. Instead, winning by a whisker, we have Bucko - who pointed out Hawkwind'sQuark, Strangness and Charm. It had all the most important elements: subject matter (it's about geniuses who are unlucky in love), science references (black holes, anti-matter and, of course, quarks) and to top it all, it's played by a bunch of hairy old prog/space rockers.Congratulations, Bucko: you're now the proud owner of a furry phone wallet. It'll drive your admirers wild. Or give them fleas.
Over in the Guardian's Friday review today,DJ Taylorexamines why we're still so interested in HG Wells' War of the Worlds.As an adjunct, Margaret Atwood givesher thoughts on why we need science fiction.We want wisdom. We want hope. We want to be good. Therefore we sometimes tell ourselves warning stories that deal with the darker side of some of our other wants. As William Blake noted long ago, the human imagination drives the world.
Here are a few mobile games to look out for over the coming months. Some of these I've been playing this week, some are lurking about on my phone as yet untouched, others have just been announced. Not much evidence here that publishers are going after the casual gamers. Oh, apart from Etch-A-Sketch...Thief Deadly Shadows: Episode One (InfoSpace)This 2D scolling platformer, based on the groundbreaking PC stealth series, is clearly inspired by Gameloft's excellent Splinter Cell conversions. You play light-fingered pilferer Garrett as he carries out a series of stealing missions for a powerful law-keeping sect. It's all about running around mansions and castles, trying not to be noticed by guards and then clobbering them if you are. The controls aren't quite as highly developed as they are in the Clancy titles, and often, the baddies are so easy to beat there's no real stimulous to avoid detection. But it's fun for a couple of hours and is released next month.The Fast and the Furious 3D (I-Play)Due out in August this latest attempt to bring the wonders of 3D graphics to Java mobile phones is pretty successful considering the limitations of the hardware. The game is a series of one-on-one races through various gritty urban locations in growling muscle cars. To be honest, the environments, with their soulless two-storey concrete buildings lining the roads, reminded me more of those nightmarish sixties shopping arcades you find in new towns, rather than sprawling LA - but then, the only times I've been to LA have been to attend E3, where I am ferried everywhere in taxis and only tend to see the inside of the exhibition hall, the inside of my hotel room and the inside of the Standard Bar on Sunset Boulevard. Anyway, the handling is very tight, the framerate is okay - it reminds me of PC racing games about ten-fifteen years ago. It's out in August.Alien Hominid (Player X)The hugely successful Flash game and now cult console hit makes its way to mobile phones. If you've somehow never seen it,Alien Hominidis a zany 2D shoot 'em up with hand-drawn visuals and masses of great ideas, developed by a small independent team - and about a million times more imaginative in its execution than most mainstream titles. This Java offshoot is actually just a series of four mini-games, but they're funny and well-designed - especially the one where you have to play see-saw with a little fat boy to reach some sweets at the top of the screen. There's also a Frogger-style road crossing game, and a bomb dropping one. And a bombcatchingone. Lovely, but all over too quickly.Grid Runner++Just been sent a preview version of this byLlamasoftPR chap, Jim McCauley. It is (deep breath) a Java translation of the PC version of classic 8bit shooter Grid Runner, originally developed by Jeff Minter. It is of course mandatory to use the words 'trippy' and 'psychadelic' when refering to a Minter brand, and that's just what GR++ is. It's also lots of fun for old people who owned a Vic 20. No firm release date yet.Save Kenny (THQ Wireless)THQ have just sent me fresh details on their latest South Park game, in which you have to quite literally Save Kenny, from an array of mortal dangers, via a series of silly mini-games. These include trapping four-arsed monkeys in Mephesto's Lab, avoiding a spinning asteroid and being chased by Satan around a graveyard. Apparently there's also a Tamagotchi element: Kenny must be kept healthy and happy, and you will receive text alerts throughout the day reminding you to tend to the constantly endangered child. It's out across Europe in September.King of Fighters M2 (I-play)No release date or proper details yet, but this second mobile translation of the cult SNK beat-'em-up series promises faster gameplay, improved responsiveness and intuitive controls. There will be Story, Survival and Versus modes. That's all I know.In-Fusio stuffThe big French publisher has just emailed me its release plans for the next few months. They are as follows:Sabre-Wulf - (June) Le Tour de France (July) Age Of Empires II (Aug/Sept) Etch-A-Sketch (TBC) Banjo-Kajooie Mobile (TBC)I've asked them how Etch-A-Sketch will work - if you'll be able to send your works of art to other people via MMS, and if the game will support phones with haptic interfaces so you actually get to shake your handset to clear the image. They haven't got back to me, which leads me to believe that they either thought I was joking, or that they're nicking my ideas.
"PlayStations and television are replacing pets in the modern home," reportsthe Scotsman:The percentage of British homes with a pet has fallen from almost 55 per cent in 1999 to 48 per cent today. In some cases, children are even turning to virtual pets instead of the real thing. "The falling number of children has contributed to this decline. What is more, even in those families with children, the demand for pets may not be as strong as it once was, since many children now prefer to immerse themselves in the world of computer games and TV programmes," the study [by Mintel] concluded.Oh, come on. It's Friday.
"Google is the new Internet behemoth, snatching up small companies left and right. So, in this article, I ask: what tech gems are in the running for Google's growing subsidiary menagerie? To help predict, I will first take a look at who Google has acquired in the past and what Google has done for them, and then I'll throw out a few possibilities for Googlification and discuss where they might fit into Google's strategy," writes Andrevan atKuro5in.
"According to Chris Boyd, a renowned security researcher who runs the VitalSecurity.org nonprofit resource center, the warm and fuzzy world of BitTorrent has been invaded by a massive software distribution campaign linked to New York-based adware purveyor Direct Revenue LLC," reportseWeek.Because BitTorrent strips digital files into tiny shreds and reassembles them locally once a user completes a download, it has emerged as the perfect place to bundle adware programs among the bits, without the end user ever knowing.A BitTorrent user downloading a movie clip only becomes aware of the associated adware after the files are reassembled. At that stage, when the user attempts to load the reassembled file, he or she is greeted by an installation notice for an adware bundle distributed by MMG (Marketing Metrix Group), a Canadian company that specializes in P2P network marketing.Officials from MMG did not respond to queries for comment. On its Web site, the company lists BitTorrent as a lucrative adware distribution vehicle.Which now gives a 404.... The compny's response, in the article, includes:"The user is downloading something through BitTorrent that is ad-supported and [Boyd's screenshot] shows the disclosure that is provided. The idea that somehow the download is surreptitious is wrong. It's very apparent that if the BitTorrent user goes through with the MMG download, they agree to install the ad-supported software."
Just in case you missed them, here are a couple of competitions running on Guardian Unlimited at the moment that you might be interested in:·Win a copy of Medal of Honor: European Assault for PlayStation 2(this one closes on Sunday) ·Win a Father's Day Ferrari experience at Silverstone(also closes Sunday) ·Win a PS2 and a Batman Begins prize pack(this one lasts until June 26)
Last week in China, Qui Chengwei, 41, was given a suspended death sentence for fatally stabbing someone in an altercation that was over a piece of property that didn't even exist.Qui, who was tried in Shanghai, and his victim, Zhu Caoyuan, were players in the Chinese game Legend of Mir II - one of the world's 1,600 active massively multiplayer online games (MMOGs). They played with millions of paying subscribers in a virtual space set in a 24-hour real-time fantasy.Like traditional console-based computer games, these feature goals to be achieved, bad guys to thwart and rewards to be reaped - but, unlike titles for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube, every on-screen character is played by a person logged in via the internet. In these virtual worlds, players team up to take on challenges, working off each others' strengths to solve the in-game conundrums.Qui and a friend had jointly won a valuable Dragon Sabre by battling through a tough quest. The pair lent it to Zhu who, instead of returning it, sold it via an online auction, kept the money (about &pound;480) and ran. Chinese police don't recognise virtual property as real goods, so the question of theft was a moot point. The result was that Qui resorted to a brutal real-life crime.That someone would pay &pound;480 for something that doesn't exist in "meat space" is of increasing interest to economists, legal scholars, social scientists and philosophers. That someone would value it enough to kill another person interests just about everyone.Until earlier this year, virtual trading was a curiosity. The buying and selling of magical weaponry, non-existent currency and imaginary castle between players of online games was a strange quirk of the system. But money talks, and the fact that players of these games were spending their hard-earned real cash on synthetic stuff in a digital environment - things they could not touch, taste or smell - soon got the attention of business minds.The market exploded, as did stories of people who had cashed in on the phenomenon. A Jedi character from the game Star Wars Galaxies sold for $2,000 (&pound;1,106) on the auction site eBay. One journalist earned more in one year of virtual trading than an American secondary school teacher would make.Black Snow Interactive, a "sweatshop" that employed low-paid Mexican labour to develop highly skilled characters for sale, was shut down by the creators of the game Anarchy Online. In-game "mafias" controlled sections of The Sims Online.It all had a circus sideshow freakish quality, but it was still believable. Pouring real money into intangible products didn't have the same jaw-dropping effect it may have had before the dotcom bubble.Since 2001, Dr Edward Castronova has been following the progress of virtual market trade and oversees the subject's leading forum, the weblog Terra Nova. "I expect this activity will show strong growth over the next 30 to 50 years, as new generations grow up with video games as a normal part of life," he says.Some believe that government, policy and law workers will begin to use these worlds as training grounds for real-world decisions, and such discussions are already part of the New York Law School's annual State of Play conferences. Castronova estimates that the overall market in MMOG goods within the game worlds is worth an annual $2bn. This, according to his research, is "comparable to economic activity in many small regions, provinces, and even a few countries". Outside the game, with real dollars traded for virtual things, Castronova predicts that the market occupies between $100m and $1bn in trade. That is comparable to the market for tennis shoes.These figures present questions about the nature of value, ownership and property, forcing a pop-reassessment of the assumptions of Western capitalist, political and economic structures. Ren Reynolds, resident philosopher at Terra Nova, suggests that virtual property alarms most people "because they have rather cosy ideas about what property is. These ideas tend to be reinforced when property has physicality. For example, I can say this is my brick because I can touch it and take it from you and run away. A lot of these virtual property discussions challenge these notions."Yet virtual property has existed for centuries. Copyright and its modern spin-off, intellectual property, are examples of constructions of ownership of non-physical entities understood and accepted by the general public. "People do embrace virtual property," Reynolds says, suggesting that the contexts in which things develop are responsible for their value."The pound coin doesn't mean anything except what you think it means. Your money is just a bunch of ones and zeroes in a database in a bank. It actually has no value. It's the same with EverQuest money; it's a bunch of ones and zeroes in a database. Intangible goods are not actually new; it's just these specific types of virtual goods that people don't embrace."The stakes in virtual property have been steadily increasing since 1999. Last December, the price hit record heights when David Storey, known as Deathifier in the game Project Entropia, paid $26,500 for a piece of digital land.He received the title to "Treasure Island", while the seller, MindArk, laughed his way to the bank. Storey considers his purchase an investment: "The Island has two forms of income: one is estate sales, which is where the big money is in terms of one-off income. I have 20 out of 60 that I intend to sell. When you look at the price for each estate ($450 to $550) and multiply it by 60, you can see that it easily meets the initial purchase price of the island. Even if they don't all sell at such a price, taxation will make up the difference, and is also the source of ongoing income beyond the estates."Storey has received a $9,000 return since December, and both he and his investors are pleased with the progress. He says: "I do believe the purchase has challenged people's perceptions and blurred the border between the real and virtual worlds, and I also believe that this will be reinforced once we have demonstrated that it actually works." (You can read a full transcript of Online's interview with Storey on ourGamesblog).Reynolds says that the idea of gameplay also challenges wealth: "The Protestant work ethic says work isn't something you're supposed to enjoy. If you look at the gameplay in some of these products, it seems too superficially enjoyable to be work. In fact, 99% of the game is clicking repeatedly in order to advance your character to the next level."Matt Mih&aacute;ly, chief executive and creative director of Iron Realms Entertainment, believes that offering real-money transactions to participants will open up the genre to a broader audience. "If I have a family and a job, how the heck am I supposed to get anywhere in a game designed to appeal to people with far more free time than me?" he says. "I want to feel a sense of progress, of unlocking new experiences in the game world, and I don't want that pace to be molasses-in-winter slow."By offering such transactions, Mih&aacute;ly is a minority in an industry that generally outlaws the sale of virtual goods based upon intellectual property clauses in end-user licence agreements. Regardless of legality, the mostly black-market third-party trade in games has made millionaires out of some company owners.Partially in response to this, Sony Online Entertainment has done a u-turn in its hardline position on virtual trade. The company was adamant about pursuing professional virtual traders, and even made a deal with eBay to prosecute sellers of EverQuest goods. Yet last month, it announced Sony Online Station Exchange, a service that acts as an in-game marketplace for players who wish to trade real money for virtual properties. Gamers benefit from the security of the transactions, a process that in the past was riddled with scams. Sony gains capital through commission and saves man hours usually spent answering complaints about illegal deals gone wrong.Reynolds argues that this is a step towards normalising the process of virtual trade. "Five years ago, the practice of virtual trade was clearly cheating, but in five years time it won't be. Station Exchange is helping to norm the practice of virtual trade. It is reinforcing to the outside world a practice that goes on anyway."The public may not embrace the phenomenon, however, particularly if stories such as Qui's continue to emerge. Others maintain that replacing the real world for the virtual may create a population of social isolates. But Reynolds says: "People into social software would say that virtual worlds are socially enabling." Regardless of viewpoint, virtual worlds are encroaching upon the real one."It's generational," Reynolds says. "If you look at teenagers, they are entirely comfortable having a name on email, SMS and instant messaging services - all different pseudonyms for different aspects of themselves ... All of the debates about virtual property are about the dividing line between what's me and what isn't me."With real-world house prices stagnating, property barons might be advised to start looking into online games. Beware, however, of people wielding virtual swords.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Tickets to Live 8 and Glastonbury are not the only controversial items surface on eBay this week: the National Union of Students (NUS) has launched a hunt to find out which of its student unions is selling NUS membership cards on the auction website.The cards are worth hundreds of pounds in discounts from high street shops including Topshop and HMV but are being advertised for between 99p and £8 on eBay.The NUS has condemned the people behind the illegal sales but it is believed that the cards were most likely being leaked from NUS unions on university campuses.Rather than being stolen from individuals and doctored, the cards are promised as new and packaged with a discount booklet. All a purchaser would have to do is fill their names in on the card, which expires in September this year.The NUS now believes that the trend is catching on and has spread to more than one union. Martin Ings, the NUS national treasurer, said: "We think it's disgraceful to profit from something which is for students. Students are already financially crippled and this is something we do to help them out, not anyone else."Each card is marked with the name of the university union it comes from, meaning that if NUS orders the cards as they come up, they will be able to identify a source of the leak.Mr Ings said that one union, which he did not name, had already been identified as a source of the cards earlier this year but that the cards were continuing to appear anyway, apparently from other sources, indicating that people in other unions had caught on to the idea."They could be coming from any affiliated union in the country - we send boxes of the cards to all of them. Every time we see them come up on eBay we now try and crack down on them to find out where they are coming from. But more and more are going on," said Mr Ings.The NUS has been in talks with eBay to have the cards removed but because they are coming from different sellers it is hard to remove them until they are reported, he added.Last night there were three entries on eBay for NUS cards all bearing the same picture. One was open to bidding and had received one bid of 99p; two others offer to sell a card straight away, one for £4.99 and another for £8, indicating that the seller has a stock of cards available.Carriers of the cards are eligible for a string of discounts from Dorothy Perkins, Miss Selfridge, Holland&amp;Barrett, HMV, Burger King and Pizza Hut as well as discounts on some cinema tickets.In some unions where electronic voting isn't used and alternative ID is not required, cardholders could enter any student union in the country and take part in their elections.Next year the NUS is piloting an NUS Extra card which will include discounts from supermarket chains and on travel - two core student expenses. They plan to charge £10 in return for the improved discounts in a bid to raise money for the union which is suffering from a major funding deficit.
The Mobile Entertainment Awards were dished out last night as part of theMobile Entertainment Market 05event. The glittering bash was hosted by Channel 4'sKrishnan Guru-Murthy, and the key prize was a Special Achievement Award for Taneli Armanto, the Nokia engineer who wrote the mobile phone version ofSnake. Our correspondent, Brian Baglow, was there to take in the atmosphere that only a technology trade event awards show can provide...Over to you Brian..."Well, Nokia picked up the Best Game award for their WWII action game 'Pathway To Glory'. While it's unlikely to push N-Gage sales through the roof, it shows the platform can do more than simply punt out, versions of Tomb Raider and Moto GP."The Special Achievement Award went to Taneli Armanto. While it's a name not many people will know, in years to come it's probably going to be listed alongside Nolan Bushnell as one of the founders of the industry. It may help to know that Armanto works for Nokia and was in fact the guy who came up with Snake. Forget the hip ironic Shigeru Miyamoto t-shirts now being proudly worn by achingly trendy gamers in the states, this is uber geek cool."Looking slightly flustered at the applause and the fairly sizable audience from an industry he inadvertantly helped create, Armanto thanked everyone very sincerely and left it at that. I doubt we'll see an Edge cover with the game on any time soon, but it's now official, Snake is started it all."Outside games, Vodafone won two awards. The Music award for their 3G Full Track Service and for their creation of the 'Mobisode', the mini videos for the TV show 24, which were shot specially for phones."Endemol, creators of Big Brother and Victoria (A company presumably) picked up the best Mobile Content Award for all of the mobile related Big Bro shenanigans."Orange France won the Award for encouraging mobile take up with their Video Universe service. Apparently it's very good."The show also threw up (and I do mean threw up) a delightful new phrase which will doubtless be regurgitated (sorry) at every mobile conference on the planet from this point on. 'Communitainment' is the new black. As soon as I find out what it actually means, I'll let you know."
BlackBerry users take it for granted: email sent automatically, or "pushed", to their handheld every few minutes, as well as synchronisation of address books and calendar between desktop and mobile. It is a facility that has made thousands of business users evangelists for the BlackBerry, addicted to the steady stream of email appearing on their handheld devices, while seemingly unaware they are annoying friends and family by constantly fiddling with its tiny keyboard in a futile attempt to clear their inboxes.But the world of push email shifted last week with the long-awaited announcement of Microsoft's challenge to RIM's BlackBerry, which it calls Direct Push Technology (DPT). It involves installing a free upgrade toMicrosoft Exchange Server 2003, and a handheld running the new Windows Mobile 5.0 with its Messaging and Security Feature Pack. This will provide pushed email, calendar and contact information to Mobile Outlook.The software will be available from Microsoft in the autumn. Compatible handhelds are also expected from Palm, Nokia and Symbian, because these firms have licensed Microsoft's ActiveSync protocols.DPT will allow IT staff to provide push email to their users' phones at no extra cost. Jason Langridge, Microsoft UK'smobilitymanager, says: "This will make it simpler for businesses to deploy mobile messaging without the need for third parties." But critics doubt that most companies have the skills needed to support push email.The big question is what impact this will have on BlackBerry and other pretenders to its crown. These include Visto, which is aggressively licensing its push technology to mobile operators, and Good Technology, which is RIM's main rival in business services.Opinion seems to range from seeing this as Microsoft "doing a Netscape" (referring to the period when Internet Explorer effectively killed Netscape's browser) to simply a case of Microsoft following the trend in wireless email."I don't see this as a BlackBerry killer," says Elsa Lion, an analyst at the Ovum consultancy in London. "In its first release, Microsoft is unlikely to compare in terms of functionality and, crucially, security features with BlackBerry. Customers will soon realise that all Microsoft is offering is an email platform, not a mobile middleware platform." Lion points out that the BlackBerry Enterprise Server has spawned a range of third-party applications that make the device attractive to companies, quite apart from the push email service.But Microsoft says its advantage is that its solution will save businesses paying for additional servers and middleware. Essentially, it looks like a shot across the bows of the mobile operators who license push technology from firms such as Visto and Good Technology.Not so, says Visto. "A carrier-branded model reduces the total cost of ownership for businesses, as well as opening it up to the mass market," according to Steve Maynard, Visto's senior manager marketing in Europe. "The Microsoft solution seems to be tailored for only one segment of this emerging market, namely users of Exchange 2003. So there is a big question mark over how this will be packaged to mobile operators."Good Technology thinks Microsoft will have a problem making an impact while it does not offer the support that existing players provide. "Companies want more than just a piece of software. They want support and high levels of security," says Sue Forbes, vice president of marketing at Good Technology. "This is only for Exchange 2003 and phones using Windows Mobile 5.0, so the impact will be limited for some time." (As mentioned earlier, Microsoft's PDT will work with other phones, but that depends on Palm, Nokia and Symbian delivering the handset software.)It also remains to be seen whether PDT will make any impact on the consumer market.Most of the 3m or so BlackBerry users are business users who rely on sophisticated IT support to provide the quality of service they need. But consumers are becoming aware of the idea through high-street offerings from network operators such as O2, T-Mobile and Vodafone. Consumers can buy a BlackBerry or the newer 7100 series smartphone with access to the BlackBerry Internet Service, a stripped-down version of the service provided to businesses.Much depends on how UK operators respond. Orange says it is looking at the range of technologies on offer. Vodafone offers the BlackBerry Internet Service but is also promoting its tie-in with Visto in a number of European countries.Yahoo has also announced a push service in the US. It has teamed with Sprint and Seven (another provider of push email technology) to offer Yahoo Mail users push mail to their mobiles, plus access to address books and mail management for a monthly fee. The service will be available on Palm Treos as well as phones from Samsung and Sanyo.Visto's Steve Maynard says: "One thing is for sure. With big names like Microsoft, Yahoo and Vodafone moving into the world of push email, it gives a strong validation of importance of this kind of technology, and the fact that it is coming into the mainstream."LinksExchange Server SP2www.microsoft.com/exchange/downloads/2003/sp2/overview.mspxMicrosoft Mobilitywww.microsoft.com/exchange/evaluation/features/mobility/
Want to see the future? Go to Brighton, where it is being created through a blend of anarchy and civic pride. A partnership between the free Wi-Fi movement and the local council has now delivered wireless broadband via a new WiMax service.Almost the whole of Brighton is now blanketed by a wireless internet service that delivers data faster than broadband. It carries public sector, commercial and educational traffic - another first for the city. Schools have multi-megabits of data, businesses get the equivalent of high-speed leased lines, students have fast data in their dorms, and everyone gets free Wi-Fi in pubs and cafes.The Brighton metronet, as it is called, emerged after the council noticed the buzz surrounding free Wi-Fi. "Nobody in Brighton is ever further than 10 minutes from a free wireless broadband hotspot," says Bill Parslow, head of ICT &amp; e-Government at Brighton &amp; Hove City Council. "This free Wi-Fi culture permeates the city and serves a real economic function, allowing free and easy access to the internet for mobile workers."Two years ago, Parslow decided to harness that enthusiasm, and spoke to the biggest free Wi-Fi provider,Loose Connection, about getting better connectivity for schools beyond the council's fibre network. "A lot of Brighton's phone lines are aluminium, not copper," says Loose Connection's Roger Horlock. "It used to be fashionable to use aluminium, but it has aged, and doesn't support broadband so well. Aluminium thwarted the council's plan to link schools with SDSL, and the only alternative was expensive leased lines."Parslow and Loose Connection might have ended up building a council-run Wi-Fi mesh, likeMobile Bristol(Online, August 12) orIslington's Technology Mile, in Upper Street (Online, April 21). Instead, they came up with something else. "We required a radical solution," says Parslow. "But Wi-Fi was not the answer."What Brighton got is a metronet, a metropolitan intranet - a web of fast data connections that spreads from Sussex Heights, at 140 metres Brighton's tallest building, to the town hall and the arts faculty at the University of Sussex. Parslow's commitment was the catalyst for Loose Connection to set upMetranet Communications, and rent the roof-space. "Any revenue is ploughed into the infrastructure, so the network has gone up with minimal investment."The network is based on the WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) standards. "We used WiMax as it outperforms Wi-Fi in both range and bandwidth," says Parslow. "Wi-Fi might have a range of 50 metres in reality, but the Brighton metronet's longest link is 7.5km - and this link alone provides 24 megabits per second of uncontended symmetric bandwidth."The metronet answered the council's needs: seven primary schools now have 2Mbps links to the internet, and council staff in the field will ultimately get data access. "We have laid the foundations to distribute data to field workers at a much lower cost than 3G," says Parslow. Future WiMax equipment (which meets the 802.16e standard) will be small and mobile enough for social workers, doctors and traffic wardens. Parslow also wants to investigate alarm systems for the elderly and city-wide translation services.But the metronet has also unleashed a network that answers the shortcomings of existing broadband, and can outperform services from BT.WiMax is just starting out, but it is more advanced in the US, where the potential is understood. "WiMax is a technology that does things cable and DSL can't do," says Jeff Thompson, president of TowerStream, a company that runs metronets in Boston, Los Angeles, New York and Chicago. "We're a real alternative to the phone companies. We offer quality of service, which opens up reliable Voice over Internet Protocol &#91;VoIP&#93;."The simplest way to picture WiMax is as a super-fast broadband without wires. If you are within range of the radio mast, you just need a suitable receiver to hook your computers (and VoIP phones) to the internet over the radio link. You then get whatever service the provider agrees to offer you.The basic WiMax standards are complete, but until the compatibility tests are finalised and products are certified later this year, early services have to call themselves "pre-WiMax". Most are experimental, such as the one at the Science Museum's site in Wiltshire (Online, April 7), but the Brighton metronet is, says Horlock, the first truly operational service in the UK.Commercial customers in Brighton can buy 2Mbps connections from Metranet for &pound;275 per month. The service is symmetric, so the data rate for uploads is as fast as for downloads, and customers have the option to go to 10Mbps.The metronet service beats BT broadband for flexibility, says Horlock: "If you win a big project, it is all go, and if you need more bandwidth fast, we can scale you up in minutes. If you move office, you can take the connection with you."And academia is happy. The Brighton e-Learning Alliance (BeLA), funded by development money throughWired Sussex, is looking at how it might use a metronet. Staff at the university are already making use of high bandwidth in at least one experimental scheme.The InStep project at Sussex University's School of Education, which is developing a particular model of science teacher education, will use high-bandwidth video to examine real classroom experiences. Trainees and experienced teachers will be observed remotely in normal school classrooms, through four cameras, and get live feedback through an earphone.The net can be shared because council traffic, business traffic and academic data are kept on separate virtual networks on the metronet. There is no danger of one user breaching the security of the other, or using public bandwidth for private profit, says Horlock. Through its university connection, the metronet is even trusted to handle an uplink to Janet (Joint Academic Network), the academic community's fast backbone, take it off campus, and distribute it to students throughout Brighton.The shared network means the council does not have to become an internet service provider (ISP), and avoids the danger of being sued by other ISPs for undercutting their business, as has happened in several US states. Commercial bandwidth on the metronet is supplied by a Brighton-based ISP,Fastnet.Nevertheless, BT, Vodafone and the rest might be irked to find out how many users are making free phone calls via the metronet. Horlock says: "We have seen a massive increase in Skype usage over the past year in our hotspots. I think that trend is going to continue, especially given the international nature of Brighton, and its student demographic."As well as the Skype VoIP client, commercial grade telephony was tested during the Brighton Festival, and is on offer to businesses through Sabre Telecommunications. It is a service the council could also use to eliminate its internal phone bills."It is a unique opportunity for councils," says Horlock. "They own the high ground - in terms of tall buildings like town halls and tower blocks - so they can get a metronet rolled out quickly."Also, local government is usually the largest distributed business in a city, and needs to share internet connections. They also have local data traffic, such as internal phone calls, that don't need to use the public internet (hence the term "intranet"). Horlock reckons that can be enough, on its own, to justify building a metronet.He believes others will follow Brighton's lead. "We aspire to be an elite wireless unit, building metronets for councils," he says. "We want to build wireless infrastructure and eliminate your phone bills. We want to get the internet out to areas and offices that couldn't be serviced by incumbents."LinksMetranet Communicationswww.metranet.co.ukLoose Connectionwww.looseconnection.comMobile Bristolwww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,1280760,00.htmlIslington's Technology Milewww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,,1464057,00.htmlScience Museum/Intel WiMaxwww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,,1453276,00.htmlWired Sussexwww.wiredsussex.comFastnetwww.fastnet.co.uk
Late last year, David "Deathifier" Storey made headlines when he purchased a bit of digital land in the online gameProject Entropiafor $26,500. Gosh that's a lot of cash for something that some would argue doesn't actually exist.I interviewed Deathifier for today'sOnlinearticle on the current state of virtual trade in Massively Multiplayer Games and the complete transcript is below. In it he discusses the process which led him to drop such a bundle on a bit of virtual rock and how it's changed his perspective on ownership in the real world.What led you to decide to invest in a virtual world? Did you have to make any conceptual leaps to validate such a purchase?In one sense it was a natural extension of my participation in Project Entropia as I'd been in the virtual world for over a year and a half when [the sale of the virtual property] was announced and in that time experienced much of the lifestyle of PE and its economy - how it grows, how it changes, how people react. When Treasure Island was announced I like most others thought, "Wow this is cool, and look at what you can do, what it offers" and, given that in the virtual world I knew I was not rich enough to bid for it, left things at that.The real turning point or moment of inspiration came around 2 months before the auction itself after further information was known about the land and taxation. At this moment I realised with some external backing I could actually own this island.Once I'd completed some preliminary analysis it was not hard to validate the purchase from a financial point of view and, since I'd already been around for so long and was not expecting to be leaving anytime soon, I had no trouble making such a large purchase.How did your loved ones react?Extremely supportive overall; my parents are intelligent and forward-thinking and could understand both the concept of Project Entropia, the potential (and risk) in the purchase and are quite interested how everything is turning out.How did you get the money and how does this fit in with the rest of your life?I approached some investors I knew with the idea and my initial analysis. After some discussion and further investigation we reached an agreement.As for it fitting in with life, well Project Entropia and management of the island has settled in something akin to a part-time job alongside my PhD studies. So it fits in quite well, though it has a tendency like most forms of entertainment to draw away just a little too much extra time.Who did you give the money to?The money was deposited into Project Entropia through the official transfer process, giving me PED (PE's currency) with which I bid on the Island when the time came. Once I had won the auction system automatically transferred the Island deed to me, and the money to MindArk's appointed representative in the virtual world.Explain why such a purchase was an investment and what you have done with it.Well the island has two forms of income, one is estate sales, which is where the big money is in terms of one-off income and I currently have 20 of these (out of 60) that I intend to sell (10 are sold already, and the others will be on sale shortly). When you look at the price for such an estate (between USD$450 and USD$550) and multiply it by 60 you can see that it easily meets the initial purchase price of the island.Even if they don't all sell at such a price, taxation will make up the difference and is also the source of ongoing income beyond the estates. Taxation is based on people carrying out activities on the island (hunting monsters or mining for resources) and in early May a Land Management System was added, giving me a fairly large degree of control over various sections of the island and what lives there. It's been off to a slow start however once everything is up and running the expected income is quite nice indeed.How well has your investment returned?Financially approximately USD$9,000 to date and we've really only just begun with the estate sales and land management, so there is still much untapped potential just in those two areas.Aside from the financials there are intangibles such as the fame and recognition that came with the purchase in the virtual world, and the experience dealing with the various aspects of operations of the island, some of which mirror issues faced by real companies (advertising, resource acquisition, even law enforcement).Overall the investors and myself are quite happy with progress so far, and we are still on track for full recovery and onto profit by mid next-year.Do you feel your dramatic purchase was a challenge to perceptions of real-world economies and trade or do you think it was simply part of the game?Well at first I thought it was just business as usual within the virtual world. I figured I'd buy it then follow through with my plans - sell the houses as they were made available, manage the land so it draws in other participants and in a year or two when the purchase price was recovered move onto the next 'big thing' to occur.That outlook was turned on its head after the purchase as the news spread around the real world and I read peoples comments and comparisons to other investments it dawned on me that whereas the purchase of the island for PED was business as usual within Project Entropia it was quite an unusual investment to the rest of the world.I do believe the purchase has challenged people's perceptions and blurred the border between the real and virtual worlds somewhat, and I also believe that this will be reinforced once we have demonstrated that it actually works - that you can in fact invest into and make money from Project Entropia, with its virtual world and real cash economy.Is the in-game property comparable with any offline property you own? How is it different?Since I don't own any beautiful islands or grand mansions, or indeed any other property yet there are no direct comparisons to be made.There has, however been the expected comparison of investing in real estate by many and to compare the real vs. virtual there you have firstly the initial price - a real house in Australia is anything from AUD$300,000 to AUD$500,000 for middle class areas. You need to either live in, or rent out the house, you can't sell off parts of it and you don't get any ongoing income from it - just ongoing costs. Buying your own island requires millions and comes with an enormous range of issues just to get started...So there are similarities on the surface, but dramatic differences in price, operations and return on investment.What have you learned in offline life through this online investment?Oh, many things. First and foremost has been how to effectively communicate with people, and how to do so when several of them are talking to you at once (imagine trying to conduct 4 or 5 phone calls at once) - there is definitely an art to it and it makes for some rather entertaining situations. There have also been learning experiences with the islands management. I have records of financials, land status, estates and issues under investigation to keep, planning the Islands operations for the future to ensure it remains an enjoyable place to go about your activities, actually carrying out those plans which include procurement of raw materials and conducting sometimes extensive business with others.For someone whose life previously dealt only with computer science and the predictable behaviour of a machine it has been quite an eye opener to be involved in public relations and become a landlord, tour guide, travel agent and salesmen all on top of my standard professions in Project Entropia of small-time hunter and manufacturer!Overall the experience has been extremely beneficial, and much of it will translate into the real world to my research and the future.For the terminally interested, I've posted the results of other interviews from the research for the Online article. You can read virtual world philospher Ren Reynold's take onthe meaning of propertyand Second Life Founder and CEO Philip Rosedale's view onthe virtual property boom
Home-buyers forming a property chain will have to post details of their transaction's process on the web as part of the government's effort to reduce the pain of property-buying with e-technology. The "chain matrix" will be launched next year as part of a Land Registry electronic conveyancing system.The registry, which provides the only watertight guarantee that anyone owns a property in England and Wales, this week announced a contract with IBM to design and build an e-conveyancing system. Apart from the chain matrix, e-conveyancing will include processes to speed up property buying and reduce the number of transactions falling through at the last moment because money, or vital information, is not available.E-conveyancing will require solicitors and possibly individual housebuyers to sign electronic transactions amounting to billions of pounds a year. It will involve computer interfaces with other government agencies and financial institutions. The Land Registry will even have to set up a special bank to hold money while transactions go through.Liz Hirst, the Land Registry's director of e-conveyancing, says the idea is not just to computerise existing processes. "Rather than just take what we do now and put it online, the intent was to re-engineer the way conveyancing is done in this country."One aim is to make the process more transparent, reducing uncertainties caused by that peculiar creature of English property law, the chain of interdependent simultaneous transactions. Today, if one link in the chain fails, complete strangers up and down the chain have to pay off their removal vans - and tell the kids that they are not, after all, getting new bedrooms.Under e-conveyancing, every chain will have its own progress chart, posted on a website. Squares coloured red or green will show when each party has passed each critical step of the property-buying process. When the whole grid turns green - and every party has given the final go-ahead - the transactions go through.At the least, says Hirst, the matrix will reduce the amount of frantic phoning of solicitors as completion date approaches. "There will also be a lot fewer last-minute fall-outs."Hirst says that many details have yet to be decided for how the system will work in practice. The Land Registry has the legal power to make it compulsory for property buyers to notify the matrix. "We are discussing with solicitors and other stakeholders what that might mean." Individuals will be allowed "as much anonymity as they want".The plan is for a version of the matrix, not connected to back-office systems, to be tested in 2006, says Hirst. At first, only professional conveyancers will be allowed to update it. However, it will eventually be open to the small number of individuals who do their own conveyancing.The target date for conveyancing to go fully electronic in England and Wales is 2007. (Scotland has a separate project.) This may be a tough deadline, given the complications.For a start, the Land Registry will have to procure the services of an "agent bank" to hold money while property transactions go through. With the average price of a property &pound;180,000, this will become a substantial financial institution in its own right. The procurement process is due to come into being next month; it will attract much interest in the city.E-conveyancing will also require the widespread use of electronic signatures. This will involve a public-key encryption infrastructure (PKI). The Land Registry has not picked a technology, but is testing e-signatures from Entrust.As envisaged, the system will require solicitors to sign documents electronically on behalf of their clients, which is not normal practice today. Secondary legislation will be needed for finer points, Hirst says.Finally, as a property transaction cannot take place until stamp duty has been paid, e-conveyancing will have to be connected to systems at HM Revenue and Customs. As that organisation is in the midst of a massive IT update, the opportunities for delay are legion. Interfaces will also have to be created with the proposed national database of addresses.Land Registry executives are quietly confident they can steer clear of creating a new public sector IT fiasco. They point to the successful launch earlier this year of the online land register. The contract with IBM, worth up to &pound;21m over five years, also has inbuilt safeguards, Hirst says. The register and contractor will jointly assess risks before taking each new step in the project.Hirst says that the risks are worth taking. Not only does e-conveyancing have the potential to reduce the anxieties of house buying, it might also make it cheaper. "At the moment, huge sums of money disappear through cracks in the process."Everybody who has had to pay removal firms, surveyors and solicitors for a property transaction that never took place will agree with that.
Holy bat facts: courtesy Warner Bros, Photograph: David JamesEver wondered what all the bat-tastic technology behind the caped crusader's trademark suit actually does? Well, you'll probably be wondering even more when you schlep to the cinema - as all dutiful fans must - to seeBatman Begins. Apparently this dark tale of Bruce Wayne's earlier days features the technowidgetry of the batsuit more than ever.And, thankfully, there's a great article on HowStuffWorks explainingeverything you ever need to know about the batsuit. (via)
Virtual world, real cash: Project EntropiaThe lead article in this week's Online print supplement (yes, we still produce paper each week) sees Aleks Krotoski - one of ourGamesbloggers- uncovering thegrisly truthsbehind the virtual gaming economy.Elsewhere we take a long look at the iPod with a piece by Adam Vaughan (managing editor of Stuff magazine and editor ofHippy Shopper) on whether the competition has finallycaught up with the little white wonder, while GQ editor Dylan Jones continueslavishing it with praise.There's lots more, including news on plans to use technology to break the pain of chains for thoseselling houses, and a look atBrighton's WiMax network.For complete listings, visit ourhomepageor look at theweekly index.
The ticket tout is, in the eyes of some, among the lowest forms of life, alongside the spiv, the black marketeer and the profiteer. What they do is no different to brokers or estate agents: bring together buyers and sellers as market makers. Now, the advent of eBay, the internet auctioneer, has threatened the way of life of the world's Arthur Daleys. It makes buying and selling small items, such as tickets to sports events or concerts, convenient, easy and relatively safe. It is also more efficient, in an economics sense, than the old fashioned Mac-wearing spiv mumbling "two together". By advertising its offerings widely and accessibly, eBay allows sellers to gain a better price while taking just a modest cut.Yet a spiv by any other name smells just as bad. The news that winners of Live8 concert tickets were selling them on eBay brought an angry response from Bob Geldof and a legion of supporters. Ebay responded by barring the sales, after initially standing firm. It had pointed out that reselling concert tickets was not illegal in the UK, and that "people can make up their own minds about what they would like to buy and sell". In the case of Live8, however, the nature of the cause and the manner of distribution through a lottery does make profiteering through their resale immoral if not illegal, and eBay was right to withdraw them from bidding.Elsewhere, the issues are more complex. Should those who legitimately hold tickets be unable to resell them? In the case of football there are security reasons why resale is barred, to avoid rival fans being mixed within a stadium. But otherwise sports authorities are in a bind. They wish to maximise revenues, yet also reward serious fans and keep prices within the reach of families and other groups. That means they sell tickets below market prices. Most organisers then develop elaborate systems of ballots and hurdles to reward well organised fans. Or, as at Wimbledon, they restrict some tickets to sale on the day - hence the familiar sight of fans queuing overnight. In most cases they also ban resale of tickets, in an effort to stop touts. Those restrictions are largely ineffective. Faced with the choice of seeing a popular rugby match or cricket test, or receiving perhaps several hundreds of pounds for their tickets, many people take the money, thus frustrating the aims of the organiser. One suggestion is to sell tickets using an easyJet style system of escalating prices. But so long as demand for tickets outstrips their supply, then the tout - whether in real life or in cyberspace - will always be with us.
New Medal of Honor game in positive review shocker? Yes the series that has plummeted since its original glory is apparently back on track. "Essential fodder for those who enjoy second world war first-person shooters" says Steve Boxer intoday's reviews. I still remember the travesty that was Rising Sun so I'm reserving judgement until I get a copy. Instead I've been trying out the Wookiee expansion pack for MMORPG Star Wars Galaxies. It was a bit of a shock going back to Galaxies after the polish of WoW. From the interface to loading times, WoW is streets ahead. But if you've stuck with SWG through thick (Lightspeed) and thin (new combat system) then Wookiees is essential. Last up is Imperial Glory, the strategy game set in the Napoleonic era. Yes, this isn't for fans of Need for Speed Underground. But if you are looking for a more cerebral challenge then this is worth a look. Also, don't miss Aleks' piece on theperils of virtual trading.
Bob Geldof specialises in annoying people. But surely he didn't set out to offend blind music fans by handling applications for Live8 concert tickets by text message only. As the RNIB gently pointed out this week, texting is the one e-channel that automatically excludes almost all blind and partially sighted people.Geldof can take comfort from the fact that the government is making an even bigger Horlicks of the digital exclusion question. Despite good intentions, policy on connecting the digital have-nots risks falling into the cracks between state bodies.Part of the problem is that, in official eyes, this is a mission accomplished. At the end of last year, the old Office of the e-Envoy reported that it had met its target of providing affordable internet access to everyone who wanted it.Two snags. One is in the phrase "who wanted it". By limiting its ambition to the willing population, the target automatically left out the most difficult groups, those with no intention of using the internet.Snag number two is the definition of affordable internet access, which is living within easy reach of an internet-equipped library or community centre. Easy reach does not necessarily apply to people with disabilities. Even when public facilities are accessible, they are not necessarily the right place for people to become comfortable with new technology. For many excluded people, especially those with severe disabilities, that access has to be available in the home.The government's digital strategy, Connecting the UK, published just before the election, recognised some of these snags. However, nobody seems to be in charge of turning its ambition for digital inclusion into reality. The Office of the e-Envoy's responsibilities in this area died with the transition to the new e-Government Unit, which has quite enough in its in-tray already.Since the election, campaign groups such as the RNIB and the digital charity Citizens Online complain of being bounced between government departments, from the Department for Trade and Industry, the original "e-ministry", to the Department for Work and Pensions.There are signs of action in government. This week, the Department for Education and Skills released &pound;8.4m to tackle another digital exclusion issue, the appallingly low proportion of women working in IT. The money will pay for computer clubs for girls aged between 10 and 14, the danger age for them to lose interest in IT.Across the whole exclusion question, there is no shortage of good ideas. (It helps that computer companies have been relatively forthcoming with sponsorship.) Citizens Online has demonstrated that interest in going online can be cultivated among the most unlikely groups of citizens. This, in turn, promotes a wider social inclusion.However, too many of these good ideas are being tried out on a small scale, in unsustainable pilots that may even be counter-productive if they raise unrealistic expectations. Someone should be in charge of driving a coordinated policy towards a genuine 100% digital inclusivity. Perhaps Bob Geldof would fancy the job?
TelephonyPick-up lineBT yesterday launched its long-awaited Bluephone handset, which will let users make calls over both mobile and landline networks. The converged device uses Bluetooth technology to connect to its parent BT Broadband line when it is within 10 metres of an access point, but will switch to using Vodafone's mobile network when it goes out of range. With an estimated 40% of all mobile calls being made from inside offices, BT is aiming to push any potential cost savings towards business users. Switching the phone to a landline network when it is available will mean that a large proportion of calls will be charged at landline-type rates. Those people calling a Bluephone, however, are set to be charged as if they were phoning a mobile - wherever it is. The handset, which is being manufactured by Motorola, was due to be launched more than a year ago, and BT will now be hoping it can lure customers and soothe its landline business.www.bt.comHard drivesTaking up spaceSeagate has announced a quintet of hard drives destined for use in various consumer electronics products. Its ST1 is a one inch hard drive with a capacity of eight gigabytes that's likely to feature in smaller (iPod mini-sized) digital music players and other handheld devices. The DB35 will be fitted into digital video recorders and has a 500GB capacity disk, while the LD25 is a 2.5in drive aimed at games console manufacturers. Seagate also launched the EE25 series, a tough hard disk for use in cars, and a CompactFlash drive for cameras and camcorders that has a capacity of 8GB - double its predecessor.www.seagate.comMobile phonesFour to the floorOn Monday, Nokia launched a quartet of new phones, due to debut in late summer to early autumn, including its most sophisticated 3G handset to date. The 6280 is a sliding phone equipped with video calling facilities, a two megapixel still camera, Bluetooth and MP3/AAC music playback. It runs using the Series 40 interface. Nokia also unveiled two other sliding phones in the 6270 range: a GPRS handset with a two megapixel camera, music playback and stereo speakers, and the 6111, a low-end handset with a one megapixel camera. The final model was the basic Nokia 6060.www.nokia.co.ukTailor madeMonday was also a busy day for Sony Ericsson, which delivered four phones aimed at different types of mobile buyer. The S600, due at the end of the year, is a youth-oriented multimedia phone with a design not unlike the company's S700 handset. It features a 1.3 megapixel camera, an MP3 player and offers a widescreen option for gamers. The K608 is a 3G phone with an upright design that the company claims is roughly the same size and weight as GPRS phones. It has a 1.3 megapixel camera, a large 1.8in 262k colour screen and push email facilities. Sony Ericsson also debuted the Z520, a compact clamshell aimed at young women, and the entry-level J210.www.sonyericsson.comPlasma screensPoint of viewLG is to release a pair of plasma screens that boast integrated hard disk video recorders. The PY2DR sets are due to arrive next year, and will be available in 50in and 60in screen sizes. They are fitted with a 160GB hard drive. The sets also feature an HDMI (High Definition Multimedia Interface) connector and will be compatible with forthcoming HDTV transmissions from Sky, Telewest and others. The sets will also include a 9-in-2 multi-memory card reader to enable users to view images and listen to music archived on storage cards. There is no indication yet as to how much the TVs will cost.www.lge.co.ukStat of the week - Email does the job bestUsing your email may well be a constant battle against spam, but it is far and away the most important form of internal communication inside businesses around the world. Traditional methods such as telephone and face-to-face contact are far behind.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Technology companies love making arrogant declarations. Like a captain psyching up his team, they talk themselves up in the hope that it will be enough to get them where they want to be. The company in question this time, however, is more hard-working underdog - Samsung. At a recent press event in Seoul, the Korean giant's MP3 chief, HeonHwa Chung, declared that Samsung would dethrone Apple's iPod to become No 1 in the global MP3 market by 2007.To put this boast in context, consider the iPod's success so far. Earlier this year, worldwide iPod sales topped 16m, giving Apple 76% of the MP3 market for all player types. Apple's iTunes Music Store accounts for 82% of all legal downloads. By comparison, Samsung can claim just 7.7% of hard drive MP3 player sales.Samsung, however, isn't the only threat to the iPod's dominance. The competition has become savvier, catching up on hardware, marketing and the importance of cool. Meanwhile, Sony's PlayStation Portable is jostling to unseat the iPod as the 21st-century gadget icon, and the convergence of MP3 players and mobile phones is approaching a working reality.Creative and Sony are the main rivals to Apple's hardware, ranking second and third respectively behind the company in UK sales. Creative's hero has been the Zen Micro, a mini hard drive player that matches the iPod mini for features, intuitive interface and design. It has largely been responsible for Creative shipping 4m units over the past two quarters.Sony's tactic has been to outflank the iPod on specifications and cash in on the cachet of the Walkman brand. The company's latest hard drive player, the NW-HD5, has been heavily touted on the strength of its 40-hour battery (the 20GB iPod manages 12 hours). It has paid off: Sony's well-specified Network Walkmans recently took 28.6 % of the Flash market, knocking the iPod Shuffle off the top spot.The iPod's rivals have also risen to the challenge of Apple's marketing machine. Creative has spent &pound;1m this year already, pushing the Zen Micro's design and functionality. IRiver took a more tongue-in-cheek route: its adverts for the H10, an iPod mini challenger, featured models taking a bite out of an apple next to the slogan "sweeter than". Michael Deindhart, from iRiver, says it "was very successful for us, designed to be fun, cheeky and show that - in an overtly branded market - there's a real choice for customers".Companies are also realising the importance of celebrity. The rumour that U2's iPod-endorsing Bono asked Sony for a Walkman had more than a whiff of an opportunistic Sony PR's part in it. Hand in hand with the celebs is the risk to the iPod's iconic status. The PSP is fast on its way to becoming the world's new gadget icon. When it went on sale in the US in March, Sony sold 500,000 handhelds in two days. At Stuff magazine, reader emails used to be overwhelmingly iPod-related; now they are dominated by the PSP.The other inevitable threat is the convergence of MP3 players and mobile phones, which has already started happening with cameras and mobiles. Last month, Jessops posted an 18% profit drop that - although more likely to be indicative of increasing digicam saturation - could be the first sign that cameraphones are starting to hurt standalone digicam sales. By the end of this year, there will be a small army of hard drive and Flash-based MP3 phones vying to win the crown of iPod Killer: Nokia's N91, Sony Ericsson's W800, Samsung's SGH-i300 and unannounced models from Siemens and Motorola. As Nokia's Richard Naish says: "You'll be able to download music on the move and dispense with a load of batteries, mains chargers and carrying cases."The iPod's most dangerous enemy, however, could be Apple itself. Its refusal to open the iPod to legal download stores beyond the iTunes Music Store is regularly criticised and may - longer term - give Windows Media-based players the advantage of cheaper songs due to price-cutting competition between music download stores.Another scenario - put forward by journalist Robert X Cringley - is that the market's Shuffle-led price erosion is cutting profit margins and will, eventually, make producing iPods unattractive to Apple. More pressingly, the wave of cool that the iPod has surfed so far could evaporate now that it is firmly in the mainstream. When high court judge Mr Justice Mann announced he owned one, the sound of early adopters and trendsetters moving on was audible.Still, for all the threats facing Apple's white icon, the iPod's No 1 position looks unassailable for the near future. Long ago, the iPod became the generic "Hoover" of the MP3 world, and now it has become an issue of critical mass. It has Steve Jobs's beloved iPod ecosystem and a range of iPod-friendly gear, from BMW car kits and Bose speakers to hundreds of cases and accessories. And its sheen of impeccable cool hasn't completely disappeared - yet.&#183;Adam Vaughan is managing editor of Stuff magazine&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
By return mailI suspect my PC is being used to send spam email. I have started to receive about 100 undeliverable messages to people a day with addresses not in my address book. No mails show as being sent from Outlook Express. I have run a full virus scan, Spybot and AdAware and found nothing. I have Windows XP (fully updated) with the firewall enabled. I am not on broadband. Any thoughts?David ElliottJack Schofield replies:Lots of home PCs are now being used to send spam, after being compromised by viruses and trojans. These use their own mail software so nothing would show up in your email programs. However, I'd expect their activities to show up in the data transferred by your modem - visible from the "traffic lights" in the System Tray icon or, if you double-click the icon, in the Activity panel at the bottom of the Status sheet - and they would probably cause your PC to slow down. I'd also expect your up-to-date McAfee and an online scan at Housecall (http://housecall.trendmicro.com) to find anything particularly nasty.One possible explanation is that your email address is being forged - internet email is wholly insecure - and the spams are being sent from other PCs. The programs that bounce messages don't actually check to find out where they came from, but use the From: address, which is easily forged. Even more likely, the messages are simply spam that is pretending to be a bounced email, with the idea that you're more likely to look at a returned message than one with the usual pathetically obvious subject line. You could install a better free firewall such as Sygate Personal, Kerio or Zone Alarm, but otherwise there's not much you can do.Saving soundsHaving nearly completed a project scanning and transferring several generations of family photographs on to CD, I have decided to copy a considerable collection of LPs. I have a decent player, but it only delivers left and right speaker outputs. My fairly new laptop has only one input connection, this being for a mono microphone.Dan DonovanJS:Notebook PCs usually do not offer good sound quality, so I'd suggest you invest in an external USB 2 sound card to do the analogue to digital conversion and also provide phono sockets to connect to your hi-fi. This will enable you to record from your LPs and also play the sound files back via your sound system. I have not tried any of these products but googling for USB "external sound card" (with the quotes) will find lots. Read Transferring LPs to CDR: Some Advice (www.delback.co.uk/lp-cdr.htm) first.Region restrictionI can no longer play imported DVDs on my Apple PowerBook running OS X because of region coding, which can only be changed five times. Is it legal for Apple to place such restrictions on my DVD playback, thus restricting my right to enjoy watching films I have legally bought? Shouldn't Apple make this fact clear to consumers before they buy a Mac? I have a DVD player that has no such restrictions, neither does the DVD Rom drive of my home-built PC.John SinhaJS:You could try complaining to your local trading standards office that the PowerBook's restrictions make it unfit for purpose, and try to get your money back. I would certainly agree that Apple ought to make its restrictions clear, especially as it is more restrictive than necessary. (See Cory Doctorow's post at Boing Boing,http://www.boingboing.net/2005/02/01/apple_restricting_dv.html) However, region coding is common in the industry, and consumers should assume that DVD playback will be made unnecessarily difficult unless they buy a "region free" device, the problem with Apple being that you don't really have a choice. You could try using the VLC (initially VideoLAN Client) cross-platform media player (www.videolan.org/vlc/) which seems to ignore region coding, but it will not work on newer Macs. Alternatively, you could use HandBrake (http://handbrake.m0k.org) to make region-free copies of your DVDs.You may also be able to find a firmware hack, but this can be risky and will invalidate your warranty.Backchat&#183;Last week, Phil Williamson asked about emailing large PowerPoint files. Roger Kemp says: "The easy way of avoiding attachment limits is to divide the presentation into two or more files, save each under a new file name (Save As seems to delete PowerPoint history) and send them as attachments to separate emails. At the other end, simply use Ctrl-A, Ctrl-C and Ctrl-V to paste them all into the same file again."&#183;More mail on back-ups. Alan McMahon says: "Having had a go at Syncback, I have to agree with Mike Kenward that it is a more complete product &#91;than Handy Backup&#93;. Completeness comes at a price, though, and there's a bit of a learning curve to make full use of it. But best of all is that the basic version is completely free, and the commercial version, SE, with a fast backup mode, will hardly break the bank at &pound;12."&#183;Please send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details.
Essential fodderMedal Of Honour: European AssaultPlayStation2, Xbox, GameCube,&pound;39.99 Electronic Arts, ****The latest iteration of EA's Medal Of Honour second world war franchise signals a return to form, after the original team decamped to make Call of Duty for Activision. This time around the American-centric nature of Medal Of Honour has been diluted: although you play an American commander, you have been seconded to British and Russian units.The action starts at the French port of St Nazaire, with a sabotage mission leading up to the sinking of the Tirpitz, in which you get to destroy V2 rockets and take out a high-ranking Nazi. Indeed, one of the most attractive aspects is the way in which each mission has six objectives, some of which you uncover as the mission unfolds. Superb artificial intelligence, in which your squad acts in an uncannily life-like manner, brings a welcome degree of immersion.The action feels authentic, too: you must make maximum use of cover, advance with caution, frequently shift between your weapon and grenades, and often pick up weapons so as not to run out of ammunition.At times, European Assault becomes very challenging, particularly when you get to Russia. Great graphics and sound, interesting settings (such as the north African desert) and decent multiplayer modes and maps add gloss to a very polished and deeply absorbing game.It is essential fodder for those who enjoy second world war first-person shooters.Steve BoxerPlanet expansionStar Wars Galaxies: Rage of the WookiesPC (requires Jump to Lightspeed), &pound;19.99SOE/Activision, ***Star Wars Galaxies was the game that couldn't fail - a massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG), the hardcore gamer genre of choice, set in George Lucas's famous universe. When released two years ago, it was state of the art in graphics, depth and complexity of play. But with World of Warcraft raising the bar, it was time for something new. Hence Rage of the Wookies.This expansion for the original game offers a wedge of new content, primarily a new planet, Kashyyyk, home to the Wookies. Much of the action involves interacting with these walking carpets, as well as other warring inhabitants. The main thrust is combat, item retrieval and exploration - all familiar elements.The main difference here is the inclusion of more quests, which add welcome narrative to the rather samey combat. There is less scope for random exploration, too, although the more focused content is worth it.Wookies isn't for new players, though. You will need a suitably equipped ship, which requires the Lightspeed expansion pack, and be able to hold your own in space combat. Fans of the latest movie will appreciate the Episode III slant, and for hardened players it is a must. However, newcomers to online gaming would be better going for a more welcoming experience such as World of Warcraft or Guild Wars.Greg HowsonNapoleonic flawsImperial GloryPC, &pound;34.99Eidos/Pyro Studios ***It seemed as though the Napoleonic era had been virtually overlooked by strategy games developers, then before you know it, we have two almost back to back - Cossacks II: Napoleonic Wars last month and now Imperial Glory from Pyro Studios, the guys behind Praetorians and the Commandos games.There are similarities between Imperial Glory and the Total War series. You control one of five powers during the Napoleonic period - Britain, France, Prussia, Russia or Austria - through various conquer-the-world, point accumulation and historical missions. Time is spent on the turn-based campaign map, where you can build up military forces, research improvements and stretch your diplomatic fingers across the globe. It may be quite slow, but this is one of the most interesting aspects.Should you choose to control a battle, on land or sea, you are taken into nice-looking environments and given a rundown of the key areas. Unfortunately, the battles are underwhelming, particularly because they feel more like skirmishes than the epic battles in games such as Total War, and also because you can't pause to issue commands.There's definitely some good stuff, but it's marred by annoying flaws.Rhianna PratchettSix of the best - BatmanBat Beginningswww.batmanbegins.comBat memorieswww.darkknight.caBat gamewww.eagames.com/official/batman/batmanbegins/us/home.jspBat lessonswww.batmanytb.comBat fanswww.thebatsquad.netBat TVwww.geocities.com/Hollywood/Hills/7537/Top 5 games - PlayStation 21.Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith2.Lego Star Wars3.Area 514.Fifa Street5.Pro Evolution Soccer 4&#183;Source: Leisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
My favourite geek song is Let It Be, by the Beatles, but with different words:When I find my code in tons of trouble, Friends and colleagues come to me, Speaking words of wisdom: "Write in C."As the deadline fast approaches, And bugs are all that I can see, Somewhere, someone whispers: "Write in C."Write in C, Write in C, Write in C, oh, Write in C. LOGO's dead and buried, Write in C.This pagehas the rest of the song, plus versions of Eleanor Rigby and Nowhere Man.Not sure how many of these things there are, but there are 201here. The list includes such gems asBerkelian RhapsodyandThe Programmer's Viewpoint. Some of them are very, very old.Oh, the Monday Competition, Songs about geeks, ishere.
London's biggest stock market flotation for years has been overshadowed by advice from Washington that the four dotcom millionaires behind the venture risk arrest and prosecution in the United States.PartyGaming, operator of a hugely profitable poker website, is expected to be valued at &#163;4.76bn when it floats on the stock market in 11 days' time.The offering will transform one of its owners, Ruth Parasol, the daughter of a former San Francisco massage parlour tycoon, into one of the most successful female entrepreneurs in history.While the company's activities are legal in the UK, the US justice department is warning that operators of online gambling enterprises could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for years in America.Internet gambling companies occupy a legal grey area in the US, with many in the industry insisting that case law shows them to be legitimate, while the justice department insists they are outlawed.According to the department, online gambling operators such as Ms Parasol, 38, her husband, James Russell DeLeon, 39, and their partners, Indian computing experts Anurag Dikshit and Vikrant Bhargava could face prosecution under three federal statutes: the Interstate Wire Act, the Illegal Gambling Business Act and the Travel Act. These carry penalties of between two and five years' imprisonment for each offence.The company prospectus, published yesterday, concedes that its activities "are considered to be illegal by the relevant authorities" in the US, but says case law has established that online poker sites are excluded from the legislation controlling gambling. It also says its four founders have travelled in and out of the US with impunity.Ms Parasol and Mr DeLeon have declined to give interviews, refused to be photographed and are rarely sighted in Gibraltar, where their company is registered and they are said to be living. Mr Dikshit, 33, is also maintaining a low profile, leaving Mr Bhargava, 32, as the public face of PartyGaming.The company denies that is due to concerns over the legal position in the US, and insists that the company's founders want only to lead normal lives after the flotation.The justice department's warning is likely to increase anxiety among US investment institutions, some of which are reported to be reconsidering whether to back PartyGaming.When the company announced a flotation price of between &#163;4.4bn and &#163;5.1bn yesterday, instead of the widely predicted &#163;5.5bn, it rejected claims that the cut was in response to those jitters, insisting that the price tag was a "realistic assessment" of the company's worth.A senior justice department official told the Guardian: "Any business offering online gambling services that are in the United States or can be accessed in the US are illegal."The focus today is on how  we can do more about it &#91;online gambling&#93; and how we can charge people. If they are American citizens, it would be a little easier for us. They can face prosecution if they enter the United States."A successful flotation in London, with the vast injection of capital that would bring, would make little difference in Washington, the official added."If they're taking bets in the UK, and it's legal there, that's fine; but if they're taking bets in the United States, that's il legal, and they will be prosecuted."PartyGaming disputes the justice department's interpretation of the law in the US, and said yesterday that no company offering similar online gambling services had ever been prosecuted there. A spokesman added: "The US does not have legislation specifically regulating online gaming and therefore there is uncertainty as to its legality."
It is the biggest flotation on the London stock market for years, an event that is expected to unleash a wave of interest in poker, and which is raising the spectre of a second dotcom bubble. When PartyGaming, the company behind the world's biggest poker website, is listed on June 27, it will be valued at &#163;4.76bn.With the countdown under way, adverts for the PartyPoker website have been blazoned across the pages of the national press and on the sides of taxis, asking: "Got a bad poker face?"Amid this brouhaha, however, the people behind PartyGaming are not showing a straight poker face. In fact, some of them are not showing any face at all.Ruth Parasol, mother, lawyer, former internet porn princess and the company's founder, is zealously protecting her privacy. She steadfastly refuses to give interviews. The picture of her taken more than 20 years ago for her high school yearbook and seen here for the first time, is thought to be the only one ever published.Even her PR advisers concede that she is a "slightly mysterious" woman. That, they say, is how she likes it. "They are not seeking publicity and prefer to continue to lead private lives," a spokesman says.It is inevitable, however, that the float has generated interest in Ms Parasol's unusual family history and her colourful career in the cybersex industry. There is also a growing awareness that, while her activities are legal in the UK, as far as the US justice department is concerned what she is doing is completely illegal.Ms Parasol, 38, appears to have begun lowering her profile some time before the float was announced this month, since when she has not been seen at her home in Marin county, north of San Francisco.She had resigned her membership of the state's Bar Association a few days earlier, as had her husband, a lawyer and software entrepreneur called James Russell DeLeon.PartyGaming is registered in Gibraltar, with headquarters in a 14-storey office block overlooking the harbour that is also home to the territory's trade and industry ministry and its financial services commission. Some of PartyGaming's computer servers are also there - beyond the reach of law enforcement officials in the US.Tax advantagesIn preparing for the float, the couple are thought to have joined Gibraltar's burgeoning band of so-called Hinwis, the "high net-worth individuals" who have acquired residence status. Although becoming a Hinwi brings enormous tax advantages, there is no need for the couple to actually reside in Gibraltar, and few on the Rock have seen them.Regardless of where they live, what is certain is that between them, Ms Parasol and Mr DeLeon, 39, own 40% of the company. And that means that in a few days' time they will be worth, on paper, almost a couple of billion pounds.To put this in perspective, Martha Lane Fox was hailed as the ultimate dotcom heroine when the flotation of lastminute.com five years ago brought her a notional fortune of &#163;51m. Ms Parasol will be worth almost 20 times as much.Her business partner, Anurag Dikshit, 33, an Indian computing wizard who owns 42% and will be worth around &#163;2bn, is keeping an equally low profile, although his picture does appear on the company's website.The only man with a substantial stake in PartyGaming who is happy to appear in public is Vikrant Bhargava, 32, Mr Dikshit's old friend from the Indian Institute of Technology and the group's marketing director.But it is Ms Parasol who has enthralled the City and triggered the most animated media interest - and who appears to have gone to the greatest lengths to protect her privacy.The man who taught her much of what she knows about the porn industry, e-commerce, and the importance of  playing her cards close to her chest, was her father.Richard Parasol, 73, is understood to be a Holocaust survivor and former Israeli army officer who settled in San Francisco around 50 years ago. He is thought to have worked in the construction industry and dabbled in property, but by the early 1970s he was the proprietor of a string of massage parlours in the Tenderloin, the city's edgy red-light district.Robert Mojica, the one-time owner of a rival massage parlour, recalls: "He had a whole bunch of them. I think he had a topless bar too." He admiringly describes Mr Parasol as "a real hustler".Business was good, and by the following decade Mr Parasol had moved his Swedish wife Gunna, his daughter Ruth, and her two younger sisters out of San Francisco and into Marin county.The beautiful and affluent hill country north of the Golden Gate Bridge has long been the capital of America's liberal counterculture, a place whose inhabitants were recently written off by George Bush as "misguided Marin county hot-tubbers". Yet even here, Richard Parasol could raise a few eyebrows.Some people in the town of San Rafael recall him cruising around in a red Cadillac convertible while stripped to the waist. "Very interesting family," says one old neighbour. "A little smarter than everyone else," ventures another.Mr Parasol still lives in one of the wealthier corners of Marin, in a large white house with a small stars-and-stripes flag fluttering from the locked gates. The Guardian has been unable to contact him for comment.Ruth, said by neighbours to be "a more serious person" than her father, was educated at a private high school before studying at San Francisco University and reading law at Western State University, south of Los Angeles.Although qualified as a lawyer, it is unclear whether she ever practised, because shortly after leaving law school she went into business with her father, who by then was running sex chatlines. By 1994 she had two of her own chatlines, called WKP and SPR. Some say Richard Parasol gave them to his daughter to help her make her own way in the world of adult entertainment.Father and daughter also invested in an internet pornography company called the Internet Entertainment Group (IEG), which offered live video clips of striptease shows to subscription-only websites with such names as Virtual Girl and SeXXXvision.At one point, IEG renovated a warehouse in Seattle where 14 young women, working in shifts, performed before video cameras in any one of four stage sets resembling a bedroom, a health club, a shower and a dungeon. As well as paying to watch them disrobe, punters could call the warehouse on premium rate phone lines and put their special requests to the women.The dungeon, apparently, was particularly popular among the online subscribers - and highly profitable - in the small hours of the morning.Ms Parasol's spokesman says she and her father had withdrawn from IEG by mid-1996, and that she has severed her connections with the internet pornography industry.Realising the astronomical profits to be made from online gambling, she and her husband launched PartyGaming the following year. Mr Dikshit and Mr Bhargava were brought on board, and the company's cash cow, the PartyPoker.com website, was born.The business grew rapidly, and at peak times there are now 80,000 people playing on the site's virtual poker tables. By taking a small slice from each bet, PartyGaming has generated vast revenue: this year it is expecting an operating profit of &#163;275m.Legalistic quibblesThe announcement that PartyGaming was floating in London did not escape the attentions of the justice department, however.Supporters of online gambling in the US maintain that it is perfectly legal, and insist that those who disagree are misinterpreting the law.The justice department has no time for such legalistic quibbles: it has warned that online gambling operators are in breach of three federal laws, and may be arrested and prosecuted in the US.American gamblers, who generate 85% of the company's revenue, are not breaking US laws by placing bets on PartyPoker. With the justice department unable to prosecute the company as long as it remains offshore, officials say they have been looking at ways of targeting US support companies, such as advertising agencies.PartyGaming's spokesman said yesterday: "Like many other countries, the US does not have legislation specifically regulating online gaming and therefore there is uncertainty as to its legality. The company operates from and is licensed by the government of Gibraltar to carry on its online gaming business all over the world. The company's activities are therefore lawful under Gibraltar law." The company also cast doubt on the justice department's legal analysis of the legislation.Concern over the legal position of PartyGaming in the US is causing nervousness among would-be investors. Many had expected the flotation price to be around &#163;5.5bn and, when it fell to between &#163;4.4bn and &#163;5.1bn yesterday, the company rejected claims that it was cutting the price in response to those jitters, insisting that the sum was a "realistic assessment" of its worth.Another threat to PartyGaming is looming in Congress, where Jon Kyl, a Republican senator from Arizona and long-time opponent of internet gambling, is proposing a bill which would prohibit banks and credit card companies from allowing US customers to use their accounts for online bets.One of Ms Parasol's many admirers in the US, the Manhattan-based online gambling consultant Marc Lesnick, compares the legal uncertainty to the Prohibition era, and says Ms Parasol is bringing the American people what they want in the face of official opposition that must, eventually, crumble. "It's like rum-running in the good old days," he says.Perhaps Ms Parasol is gambling on an end to the New Prohibition, hoping that the legal position will be clarified, that the justice department will back off, and that she will be free to return to enjoy her many millions in the green hills of Marin.Who is making what&#183;Ruth Parasoland her husband,Russ DeLeon, are to receive about &#163;375m jointly in cash from selling shares. Their remaining stake will be worth &#163;1.5bn&#183;Parasol's co-founder,Anurag Dikshit, who wrote the original software, is to receive same amounts for himself&#183;The marketing director,Vikrant Bhargava, is to sell shares worth &#163;107m. His remaining stake will be worth &#163;426m&#183;The company's chief executive,Richard Segal, a former Odeon boss, is to sell shares worth &#163;9.5m after a year in the job. His remaining share options will be worth &#163;38m&#183;The finance director,Martin Weingold, is to sell shares worth &#163;3.8m. His remaining options will be worth &#163;15.2m&#183;The part-time chairman,Michael Jacksonof the software group Sage, is to be given &#163;1.5m to buy shares
Next time you see someone glued to their iPod, don't disturb them: they may be doing their homework. In the United States, some universities are supplying set books and course material in digital form so they can be downloaded to an iPod or similar. A growing number of public libraries in America are lending audio books, complete with MP3 players, to enable people to learn and read on the move and, presumably, to reclaim the youth market.Some enterprising libraries in the UK, such as Blackburn and Richmond upon Thames, are also offering this service. It is provided byAudible.com, which has a gargantuan 95% of the online audiobook market (not to be confused with sites that sell CDs or tapes of books online). It supplies audiobooks for iTunes and markets online versions of the BBC's audiobook portfolio, which has a 40% share of the packaged audiobook market in the UK.A test of the service this week on my iPod Shuffle was successful, although I lost one title while downloading it from the web. Listening to a book while walking to work was very agreeable, despite a Cyber with Rosie moment when it switched from the end of an act in Henry IV, Part One to The Hacker Ethic, thanks to the way the iPod randomly shuffles tracks.If audiobooks take off in a big way - as ownership of iPod-style devices and mobiles with MP3 players spreads - then the internet could unexpectedly boost book "readership" instead of killing it as many had supposed. It will also be possible to download novels to mobile phones in manageable chunks. Some newspapers in the US, such as the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, already publish audio digests of their daily news, which can be downloaded and consumed on the way to work. UK papers are likely to follow. There is huge scope for delivering other kinds of content, from BBC radio programmes to language learning courses.You don't, of course, have to pay to read books online. That wonderful labour of love, Project Gutenberg (www.gutenberg.org) has 16,000 books waiting to be downloaded free (though in written form).The only real qualification to audiobooks (www.audible.com) is whether they are too expensive considering that all you get is a bunch of digits, not a book that can be displayed and passed around. Audible claims it charges 30% less than comparable cassette recordings, which may be as much a reflection on the high price of cassettes as anything else.There has been little public debate about the price of audiobooks. This may be because the sort of people who buy them don't indulge in illegal downloading the way music pirates do.But the fact is that paying actors to read books isn't a huge expense, and since extra copies don't cost anything extra to deliver, the conditions ought to exist for a price war. Audible offers a pretty good service. But if there were three fierce competitors instead of one near-monopoly, the sound of falling prices would be very, well, audible.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Sendo surprised critics last year with the quality of its X smartphone. Now the company is offering a second high-end handset, the X2, the smallest Symbian/Series 60 interface smartphone. Along with email (up to six addresses), the excellent Opera HTML web browser and a 1.3 megapixel camera, the X2 doubles as a music player. It is compatible with MP3, WMA and AAC files (though not copyright protected tracks downloaded from websites) and will play back AAC+ files that some networks offer as direct-to-phone music downloads.Tracks can be accessed and controlled directly via buttons on the side. Playback quality is among the best from a music phone.However, the X2's 10 hours of MP3 playback and limited storage (128MB on a miniSD Card plus 32MB internally) can't match rivals such as the Sony Ericsson W800 Walkman phone. The X2, which will be on sale next month, isn't the quickest at accessing applications, either. Still, it is a good allrounder.www.sendo.co.ukIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Apple's decision to move its Macintosh computers from IBM PowerPC to Intel processors has killed off the PowerPC as a desktop processor, leaving the PC market with no real competition. Intel already has more than 80% of the PC processor market, and what little opposition there is - AMD, Via, Transmeta etc - is already making processors compatible with Intel's x86 family.This wasn't supposed to happen. In fact, Intel was supposed to be wiped out by the rise of fast Risc (reduced instruction set computer) processors, which Acorn co-founder Hermann Hauser said were like jet engines compared to Intel's propeller-driven chips.Hauser is worth a mention because in June 1987, Acorn was the first company in the world to launch a Risc-based personal computer, as distinct from a Unix workstation. That was the Archimedes, powered by the Acorn Risc Machine, or ARM chip.For the next decade, most large computer companies hyped their Risc designs. Hewlett-Packard had pioneered with its PA-Risc, but rivals included Sun's Sparc, IBM's Power architecture, Digital Equipment Corp's Alpha, Motorola's 88000, and the Mips chips used by Silicon Graphics Inc (SGI).These quickly became the standard on technical workstations, but they were also supposed to take over the server business, then sweep Intel off the desktop. Indeed, Microsoft took the idea seriously enough to develop Windows NT (now called XP) for Mips and Intel processors, with a leaning towards Mips, and also ported it to the DEC Alpha and IBM PowerPC.Where are they now? HP did a joint development deal with Intel that produced the Itanium, then left it to Intel. DEC got taken over by Compaq, and though Intel declined to take over the Alpha, has ended up with it anyway. SGI launched Intel workstations in January 1999. Sun has gone half way: its current strategy involves selling Intel-compatible systems as well as Sparc-based ones, with software available equally on both.Not only has the computer market rejected Risc chips on desktop and portable computers, Intel now owns the workstation market, and companies are busy replacing expensive Risc servers with cheap and cheerful x86-based models. The Risc players thought they were going to replace Intel, but now Intel is replacing them.Risc has been a great success elsewhere, of course. For example, the ARM chip, from Acorn spin-off Advanced Risc Machines, dominates the market for phones and PDAs, and PowerPC-based chips look like dominating the games console market. But if you don't already own a Risc-based desktop or notebook PC, you are statistically very unlikely to buy one.Intel still faces competition, particularly from AMD, but AMD is reinforcing the x86's grip rather than subverting it. Intel's plan to move everyone off 32-bit x86 and on to the new 64-bit Itanium chips went down the pan when AMD launched a 64-bit version of the old design, forcing Intel to follow suit.Technofreaks may be incensed, but it's what customers are voting for in the only way that counts - with their wallets.
As best one canJack Schofield stated (Apple gets Intel inside, June 9): "In the future, software developers will be expected to produce two versions of their programs: one for PowerPC - and one for Intel-based Macs."You were obviously present at a different briefing. Steve Jobs was quite explicit in the webcast I saw that developers will produce just one version - a Universal Binary. Such a binary will run on either type of computer. This is not dissimilar to what Apple did when porting from 68xxx to PowerPC in the 90s, whereby so-called Fat Binaries did the same.Ian HobsonLondonCode clearMy understanding of the speech was that XCode would produce a single app that had code for both - Steve Jobs seemed to stress that it was one application rather than two.Jason DaviesLondonGoing nowhere fastJack Schofield wrote: "Mac software is incompatible with Pentium chips and will need to be rewritten or recompiled to run on Intel-based machines. However, during his speech, Jobs demonstrated a program called Rosetta, which will do the recompilation while programs are running. This is said to run old Mac applications 'fast enough'."That sounds suspiciously like an interpreter to me, not usually close in speed to compiled code in my experience. "Fast enough" is a vague enough term. Ten times slower? Two times slower? 100 times slower? I think we should be told.Roger KidleyJakarta, IndonesiaInformation ageThe ageing techies (Feedback, passim) who accuse Victor Keegan of being patronising do not realise that he was not addressing them, but people who come to computers and the internet in their 60s and 70s. Many of them have problems because websites are still un-navigable, because modem-driven use of the internet is painful but broadband is still too expensive and, above all, because help screens are seldom any help.For normal human beings, the whole technology is still as "user-friendly as a cornered rat", written by teenage techies for teenage techies. Remember that a grandparent's help-desk (child or grandchild) is usually in Toronto or Hong Kong, not in the IT department along the corridor. If the industry is serious about silver surfers or, indeed, non-techie people of any age, it must learn that there is a lot more work to do to make it intelligible. That is not being patronising. It is good marketing.Richard SarsonLondonCitizen gainAs Michael Cross (First port of call, June 9) explained, the government is right to encourage usage of e-government services rather than continue pushing to get them online. But in terms of e-democracy, my experience is that much of the resistance to take-up lies with local government rather than citizens.There is still a profound fear among council officers and councillors of real two-way dialogue with the public, and many councils still cling to one-way market research as being a "safer" alternative to consultation.Innovators such as Bristol City Council have created virtual spaces where citizens can debate issues openly - so it can be done. But without more education for council officers to dispel their concerns, the supply of e-democratic systems will lag behind the demand for them.Gideon MitchellLondonBlogback: what our readers sayDanny Bradbury's article onOurmedia.org(Remixing the blogosphere, June 9) was the first time we've started to talk about the "registry" we want to create - connecting folks such as Odeo, BrightCove and Mike Homer's Open Media Network together. We're not looking to compete with anyone. In fact, we'll be incorporating as a non-profit.http://marc.blogs.it/The Guardian Gamesblog asks an excellent question: how do you discover obscure games with no marketing budget? And how do you know which are any good? With regards to modern text adventures, the answer is easy: go towww.ifcomp.organd download the top three competition winners from each year. Then look for more games by the same authors.www.tgr.com/weblogThe blogosphere seems to be talking a lot about Apple switching to Intel chips and how this will be the end of Macs as we know them. I have no clue what this means but do feel a sense of foreboding, if only because there are so many posts about it.karendamico.blogspot.com
Fully pledged"I'll do it, but only if you'll help me do it," is the pragmatic principle behind an ambitious site that attempts to foster bonds between strangers. PledgeBank, the latest thoroughbred addition to the mySociety stable of websites, builds on the work of sites such asMeetup.com, in that it provides an open architecture for members of the online public to suggest projects, altruistic or otherwise, that they can complete together.According to Tom Steinberg, director of mySociety, PledgeBank has undergone "real world" testing and has already produced some successful pledges, "completely outside our original ideas of how people might use the site". One person gathered 20 fellow fans of the BBC radio series That Mitchell and Webb Sound to lobby for its release on CD. Another encouraged eight strangers to bury buckets in their own gardens to make homes for endangered stag beetles. But the site has huge political potential that is being picked up by certain pressure groups. The national coordinator of No2ID, for example, is pledging to refuse to register for an ID card and to donate &pound;10 to a legal defence fund if 10,000 other people will make this same pledge.www.PledgeBank.comwww.mysociety.orgwww.meetup.comwww.no2id.netJust a percentPledgeBank is also being used by a woman known only as Cola to help promote her campaign to get people to give 1% of their gross annual salary to charity. "I'm not a tree-hugging hippy," she says, "but I've decided it's about time to stop being rubbish and give a bit back to society." Not quite the 10% given regularly by those of Mormon faith, but an admirable start.http://justonepercent.blogspot.comwww.pledgebank.com/justonepercentLive wireThis evening, you can see and hear a live concert from Morcheeba on the Fabchannel. Tomorrow night, you can tune in to the Sonar electronic music festival live from Barcelona, or catch a recent Bloc Party set on US National Public Radio. Live webcasts of music concerts are now commonplace but where do you go to find out who's playing? Where is the Radio Times of the net generation? A new site, Live Net Music, is attempting to do the job with a refreshingly simple interface. Turn on, tune in and rock out.www.livenetmusic.comwww.fabchannel.comwww.sonar.esBlip docsChannel 4 has just opened a new broadband documentary channel to budding film-makers. Visitors to the site can now upload their own documentaries, as long as they are no longer than four minutes in duration. The site, which is open to all regardless of ability, includes a number of tutorials and guidelines. Uploaded films will start to appear on the site from early next month.www.channel4.com/fourdocsMedieval iconsThe Illuminated Middle Ages is a database of several hundred illuminated texts recently digitised from French national library collections. The manuscripts, housed in municipal libraries throughout France and previously accessible only to researchers, have been catalogued and compiled on a DVD. However, a handsome number are now available on the web, and have been translated into English and German.www.moyenageenlumiere.comGolden ticketsThat winning tickets for next month's Live 8 concerts found their way on to eBay was no surprise. But the swift response from an outraged online community was, perhaps, not so easy to predict. Some 150,000 people have been awarded tickets for the star-studded charity jamboree in Hyde Park from more than 2m applicants, but anyone with even the crudest grasp of economics will see that several million pounds for a pair of tickets is way overboard. Almost every eBay listing for Live 8 tickets was similarly over-inflated by protesters. The online auctioneers then bowed to pressure from Bob Geldof and no tickets for the charity concert will be sold on the site. But ticket touts are, sadly, as difficult to evict as moles in a garden. The new scam? Your chance to bid for a place in a lottery that could, or could not, result in a winning ticket.http://cgi.ebay.co.ukwww.live8live.com
Nokia backs WiMaxNokia and Intel have agreed to collaborate to develop WiMax (IEEE 802.16e) technology, including mobile clients, network infrastructure and market development. The companies say: "Intel and Nokia will work closely to identify and deliver the unique power and performance requirements of the technology, and will work on base station strategies to help deploy a WiMax network infrastructure that will provide adequate and reliable coverage."The company's chief technology officer, Pertti Korhonen, claims that "WiMax complements the mainstream 3GPP evolution". Although known for its mobile phones, Nokia says it has a "multi-radio strategy", and "is ready to add further new technologies to its portfolio if needed". Nokia also remains committed to the development of 3.9G or Super 3G, which is also called Utran LTE (Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network Long Term Evolution).At the Ovum consultancy in London, analyst Julien Grivolas says: "Could we imagine that Nokia is thinking about integrating mobile WiMax into its mobile handsets in the future?" Along with the use of WiMax in notebook PCs, he reckons that could be a key driver in the end user adoption of mobile WiMax.Blades boomingAfter a slow start, server blades have become "the hyper-growth segment of the server market", according to a new research report from IDC. The company expects European sales to enjoy a compound annual growth rate of 40.4% to reach 565,000 units worth $1.74bn in 2009, when blades will have a quarter of the server market. Sales are being driven by consolidation and virtualisation in large companies, says IDC, but will need to appeal to small to medium size businesses and vertical markets to reach predicted sales levels.AOL topsAOL runs the "most infected network on the internet", according to Prolexic, which has also fingered Deutsche Telecom, Wanadoo and AOL as being "Europe's top three offenders for harbouring infected PCs". The company says: "The findings are based on statistics taken from real DDoS &#91;distributed denial of service&#93; attacks over the past six months." DDoS attacks are usually mounted using networks of "zombies" - compromised home PCs to flood targets with spurious data. Prolexic's business is based on selling DDoS defences. In the results published online, the UK is the fourth most infected country, behind the US, China and Germany.www.prolexic.com/zr/4GB FlashImation has launched a 4GB USB memory drive, the Flash Drive Swivel. It is "designed for business users that need to store large files and/or transport data securely", including photographers, web designers and architects. Imation claims it is "up to four times faster" than other multi-level Flash products: it can read data at 29Mbps and write it at 24Mbps.Service orientedCitrix wants to become the software of choice for service-oriented architectures. At its annual European iForum conference in Edinburgh, the company launched a new version of Presentation Server, its remote and local application access software, as part of a suite. The companion products, Access Gateway and Password, allow administrators to define secure access to applications and set policies for whichever access device is used, be it a PC, remote laptop, PDA or mobile phone.The company also addressed a gap in its web services portfolio by announcing the purchase of NetScaler for its web acceleration devices. Citrix is also planning to spread its Presentation Server to small businesses through a cut-down version called AllInOne. The company demonstrated the new version in Edinburgh to show how up to 75 local and remote users can access applications. The AllInOne suite also includes Web Interface and Secure Gateway to allow an administrator to publish applications for use. To simplify the task, these can be set up using a series of wizards allowing different sets of programs to be available internally or externally. Citrix has not set a release date or pricing for the suite.www.citrix.comBig ironFar from being on its last legs, the mainframe is still winning laurels. IBM is claiming its zSeries system partitioning to be the most secure in the world following the award of Common Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level 5 (EAL5) certification to the z890. The rating shows that the mainframe can run highly secure multiple partitions under Linux, z/OS and z/VM operating systems, protecting sensitive data. The z890 joins the z800, z900 and z990 in this bracket. IBM's encryption key protection has also received FIPS 140-2 Level 4 certification. This means master encryption keys are stored in a tamper-resistant zone that self-destructs when attacked by a hacker.www-1.ibm.com/servers/eserver/zseries/security/certification.html
For years, camcorder manufacturers have been dreaming up ways to shift video cameras away from their core audience of doting dads and wannabe Spielbergs into the mainstream.This week, JVC unveiled a trio of models it hopes could achieve that and become known as the iPod of the camcorder world. The GZ-MG20, GZ-MG30 and GZ-MG50 are the latest in the company's series of Everio hard disk-based models. They are due to go on sale in September.While previous JVC hard disk cams had limited storage capacity (four gigabytes or an hour of best-quality footage), the new models sport a 20GB (MG-20) or 30GB (MG-30/50) hard disk capable of capturing from four and half to seven hours of video. Some users might never fill up the drive.The new Everios look the part, too, with a neat compact design (they are a little smaller than most cassette-based cams), and novices shouldn't find their reasonably intuitive menu system and basic controls a handful.As for image quality, while they don't quite match standard miniDV cassettes, the camcorders capture footage at a reasonable 9Mbps. The top-end GZ-MG50 also has a superior 1.3 megapixel CCD, which delivers high-quality images. Other benefits include the fact that users don't have to buy removable media.Yet there are many in the industry, including Hartmut Kulessa, product manager for optical storage products with TDK, who harbour doubts over the durability of hard disks. "The lifetime of the HDD could be limited," says Kulessa, "especially as footage can get very shaken up during outdoor recordings."JVC has sought to protect the hard disk using a technology that automatically shuts off and cushions it if it is severely jerked or dropped.Hard disk camcorders also lack the playback simplicity of DVD-based models. Users have to connect the hard disk model to a PC/TV, as opposed to simply removing a disc and putting it in the DVD tray.JVC is offering the GZ-MG20 at &pound;600, while the MG30 and 50 will be &pound;650 and &pound;700 respectively. It is still too expensive for a camcorder aimed at the novice, but with dealer discounting, it could be little more than half that figure by Christmas.For the foreseeable future, miniDV camcorders, which can sell for less than &pound;250, and DVD-based models such as Sony's &pound;600 DCR-DVD7E, will continue to dominate. But with some makers such as Samsung predicting that hard disk camcorders will eclipse DVD cams by 2008, the future of the video camera is up for grabs.
How did your love affair with the iPod begin?Two years ago, a friend had a white box that looked like a cross between a mobile and a cigarette packet designed for 2001: A Space Odyssey. I thought about getting one for about four months - I then had it a month before I opened the box. I thought it was going to be so complicated to set up that it would freak me out. It only took about an hour and I became besotted.Have you digitised your music collection?Everything! I went through thousands of CDs then bought the iMic (www.griffintechnology.com/products/imic/). It let me rip my vinyl. It made me re-evaluate all the music I had bought since the age of 12, which made me think about my life. That's what made me think of writing the book.There is now a cottage industry around iPod accessories and I have them all! I travel a lot so I take the Altec Lansing speakers (http://www.alteclansing.com/) to use in hotel rooms and at home instead of the stereo. I rarely use it with headphones. I don't really follow podcasting (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podcasting) as I am too bound up in my iPod world, but I would like to get an AirPort and go wireless in my house.Has Jonathan Ive featured in the GQ awards?Ive is something of an industrial design genius and I love pretty much everything he has done with Apple, especially the PowerBook G4 - God's gift to laptops. I'm fairly computer illiterate - my relationship with my computer is similar to the one with my washing machine: I want it to do what I want to do, do it quickly and I don't want to have to read a book to know how to use it. I have remained a semi-philistine with technology in order that I only become an adopter when it is simple enough to use.For instance?I love Sky+ (www.sky.com/skyplus/launcher) because it took five minutes to learn how to use and it is the best invention for home recording. In five years everyone will consume their television like that. The only stuff I watch live is news and football.Any other gadgets?I want the new generation BlackBerry (www.blackberry.com), which can open attachments. It is the best aid to business since the advent of the mobile. I had one for a weekend's trial and kept sneaking out of a dinner party to check my email.Any plans for an ebook version of the book?Yes, it is going to come out with the paperback at Christmas. As more stuff gets digitised and it is ever easier to access writing on smaller, handheld kit, then things such as ebooks will have their place. Papers and media organisations send out leaders on round-robin emails and those are fantastic.How important is a web presence to GQ?It is imperative now, although few magazines have great sites. Considering the resources, I think our site is pretty good but it is only suitable for certain types of information ... as a diary and digest. It is quite difficult to get the full flavour of a magazine from its site.Visit:www.gq-magazine.co.ukLinksDylan Jones's bookmarks:www.apple.com/uk/itunes/www.amazon.co.ukhttp://gawker.comhttp://ipodlounge.comwww.pitchforkmedia.com
IBM and Switzerland's Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) have teamed up to create the most ambitious project in the field of neuroscience: to simulate a mammalian brain on the world's most powerful supercomputer, IBM's Blue Gene.Most theoretical neuroscientists have tried to simulate the brain using artificial neural networks. "That is not our goal," says Henry Markram, the professor leading the project. Markram wants to simulate the brain at every level of detail, even going down to molecular and gene expression levels of processing. At EPFL's Brain and Mind Institute, every facet of the brain is being examined and modelled.The scheme, nicknamed the Blue Brain Project, was launched on last week. "Blue Gene is by far the fastest supercomputing system in the world, giving scientists access to unprecedented levels of computing power," says Tilak Agerwala, vice president of systems at IBM Research. "What matters is not the power itself, but how it is applied in innovative ways that have the potential to transform our understanding of the world and improve our quality of life."The project will begin by focusing on the neo-cortex - the part of the brain responsible for higher reasoning, such as language, learning and memory. The neo-cortex makes up about 80% of the human brain's total mass, and consists of a number of columns. A neo-cortical column is about the width of a pen and contains about 10,000 neurons and 10,000 times more synapses. "It is considered the fundamental functional element of the neo-cortex," says lead researcher Charles Peck.To simulate even a single column requires enormous computing power - power that, until recently, simply hadn't been available. The system that has been installed at EPFL has a peak processing speed of 22.8 teraflops and will use 8,000 processors to replicate just one neo-cortical column. This part of the project is expected to take two to three years.The Brain and Mind Institute has a more detailed set of data on the workings of the neo-cortical columns than any other research organisation in the world. Now it has the blueprint, it is keen to begin replicating it in silica. "I started discussing the project with IBM about four years ago when they were just in the beginning of the conception of the Blue Gene," says Markram. "It was a bit early for IBM and ... for my laboratory, but in the meantime, IBM has reached the stage where Blue Gene is a really fine machine."Blue Brain Project is not just an academic exercise; it will reveal the key computational principles and functions of the brain. Modelling the neo-cortex is essential to understanding how it is processing information, allowing researchers to perform experiments that may otherwise not have been possible. It will also save a lot of animal experiments.So how important is this project? "I'm probably a bit biased," says Markram, "but I think this is the equivalent of going to the moon."
There's a lot of rubbish talked about "search engine optimisation" but Darren Yeats' account atBuzzleis apparently based on Google's US Patent Application 20050071741 (filed March 31, 2005) and therefore something of an inside story.The basic rule remaims the same: develop a site with good content, then improve it. However, it seems Google is using a variety of ways to punish companies that take short-cuts, mainly because many of most of them are spammers.Unfortunately, one major problem with Google remains: a lot of product search results are complete and utter crap.Try, for example, searching for asony tcs-580v. The first result is Dooyoo, which has a small pic but zero useful information. It can't even find a price. The second hit is Amazon, which says: "This item is currently not available".After that you're into hits called Supplemental Results, which means they are even less use -- they're basically search engine spam, presumably generated on the fly to match whatever you've typed in. All these score more highly than a site that has at least a bare spec,here, which doesn't even make the top 50.In sum, Google's results for this particular search are not just useless, they are worse than useless: you could waste hours trying to pick a link with any value. Nor is it a one-off. All you have to do is browse eBay, spot something cheap you might fancy, and paste the product designation into Google. Happens to me most days....
Sadly I was too busy in Bath to attend this year'sMobile Entertainment Marketevent in London - a big show where all movers and shakers in the ring tone, streaming video and mobile gaming industries get together and... move and shake, I suppose. I was interested to see how such an event would pan out (hey, Def Jam chairman Russell Simmons is there for heaven's sake!), so I asked mobile games industry veteran Brian Baglow - owner of PR agency Indoctrimat - to check it out for Gamesblog. Here's what he discovered on the first day...*Or more realistically,ECTS."The Mobile Entertainment Market 2005, or MEM05 if you prefer, kicked off this morning and reveals an industry, that, while not perfect, is more robust, innovative and exciting than the console market on crystal meth."OK, there are a few things that might strike people as weird. None of the big mobile publishers are here. Not one. But then, who would they be showing their games off to? They've all got relationships with the carriers and portals, and while sad games freaks like myself would love to play some of their new games – we can damn well go and buy them..."Also freebies, giveaways, booth babes, t-shirts and various other incentives: none. Free pens are about the most exciting thing I've seen and the one I picked up stopped working after half a page."This isn't down to lack of imagination, money or predatory marketing people, it's just not, well, really necessary... It's all worryingly grown up for a market which is still being described as 'dynamic' and 'emerging'. Even the conference track, always a hotbed of dissent and radical thought, was disturbingly calm."The initial presentations, panels and discussions have thrown up a lot of issues facing the industry. Mobile gaming is succeeding despite the retail process rather than because of it. There's no real information out there for consumers and some of the things gamers have to put up with to get their content are truly and sincerely stupid."Yet, they're all likely to be fixed fairly soon. One of the most striking things about all of the presentations so far is that they're highlighting issues and problems which are almost entirely different to the ones talked about last year. Unlike the console sector, where evil publishers molest and repress tiny developers and stop any form of innovation ever, the mobile sector seems to be identifying problems and umm, solving them. It's a novel approach, you have to admit…"More on the games track and the presentations to follow, but in the mean time, a thought to leave you with: Keith highlighted the attraction and power of mobile games in an entry last week(I don't remember what I wrote so I can't link to it - Keith). So far at the show, the developers, the publishers, the carriers are all creating, pushing and focusing greater amounts of time to casual gamers. We still loveyouguys, but we know your money's being saved for the 360 and the PSP. The mobile crowd now want your Mum, sister, dog and gran to start playing and damn the laughter from the 'real' gamers."
Police today urged companies to report staff caught downloading child abuse images from the internet.The deputy director general of the National Crime Squad, Jim Gamble, reassured employers that they need not fear prosecution as long as they promptly informed the police about any indecent images of children stored on their computer network.The call came after the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), the UK internet industry regulator, found that nearly three-quarters (74%) of companies would not report employees caught downloading child abuse images.Mr Gamble said IT staff who accidentally viewed such images downloaded by a colleague, or who had to investigate them as part of their job, need not fear prosecution due to a little-known change in the law.Under the Sexual Offences Act 2003, anyone who has to create a copy of an indecent image of a child to prevent, detect or investigate a crime is protected from prosecution, as long as they swiftly inform the IWF or the police about the material, he told an IWF conference in London.Mr Gamble expressed concern at the findings of the IWF research on child abuse images in the workplace, which also found that nearly 40% of the 200 IT managers surveyed would not even take steps to discipline or dismiss an employee caught downloading indecent material.He said their attitude was probably based on the mistaken belief that indecent images on the internet were merely a virtual phenomenon that did not amount to actual child abuse."We're talking about full grown men having full sex with tiny children and you don't mistake that for something else," he said.Mr Gamble said employers should apply the "babysitter test" when assessing how to deal with an employee caught downloading abuse images.He said: "I wonder if they would like these people to babysit their children. I don't think they would."
That's the shock discovery made byI-playwhen it commissioned a survey into mobile gaming habits recently. The leading publisher employed independent research agency SKOPOS, which interviewed over 2,500 respondents aged 12-44 across the US, UK, Italy, Spain and Germany. Here's some of what they discovered:- 48% of all females have played a preloaded game on their mobile – compared with… - 44% of malesIn the US: - 42% of females played a single game for over 20 minutes compared to - 27% of menIn the UK: - 22% of females played for over 20 minutes compared to - 15% of menI-play also theorised that gameplay simplicity will be a key driver to growth of female gamers in the mobile market. And, sure enough, according to the survey:- 41% of females compared to 31% of males, claim that simplicity of gameplay convinces them to download games.However, perhaps the most telling statistic was buried away in the middle of the report...- 69% of respondents have played a mobile game, including games embedded on handsets, but only: - 25% of mobile gamers had actually tried to download a game onto their phones, and just - 5% have successfully downloaded a game.Five percent? That's shocking! It means 80% of people who tried to download a game failed miserably, probably accruing several pounds worth of network charges in the process. The network operators have really got to sort this out.Anyway, back to the matter at hand, and I-play's underlying conclusion - that people, or more specifically women, want simple mobile games - is clearly valid. Arriving in my in-tray just hours after I-play's press release was the Java download chart for April, courtesy of ELSPA. And here it is:1 LEMMINGS - IFONE 2 WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE? - MACROSPACE 3 TETRIS - IFONE 4 PUB POOL - INFOSPACE 5 NEW YORK NIGHTS - GAMELOFT 6 TOMB RAIDER – THE OSIRIS CODEX - INFOSPACE 7 SPLINTER CELL CHAOS THEORY - GAMELOFT 8 SPACE INVADERS - I PLAY/DIGITAL BRIDGES 9 PRO BOWLING - MFORMA 10 PUB DARTS - INFOSPACEMost of these are simple casual games, and in fact, Gameloft's fun social simNew York Nightsis aimed specifically at women. The old theory about mobile phones being the perfect Trojan device to trick women into playing games may be sexist and patronising, but lord help us, it appears to hold some weight.
Live 8 tickets are still available on the internet despite Bob Geldof's attack on eBay yesterday, decrying what he branded "electronic pimps" selling free tickets for the concerts next month.eBay banned the sale of tickets yesterday after a verbal pummelling on radio and TV by Geldof, who called on fans to launch "cyber-terrorism" and bid ridiculous amounts of money for the tickets, thereby sabotaging any auction.But tickets are still for sale on other less well-known sites, with some owners out to make a profit.Sites include craigslist.org, which today has at least 10 users offering tickets, priced from £1 to £600.One user has two tickets for Live 8 in Hyde Park. "Can't go and would really help to pay off student debts," she writes, asking £300 apiece.Another cannot attend on July 2 either and is asking a mere £400 for the pair. "I am also open to exchanging 2 live8 tickets for Men's quarter-final tickets at Wimbledon (centre court). Please note, I live in London and will personally hand over the tickets to you," he writes.Another site - wldcup.com/tickets - has at least one user offering a pair of Live 8 tickets for £500.A number of eBay users continue to advertise tickets despite yesterday's ban following criticism from Geldof, organiser of the concert, and James Purnell, the minister responsible for music.eBay initially said it would not ban the sale because it wasn't illegal but by yesterday evening the company had caved in to the pressure. Doug McCallum, the managing director of eBay, said it had listened to customers' "overwhelming" view that they should end the sales.However, not all the site's users share that view. "big_knees" writes on the eBay forum that selling tickets "is not out of order in the slightest. This was nothing more than a large-scale raffle - if the prizes had been cars & electrical equipment then no one would have complained if the lucky winners went on to sell their prize.""Geldof should have foreseen that not every winner would want to attend the gig (like everyone knew the score!). If the organisers had sold the tickets in the normal manner (as per Live aid), then ticket touting laws would have applied. But no, a raffle system was chosen, so they knew the problems this would entail."Other Live 8 concerts will be held on July 2 in Philadelphia, Berlin, Paris and Rome, but tickets will not be required to attend any of these events.A sixth show will be staged on July 6 in Edinburgh as world leaders meet at Gleneagles for the G8 summit. The 42,000 tickets will be distributed in a text lottery in the same way as the 150,000 Hyde Park tickets.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Civil liberties groups have condemned an arrangement between Microsoft and Chinese authorities to censor the internet.The American company is helping censors remove "freedom" and "democracy" from the net in China with a software package that prevents bloggers from using these and other politically sensitive words on their websites.The restrictions, which also include an automated denial of "human rights", are built into MSN Spaces, a blog service launched in China last month by Shanghai MSN Network Communications Technology, a venture in which Microsoft holds a 50% stake.Users who try to include such terms in subject lines are warned: "This topic contains forbidden words. Please delete them."Even the most basic political discussion is difficult because "communism", "socialism", and "capitalism" are blocked in this way, although these words can be used in the body of the   main text. Many taboo words are predictable, such as "Taiwanese independence", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "Falun Gong", "terrorism" and "massacre". But there are also quirks that reflect the embryonic nature of net censorship and the propaganda ministry's perceived threats.The word "demonstration" is taboo, but "protest" is all right; "democracy" is forbidden, but "anarchy" and "revolution" are acceptable. On MSN Space, Chinese bloggers cannot use the name of their own president, but can comment on Tony Blair. "Tiananmen" cannot be mentioned.A Microsoft spokesman said the restrictions were the price the company had to pay to spread the positive benefits of blogs and online messaging."Even with the filters, we're helping millions of people communicate, share stories, share photographs and build relationships. For us, that is the key point here," Adam Sohn, a global sales and marketing director at MSN, told the Associated Press news agency.For the Chinese government, which employs an estimated 30,000 internet police, the restrictions are an extension of a long-standing policy to control the web so that it can be used by businesses but not by political opponents.For Microsoft, it appears to be a concession to authoritarianism on the net. It comes only months after Microsoft's boss, Bill Gates, praised China's leaders, who have mixed market economics with rigid political control. "It is a brand new form of capitalism, and as a consumer it's the best thing that ever happened," he said.Along with a throng of other net giants, Microsoft is trying to make inroads into China's fast-growing internet market, expected to top 100 million users this year. Only the United States has more people online, but Mr Gates admitted this year that his company was underperforming in China.Microsoft is not alone in accepting censorship requests from China. The free-speech group, Reporters Without Borders, says Yahoo has a similar policy. The group said any justification for collaborating with Chinese censorship based on obeying local laws did "not hold water". The multinationals must "respect certain basic ethical principles" wherever they operated.China's information industry ministry, meanwhile, has ordered owners of blogs and bulletin boards to register their sites by the end of this month or have them shut down.The ministry's website said: "The internet has profited many people, but it also has brought many problems, such as sex, violence and feudal superstitions and other harmful information that has seriously poisoned people's spirits."&#183;Japan is considering censoring the internet after an 18-year-old boy, who was arrested for throwing a homemade bomb into his classroom, said he had found instructions on how to make it from a website. A government taskforce is expected to target sites that offer advice on making explosives, sell drugs and other illegal items, or encourage people to arrange group suicides.
FromTechWeb News: Nearly half of all business PCs still run Windows 2000, the aging Microsoft operating system that's moving into extended support at the end of June, a Canadian asset-monitoring software vendor said Tuesday. "Windows 2000 has been an extraordinarily success operating system," said Steve O'Halloran, the managing director of AssetMetrix Research Labs, the arm of the Ottawa-based firm that analyzed the data collected from more than 150,000 PCs in 250 companies. "Perhaps too successful."Later, the story says:According to AssetMetrix's data, Windows 2000's share of the corporate Windows market has shrunk by just 4 percent since the first quarter of 2003, and now is pegged at 48 percent. Windows XP, meanwhile, accounts for 38 percent, up from a measly 6.6 percent two years ago. The gains in Windows XP came primarily from users leaving Windows 9x -- Windows 95, 98, and Me -- and were most impressive in companies of fewer than 250 PCs, said O'Halloran. The larger the firm, the stronger Windows 2000's presence, he added.
PartyGaming, the world's biggest online poker firm, today said it expected to be valued at between £4.4bn and £5.1bn when it floats on the London Stock Exchange.The figures were below initial forecasts of a £5.5bn valuation, but would still represent the biggest flotation since that of Friends Provident in July 2001.The valuation of Gibraltar-based PartyGaming is based on an offer of between of 111p and 127p a share, made after the company's advisers consulted more than 200 institutions around Europe. Trading on the London Stock Exchange is expected to begin on June 27.PartyGaming's flotation has sparked controversy, with some fund managers warning investors to stay away because of legal uncertainty over online gambling in the US, where most of the players in the site's PartyPoker.com poker gaming room.Online poker generated around $553m (£305m) - or 92% - of PartyGaming's revenue in 2004, helping it notch up annual pre-tax profits of $371.7m, compared with $89.2m the year before.However, fund managers say investors should treat the company with caution, not just because of the possibility of Congress acting to ban online gambling, but also due to the prospect of increased competition.PartyGaming, however, struck a confident note about its prospects, with a company statement saying: "Given the extraordinary success of the business to date, an IPO &#91;initial public offering&#93; is the next logical step in the group's evolution."Whilst the group is already a substantial business, a listing will enhance the visibility of the group and its brands among all our stakeholders - including customers, partners and employees - at a time when PartyGaming is seeking to expand internationally."PartyGaming will enter the FTSE 100 if it is able to place its shares within the price range indicated. The flotation will give 1,000 staff in the UK, Gibraltar and India a 5.6% stake in the group, and will result in huge windfalls for its four owners.The operations director, Anurag Dikshit, the husband and wife team of Ruth Parasol and Russ DeLeon, and Vikrant Bhargava, who own the group between them, could net £850m from the proposed sale of 23% of their shares.The company's PartyPoker.com online poker gaming room has attracted more than 1 million users since being set up in 2001.Customers pay a type of commission known as rake to play against each other either on individual tables of up to 10 players or in tournaments.PartyGaming, formerly known as iGlobalMedia, also has gaming brands including Starluck Casino and PartyBingo.Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein is the sole global coordinator for the offer.
Further to the recent debates (in personandonline) about the relationship between violence in videogames and the real world, and filling the gap some have suggested was wide open in research on the subject, a new article published today inCommunication Monographshas tested the amount of aggressiveness computer gamers display over the long term after playing a violent online game. The results?Research on violent video games suggests that play leads to aggressive behavior. A longitudinal study of an online violent video game with a control group tested for changes in aggressive cognitions and behaviors. The findings did not support the assertion that a violent game will cause substantial increases in real-world aggression. The findings are presented and discussed, along with their implications for research and policy.While the violent videogame in question is Microsoft'sAsheron's Calland not, for example,CounterStrike, according toDmitri Williams, one of the authors, this is the first study of its kind to test a group in a controlled setting over a long period of time. He is cautious, however, and suggests that both good and bad effects result from playing the game.More from Williams onTerra Nova. The article can be accessed fromhere. (reg. req'd.)Ref: Williams, D. &amp; Skoric, M. (2005). Internet Fantasy Violence: A Test of Aggression in an Online Game.Communication Monographs, 22(2), p. 217-233.
Over atBoing Boing, Cory points to a 14-month oldwebsitethat discovers the apparently shocking truth: people don't buy that many songs from the iTunes Music Store.As of April 15 [2004], Apple had sold roughly 60 million iTunes and 3 million iPods. That's about 21 songs per iPod. For perspective, the smallest iPods hold 1,000 songs, and some hold 10,000 songs. So, when people fill up those iPods, where does all the music come from?Fast forward to June 2005, and the figures have changed, but aren't really that different: we're now heading for half a billion songs sold on iTunes, with something like 16 million iPods (of all persuasions) sold worldwide. That something like 31 songs per iPod: an improvement to be sure, but hardly a world-changing amount.But the figures don't really carry much meaning unless you start thinking about how they fit in with a trend.The iTunesperipod site, which is lobbying for controlled, legalised filesharing, suggests that most digital music is - no surprises - from filesharing.I disagree with that thesis. Most people, I think, have a legacy collection of CDs (and vinyl, perhaps) that makes up the vast majority of their digital music collection. Perhaps they're adding to it using the collections of friends (filesharing of a sort) but I don't think that most iPod purchasers are heavy users of the illegal networks.So here's my point: a majority of music being played on iPods today has been bought. And yes, digital downloads are a tiny proportion of the music on digital players today: but they won't be so insignificant tomorrow.Over the course of time, and for a variety of reasons, downloads are likely to overtake physical sales.Over the course of time, you will only buy a limited number of digital music players. But you will buy a far greater proportion of digital music.I've no doubt that the money I've spent on CDs far outweighs the money I've spent on hi-fi equipment. And that pattern is likely to be true for the digital age, even if it's not there yet.Now, Apple doesn't make a huge amount of money from iTunes Music Store, but that isn't the point: it's using ITMS to dominate the market and hook people into its brand - the oft-quoted figure is that it holds around 70% of legal music downloads.Apple is already starting to feel the pinch in some areas - with the Shufflelosing market share- but the growth for ITMS continues while the cost of that growth shrinks. And if it comes up with a movie store, as many of us anticipate, there's even more for it to try and control.So yes, the proportion of digitally-downloaded music on iPods is small: but don't think that figure tells the whole story.
Jim Martz makes a plea onWired News- let gaming consoles join in grid computing initiatives likeSeti@Home."Grid" computing breaks down complex computing problems into small steps that can be solved in parallel by thousands or even millions of machines at once... the tech community has always supported these efforts, but it's time distributed computing moved out into the rest of the world. Imagine the possibilities of millions of gaming consoles (Sony has sold more than 70 million PlayStation 2s) contributing to a community previously limited to thousands of capable processors.It's a nice idea (Martz suggests layering it into the machine's firmware) but isn't there far more progress to be made by getting full-on computers to join these initiatives?After all, nearly 180 million computers were sold last year alone. And, as I'm sure he'd agree: you can't argue with numbers.
Thought I'd try a new regular feature for Onlineblog, taking a look at some of the emails and comments that have come into us over the past week.Obviously the constraints of space in our treeware edition mean we can't publish everything that comes our way, but we do try and read everything that comes in to us viaour email.You'll be able to see ourweekly letters pagetomorrow. But in the meantime, here are some of the past week's talking points.Time to switchTop of the agenda, unsurprisingly, was the decision by Apple to switch to Intel chips from IBM-manufactured PowerPC ones. Further to the coverage here on the blog,Jack's piecegot a mixed response.Though Christiaan Briggs said it was "a nice summary of events", some readers pointed out that the Universal Binaries mean programmers won't necessarily have to code an Intel and a PowerPC version of OSX software. Ian Hobson said "this is not dissimilar from what Apple did when porting from [Motorola's] 68xxx to PowerPC in the 90's, whereby so-called Fat Binaries did the same".Steve Lepper made the same point, claiming there was "only a nodding acquaintance with fact", and pointing out that "Cocoa" applications (like iLife) already run on both systems, and Adobe and Microsoft have committed to producing Universal Binaries.Finally there was some concern about the idea that the new system will be built to run old Mac applications "fast enough"."That sounds suspiciously like an interpreter to me, not usually close in speed to compiled code in my experience," said Roger Kidley. "'Fast enough' is a vague enough term. 10 times slower? Two? 100? I think we should be told."Golden oldiesThe ongoing saga of older people and computers continued, too. Originally riffing off apieceby Online's editor, Victor Keegan, the discussion on whether technology patronises older users just won't go away."The ageing techies who accuse Vic Keegan of being patronising do not realise that he was not addressing them, but people who come to computers and the internet in their 60s and 70s," said Richard Sarson. "For normal human beings, the whole technology is still as 'user-friendly as a cornered rat', written by teenage techies for teenage techies. "The irony, of course, is that few of our outraged older readers realised that Vic is probably older than they are. He must be mighty pleased with his byline photograph.Any other businessThere was also an issue with the suggestion by one readerlast weekwho spoke about Lord Byron's role in the history of computing.An editing error on our part changed a line in the letter so that it stated - incorrectly - that "the first programmable computer was operated by Lord Byron, not too long after the Battle of Trafalgar". The original letter actually stated that Lord Byron's sister was, in fact, the first. But that's still wrong, as Andrew John Poulter was at pains to point out."Byron's daughter Ada, Countess of Lovelace, [who worked for Charles Babbage] does have an important place in the story of computing machines," he told us. "However, the first practical, 'programmable', general-purpose, computers were not created until the 1940s."And last but not least, somebody with a question about Onlineblog."Is it me,"asks Greg, "But with the new style template for the blog, it's missing the links to, say, Techdirt and other blogs... or have they gone somewhere else and I just can't find them?"Well, Greg, it isn't you. We dropped a few aspects of the old blog - including our linklist - when we ported over to this new design. And we're hoping to reintroduce them in the near future, in some form or other. Hope that helps.Remember: if you've got any questions, queries or points to make about anything you've seen in Online or here on the blog, please email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk, or leave a comment below.
PartyGaming will today cut the value of its flotation after hitting deep scepticism among London fund managers about the original price tag of up to $10bn (&#163;5.5bn).City sources say the online poker company will set its value at $8bn to $9.2bn, leaving the final price to be decided after detailed presentations to institutional investors.Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, the investment bank sponsoring the float, has been stung by fund managers' concentration on doubts about the legality of online gambling in the United States, home of most of the players on PartyGaming's website, Party Poker.Analysts at ING - a member of banking consortium promoting the float - even failed to justify a $10bn price.ING put a "fair" value on PartyGaming of $8.85bn and what it said were as many as six "main" categories of risk to investors. These included the standard concern about United States senators' attempts to ban online gambling but extended to worries about increased competition, collusion by online poker players and even the risk of money-laundering through the Party Poker website.ING also attached a heavy qualification to its estimate: "We caution that valuing such a company is a difficult exercise, given its very high growth profile and the unstable regulatory environment."Scepticism among fund managers runs deeper. The most scathing analysis was made by a manager who is generally regarded as among the top five most respected in London. As is usual, he did not wish to be identified. He argued that PartyGaming should not even be a candidate for flotation. "I wouldn't touch this float, not even with a very long and disinfected bargepole," he said."I have a real problem with investing in a company where 85%-90% of its revenues come from the US, where the legal status of online gambling is vague, or at least open to doubt and interpretation."Clearly internet businesses are hard to control, but if you are hoping to achieve a &#163;5bn capitalisation on the world's second largest stock market, you are purporting to be a legitimate business. And if you are a legitimate business you can be controlled."I don't want to have to justify to my investors why I have put money into a company where Elliott Spitzer &#91;the New York attorney general&#93; could come along in two months' time and torpedo its ability to communicate with 95% of its customers. If this company manages to float, I believe it will reflect badly on the London stock market and on Dresdner."Such criticism goes well beyond fund managers' normal, self-interested attempts to talk down flotation prices. It was partly shared by a leading manager of institutional funds. "The problem with this company is that its business is not obviously illegal, but neither is it obviously legal," he said. "There is a price for everything, but at the moment I am veering towards the view that the float is toxic."One fund manager who said he would - in principle - be prepared to invest, added that he was still concerned that the prime motive for flotation seemed to be the founders' desire to sell shares. "The main purpose of stock exchanges is to raise money for companies, not to shuffle chips between two sets of investors," he said.
Digital music service Napster will today announce a global partnership with Swedish telecommunications company Ericsson that it hopes will allow it to steal a march on rivals as consumers increasingly swap their digital music players for mobile phones.The two companies will offer a branded version of Napster's digital download and subscription service to mobile operators around the world, as the battle for market share moves from the PC to mobile devices. The announcement follows last year's tie-up between Apple's rival iTunes software and mobile phone manufacturer Motorola.Hans Vestberg, the vice-president of global services at Ericsson, said mobile phones would overtake digital music players such as the iPod as the favoured way to listen to music on the move. "In one or two years' time there are going to be more MP3 players in phones than anywhere else," he said.Because Napster has already negotiated rights deals with record labels, offering users up to a million tracks to download, the new platform is in tended to offer mobile networks a quick and easy way of launching a recognisable download service. Vodafone and others have launched their own music download services over 3G networks, but with little success to date.Brad Duea, Napster's president, said the company was "trying to bridge the gap between the PC and mobile devices". Subscribers would be able to "sideload" songs from their PC library on to their mobile phone, as well as downloading tracks directly to the device over their mobile network.Napster is looking for new ways to differentiate itself from the competition after seeing its US share price hit by news that Yahoo! and Microsoft are launching rival services that allow users access to unlimited music for a fixed monthly fee.Mr Duea said the alliance would allow Napster to build its brand in parts of the world where it does not have a presence. "It's a matter of exposing people to our world and asking them to try it. Our mobile solution allows them to do that and we hope it will introduce them to the service and they'll go on to become subscribers," he said.
"Pop singer Britney Spears has edged out Bill Gates as the celebrity most commonly associated with malicious software distributed via e-mail, according to data released today from security software company Panda Software. Researchers combed through the seven years of virus-laden messages stored in Panda's malware database to determine which celebrities most often had their names involuntarily used in association with malicious spam," reportsIDG News Service."The top ten list of celebrity virus rankings (in descending order) is: Britney Spears, Bill Gates, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, Osama Bin Laden, Michael Jackson, Bill Clinton, Anna Kournikova, Paris Hilton, and Pamela Anderson."
