While most European companies are still thinking about getting "a presence" on the web, the market leaders are rapidly moving on to the next level. It's no longer enough to put a corporate brochure online, Frank Gens, chief analyst at US-based industry research company International Data Corporation, told a packed conference in Paris last week. His research - based on a survey of more than 400 corporate leaders in electronic commerce - showed it was time to move from e-business 1.0 to e-business 2.0.Instead of being about marketing and promotion, Gens said the e-business 2.0 website was designed to take orders and payments for goods or services. 
Instead of being run by a technologist, it should be run by a senior marketing person.
And instead of aiming at a local market, it should be global.Such sites could cost 10 times as much as e-business 1.0 sites, and American companies were spending millions or tens of millions of dollars to build them, Gens said. However, instead of losing money, e-business 2.0 sites were profitable already, or on track for profitability."Avoid the trap of perfecting the last generation of websites," Gens exclaimed, "and start building the future!"It was a rousing speech, and would have gone down well in the US. But in kicking off IDC's annual European IT Forum Gens had not neglected local issues. Demographics were on Europe's side, he reckoned, but European companies were not preparing to exploit their advantage."As we go beyond 2003, Europe will be the biggest single internet population," he said, "and seven of the top 10 internet countries will be in Europe. The era of the US-centric internet is over."However, where US companies were spending about $35bn on developing internet businesses, Europe was only spending about $7bn. "It's not enough."
For two days, a string of mostly-American speakers hammered these points home while, mostly, shilling for their own products and technologies. Perhaps this was inevitable, given that so many speakers were suppliers and the audience contained potential customers.
 
Still, there was widespread agreement on the need for speed. "If it ain't fast, it ain't good," said Richard Brown, chairman and CEO of computer services giant, EDS. Disagreements were mostly quibbles, like whether competition on the web was only one click away, or two.Speakers included Michael Capellas, CEO of Compaq, Tim Koogle, chairman and CEO of Yahoo!, Scott McNealy, chairman and CEO of Sun Microsystems, and Bob Metcalfe, inventor of Ethernet networking.Dr Erwin Koenigs, a former physicist who is chairman and CEO of Germany's Software AG, was not shy about rubbishing the opposition, but also presented a memorable comparison of traditional companies and e-business operators.
Where the traditional company did things in weeks, the e-business did them in minutes or even seconds, Koenigs said.Where product design was traditionally done by the company, in e-businesses it was often done by the customers: instead of standard products, they wanted customised ones.
 Instead of production being pre-sales, in e-businesses it was often post-sales.
 And instead of location being the strategic driver 
(traditionally, customers buy locally), an e-business strategy must be based on service. European users will use the web to buy from US sites if they get a better deal.Koenigs might have been describing Michael Dell's 
Dell Computer, which lets customers specify what they want in their PCs on the web, then builds to order. But Dell has already gone beyond that stage, and the boss's talk was about the keys to a successful e-business 2.0 operation.Dell said e-business was "more than just selling things online", it was about changing the way companies worked. It will not surprise anyone who has watched Dell for the past decade that he thinks the net is about "velocity, efficiency, and customer experience".
"We're talking about an acceleration of the whole business process."By trading online you find out what your customers want, and "if you have perfect information about what your customer wants, you need no inventory", Dell said. 
You then have to deliver, of course, and in Dell's view, "efficiency in execution is at least as important as products and services".But efficiency is not enough: companies must also make buying online a more rewarding experience than buying "in the physical world". According to Dell, the quality of the experience is a more important factor in getting repeat business online than either product or price.That's a real challenge. Anyone who has grappled with a few e-business sites knows that, on average, they're not nice at all.
But it was left to Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the MIT Media Lab in Massachusetts, to highlight one of the main reasons why Europe is so far behind the US in 
e-business. "The killer is metered local call rates," he said. "If you want to do one thing to change the economic future of a country, change to an unmetered charging system for local phone calls."As Gens said, American companies are building their future on the net. Sadly, most Europeans can only afford to visit for a couple of hours a week, if that.
Trading spacesX-Beyond the FrontierPC CD-rom £34.99 THQDoes each song in the top 10 sound the same? Do all your friends have children rather than act like them? Chances are, then, that you remember Elite. Trading, shooting and open-ended gameplay were woven into a massive space, containing galaxies and thousands of individual planets.Rudimentary graphics and sound didn't detract from this 32kb marvel. An updated "Elite for the 90s" seemed unattainable. Buggy sequels and Gremlin's flawed Hardwar came close but now X-Beyond the Frontier attempts the gaming equivalent of the three-minute-mile.Comparing X to Elite is slightly unfair. Whereas Elite was free flowing and unconcerned with such niceties as a plotline, X offers a tighter, slightly more linear experience.  There is a deeper economic basis with a myriad of factories, space-farms and trading centres replacing Elite's lonely space-stations. This throws some resource management into the mix as production centres can be bought and asteroids can be mined.X has also benefited from 15 years of graphical progress with gorgeous lens flares reflecting into your cockpit while sturdy extraterrestrial structures pass slowly by.  If you tire of the leisurely paced trading and inter-planetary chit-chat then there is a mission, of sorts, to complete. Stranded in an unknown universe, miles from home, your general aim is to return to Earth and inform the scientists that,yes, their interplanetary propulsion gates do actually work. Getting back to Terra Firma is not easy and, to be honest, not entirely desirable. Once you get the hang of space combat, and your business grows, you may be too involved with finance and politics to consider returning.Despite lacking Tribbles and wireframe graphics, this gorgeous space sim is well worth a trade or two. (GH)Humour failureSpace BastardsPC CD-rom &#163;10 (plus p+p) Smoking Gun Productions,  CSS 01634 226 200With the honourable exceptions of Sam &amp; Max and Duke Nukem, it's hard to think of any games that have made any real attempt at wit. Space Bastards, as you might expect from the title, is intent on correcting this imbalance.The manual is such a riot   - "Technical Support: let us tell you what you did wrong" - that you can't wait to get into the game. A few seconds into the game and you're itching to get back to the manual. Sure, there's humour (chiefly in the form of a series of variable jokes running along the base of the screen), but there's also some deeply unsatisfying 2D platform action, puzzles fit for an amoeba, and graphics fit for an Amiga.The multiplayer option is slightly more entertaining, but to be honest, you're probably better off reading bits of the manual down the phone to each other. (AB)
We were all sitting around the dinner table in Moscow, trying to top each other's stories. "My plane was already three hours late, so I left a message for the guy who was going to fly over from London to meet me in Munich that he shouldn't come. So I felt pretty comfortable: my next appointment was an hour later. Then when I got to my hotel ready to take a shower, I get this cheery message: 'We checked the flight times and it wasn't so late. We're waiting for you in the lobby!'"Well, I flew overnight into Milan, took a taxi into the city, met the guy, went back to the airport to go to Zurich."I heard there was a hurricane in New York, so I didn't   go home. I simply stayed in Moscow for the weekend, had a useful day in Stockholm and began my next European trip from there.But why? Were we some bunch of troglodytes who had never heard of email or video conferencing? Did we have some inside information about a coming shortage of airmiles?Not at all. In fact, I used email very effectively to set up a string of last-minute meetings in Stockholm.But there's something about face-to-face that matters. At that very dinner, for example, we got into business planning for a venture that we had been emailing about for the last month, and got away from the nitty-gritty of "please call Alice" to a more fruitful discussion of why to call Alice, from setting up meet ings to financial strategy. We got a sense of the CEO's confidence about the business and his concern about finding people to run it; we thought of leads we wouldn't have dreamed of when replying to an email. We let our minds wander around the topic at hand instead of away from it.When Juan finally calls on Alice, after the overnight trip, smelling slightly of the baby that chewed on his collar and kept him awake overnight, it means something. Alice is likely to give him her full attention. She's not likely to be filing her nails, as she might do when she talks on the telephone. She knows how far and uncomfortably Juan has travelled, and she gets the message that she and her business are important to him. For his part, Juan gets a sense of whether she's serious about doing business, and the objections he must counter.Computers can automate routine transactions and email can transmit routine information, but face-to-face is still what adds value: the new ideas, the motivation, the decision to take a risk on a new vendor or a new product or a new idea.Now interestingly, one   thing that makes travel so unpleasant these days is all the leisure travellers , crowding the airways as they go on vacation, visit aging relatives or cheer on newlyweds. Haven't they heard of virtual reality? Can't they just sit at home and buy things from strange lands over the net? What gives?Yes, we will use technology more and more to make our lives richer and more efficient, even in our non-business lives, for everything from picking a school to picking a jumper, from setting up a soccer game to planning a vacation. But at the end of most of these semi-automated transactions is something non-virtual - a child's experiences in class, a fuzzy sweater, a roll in the mud, all the serendipities of a vacation. As more of life gets automated away or rendered artificial, the more we will value the real   - the chance encounter with a stranger, the live animals of another continent, a foreign city's streets at dusk, and yes, even those tales of near-disaster that are so much fun to recount afterwards.The challenge for businesses is how to foster unique and genuinely spontaneous experiences in a scalable, semi-predictable way.As long as we're still made of wet chemicals, not sand and metal, we will still have some ineffable bond with the real world, and with other beings of wet chemicals. The electronics are to arrange things, to follow up with information, but not to replace the real experiences.For users and for businesses, this means that technology does not replace the real world, it supplements it. E-commerce creates demand for better physical logistics systems; telecommunications mean it's easier to follow up on remote contacts, and to recover the investment of time and money in travel or conferences. I can travel more because it's easier to keep in touch with my office from afar.At conferences, including the two I run myself, we make a point of providing experiences that could not be replicated in a streaming video presentation over the net, let alone a video or recording. People ask questions and contribute as well as listen. And we ask them questions: there's nothing like the chance you might be called on to keep your attention!When you visit someone in their own space, you get a chance to understand what motivates them. You might even get a chance to meet their two-year-old daughter, as I did last week in Munich. When Sarah goes into a pub in 15 years, her proud daddy explained, she won't need to write into her device, she'll just wave it at a friend to trade data. More likely in five years, I figure, at a children's party. But just think: The social element will still be there. She'll be out and about, meeting other kids in the flesh, and then following up later with the newest in chat technology.Indeed, that's what we were doing over dinner. The email contacts didn't click until the dinner. But we wouldn't be able to follow up without the email.
Steve Jobs is tired. The co-founder and interim CEO of Apple Computer is sitting in an anonymous, grey meeting room in Paris's Palais des Sports, playing distractedly with a bottle top, looking every one of his 43 years - and possibly a few more. "I've not slept in two days," he says in a weary Californian drawl. "Jetlag..."It's a surprise to see him looking this drained. Only two hours earlier he had been thrilling an unabashedly adoring audience of thousands in the giant centre's auditorium, pacing the stage as he displayed his famous, near childlike enthusiasm for Apple's products."This is the most amazing product I've ever seen," he says, introducing the company's new Apple Studio Display - a 22-inch wide screen only one inch thick. Later he asks: "Isn't this incredible?", and as the crowd laughs a 'yes', he bounds over to Apple's new G4 computer, a sleek box finished in graphite grey which is also the fastest desktop PC around. He runs a series of computing races on giant screens above the stage, between his G4 and "the fastest Pentium money can buy".The rival machine is left lagging by the G4 as they race to complete a complex Photoshop picture, and when it finally displays the image on its screen, he milks the moment for all it's worth. He's almost hopping with delight, a broad grin on his face, as he sarcastically congratulates the Pentium III for catching up fully a minute after the G4 has finished. Rumours of delays in deliveries of the hot new PowerPC processor from Motorola that powers the machine, later confirmed by Apple, are forgotten as the crowd whoops its approval for the new machine.But now, that exuberance - a quality which makes Jobs appear more an enthusiast than the world-class salesman he is - appears to have vanished, as he focuses on that bottle top, which he is now trying to dismantle."Things seem to have gone   well," he says in a guarded tone as he eyes the table. "You guys hear more than I do on the stage, but it seemed quite enthusiastic." It is hard to believe he was unaware of the crowd's warmth towards him, as the crowd of Apple users, dealers, staff and potential converts bathed in the feeling that Apple is the only computer company on earth.Apple, of course, isn't even in the biggest five personal computer companies on earth, by sales if not "mindshare". That notion is created only by what has been called the "Jobs reality distortion field", which can reach out to Apple users around the world, and keep them loyal.It was partly the force of his personality which led, in late 1996, to then Apple CEO Gil Amelio bringing Jobs back to the company he helped found, but was effectively ousted from in 1985. Apple was in dire trouble: its operating system software strategy lay in ruins, after its next-generation Copland operating system was scrapped, and the company was haemorrhaging money as users turned to Windows 95.Jobs didn't take long to muscle his way into the CEO position, and a turnaround quickly followed. He boosted cashflow by pulling the plug on loss-makers like the Newton handheld device, and boosted confidence in the Mac by taking a $150m investment from Microsoft.A little more than a year ago, he pulled the rabbit out the hat - the colourful all-in-one iMac. It has now sold more than 2 million units, making it one of the most popular personal computers ever, and has helped lift Apple's market share in the US to a more respectable 11%, in retail and mail order. More than 30% of iMac buyers are first-time home computer owners, Apple says.But that's still a long way short of market dominance, let alone ubiquity. Challenged on the issue of market share, Jobs looks up from his bottle top, slowly sits back in his chair, and brightens. The distortion field goes up."You know, I think we just want to make the best computers in the world; that's what we do," he says. "I don't think most of our competitors care about that any more - they just want to make money. We like making money too, but we think that if you make the best computers in the world, you will make money. And I think that we are the last company in this business that really cares about making great computers."It depends how you look at it. If you look at it in total, you're right &#91;about Apple's small slice of the market&#93;. But if you're willing to accept that it's OK not to go after the big enterprise customers then our market share looks much bigger. For instance, in the design and publishing market - which is huge - worldwide we have the largest market share. In the education market, which we think is very important, Apple is the largest education supplier in the world. So we're number one in design and publishing, and number one in education."In consumer our market share has gone up in the last year and we have now doubled our market share, and who knows what will happen in the future? In these markets that we serve, I think Apple is doing very well, and in some cases has the largest market share."The suggestion that Apple doesn't want to be the number one PC maker is, of course, nonsense. But Apple, boxed in now by Microsoft and Intel's stranglehold on the market, has to make like it's looking to greater things than mere world domination. Is one of the first of those ambitions, the philosophy of "computers of the rest of us" invented with the first Macintosh in 1984, still alive at Apple?Jobs interjects with an emphatic "sure" at the mention of the old slogan. "If you look at it, our industry has done a pretty poor job of listening to the customers in the consumer market. I mean," Jobs pauses, arms wide, and frowns, "the industry sold big, ugly beige load boxes that took up desks and everything else. The customers were saying 'my God, I don't know how to connect all these cables', 'my God this thing is too noisy', 'my God it doesn't fit on my desk' and 'my God I have to hide it when visitors come over'. iMac was the first time that a computer company had really addressed some of theses issues, these challenges."The other companies aren't really computer companies," he says, warming to his theme. "They're distributors. They take technology from Microsoft, they take technology from Intel, they put it in a box they buy in the far east and then they ship it. And they try to do it more efficiently than the other guy. So the arguments are not really over who makes the better product, but who has the best distribution. That's what they fight about. They just don't care about design. We think it's really important."He sounds almost incredulous at his competitor's lack of nous. Is he surprised, given the massive success of the iMac, that no major manufacturer (two small PC makers in the far east excepted) has tried to copy the idea? Jobs is dismissive. "I don't know. You'd have to ask them why. 'Original' is not in the vocabulary of the Wintel market. I don't know - we have so many challenges we're just focused on what we're doing, and the competitors will just do whatever they're gonna do. We can't influence or change them. We just try to do our best, and stay ahead."Away from the headline grabbing hardware, Apple has made one other surprise push in its attempt to lead again. It has started promoting,   heavily, its QuickTime multimedia streaming technology, which has existed - and been admired - for years, but never been given a great deal of attention, until now.Jobs' Paris keynote dwelt at length on the software, which works on PCs as well as Macs, and the company's new Quick-Time TV, which broadcasts programmes from a range of broadcasters including the BBC, Disney and CBS. This new content role sits easily with Jobs's other CEO job - at Toy Story animater Pixar - and his anti-PC bile is quickly replaced by more enthusiasm, this time for the Apple software challenging RealNetwork's market-leading Real Player, and Microsoft's Windows Media Player. He also hints at how vital the internet is to Apple's strategy."Clearly, we're very focused on the internet - the "i" in iMac is for internet, and I think we've succeeded in making the most exciting internet computer in the world. We do a lot of things on the internet - obviously, OS9, if you look at that you'll see a lot of its features are targeted at making the internet experience better for users."So it's natural to think that we'd be investing in other software for the internet too. OS9 has Sherlock in it, and QuickTime is also internet-based software for the most part. So it's a pretty natural fit."Do possibilities lie ahead for Apple as TV, mobile communications and the internet converge? "We build computers," he says defensively, and for a moment it seems he is ready to launch into his stock "we don't talk about future products" answer - often a prelude to his brisk departure from an interview.But this time Jobs continues, picking his words carefully. "The internet is clearly giving a whole new area of possibilities to computing. But the internet - remember - is 99.9% accessed by personal computers - Macs and Intel machines. And so internet content producers have come to rely upon all the capabilities of those PCs to make the most competitive   content - they need to run QuickTime or one of its competitors. They need to run Java, some of them run all sorts of things. They use the latest browser features. And if they don't, they don't have a competitive website."So there are all these people trying to make phones, and other devices, go on to the internet, and they have quite a big software hurdle. It's pretty hard to put QuickTime   in a phone. It's pretty hard to put the latest browser features in a phone. They don't exist except in MacOS and Windows - not even Windows CE. So the lowest common denominator for the web is a machine running MacOS or Windows."That's what all the content's on - that's why WebTV failed. The content's also authored for a big display - not for a TV screen, so none of it works on other screens."He adds that "the internet will be just like the telephone, if not more important," but is happy to leave us guessing on his vision of how the access devices of the future will look.There's another question about the future which only one person can answer: will the mercurial Jobs, who also recently joined the board of   Gap clothing, stay on at Apple and remove the word "interim" from his title?"I think I haven't thought about it in a while." But isn't running two companies - Pixar and Apple - too much to handle? Does he get enough sleep?  He laughs. "Well, I could probably do with more than I got last night." And with that, and a thankyou, he stands, and leaves.
Field of DreamcastsSega's Dreamcast games console had a good launch in the US on September 9. Thanks to pre-orders, it generated nearly $100m in sales on its first day. In the first four days, Sega says it sold $132m worth of hardware and software, including 372,000 consoles. Sony's PlayStation2 is on the way - it stole the show in Tokyo over the weekend - but Sega has about a year to build market share in the US and Europe before it arrives. Even then it will probably    have a price advantage. Dreamcast will cost &#163;200 when it is launched in the UK on October 14, whereas the PSX2 is expected to cost &#163;300 - the same as the original PlayStation.Sonic squaredWhile Sega succeeded, Sonic the Hedgehog failed. Sonic Adventure, the latest 3D game based on the Sega star, was only the second best selling game in the US. It was pipped by Squaresoft's Final Fantasy VIII role-playing game, which finally arrived in an English-language version for the Sony PlayStation.According to Ed Valiente from Square Europe, FFVIII sold 400,000 copies in the US in its first week, following Japanese sales of more than 3.5 million. European FFVIII fans can expect to buy copies in French, Spanish, German, Italian on October 27, and a PC version next year.Good buysElectronic Arts, the world's largest independent games software company, has taken over PlayNation, a California-based developer (SportsCorp, BattleCorp). Havas Interactive has bought Heritage Quest, described as the world's leading genealogy company. Hasbro is buying Wizards of the Coast in a deal reportedly worth about &#163;200m. Wizards is best known for its card game, Magic: The Gathering, but worked with Hasbro Inter- active's MicroProse subsidiary on the PC version of the game. GT Interactive, which recently had a huge hit    with Driver, has not been taken over, but the handful of would-be purchasers is now thought to include Microsoft.Family funGaming's not just for boys. On October 15, Havas Interactive will launch the first three games in its Family Fun Software range: Cool Pool, Train Town and RC Racing.  OK, so pool, model trains and radio-controlled cars are typical boys toys, but at least the games won't be unplayable by anyone without a PhD in Quake II. Mattel, which bought girl-games software house Purple Moon, is taking the idea a bit more seriously and plans to expand its Software for Girls range with more Barbie games. Acclaim Entertainment, well known for its Turok titles, also plans to enter the girls' software market, and has signed up the twin American TV celebs, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen atwww.marykateandashley.com. Look out for The Adventures    of Mary-Kate and Ashley, Mary-Kate and Ashley's Dance Party of the Century...It's unrealWith Tiberian Sun shipping and Homeworld finished, Epic Games' Unreal Tournament Edition must have become the most keenly awaited/ long-delayed game on the PC. Players with 3Dfx Voodoo graphics cards can now    download a 50MB demo version of the game fromWireplayor a similar site: there's a list athttp://unreal.epicgames.comIt's being discussed at 3Dfx's "Ultimate Site for All Things Voodoo" atwww.3dfxgamers.com, but that's so slow you're better off going toGamers Extremeinstead.
New Year's Day. "I'm dead," says the man with me in the ambulance cheerfully. "I'm the train driver. I got a massive injury to my neck, and although I still have a pulse in the ambulance, by the time we reach hospital I've died." He takes a look at me and reckons that, despite a possible fracture to my arm and breathing difficulties, I have a good chance of survival.Our ambulance, the last in a fleet of three, wheels into London's University College Hospital's accident and emergency yard and I'm stretchered onto the tarmac. The triage team categorises me P2 (needing some treatment but not a priority), and sends me off to a doctor who reads the card around my neck then calls for a nurse. None comes, no more doctors are available either, and the umpire hanging over us eyes her impatiently. "Fluids?" he says briskly. She starts to fix a tube to my arm. "It doesn't go in properly," he tells her. "You have to do it again."By the time she's put an oxygen mask round my neck and decided that X-rays are needed, the frenzy in the P1 (immediate treatment) crash room next door has mounted. There are three other non-fatal casualties: two adult head injuries and an unconscious child. The train driver was DOA.More casualties are expected. The   controlled and furious activity is awesome. The doctor looks down at me and giggles. "I think you'll live," she says.All the casualties from this particular train crash will live. Apart from me, they're volunteers from the London Ambulance Service who are helping University College Hospital to prepare for the great unknown: the millennium. Up and down the country, hospitals are twitchily trying to assess what resources, both human and medical, they're going to need for a night which has, for the last few years, been a great black question mark on everyone's calendar.But while most people are worrying about babysitters, social arrangements or looters, Britain's emergency services have been girding their loins for what could be the greatest test of a whole country's accident and emergency systems since the second world war. The British Association of Accident and Emergency Medicine (BAAEM) estimates that admissions to casualty departments will be three to 10 times the number that come in on any normal night. And they are assuming that, while essential services like power, water, telecommunications and transport won't collapse completely, there will be degradations connected with IT equipment that is not Y2K compliant. So hospitals could experience sudden power surges, or drops in water pressure, failure of some   machinery and difficulties in communication.All this will come on top of a long and tiring night, hard on the heels of the 1999 Christmas celebrations. Last year, says the BAAEM, departments all over the country were pushed to the limit by the slowing down of primary care systems during the winter break: because GPs went on holiday, patients came into casualty with their flu and stomach ache instead. Stocks will be low and staff exhausted. If there was ever a day you least needed a major incident to happen, January 1 2000 would be it. Which is why Professor Jim Ryan, ex-army surgeon and veteran of the Falklands, Bosnia and Northern Ireland, is semi-closing down UCH's accident and emergency department and forcing its doctors and nurses to come in and make believe there's been a major train crash.The scenario that he's written involves a head-on collision outside   King's Cross resulting in 300 casualties. Fifty are directed to UCH. At 9.15am staff are hanging round the "batphone", the line reserved for the London Ambulance Service to call UCH in case of critical accidents. The blue call arrives and they go into action, starting the cascade system that should call in all staff.The triage team, who wait at the doors to meet the casualties, must assess the level of their injuries and prioritise them into those who can be left untreated, those who need minor attention, and those close to death. The P system, as this is known, uses the kind of skills doctors are rarely called on to exercise in peacetime, and was used during the Soho bomb. In the event of total meltdown, the T system will be put into place: this includes the category "expectant", a term which indicates patients who will be uneconomical to treat, and must instead be given palliative care and left to die. "But the decision to put that into place would be a national one," says Professor Ryan with some relief. "It would have to come from the top."Communications are the biggest worry: thanks to good luck on the day of the Soho bomb, many off-duty doctors happened to be in the neighbourhood and came in after hearing the news. But luck isn't enough, and it was clear during the aftermath of the bomb that the call-out system needed improvement: staff won't be hanging   out in parks on New Year's Day, and the system in place at the moment depends on switchboard paging or calling each member of staff in turn, a process which takes precious time. It's quickly clear during the exercise that the call-out system has failed again: by 10:20am there are still only 10 doctors at the hospital.Staff are muttering in annoyance: no one knows where the control room is, the triage clerk can't keep up with the paperwork and it's getting lost en route anyway, so one man has been sent unidentified to the morgue, and another has gone nameless to the Middlesex hospital. For the first hour, when the casualties arriving are most serious, there is a terrible shortage of staff, and as the umpires, under instruction from Professor Ryan, throw spanners into the works like non-functioning lifts, sudden power failures or interruptions into the crash room by evil journalists, the temperature starts to rise.Few other hospitals plan exercises on this scale. Although most will carry out table-top exercises, they simply can't afford to more or less shut down A&amp;E. Edinburgh Royal Infirmary has been studied closely by most hospitals: the city is famous for holding the biggest New Year's Eve party around, and the hospital intake that night is about six times average. "I think we'll be all right," says the spokeswoman, fairly cheerfully. Beaumont hospital in Dublin is expecting a 6-10 fold increase in casualties, and is also just a few miles from the airport so has been working with the disaster co-ordinator. The Beaumont spokeswoman sounds a bit envious: "I wish we could do something like the UCH exercise," she says, but, like the Royal Liverpool hospital, all that's been possible are tabletop and smaller-scale exercises.At Penwith in Penzance, they've taken note from the eclipse experience, while Morriston hospital in Swansea recently had to deal with the fall-out from a chemical spillage, and ran a simulation of a complete power cut in April. "In the end you do as much as you can, and then it comes down to a lot of what-ifs," says a spokesman."Would anyone have died?" asks Professor Ryan back at the UCH after the hospital has been stood down. Two umpires nod. I've already been told by one person, that because of the early shortage of doctors, my character would probably have been a goner.But by and large the mood at the debriefing is good: problems have been spotted and circumvented and steps for improving the major incident plan are being set in motion. It turns out that the telephone system is mainly to blame for the difficulties in calling in doctors, and perhaps paperwork can be tied round patients' necks. Onwards and upwards is the general feeling.But who knows what will happen on the night? As UCH's A&amp;E consultant, Annie McGuinness says: "In a major incident, the plan rarely survives impact with reality. New Year's Eve could end up being the biggest damp squib for, oh, a thousand years. Or it could be Armageddon. We can't plan for total melt-down. When that happens, well, you just do your best."
The world's airlines have been given the green light to fly to any destination over the millennium because there is no threat that computers will break down and the industry is confident that air traffic control systems will be bug-free.The International Air Transport Association has carried out an exhaustive study of the problems facing its 260 member airlines and given the all clear for flights to go ahead uninterrupted, including in contentious areas like South America, Africa and eastern Europe.British Airways last night confirmed the findings. It said that it would not be flying to China, Pakistan, India or Russia over the millennium but only through lack of commercial demand.The company said that at midnight British time on December 31 only 20 of its jets would be in the air, flying to Africa, the Far East and North America. It added that there were no unsafe areas in the world into which it could fly.The confidence of IATA's findings is the first indication that transport problems during the millennium period are likely to fall short of the dire forecasts circulating in some parts of the industry. BA has spent up to &#163;100m making making sure that its systems are bug-free.BA's new year schedule reflects reduced consumer demand on December 31, with short haul flights finishing at 6pmBookings for the millennium period are up by 29% on the same period last year, with most passengers wanting to get to their destinations in plenty of time to celebrate the new year.Mike Street, the BA director of customer service, said: "This schedule has been achieved by the hard work of a 200-strong team who have been working for four years to ensure that we provide this service to passengers."
UK net stocksFreeserveLastminute.co.ukNew and upcoming UK online venturesHandbag.comBoo.comCharlottestreet.comJungle.comYalplayUS net stocksQXL (pronounced Quicksell)America OnLineYahoo!Amazon.comWhere to find share prices online (and buy and sell them)E*TradeThe Motley FoolNasdaqCharles Schwab EuropeYahoo! Finance
"We'll always remember that time you gave a speech and pulled a knife out of your boot," said the auto executive I was seated next to at a recent dinner.I almost spurted soup over the white linen tablecloth. "I what?""Oh yes," he said, "that was quite unforgettable."Indeed it would have been. The mundane fact is that I haven't carried a knife since my hitch-hiking days, which were many moons ago. But it seemed cruel to try to disabuse my dinner partner; he was evidently delighted to be sitting next to a knife-wielding legend. And he was so sure of himself, I began to wonder if I hadn't suffered some sort of aggressive fugue.It wasn't until the next morning that I figured out what had happened. The speech had been a few years before, to Detroit advertising executives. It was in the ballroom of the hotel where I was staying, so I'd left my handbag in my room.And just as I was getting out of the elevator, I realised I had nowhere to put my notes. I was late (the hotel had a good sauna), so I hurriedly stuffed the thin sheaf of index cards down the side of one of my Prada boots. And only remembered where I'd put them once I was already at the podium.Miss Manners doesn't cover situa tions like that. There was only one thing to do: forget embarrassment, and go for flair. I reached down and produced the notes with a flourish. Perhaps I made a joke about things people usually keep in their boots. Maybe I even mentioned the word "knife". But even if I did, it would demand far more imagination than I'd ever given Detroit credit for to transform a few index cards into a piece of sharp metal.I knew when I began to write about cars in the late 80s - a sordid tale of seduction and corruption, leading to my turning my back on a career as a reputable political journalist and diving headlong into the disreputable universe of metal and grease - that my presence in the stereotypically male automotive world was something of an anomaly. Only now do I realise how threatening an anomaly I was. I wasn't the only woman automotive writer. The New York-based International Motor Press Association ("international" by virtue of two Canadian members and myself, an ex-Brit) included three women writers at the time. But I was the only one who didn't want to be a "car guy". I didn't want to be any sort of guy. I just wanted to pursue a growing fascination with cars and what they do to us.My new-found profession proved a source of some confusion at parties. Maybe it was the leggings and the   suede boots that are my normal dress code. Maybe the lipstick and the perfume. I apparently did not look the part.This didn't bother women one bit. "Great!" they'd say when they heard what I did for a living, and then got down to talking cars. But men seemed to have a severe hearing problem. "You write about  what ?" they'd say."Cars," I'd repeat. And then seeing no dimunition in incomprehension, I'd resort to kindergarten level: "You know, vroom vroom."That got through. But after the mandatory few minutes of testing with torque talk - the numerical part of the male language of cars, consisting of performance specifications - and the rather unsettling discovery   that I could do it (or at least bluff it) better than them, they'd resort to the other part of male automotive language: sex.I have no idea who began the idea that cars are phallic. I do know that it is deeply embedded in the American male psyche. After a morning testing a Dodge Viper at a racing circuit, I came back from lunch to find a gaggle of guys gathered around the hood. "You know what this reminds you of," said one, jutting his groin out and grinding it as a subtle hint.It was the strangest come-on. No woman I know would dream of going to bed with a man who can't tell the difference between his penis and a car. If there is really any similarity between the two, he needs   major medical intervention. In fact, if you insist on being so latently Freudian as to imbue cars with sexuality, they are far better uterine symbols than penile ones. You settle back in comfort, with the climate controls just so, soothing music on the audio system, your favoured form of caffeine in the cup holder - in short, nicely cossetted from the harsh realities of the world - and are carried around with no effort on your part.Sounds like a return to the womb to me. At first, Detroit was merely amused by such reflections. But the knife edge got sharper as women began to wield new-found economic power, buying 40% of new cars - often, Japanese ones. "What do   women want" seemed as much a puzzle to Detroit as it had been to Freud. And the results were as comical.One company boasted that it had its designers spend a day with paper clips taped to their fingers so that they'd know how it feels to open a car door when you have long nails.I did ask why they didn't simply use false nails, or go the whole hog and have their designers come to work in drag. The answer consisted of a lot of spluttering and not one comprehensible sentence, but in the ultra-straight 50s atmosphere of Detroit, the question was rhetorical; the real reason was dismally obvious.So it came as a pleasant surprise one day when I climbed into a proto type car and was asked how I liked the console for the automatic transmission. The rubber flaps were set inside an elongated oval, and it was nicely outlined in chrome."It's wonderful," I said. "Quite vaginal."I spent the next half hour waiting for the designers' faces to return to a normal colour while I tried to convince them that this was intended as a compliment. The design never made it into production. And in a town where index cards can become a knife, all bets are off as to how this story will play by the time it finds its way back to me.&#149; Lesley Hazleton's book Driving to Detroit is published by Scribner UK. She is the motoring columnist for the Detroit Free Press
What are you driving?A white L-reg Peugeot 306 diesel.What does that say about you?That I've got enormous biceps (no power steering) and a secret longing to be a taxi driver, because that's what it sounds like.What's it like?It always goes, but it just ain't sexy.Why did you buy it?It was such a good price and had a good reputationWhat kind of driver are you?I think I'm an excellent driver. I like driving fast but I'm quite careful because I don't want to end up dead.Any bad habits?I don't think I have any but that's the trouble with bad habits, you never know if you've got any.What was your first car?A very old, very decrepit VW Beetle bought for &#163;250 when I was travelling around South Africa in 1988.What do you use your car for?Ferrying my pet rat to the vet.Have you experienced road rage?I have been known to get out of the car to shout at lorry drivers who stop in the middle of the road to chat to their mates digging a hole.Have you ever had sex in a car?I did get a bit fruity in a Renault 5 once but there were too many knobs around.What music do you listen to when you're on the road?My husband makes great compilation tapes for me - everything from the 60s to modern stuff.What would be your dream car?The two-seater 1960s convertible Mercedes if I'm in a Grace Kelly mood because it's so glamorous.&#149; Kate Humble presents Top Gear on Thursdays (BBC2, 8.30pm)
If the lovely pictures in the year-2000 Ikea catalogue are anything to go by, Britain's young and wealthy consumers are becoming increasingly obsessed with saving space. On every page, the war against domestic clutter is waged and convincingly won; unwanted crockery, paperwork and relatives all ruthlessly flat-packed away under a welter of Norwegian wood.But while Ikea's obsession with saving space propels the company to greater success, its catalogue offers no solutions on the neatest choice for your second living space - your car. In which case, you should look no further than Renault, fast-becoming the natural marque for paid-up Ikea card carriers.While Fiat, Ford and Rover work hard on selling their cars through "lifestyle" imagery, Renaults are being marketed from the inside out. Check the new Clio ("size matters"), Renault Espace ("isn't space the ultimate luxury?"), and Laguna estate ("Orca whale? Just stick it in the back, mate", or words to that effect). Given Renault's obsession with the incremental advantages of a Clio versus a Ford Ka, Vauxhall Corsa or Bovis Home, it's of little surprise that the launch format for the new, upgraded Scenic range and the genuinely, definitely new Kangoo focus on how much air you get for your money.The Scenic, a survey says, has the highest satisfaction rate of any Renault, with 51% of people attributing that satisfaction to its roominess and practicality. So will they be disappointed with Scenic take two? No one will probably dislike the exterior makeover. Like virtually every other maker, Renault has decided to increase the size of the light clusters. A tweak to the suspension and the adoption of bigger wheels and tyres will boost the car's surefootedness, though fast progress for passengers can still, given the car's lofty stance, feel precarious.A new 2 litre, 16-valve engine   should address the section of Renault's respondents who thought the car lacked performance. It zips along with 140bhp of gusto, though it has to be revved hard, compared to the meatier 1.9 turbodiesel, which socks a respectable 100bhp and can manage more than 57mpg.The crucial question, however, concerns domestic order. For a family of five and associated detritus, there's lots of space and Ikea types will love the way you can hide all your rubbish away in a variety of slots and cubby holes. For the record, these are: under the floor, under the rear seats, under the passenger seat (a drawer), on top of the dashboard and under the driver's seat (another drawer). Best of all though, there's a new cool storage box, if you've paid out for air con, just in front of the gearstick. This will keep three cans of   drink or the equivalent amount of chocolate nice and frosty, thanks to the cold air that's piped directly in from the dash.    So far, 68,000 UK drivers have bagged the Scenic. The freshened-up version, priced from &#163;13,100 for the 1.4 and available now, should keep the car at the top of its segment. Quite where that leaves the cheaper Kangoo, due here next month, time will tell. Another dimensional dumbfounder, the Kangoo (starting at &#163;9,750 for the 1.4 petrol and &#163;10,500 for the diesel) is the unofficial follow-up to the Renault 4 and is Renault's no-nonsense equivalent to the equally burlesque Citro&euml;n Berlingo Multispace. Unlike its home-grown rival though, it has rear sliding doors, making access to the back seat far easier. Both cars are spawned by vans and it shows in the way that they ride on the road and "handle" at speed.Kangoo's cute, bug-eye looks and Postman Pat outline make it just the ticket, perhaps, for your nanny to take to the creche, but child-bearing is the closest this thing gets to being sexy. Renault reckons young singles will also bag its new creation, being drawn by the promise of no less than 2,600 litres of luggage space. No matter that most of this space is vertical and is thus quite useless, unless you feel it's really important to wear a giraffe outfit to work, drive standing up or simply demand the freedom to wave your arms fully outstretched above your head. Presumably, if you're that eccentric, the Kangoo's looks will be no obstacle. If not, do the common thing - buy a Scenic.
It's almost as if we need millennial fears. First, there were the doom-laden warnings about a worldwide computer crash; then about the collapse of air-traffic control systems and planes falling out of the sky; then about economic disaster because nobody wanted to give up their party to work on millennium night.It was all vastly overdone. It now looks as if even the Jubilee Line Extension and the suddenly fashionable Millennium Dome are going to be ready. But in the list of millennial warnings issued last week by the Foreign Office, there was one genuinely scary statistic that has had too little coverage.Only one in eight of the control systems of Russia's nuclear power stations that needs to be modernised before Y2K has so far been overhauled. Massive power failure and nuclear melt-down are real risks. There are only four months left to act.This is more important, we suspect, than the fate of the Millennium Wheel which has commanded 100 times the column inches.
A report published today suggests British consumers are beginning to overcome their fears of buying goods and services online, and in the process are helping rid electronic commerce of its "geeks-only" image.The second annual Which? Online internet report, Are You Being Served? - The Growth Of An E-nation? gives a fascinating picture of how Britain's online community is growing and evolving.MORI, which questioned more than 2,000 people - both wired and non-net -found the proportion to have shopped online has more than doubled in the last year. Some 40% of users have now sampled buying over the web. And 10% describe themselves as regular web shoppers.The demographics of the online community have also changed over the last year in the UK, with its ranks swelling by 50% to 10 million.Women, as reported in last week's Online, now form 43% of the total - up 20% since last year. Less affluent Britons are getting wired in rising numbers, encouraged by falling access costs; the proportion of C2DEs online has nearly doubled to 21% of the total, against ABC1's 79%.That increasing mainstream popularity has helped topple computer software and hardware from the top of the online sales charts, claims Which?, with cheap books (13%) and flights and holidays (12%) becoming the main reasons to buy over the web.The net is also becoming increasingly important for the nation's social life, with more than 50% of users saying they use email to get in touch with friends and family. One in five long-term users said they preferred email to other forms of communication.The report also points the way to an explosion in   e-commerce as millions of net "newbies" gain experience. It found that 58% of net users who have been online for more than two years have bought over the web, compared with only 15% of those who first logged on within the last year.  Anxiety does remain, however, over the possibility of credit card fraud on the internet. 42% of internet users said they did not think it was safe to use their plastic in online transactions.Two-thirds of the people questioned by Which? said the net should be regulated.  Notably, 40% of internet users thought using credit cards online was safe - the same proportion of users who have also bought something online.Which? Online's editor, Alan Stevens, said the results of the survey were good news for Britain's fledgling   e-commerce companies.   "It's very encouraging to see an increase in consumers' confidence online and that shopping via the internet has become a more positive experience," he said.   "The increase in online purchases of holiday and airline tickets show that those consumers are now seeing the benefits of shopping via the internet.  "The message is that there are these benefits to ordering goods online, provided there are means to reassure consumers also in place."Stevens said a number of major companies had signed up for the Consumers' Association's webtrader initiative, which aims to increase consumer confidence by giving   member websites a seal of approval which shows that its legitimacy, safety and   security have been tested.The government's Consumer White Paper, published in July, contains similar measures to protect customers shopping on the web.  Away from e-commerce, the survey found that concerns remain over some   of the content of the internet. Pornography continues to dominate most people's   fears, with a similar proportion to last year   - 57% of all users - saying net porn posed a threat   to the nation's morality.More experienced users were a little more relaxed about the dangers of pornography, realising that the net was not "overrun" by porn. But three quarters of parents said they would not let their children use the internet without supervision.
Shigero Miyamoto's imagination has probably put an indelible stamp on your mind, and his creations are certainly familiar to hundreds of millions of children. His string of best-sellers - Donkey Kong, the Super Mario Brothers series, and the Zelda role-playing games - have made him the Stephen Spielberg of video games. He's not a cult figure, and his games won't change your life, but he knows how to engage a mass audience. Indeed, he has become a superstar in Japan, no mean feat for a family man who works for a family company, producing family games.Meeting him in a backroom at ECTS, the European Computer Trade Show held in London last week, it was all too easy to associate the man with characters like Mario, the little plumber, and Link, the almost androgynous lad in the Zelda adventures. Miyamoto is not a power-dresser, and does not dominate with the force of his personality. He is, instead, sensitive, soft-spoken, and sympathetic to point where you almost want to give him a cuddle.He's clearly a genius, but like Mario and Link, perhaps one who succeeds by native wit and repeated trying.This is one of the secrets of his success: anyone can play Miyamoto's games, though only the persistent few will ever get to the end. And since he speaks little English - our interview is conducted through a translator - it's his good fortune that video   games largely transcend both language and cultural barriers. Indeed, few if any players will think of Super Mario Brothers as a "Japanese" product: Japan's games clearly travel better than its films and pop.Miyamoto did not set out to conquer the world of video gaming. He studied industrial design at Kanazawa Municipal Art &amp; Craft College in Japan, where he designed artwork for playing cards, drew cartoons, and played his guitar in coffee bars. Because Nintendo was a leading producer of cards, it was an obvious choice: he joined the firm in 1977, when he was 24. But Nintendo was branching out into video games, and Miyamoto found himself also designing casings for arcade machines and drawing characters for the games. "The first video game for which I was assigned sole responsibility was Donkey Kong, which made its debut in June of 1981," he says. "Gradually, I was given the opportunity to work more on the planning side, and that's how I became the game software director."Donkey Kong was the first video game to feature Mario, and it was Nintendo's first smash hit. Donkey Kong and Super Mario Brothers were also the nearest he got to perfection, which, Miyamoto says, "for me is the game where I can take care of every minute detail. Nowadays there are so many people involved it's becoming very tough to make perfect games in that sense".Today's games are, like movies, produced by large teams, and Miyamoto is trying   to be more of a producer, letting younger people do more of the game design. "But sometimes it's necessary for me to be involved deeply. When I can have a relaxed time, it means the game development work is going very well, and when I am having a very busy time, it means the development team is just not doing a fine job," he laughs.Things will change again with Nintendo's next-generation machine, codenamed Dolphin. This will be the first console where Nintendo has abandoned its cartridge-based system - where games must be very tightly coded to fit into expensive chips - for a DVD video disk, with gigabytes of storage for graphics and sound."I don't think DVD alone can change gameplay," says Miyamoto. "Everybody knows what video game graphics and sound will be like in a few years, and everybody already knows that advances in the technology alone shall not change gameplay any more. The things that change gameplay are solely unique and new ideas. Because these are actually simple ideas, they are easily copied, but because they are fascinating and new, everybody is tempted to imitate. But what is important here is the creativity in the gameplay rather than   increased performance in the games console."Gaming used to be a solitary activity and now it is becoming much more social with multi-player and internet gaming. Hasn't that changed the industry fundamentally?"I think play itself, or the definition of play itself, has been changing," he says. "When we started, TV gaming was a new genre of entertainment. Now people are talking about what kind of entertainment we can produce by utilising TV gaming, which is quite a big difference from 20 years ago."Pok&eacute;mon, based on "pocket monsters", is an example. "Pok&eacute;mon you can play - yes, Pok&eacute;mon is a video game! - and Pok&eacute;mon is also providing some new form of entertainment where people can train and trade Pok&eacute;mon characters. Outside the gameplay is the   so-called Pok&eacute;mon world" with its trading cards, cartoons, toys and so on. "Before, we were discussing 'What kind of games shall we do? What kind of games shall we make?' But now we are discussing what we can do with games."Pok&eacute;mon has been a huge success but, like Nintendo's Famicom (family computer), it appeals to the very young. Those who grew up with games like Super Mario now have different interests. Can Nintendo cater for the whole range of ages and interests of gamers today?"I'd like to wait for more years to pass to answer that question," he replies. "It is true that most Nintendo games have been played and appreciated by children. It means we are generating the newcomers to the industry all the time. You may be right that many of the people, when grown up, will graduate from Nintendo's platforms, and of course we have been making efforts so that it will not happen. But 20 years ago when I was making Donkey Kong and Super Mario Brothers, I   never intended to make games for small children. I was obviously intending to target age groups of more than 10, more than 20 or so. It was just the result that more and more children were appreciating these games, thus the large demographic group for these games is occupied by young players."Nintendo had its own exhibition in Tokyo last week, and we were surprised to see so many people coming to the show, and we were surprised to see that so many of the people were families. People who played Nintendo games as children, now they are not only playing games as adults but they are playing as parents, together with their children. That's very important."There were days when people were discussing when the video game industry would be over, saying 'The game industry cannot survive!' " he exclaims. "Fortunately they are not talking about the last days of video games any more, and many people are talking about how video games will survive forever."
A short-term loan facility is being planned by western finance ministers to fend off the collapse of banking systems in developing countries as a result of the millennium bug.Officials from the Group of Seven leading industrialised countries fear that a number of key emerging market nations could be faced with cash shortages and snarled computers which could put the global financial system at risk.Global financial institutions like the IMF would stand ready to act as a lender of the last resort if liquidity problems look likely. Plans to establish the facility, which might need tens of billions of dollars if it is to be credible, are expected to be put in place at the meetings of the G7 and IMF on September 26-27 in Washington.Fears that the globalised financial markets will not be able to take the strain have been highlighted by the events during the much simpler euro changeover at the start of this year when the sophisticated European banking system faced a liquidity crisis.A US state department report issued this week warned that some of the biggest of the emerging market economies including Russia, China, Brazil and Indonesia face disruptions to key sectors of their economies, including banking and telecommunications, as a result of the Y2K problem.Until now the focus has been on the safety issues raised by the millennium bug problem including the airlines of developing countries and nuclear plants in the former Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe.It is now increasingly clear that the millennium bug could bring global banking systems grinding to a halt.There was a hint of such last week on the 9/9/99 when at least two futures markets were temporarily put out of action. If such glitches can occur in well organised economies on a far lesser date then the possibilities of more serious disruptions at year end are manifest.The mechanism for borrowing from the Y2K facility to be established by the G7 is not yet clear, although monetary officials are emphasising its temporary nature.Related stories:13 September 1999:Indonesia and Brazil take bulk of IMF's record loans12 September 1999:Fresh laundry11 September 1999:Brown elected to key role on IMF11 September 1999:More clout now, but not the IMF top jobUseful links:Special report: DebtThe IMFJubilee 2000The global economy: news and comment from the World Socialist Website
How important is technology to Public Enemy ?I guess as purveyors of the hip-hop culture it allows us to actually have 85% of it exposed instead of the 15% that's subject to the politics of the normal areas of music. It eradicates the dominance of the middle man over the public and also over the artist.Hence your advocacy of MP3?As I said, downloadable music eradicates the dominance of the middle man - it doesn't take them out completely. Everybody's trying to figure out how they fit into the new scene but this will force the people who were totally dominating to adapt and it will force people who previously dominated to share.How did you first get into computers?It was suggested to me in 1991 by Harry Allen, a publicist, and in the 1994 Muse Sick In Our Mess-Age album, track 20 explains the whole thing I'm doing now five years before its time.What kind of computer do you use?I'm a Mac man. My pet personal tool and toy is my G3 Mac Powerbook.Any favourite software?Adobe Photoshop because I design album covers. At the same time, other software that goes through my Powerbook is the musical streaming stuff like the Real Network.What kind of websites do you visit?Other than the ones I work with likewww.bringthenoise.com, which is our radio network, and thewww.publicenemy.comthere's stuff likewww.rapstation.com.  Other ones I deal with could be anything from hiphopsite.com to any of the entertainment sites.Do you think information is any more free in the computer age?The ability to spread information is also matched by the ability to spread disinformation.Do you think the net will, or can, be regulated?It might be more difficult to regulate the internet, without all governments agreeing to one accord, than anything else that's ever been invented. But as soon as you think the government won't control there's always something else that surprises you - I feel that now is an important time to build your stake in your own private Idaho.The new album is very millennium-conscious. Have you any thoughts or fears about Y2K?It's the small things in smaller countries that will prove more catastrophic than in "civilised" countries like the USA and the United Kingdom. Grassroots countries probably won't even be affected as much as those countries stuck in the middle.Any favourite gadgets?No. I don't play video games or any stuff like that. I do carry my lap-top, I carry my suitcase radio with two CDs, a condenser microphone, a mixing board and two small speakers. A digital camera and a regular camera - so I guess those are gadgets - and a switchblade.
Virtual visitVirtual Edinburgh lets you explore the city using a mouse. Well, you can't actually fly through the panoramic pictures, but you can scroll round them and, if you find a hot-spot, jump to another position. If that takes too long - the site uses Macromedia Shockwave, and is slow - call up a map and go straight to somewhere interesting. Two RAF mem  bers, Paul Burns and Gary Harrison, took around 40,000 pictures to create this interesting website atwww.thegen.comand used about half of them. They'd now like other people to virtualise their cities, and are willing to share their expertise.Point it outGuruNet.com has launched its first beta (test) version of a small but clever program that works as an information assistant. Point to anything in a Microsoft Windows application and the GuruNet software will fetch a dictionary definition or encyclopaedia entry about it from the    GuruNet server. The clever bit is that you can point at things in any application, including Word, not just in a web browser. GuruNet is free and can now be downloaded fromwww.gurunet.comBunnies backHazel, Fiver, Bigwig... oh no, Watership Down is back! An animated version starts on TV this month, and there's a sample on theofficial site. Angelica, Tommy, Chuckie, Phil, Lil... oh yes, the Rugrats are back on Nickelodeon, and they've already appeared on the redesignedwebsite. Tinky Winky, Dipsy (that's enough Teletubbies - Ed) etc have also had their website atwww.bbc.co.uk/teletubbiesredesigned, and they've now been joined by Jake, Milo, Fizz and Bella, otherwise not widely known as The Tweenies. The new series is aimed at three-to-five year olds and the website will be updated daily. Incidentally, if you can't remember the names of the Yowies, Cadbury's has launched a heavily-Shocked educational website - ecology gets top billing over chocolate - atwww.yowie.co.uk.Owning upWhois has long provided a way to find out who owns internet addresses, but now there are hundreds of NICs (Network Information Centres), some have become hard to find. AllWhois.Com has the solution with a "meta service" athttp://allwhois.com. It also offers links to most of the domain registries worldwide. Another useful lookup site is "the dot com directory" provided by Network Solutions atwww.dotcomdirectory.comTree directoryTrees of Time and Place is a website that encourages growing trees from seeds to celebrate the millennium. More than 1,600 schools, 270 MPs and 150 local authorities are involved with the project, but the site atwww.totap.org.ukshould give it a boost. Everyone pledging will be represented on the site's Trees of Time and Place Millennium Map.Faster, fasterJames Gleick, best known for writing Chaos, has just launched a new book called Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything and put links and sample passages atwww.fasterbook.com/It may even explain why fast food and other labour saving inventions have left us rushed off our feet, but no-one has time to read it . . . . Gleick, of course, muses regularly on matters of the moment, such as the sleep machine pictured below at his site atwww.around.com/Good to giveThere seem to be thousands of free ISPs (Internet Service Providers) operating in the UK, but 4u2give is a little different, and the name gives    it away. The call rebates that provide most ISPs with their profits will in this case be given to charity. Details of the scheme can be found atwww.4u2give.co.ukWebbed deskThere's a lot of talk about running applications on the web instead of on desktop PCs but not much (if anything) that could be considered usable by anyone with a choice. That's why at least a few eyes are focused onwww.Desktop.com. The unveiling is expected this month. Desktop.com will, it seems, provide a Windows-like interface inside a browser. Optimism is based on the fact that the people behind Desktop.com also developed RocketMail, which was taken over by Yahoo!    Another pioneering webtop site iswww.StoragePoint.Com, where the Click-n-Go Office suite is being developed.Kerching!On November 5, Music Partners is launching a site for "a world-wide audience clamouring for real music", a thesis that flies in the face of the evidence available in the charts. Anyway, the idea ofwww.MPreal.comis to offer musicians the chance to promote and distribute their music in exchange for a 25% commission. "Bands can submit their own biog, design their own artwork and web page, and set the price of their release, while a listings page lets their fans know where the next live event will be," say the organisers.Six of the Best: MuseumsSmithsonian Institutionwww.si.eduThe National Museum of Science and Industrywww.nmsi.ac.ukThe Louvrehttp://mistral.culture.fr/louvre/louvrea.htmMuseum of Modern Artwww.moma.orgThe 24 hour Museumwww.24hourmuseum.org.ukMuseumLinkwww.museumlink.com
In the middle of Helsinki's bustling town centre by the Lasipalatsi (Glass Palace) there is what looks like a phone box made of pinewood. Go inside the kiosk - which is about to be officially opened by Helsinki Telephone - and you are faced with a screen, a web camera and a microphone. This is the digital age's version of Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park, where people are encouraged to broadcast what is on their minds to politicians or anyone in the world prepared to watch or listen on the internet.It is both a clever gimmick and a bold statement about citizenship. In political terms it underlines Finland's determination to use its pioneering position during the next "wireless" stage of the information revolution to make the internet aninclusive experience.A few yards from the Speaker's Forum is another kiosk where anyone can sit down, be photographed and follow a step by step menu to create their own internet home page which is stored, complete with photo, on a   server where anyone can access it. It took me only a few minutes and all for 25 Finnish marks - the price of a glass of beer.A little further down the same road - there is an unusual bookshop where you can order books that are difficult to get. I chose what was translated to me as Shakespeare's The Storm. There is just time for a cup of coffee. By the time you have finished drinking it, the text has been downloaded from the internet and bound in the next room in an attractive cover. The next stage will offer this service to the 97% of people whose manuscripts are rejected by publishers. You can publish it here yourself.Upstairs in the restored Art Deco Glass Palace (now a flourishing media centre) is a public library with free internet access which is expected to clock up 1.2m visitors by the end of its first year, more than 20% of Finland's population. Other experiments in the media building include ways of enabling people to make and transmit their own films costing no more than &#163;2,000 on the internet.When it comes to mobile   telephony, Helsinki is where it is all happening. Some 65% of Finnish people now have mobile phones (compared with less than 10% five years ago). Nowhere else in the world even approaches this level apart from Sweden (under 55%). And if the very young and very old are excluded then 85% of the active working population is online, or, more accurately, not online. Finland, led by Helsinki, is the first country to have become a "networked" economy in which mobile communications are so widespread that not to be part of it is to be excluded.Britain, where market penetration is still below 25% (though growing exponentially) will almost certainly follow suit in a few years. This is why so many observers are scurrying to Helsinki. They want to see what is happening in the country with the second greatest proportion of internet users (after the United States). It is also - thanks to Nokia, the world's biggest mobile phone manufacturer - leading the world in the next phase of the information revolution. This is when   mobile phones will link easily to the world wide web for banking, share dealing, newsgathering, messaging and goodness knows what else.It doesn't stop there. Helsinki is poised to confirm its credentials as the world's most wired (and unwired) city with its Arena 2000 project. This will give fast broadband access to the internet (the capacity to transmit data like live video as well as to receive it) to most of its citizens. By contrast British Telecom's asymmetric approach will offer broadband only for reception (for services like video-on-demand). The city (whose guest I was) is also well advanced in its plans to build a "virtual" Helsinki on the internet. This will enable citizens to do anything from tracking where the nearest buses or taxis are to ordering pizzas. Parents will even be able to see where their children are in the city (as long as they leave their mobiles on).The brains behind this project is Risto Linturi, the guru attached to Helsinki Telephone whose own house just outside Helsinki city by the sea is an icon of the information age.Approaching it through his garden (automatically watered with sensors checking the level of dampness) he   aims his console at the door to open it. If someone rings the bell while he is away in, say, London or Paris, it connects to his mobile so he can talk to whoever is there and let them in remotely.We enter the house, designed by the Finnish architect Asko Caipainen, walking past the control room (containing 300 microchips) through rooms where the lights automatically and unobtrusively turn on and off as we pass."The house knows whenever a room is empty," he says, "so there is no reason to circulate the normal level of air, just minimal." The biggest consumer of electricity he points out is us: we could save 30% by changing the air conditioning so it is doing only what is necessary. He adds that it takes the equivalent of one man-year for a four-person family to switch the lights on and off over the course of a lifetime.He dismisses inevitable comparisons with the $40m lakeside mansion built for Bill Gates, boss of Microsoft in Seattle. Unlike Gates he doesn't have digital pictures on the wall (on the grounds that the essence of a picture is its originality). Nor does he   make people carry electronic badges to tag their movements. "The kids could accept that the House knew it was occupied as long as it doesn't know who is in each room."When the next generation of "Bluetooth" short wave wireless technology arrives shortly (enabling computers, phones and other devices to communicate without being restricted to the line-of-sight vision of infra-red) he will be able to move from room to room with his favourite music following him through.The crucial difference with the Microsoft chairman is, he says, that the Gates house "would require to know where I am". In Linturi's case "the phone knows where my phone is not the house". This is a crucial point to him about whether we are driving the technology or it us. "If the phone knows where the phone is then you are in control. I trust the phone and can always turn it off . . . the phone doesn't know who owns the phone. The essential issue is that people trust the phone. It is my ultimate remote controller. No one thinks of it as Big Brother."Linturi's liberating view of the phone permeates Helsinki Telephone's vision of the future through Arena 2000. The crux of the plan is to give phased broadband   internet access to all Helsinki's citizens.This difference is crucial for Linturi's emphasis on inclusion. "My view is that video-on-demand is not important. My most important contribution is that everyone can transmit."He has been urging manufacturers for years to make equipment enabling ordinary users to multicast or transmit their own voice and video to different destinations simultaneously. This sets the Finnish inclusive model (which gave the world Linux an operating system belonging to everyone) apart from the US hierarchical one.But what will people do with broadband transmission? Students, he says, won't need to go the college if it is raining and doctors in remote places will have face-to-face discussions (via the screen) with experts or with their patients.Watching television would become a shared experience like going to the cinema. Why? Because you could watch a friend's TV screen remotely from a web camera in your own home. You could either zoom in so their screen takes up the full size of yours or you can zoom out so you can see everyone else watching in the remote location and talk to them. Working from home would also be a shared   experience because you could see and talk to colleagues in the office on your screen."Suppose you belong to an MG sports car appreciation society," says Linturi. "You could email other members to tell them that at 6pm tomorrow you will have your net camera in your garage to repair your carburettor. This could be more important for 50 people than watching a soap opera. What counts is not only quality but content - how meaningful it is to you."The virtual city will take inclusion further. It is a 3D model of the city on the internet accessed through your computer. When it comes on stream next year, citizens will be able to move down the virtual streets stopping at a house to telephone the dweller or ordering food at a restaurant.You will be able to see where the nearest taxis and buses are because they will be tracked live. When mobile phones have micro-miniaturised locational devices (as they will very soon) then parents will know exactly where their children are (as long as they don't switch off). You could even track the progress your pizza delivery."If there is a fire in a building," says Linturi, "then the fire department could click on the screen and phone everyone in that building to say 'wake up'."Won't this be a boon for burglars? Not at all, he says, because all calls are catalogued and can be traced.The virtual city will also make it easier to access government documents, though Helsinki already puts policy documents on the internet and encourages citizens to email their representativesIsn't there a downside to all this? Isn't the mobile phone revolution divisively encouraging horizontal relations between youngsters so their parents no longer knew what is going on? "Kids have always been able to hide what they   have been doing. Mobiles bring families together because you can keep control of where they are. In companies they (phones and email) enable everyone to be involved in decisions. It breaks hierarchies giving more power to expert groups."What about the anti-social behaviour associated with mobiles? Finnish people h e says, have learned how to speak softly into them on buses and to switch off in public places like cinemas. There are even signs that in schools (where it is not uncommon for nearly everyone in class to have a mobile) a code of behaviour is emerging. In any case, devices are used to detect mobiles not switched off in classrooms.Mobiles have changed behaviour patterns . "Kids" he says, "no longer make fixed decisions where to go. They change their minds on the fly &#91;through sending short text messages on their phones&#93;. You can leave for a meeting and not know where you are going. People are herd animals, but now much better connected to the herd. Like a shoal of fish, everyone moves simultaneously."In corporations, decision-makers can be reached immediately. In Finland it has happened more than in other countries and subordinates give advice to their bosses on running their businesses. "In this culture," says Linturi, "if bosses want to be important then they should leave their phone open or be left out."Email, he adds, has enabled people to get rid of the limitations of time and space because you can handle voice and email when it suits you and not instantaneously. Colleagues no longer have to be on the same corridor or follow the same deadlines as they used to.The world is rapidly changing. And what Helsinki does today...
The next little thingAfter being touted around for a while, Palm Computing - maker of the Palm Pilot handheld organiser - was bought for $44m by modem-maker US Robotics, which was then bought for $6.6bn by network hardware manufacturer 3Com. It didn't seem an entirely happy result, and Palm's founders, Donna Dubinsky and Jeff Hawkins, left to start a new company,Handspring.Now 3Com has decided Palm would be better off as a separate company, and said this week that it would be hived off. But also this week, Handspring announced its own new handheld, Visor - a faster and more flexible machine using the same Palm operating system.That's good news for users, but may not be the best result for Palm. If 3Com had decided to liberate Palm earlier, says Hawkins, he wouldn't have left, and the Visor would have   been a Palm machine, not a competitor.3D GeForceMeanwhile, 3Com has not been idle, releasing a UK-only Palm III Special Edition, targeted at the "style conscious 20+ age group." Following the fashion for iMac, the Parm III SE has a transparent flip case, sharper display and a range of carry case accessories. It's available, through Dixons only, for &#163;199.99.Paging netThe British Library reckons it's the first public institution    to launch a free internet service. So why pick the BL's ISP rather than one from a high-street chain or a nightclub? Access to Opac 97, the online catalogue of British Library collections, plus the BL's web services and resources. For more on British Library Net, seewww.bl.ukor emailBritishLibrary-net@bl.uk3D GeForceNvidia has followed up the success of its Riva TNT2 graphics system with the GeForce 256 graphics processing chip, designed to deliver even faster 3D graphics. The GeForce can take   advantage of the latest technologies including Intel's AGP 4x connection and Microsoft's DirectX 7 software.Stop startPace has unveiled the first set-top box with a pause and record feature for live programmes, without the need for a video recorder. Inside the box are two tuners, taking a TV stream each, and a 15 gigabyte hard disk - enough to record eight hours of telly.The boxes will let you pause a live programme when, say, the phone rings, and restart the action from the point you left off when you finish the call. You will also, the company claims, be able to record programmes at a quality higher than that of traditional videos.First callDorothy Cheng says she is sorry she didn't get to British Telecom in time. When BT launched what it claimed was the world's first multimedia payphone (Online, July 22) her Hong Kong-based company had more than a thousand installed, mostly in Hong Kong and China. Following a deal with American phone giant AT&amp;T, the first iMagic PowerPhone was installed at JFK airport in   New York in April. Cheng is now looking for European partners.Cheap namesUK2.NETthinks it would be fun to give people their own .co.uk internet domain names as birthday and Christmas presents, and has slashed the price to &#163;1.99 a year. Buyers also have to pay Nominet, the British registration authority, its two-year &#163;5 fee, bringing the total to &#163;8.98. UK2.NET is offering bulk deals for 10 names.19 degrees of separationIt may not feel like it as you root around a search engine in a futile effort to find what you're after, but a new report says you're only ever a few clicks of the mouse away from where you want to be.A study by Albert-Laszlo Barabasi of the University of Notre Dame, published last week in Nature, found that any two pages of the 800m on the web are, on average, only 19 clicks apart.The revelation that the web is very big, but not very deep, could even help you in the future: and the research could help search engine designers as they seek better ways to index the web.
Want to get the lowdown on black music of all descriptions, black culture or products supplied by black businesses? Well there are no shortages of sites to surf to on the web.A large number of these sites are American and long-established. If you want to swot up on black history, tryAfroameric@and find facts on slavery in the US or the Black Panthers. And if you want to search for some music trywww.blackmusicarchive.co.ukwhich will find pretty much anything for you.But curiously if you want to tap into black politics and anti-racist action the number of sites dwindles.While white supremacist sites have bloomed on the net, anti-racist sites carrying counteracting material do not exist in the same numbers. The UK has theCampaign Against Racism &amp; Fascismsite detailing current campaigns and concerns but there aren't too many others.America is the obvious place to look but it is a black public service site in the UK which appears to have outstripped the popularity of rivals and gets 1.2m hits a month from all over the world including many African-Americans.Run by the 1990 Trust, a national black organisation set up to promote good race relations from a grassroots black perspectivewww.blink.org.ukoffers everything from the facility to email your MP or the chance to sign up to the bone marrow donor register (there is a dearth of black donors) to the opportunity to scan the latest press cuttings on issues of black interest.Blink stands for Black   information Link and Lee Jasper of the 1990 Trust says that the site is well in advance of anything black America or any other country is doing on the web."We're really standing on the deck of starship Blink on this one," he says.It is the only site on the web to carry all the transcripts of the McPherson inquiry held following the death of black teenager Stephen Lawrence.On the day the report was published it was placed on the Blink website and received 60,000 hits.Winner of GreenNet's Networker of the Year award and nominated by the New Statesman for the New Media Advocacy Now award, the site is expanding its coverage on an almost daily basis.The section of the site which catalogues the appalling racism suffered by Asian shopkeeper Mal Hussain who runs a general store on Lancaster's Ryelands Estate with his partner Linda Livingstone has won a "cool site" accolade from Netscape.Hussain and Livingstone have endured eight years of both physical and verbal race attacks. Despite repeated appeals from the couple, police and council officers became involved   only belatedly in tackling the racism and the abuse continues. The site offers people practical ways to give cash and moral support to the couple to help them get off the estate.Although Blink is used in equal measure by academics, students and ordinary people, one of its key aims is to act as a bridge between a sometimes disenchanted, disenfranchised black community and the establishment.The left-hand corner of the home page carries the quotation: "The inventions of humankind are not the property of any race to be used to gain artificial superiority. Technology can be as much an instrument of liberation as it is of domination. Liberators must gain control of these new technologies and employ them for the proper advance of all humanity."When a green or white paper is published of   relevance to the black community, it goes onto the site so that comments can be fed in and then passed onto government.Many visitors to the site would otherwise be unlikely to come across such documents.Things are hotting up for the 1999 Labour Party conference in Bournemouth and anyone keen to lobby or attend fringe meetings can tap intowww.blink.org.uk/bandung/fringe.htm.Those with medical conditions specifically affecting black people such as sickle cell anaemia, can find it hard to access information and best treatment advice if they live outside an urban area with a large black population. But if they seek outwww.sicklecellsociety.org, their information famine could be over.And if some of the stuff on the site seems too grown up tryhttp://youth/links.htmwhich contains a range of services for young people.As Jasper says: "If racism in the real world is not simply to be reflected in the cyberworld we need to have a substantive black presence on the net."It's important that information disadvantage doesn't become a new aspect of black discrimination."
Women onlineSo, women are "ready to shop"? (Are women the future of the web? September 9). This is good news? Is this the latest solution to "the problem that has no name". As ever, technology is presented  to women as liberationary when it accentuates stereotypical notions of what interests women and serves to keep them in their place.   "Intelligent, sassy, progressive content" served up for the "disgruntled housewife" in the interest of commerce and profits. Just as long as she does not become too disgruntled and ceases to be a "housewife".The numbers of women online tell us very little about what the impact of information and communications technology is having on women's lives, on relationships between members of households as they each vie for time and space at the home computer. My research into problems facing women who wish to use home computers for personal development and education has revealed attitudinal barriers from other members of the household and extended family.Shopping is fine. It threatens only the bank balance.   Pursuing education online, taking time away from duties as wife, mother, carer; sitting at the family computer writing an academic essay at tea-time!  Such activity is fundamentally challenging to the woman herself (who can experience feelings of guilt); to partners and other family members.  The web can liberate women and hopefully many will find, via online education in the broadest sense, that they are not interested in shopping anymore.Cathy BurkeLecturer in Child and   Family Studies  Bretton Hall CollegeTV troubleIf Argos doesn't honour the orders for televisions placed, and finds legal precedent for its decision, it will effectively kill electronic commerce in England and Wales.   There are three components to our contract law: offer, acceptance and consideration. Argos offered televisions for sale for £3 on its website. Clicking the "place order" button is the online equivalent of taking the item to the pay desk.   Offer and acceptance doesn't constitute a contract. But, once you have filled out your credit card details, and received a "your order has been processed", you have the components of a contract.Argos refusing to honour the sale at that point is rather like a customer going back into a shop and saying, "I didn't really want to buy it, it was a mistake", to which the obvious reply would be "too late, mate".  If all e-businesses started to cancel orders at this stage the online shopping market would dwindle.James Snodgrassjames@snodgrass.comStreet credWe seem to have upset two of your readers compared to the zillions who, following your article on government data, wrote to us congratulating UpMyStreet on a job well done.  For Pauline Fyfe, we are very actively sourcing Scottish data, which is proving rather more difficult than for England and Wales. We clearly indicate in the HELP area of our site that this data is currently unavailable for Scotland and Northern Ireland. We'll let you know of our progress.   To Matthew Huntbach, try clicking on the hyperlink at the bottom of the secondary schools table - all the information you accused us of not supplying is provided!Tony Blin-StoyleManaging DirectorUpMyStreet.com LtdLinux problemChris Lynas' excellent article on the SUSE Linux distribution (Online, September 9) urges us to "try surfing the web with Netscape running on Linux and you'll be amazed".   Sadly, this is something almost no new PCs could do. The vast majority of the modems supplied with new PCs are Winmodem-type - the cards themselves basically contain only the port, and a substantial part of the job of the modem is actually done by the Windows driver.   The problem is that none of the manufacturers supplies a driver that functions with Linux, and Linux developers are finding it very difficult   to reverse-engineer the   Winmodem drivers to produce a Linux-friendly driver.   So to use the net with Linux, most of us, need to shell out for an external, or an ISA internal, model - setting you back something between £40 and £80.Adam Williamsonadam@scisoft.force9.co.ukChristopher Lynas was so enthusiastic I decided to try SuSE myself.   On trying to order it from www.suse.com I was told there was a product restriction which prevented shipping some/all of the products to my region.   In addition, the link to the UK retailer was dead. What have they got against Hertfordshire? Or is this, as I suspect, a UK restriction? In which case where did Christopher order his from and can he get me one to make up for wasting my time?Jon DeanSawbridgeworth, HertsThe word on the street is that Linux is brilliant. But while I know whether I prefer Oasis or Blur - because I know what I like - I haven't seen any objective criteria applied in comparing Linux (or Unix) with Windows. Please, please, please let us have a sound comparison.Douglas Belld.h.bell@shu.ac.ukKDE webIn mentioning KDE (the   K Desktop Environment) (Online, September 9), unfortunately there was no reference to our website which is available at www.kde.org and contains lots of information about both the K desktop and the project that created it. KDE is an Open Source project developed entirely by volunteers, and is now one of the largest free software projects ever.  KDE 2.0 is currently under rapid development, and will include some major features and applications including an office suite (word processor, presentation program, drawing program etc.), pluggable look and feel, support for MS Windows shares and more.Richard Moorerich@ipso-facto.freeserve.co.ukPok*monSo the Nintendo marketing machine is rolling out in time to frustrate us all at Christmas? Well some of us have beaten them!   The Pok*mon cartoon has been broadcast on Sky 1 for about the last four or five months,without much of a fanfare. My children aged nine and 12 got hooked and we have found numerous websites dedicated to Pok*mon, been able to order Pok*mon toys online, and found imported copies of Pok*mon red and blue in our local games shop.   We have even managed to buy a cuddly Pikachu, and light up Psyduck, from a small toyshop in Cornwall!   So I won't be joining the queues outside Toys R Us this year, Hoorah!!Megan BoxwellHagley, WorcsCensorshipThis week's Web Life was extraordinary in its pushing software filters, aka "censorware". The article failed to canvass any of the negatives, such as:&#149; These are unregulated products, largely produced in the United States, a number carry right wing values and most block gay, lesbian, feminist and sometimes health-related information pages;&#149;  Young people are obtaining large amounts of information and support via the net. Censorware controls this largely through fear;&#149; They are effectively privatised censorship;&#149;  Censorware may breach fair trading legislation because lists of blocked sites are regarded as "trade secrets";&#149;  The government is not supporting "British values" censorware.Here's a scenario to consider. A twelve year old girl is being molested by her father. She seeks support online. She is blocked from access because her surfing is being logged and she is afraid.Paul Canningcanning@rainbow.net.auNo starsI was all set to get excited about StarOffice until I read Vic Keegan's description of it (A week in view, September 9) as "a near clone" of Microsoft Office. Who needs another one, for God's sake?   On upgrading Office from version 4.2 to 97 at work, and Outlook from 97 to 98, I've found my routine tasks taking twice as many mouse clicks, my screen full of garbage thanks to buggy redrawing routines whenever I paste a picture into Word, and the problem with display of URLs in Outlook documents still unfixed.  The amusing cartoon dog might take my mind off it all if only he stopped popping up every time I type "Dear Sir" with the astute observation that: "It looks as if you're writing a letter".Well thanks, freakin' Einstein! The former hardship of having to name files things like qzwjx99a.xls starts to seem trivial in comparison.   Oh yeah, the menu titles now light up when I move my mouse over them.   Forgive me if I seem underwhelmed.  Is it too much to ask that someone might try to compete with Microsoft's application software on the territory of good design and simplicity of use?   Perhaps if PC makers want to "take the battle back to the iMacs" (page 12, same issue) they should concentrate less on the colour of the case and more on the shit they stuff it with?Tom HawkinsHeaton Moor, StockportMac smackedIt's not bad journalism to report that there were doubters at the announcement of the G4 processor. However, it is bad journalism to reprint unedited Apple press releases, which is what Neal Jackson (Feedback, September 9) seems keen on doing. Doubtless he would be very glad to read doubts concerning Wintel machines.  Remember guys, Jobs doesn't personally invent these processors - you owe more to Motorola. Jobs wraps them up in coloured plastic boxes.   The trouble is you have to run his fantastically out of date OS on the thing and do without the advantage of proper multi-tasking or memory protection. But no doubt the MacPolice will defend anything he puts in the box.   How about changing your name to Neal Jobs'-son?Michael AndrewsLondon NW4
It goes under the graceless name of EST, but at least it goes, and soon it could decide for itself where it goes. The name stands for environmental sensor for telepresence, and it's Yorkshire's answer to R2D2 from Star Wars.It will, says Kia Ng, of the Leeds university department of computer studies, go where humans fear to tread. Now it experiments with unusual views of offices and living rooms; tomorrow it could feel the force but keep its cool inside nuclear reactors.Machines like EST are designed to decide for themselves the best way to capture reality. After that, humans can start rebuilding the picture in fine detail from a safe distance.The robot is equipped with a videocamera and a laser rangefinder. It makes a two dimensional image of the view from its lens, and uses a laser (set at a safe power level) to measure the distance of each surface from the camera. From this, a software package begins to assemble a three-dimensional picture. The aim   is to have a robot that will work out for itself how to capture the whole picture with the fewest, or least dangerous, manoeuvres.The university is working with industry and European laboratories. An autonomous version (AEST) is under test in Lisbon, with a more precise - and more dangerous laser system. "It is capable of navigation for itself," says Dr Ng. "It can run around in the corridor, in the lab and so on. There is just one problem: it doesn't go down staircases. It has a sonar sensor so it can detect the sudden loss of ground so that it can find the staircase edge and not go over."Dr Ng and colleagues have already used EST as a kind of mechanical estate agent, building a detailed picture of a Leeds living room with furniture and furnishings   around which remote viewers can "fly" in virtual reality.It is also possible to alter the reality; the team have patched in a different carpet and then "joined" the living room to a university office miles away so that the viewer can step from one to the other, through a screen doorway.They have even been able to "populate" the room with the image of a woman volunteer, apparently perching on a seat in Leeds, but actually sitting on a bench in Italy.The experiment is an exercise in precision: EST and AEST need to move about to build up pictures in three dimensions. Humans can look at a computer and imagine what lies behind it; computers cannot. The laser cannot see through glass, so there are "black holes" where windows and computer screens might be.People using EST to explore the dangerous interior of a nuclear reactor won't be troubled by shortcomings over soft furnishings, but, says Dr Ng, the system could play a role in creating pictures of heritage sites.This virtual surveillance could be used in security networks, to calculate an intruder's progress across the blind spots between monitoring cameras. "It's an easy way of collecting lots of data," he says.
You are not the only one who doesn't know what's going online in your local area. If you visitShropshire.Net, you can discover what Ludlow on Sundays has to offer - in 1997.Click on the website of that chattering class capital,Islington.Org, and you'll probably only find deafening silence on their talk boards.The internet's ability to go local has huge implications for politics and profit-making. Net legend is already littered with local groups, like the Zapatistas in Mexico, who enhanced their identities onlinewww.ezln.org. But there seems to be dearth of grassroots groups, local governments or mass corporations in Britain willing to create vibrant local communities on the internet.Newsquest is one of the few companies to have spotted the profitability of going local. The third largest regional newspaper publisher in Britain, it launched the first British local newspaper on the internet in June 1995 and, two years ago, developed the concept of "digital communities".This network of some 40 local sites, fromThis Is The Black CountrytoThis Is York, uses the same basic design to take news from local papers mixed with centrally-produced national news, adding sections for expat chat (expats form nearly 50% of the visitors to its communities), online dating, and   searchable databases of local businesses and entertainment."When we started it was a purely defensive operation," says Iain Aiken, managing director of digital media at Newsquest. "But our attitude has changed radically." Newsquest now sees its internet arm as "a separate business" says Aiken, which complements local papers.It's not surprising Newsquest has become so positive about its local communities when its internet operations are making a profit- something many online news operations would die for. Bolstered by the "This Is" sites' burgeoning car, job and property classified services - compiled from local classified ads in partnership with other regional publishers - Newsquest's internet operation made a &#163;500,000 profit in 1998. It is predicted to grow to &#163;2m to 3m this year.Newsquest will launch This Is Britain in the autumn, together with Associated Newspapers, Manchester Evening News Group, Northcliffe and Trinity. Aiken promises this portal will offer more of the same winning formula: a near-national coverage of local news, with "an overall conformity in look, feel and function".But conformity and profit are anathema to many visions of local online communities.Discovery Bay Online Communitywas set up for the 13,000 residents on the north-eastern shore of Lantau Island, Hong Kong. Run by Catherine Chin, a   local web designer, the site is far from revolutionary. The Zapatistas would not be impressed by its lengthy list of the city rules, including: "Owners of dripping or noisy air-conditioners are liable to prosecution by the relevant government authorities". But it offers an active, up-to-date local forum, with details of public transport, schools, a local photo-gallery, a community calendar and discussions about the state of the DB "hood", which range from people criticising the use of mobile phones on the ferry to hopes for a new Irish theme pub.It is not surprising that Discovery Bay boasts a lively local community online when this affluent, info-rich region is widely touted as Hong Kong's hottest spot for internet start-ups. The absence of online communities in Britain is invariably connected to a lack of access and resources. Nevertheless, internet activity in south London suggests these obstacles are not insurmountable."We believe that the battle for free internet and computer access should be at the centre of the struggle for social reform at the start of the 21st century," saysInternet Future, a Kennington-based co-operative which offers low-cost internet access. Just down the road liesBrixton Online, a conspicuous local community website success.Established by local companies and voluntary organisations, it provides internet training, local web services, and a website with   news and comprehensive local listings. Recognising the importance of entrepreneurial e-commerce, Brixton Online also hosts Shout It Loud, claiming to be Britain's first online MP3 label, and hopes to become a testbed for local e-commerce by linking online shopping to delivery from local suppliers. Most importantly, it is an active community, inviting - and getting - local people to write features and voice their own opinions.Wendy Slark is one person who found her voice by turning to the internet. A breeder of Old English sheepdogs who felt victimised by her local council, she learned html and set upThe Owestry Borough Council Funsite. She describes it as "an internet scrapbook": it indicts the failings of the local council through newspaper cuttings, letters and lively polemic.The internet "gives ordinary, poor people like myself opportunities unheard of   before," she says. "If the council writes a letter, I can put it on the internet. Before the newspapers could hold sway and decide the best story for them. Now that's all changed. Anyone who wants to know the truth can tap into any number of websites and have both or more sides of any case presented to them."Since launching her site in May, she has been deluged by feedback from local people, had further clashes with the council, and "appeared" in the local newspaper, which erroneously described her website as the anonymous work of a "mystery critic".Just as one of the liveliest discussions on Discovery Bay's website concerns South China Morning Post's "vendetta" against it, so local online communities draw strength and character from a dissatisfaction with more distant media or government sites. Local communities catch sight of how they are represented in the traditional   media, don't recognise what they see, and so turn to the web.At present, in Britain, there is little to turn to. The "This Is" paradigm for local newspapers online, with its level of interactivity stretching about as far as dating services and an old-fashioned "letters" page, is unlikely to foster dynamic online communities.And, despite local councils opening town hall doors this week to mark Local Democracy Week, few (such as Lambeth, which recently relaunched its website in partnership with Brixton Online), actually attempt to interact with their constituents online and most only offer a sterile, self-promoting list of services.Owestry Borough Council does not even have an official website. But, if it had, it would be unlikely to cause as much of a stir in the local community as Wendy Slark's. As she says: "It would be conducted by the chief wizard who would put on it exactly what he wanted to appear and nothing else".
Are you  ready to play?Sony's PlayStation2 should be available in the UK in about one year's time, according to an announcement made in Tokyo on Monday. Sony said its next-generation games console would go on sale in Japan on March 4, 2000, at a suggested retail price of 39,800 yen - nominally about £230, although £299 sounds more likely.The PSX2 will have a built-in DVD-rom drive to run DVD and CD-rom programs, including games written for the PlayStation. It will be supplied with a Dual Shock2 controller and an 8MB memory card, and will weigh 2.1kg. The PSX2 will also be networked and capable of handling electronic transactions.The company said: "Sony Computer Entertainment 
will establish broadband distribution of digital content, beginning with the PlayStation and PlayStation2 software libraries.
With an Ethernet connection to a broadband network such as digital cable, 
PlayStation2 users will be able to download data-intensive computer entertainment content to hard-disc drives to be provided by Sony Computer Entertainment." 
This facility is expected to arrive with a PC Card-based expansion module in 2001.X marks the BoxMicrosoft is secretly developing a $300 games machine, according to Next Generation magazine, and Dell and Gateway are being tipped as possible manufacturers.
"Speculation and rumour," said Microsoft, and all reports remain unconfirmed.The X-Box was reportedly shown to selected software developers at the Olympia Hilton, close to the site of last week's ECTS (European Computer Trade Show).UK-based trade magazine MCV quotes an anonymous Hilton visitor on the system's specifications: "PC-based, under $200, DVD, Nvidia graphics and internet-capable, with no royalty fee for supporting it."
Microsoft has already made itself a top five games publisher, and a leading supplier of joysticks and game control pads. 
It also supplies the Windows CE operating system used in the Sega Dreamcast, which is 
due to be launched here 
on October 14.Taped outTDK is well known for its blank media, especially cassette tapes. But next month it plans to enter the publishing business in Europe with two new companies, Tdkids and TDK Mediactive, based in Luxembourg.Tdkids will start with a series of "fun learning for kids" software such as Babe and Friends, an animated pre-school adventure. Later, it will add children's cartoon series on VHS tape. 
TDK Mediactive will market music titles on VHS and DVD, including classical releases from The Berliner Philharmonic.Solid sellerKonami's Metal Gear Solid is still holding its position as the best selling game of the year in the UK, having shifted 318,000 copies up to July 31. GTI's Driver is in second place (262,300), followed by EA's Fifa 99 (230,700) and Eidos Interactive's Championship Manager 3 (210,900).And finallyÉ.Electronic Arts has released Square Software's Final Fantasy VIII - the latest version of the world's most popular role-playing game - in a Sony PlayStation 
version in Japan.
For more than a decade I have wondered why cars aren't fingerprint activated; you can lose your keys but you rarely lose your fingers.The installation cost would surely be much less than the insurance savings. And there's the rub; the insurance companies don't want safer cars.My latest puzzlement is over censorship and pornography. We have all the means of controlling its accessibility but we prefer rather, it seems, to be outraged than spared.There are three classes of precaution we could take immediately to protect children from television and internet pornography.First, and fundamentally, all internet publishers, broadcasters and correspondents (this last   refers primarily to email) should be legally bound to sign all content which must be traceable to a registered source and information carriers should be obliged to wipe any unsigned material.This, incidentally, would take care of a good deal of the confusion over copyright and it would leave all content governed by the same intellectual property and obscenity legislation. Anybody can then publish or broadcast what they like, running the risk of prosecution.At the same time, ISPs would not be asked to censor material, simply to ensure that it has an acknowledged origin.The analogy would be with toll collectors who are not responsible for road-worthiness but might be given the power to forbid   access to vehicles without a registration plate.At a lower level of control, it is possible to install all kinds of security devices to stop unwanted access, from fingerprint to iris print activation, from PIN activated remote control devices to encryption.A third but less satisfactory alternative would be to establish a body similar to that which licenses films, to determine what is pornographic.It could then charge publishers to cover its costs and insist that all pornography, so defined, can be purchased only with a charge or credit card.This would not solve the problem of free, exhibitionist filth but it would put a stop to the ridiculous situation whereby adults cannot watch material because   it is not suitable for children.As a back-up, age could be incorporated into credit card numbers with a bar - in case there are any primary school children lucky enough to have one.The protection of children in internet discussions is a sham. Currently United States legislators are invoking the protection of children to stop fine wine being sold on the internet.Setting aside the obvious objection- that if children want alcohol they will buy lager at the local store rather than Alexander Valley on the internet - the legislation appears to be simply a front for the preservation of the USA's liquor distribution monopolies.So it is with pornography on the television and the internet; we could stop the   lot, now. We could refuse to give the kids our entertainment PINs, programme PCs and search engines to bar named sites or sites with named key words or, conversely, define areas where the browser may roam free. We could refuse to buy equipment without adequate password protection or without hardware controls like those I have suggested.So why don't we? The answer, surely, is that just as certain people use pornography as part of their masturbation ritual, we use outrage against pornography as part of our intellectual masturbation ritual.We are indulging ourselves in a kind of inverted prurience; and if we deprived ourselves of it we would have to find something else to condemn. But we might as well keep what we have, particularly if we can take a peep now and again to remind ourselves of what it is that makes us so angry.Like many a celebrated teenage lyricist, many of us simply can't stop wanting to see that girl even if she's left us for another guy.
Boxer fails to pack a punchKOPC-CD-rom  £29.99 Data Becker (01420 22707)With the popularity of boxing seemingly on the wane and in desperate need of another Ali, Frazier or Marciano, KO is trying to alter the drift by offering you the chance to mould a contender, win plenty of bouts and generally drag the sport off the ropes.After installing, you meet a thoughtfully designed boxing-belt menu, which allows you to fight or create. Shaping a new champion, Don King style, is the most satisfying aspect, if only because it delays you entering the ring. Admittedly, creating a bruising Scots slugger, complete with kilt, is amusing, but the ringside action lets KO down.Swooping cameras, Miami Vice-style synthpop and a cardboard cutout crowd struggle to conjure up an atmosphere and before long you're into the action. The controls are simple enough, although your monitor screen Rocky can be slow to react.  All seems well until the punches start to land. The weedy sound effects give little impression of force and without some overemphasised thwacks there is little indication of how much damage your punch has caused.This gives you scant warning that your wavering pugilist is about to hit the canvas and, combined with the sluggish movement, causes severe frustration.  In its favour, KO is laden with options, including an authentically gruff trainer in the practice mode, but the slow moving fisticuffs, poor punching effects and lack of inconsistent judges means KO is a long way off heavyweight glory. (GH)Promise betrayedTraitors GatePC CD-rom DaydreamThe main drawback to point-and-click adventures was always the endless dragging of the mouse pointer round the screen in search of that elusive hot spot.   Up that annoyance quota by a factor of 10 for Traitors Gate, which features the problem in 3D!At least the premise is original: you play Raven, an American agent on a mission to replace the Crown Jewels with fakes to prevent a rogue Pentagon staffer pulling off the crime of the century.Ergo, lots of time sneaking around the Tower of London, picking locks, pilfering tools and generally avoiding detection (you're also forbidden to kill Beefeaters).The Tower is well realised - although the various characters look like Action Men that have been left by the fire - but all in all there's way too much sightseeing and not enough doing.With its irksome interface, unchallenging puzzles and four CDs of sewers, gates and dungeons, Traitors Gate amounts to little more than an unguided tour of an overrated tourist attraction. (AB)
An independent watchdog monitoring the millennium bug problem was yesterday accused by business interests of "alarmism" and "doom-mongering" for advising people to avoid travelling for five weeks either side of the millennium, up to January 31 2000.In a statement that could discourage Britons from venturing off their sofas in the post-new year period for anything more long-haul than walking the dog or collecting a take-away pizza, Taskforce 2000 urged people to avoid all international travel unless "absolutely necessary".It would be "unwise" for business people and travellers to base their plans on optimistic government advice which was "unreliable", the executive director of Taskforce 2000, Robin Guenier, said.He poured scorn on foreign office guidelines issued yesterday which suggested that only one country out of 50 - the Ukraine - was at serious   risk of millennium bug disruption."I'm not saying planes will be falling out of the sky. But if you have failures of air traffic control, or baggage handling systems do not work, it could be exceptionally unpleasant," he warned. "I'm saying there is a high risk of things going wrong, so why risk it?"His organisation did not offer this advice lightly, he said: "Our concern is that the Y2K problem creates potential for extreme inconvenience and disruption around the world. The risks and dangers that may be a consequence are, on balance, not worth taking. If at all possible avoid international travel for a period of five weeks from a week before the date change through to 31 January, 2000."Mr Guenier's comments last night provoked a storm of derision from travel agents, airlines and business groups. "I'm absolutely flabbergasted by this. To suggest people should not travel for 35 days is crazy and irresponsible," said Keith Betton, spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents.British Airways said its fleet would be flying as usual through the millennium - mainly on long-haul routes - and immediately afterwards. "We would not be doing it if we did not think it was safe," a spokesman said.The Confederation of British   Industry described the watchdog's intervention as "not helpful" and "panic-mongering".Taskforce 2000, set up in 1996, has been at odds with the Labour government since ministers ended its grant two years ago and set up the more lavishly funded Action 2000.
When Nissan launched its new generation Primera in 1996, the motoring press concluded that it was an excellent family car. But potential buyers weren't convinced because the Primera's bland styling soon had them nodding off, and buying a Peugeot 406 instead. It seems Nissan dulled-down the Primera because that's what the Japanese domestic market demanded. And it also launched the car without a 1.8-litre engine - even though it's by far the most popular size in Britain. Now, if the Primera was truly a Japanese car, all this would be understandable. But our Primeras are actually built in Sunderland, for sale in Europe.Nissan soon realised its mistake and now you can buy a new Europe-only Primera, which Nissan claims has 600 major changes. I've been test-driving the 1.8S hatchback. The first thing you notice is that, although the basic Primera shape is still there, this new car looks sharper, although the saloon is still no looker. Even the hatchback needs a decent metallic colour and a set of chunky alloy wheels to pass muster. However, the new car will be smart enough for any but the hardcore aesthete, and everyone will enjoy Nissan's new 1.8-litre engine. It's got variable valve timing, so it pulls smoothly from low revs and goes hard when you need it to. The engine also delivers near 40mpg while passing emission tests that won't be in force until 2005.Nissan has also worked hard on noise reduction, and claims the new car is 40% quieter at cruising speed. And the "projector" headlamps illuminate the road so well you should probably avoid airfields - in case a jumbo lands on you! Out on the road, the new model feels very like the old one: crisp steering, a lovely gear change, a perfectly sorted driving position and a general feeling of solidity. The ride is decent, too, and the restyled interior is comfier. Reliability shouldn't be a problem either, because Nissan has earned a reputation for screwing its Primeras together skilfully.The Primera S comes with ABS, airbags and three 3-point seat belts in the back - and a clever device which pushes the brakes harder when the ABS cuts in, as drivers have a habit of lifting off when they feel the brake pedal pulse. If it were my money I'd go for the Primera 1.8S, because the entry-level 1.6E makes do with an old engine and less safety kit. And unless a grateful employer is paying I'd steer clear of the higher models, too, because the 1.8S has all the standard equipment you'll need, including air-con.Although Nissan's stylists have worked wonders with the inside and outside of the Primera, it still isn't exactly a style icon.And with an on-the-road price in the region of &#163;15,300, the Primera 1.8S represents solid rather than really tempting value, since &#163;200 more will buy you the more powerful and arguably more stylish Honda Accord 1.8iS. But even so, this new Primera is still well worth a test drive.
What are you driving?In England, a Caribbean blue, 1981 Bentley T2. It's the old Silver Shadow, my car's minder, Larry, tells me. In America, where I work for part of each year, I drive a red, 10-year-old Acura Legend (Sports). Doyle, the US version of Larry, says red cars are stopped more often. I haven't been stopped yet.What do they say about you?That I'm adaptable, perhaps, or just like a pleasing design.What's good or bad about them?The Bentley is comfortable, quiet and stylish, but it costs more than &#163;50 to fill the tank. The Acura feels a bit low-slung compared to the sports utility vehicles and mini-vans that are all the rage in California. But a full tank costs $17.Why did you buy them?As a child in South Norwood, I occasionally spotted an elegent Bentley cruising soundlessly past our road. When I grow up, I fantasised, I'll have one. I haven't grown up yet but I've got one! As for the Acura, Doyle said it was an incredible bargain at $10,000.What kind of driver are you?Cautious. My wife, Rosalind, drives faster. She also uses her brakes more.Any driving test tales?The first time I took my US test, the examiner failed me for not entering the freeway fast enough! "But I'd have smashed into the traffic on the inside," I pleaded. He didn't care.What was your first car?An Austin A35. It looked like a grey field mouse. I think its previous owner was a vicar's wife.Ever crashed, got a ticket or points?I've been lucky.What do you use your car for?Business and pleasure.Ever experienced road rage?Yes, this year - when I was caught in a jam on the way to perform in David Hare's play Skylight in LA. I was enraged with myself, but made it.What state is your car in?The Bentley is neat and tidy inside and needs repainting outside. The Acura is in good nick all round.What's in the boot?Bentley: spare tyre, wellingtons, umbrella. Acura: spare tyre and a coolbox to prevent the shopping from frying in the heat.Ever had sex in the cars?What do you think?What do you play on the road?Beethoven in the Bentley. Aaron Copland in the Acura.Who's your dream passenger?Rosalind - a natural pathfinder.
What's this then? A Tim Burton Batmobile? No it's the Gadafymobile, designed by the Libyan leader himself, apparently, and unveiled last week. Or was it the work of the joke committee asked to design a horse and came up with a camel? Hard to say, but the Gadafymobile is certainly a bit of a dromedary's breakfast and no match for the sleek Mercedes-Benzes, Jaguars and BMWs preferred by many besuited world leaders. But, if you happen to be a great leader or dictator, you want to cut a dash, to prove in as many ways possible, that you are a superman (or Batman in the colonel's case).In fact, 20th-century dictators - with their passion for energy, speed, running on Rome, that sort of thing - have generally been potty about cars. Big , powerful cars and preferably, in the days when dictators were bulletproof (bombproof in Hitler's case), open-topped so the people could see the leader's manly uniform, steely gaze and Chaplinesque posturing.Communist leaders liked big cars and lots of them. Brezhnev had a taste for Rolls-Royces (built by the heroic and horny-handed sons of Crewe; he had several and a notoriously bad driver slammed his '66 Silver Shadow into the back of a Moscow dumper truck). Ceaucescu enjoyed purring up and down the kitsch and monumental avenues he built in Bucharest in a big, black sod-you Buick, a present from that great, beloved leader of the democratic west, Richard Nixon.Democratic leaders have veered between ostentation and modesty, false or true. John F Kennedy was gunned down in a fabulous '63 Lincoln Continental that Leonid Brezhnev would have died for; he was given a later model by a toadying US government. Margaret Thatcher and John Major both plumped for massive, bulletproof Jaguars. Tony Blair drives, inevitably, a "people carrier" (or Volkswagen as Hitler would have called it) in the guise of a baseball-cap happy Chrysler Voyager. But Major Attlee opted for a tiny Austin piloted nobly by his lady wife.Because we tend to see 20th-century leaders arriving by car (in history books or in their curiously waxy flesh) their choice of car is important to them, and to us. We can read what we want to into their choice and are only occasionally surprised - as we must be in the case of...Idi AminThe most amazin' man that's ever bin, in the words of John Bird. This brutally savage African dictator baffled most of the people most of the time. Seemingly avuncular and unintentionally funny in virtually everything he said, he was a monster. But boy did he have taste in cars. True, the paintwork of his Citro&euml;n SM (Citro&euml;n Maserati sports coup&eacute;) was a rather questionable blaze red (this was the early 70s, era of orange, brown and Day-Glo green), but the car is truly superb, a kind of road-going Starship Enterprise, beloved of Wallpaper magazine and classic car mags. Amin liked to drive fast and recklessly, snarling the 135mph beast through Kampala. When not driving the SM, Amin liked to be seen in shades at the wheel of beefy 4x4s: Land   Rovers, Austin Champs; he crashed one, as depicted in the opening page of Giles Foden's novel The Last King of Scotland, when someone chucked a hand-grenade into the passenger's seat expecting him to be on that side of the car and not at the wheel.Joseph StalinUncle Jo's favourite motor can be seen, complete with a lifelike mannequin of the Soviet tsar in the back seat, in the Riga Motor Museum, Latvia. This was a special 1949 Zis eight-cylinder Soviet limo. The bulletproof glass was three inches thick, the car weighed seven tonnes (a little less than a Routemaster bus) and it did about 4mpg on a run. A suitably brobdingnagian car for a leader who caused the death of something like 30m of his comrades through war, famine, exile and execution. If you want to be a dictator, you have to think as big as a '49 Zis.Benito MussoliniMussolini liked to run, especially on Rome, as this showed he was (a) manly, (b) fit, and (c) lacking the smart open-topped six-cylinder Lancia he was given in later years.John F KennedyJFK would have looked cool in a Model-T Ford, but liked to be seen with the immaculately coutured Jackie in the latest swish black open-top limos, Lincolns and Cadillacs mostly. He was assassinated cruising through Dallas in a magnificent '63 Lincoln Continental, a truly fabulous machine. I once drove one from New York to Chicago in six smooth hours.Tony BlairThe leader of the New Labour movement drives a latter-day Volkswagen, a Chrysler Voyager. This shows loyalty to family, the US, Middle England and the Third Way. However, the Voyager  fared worst in a recent test assessing the damage done to these big people carriers in simulated head-on crashes; better off with a bulletproof Jag. John Prescott, deputy leader, drives two fat-cat, gas-guzzling Jags, although not necessarily at the same time.Adolf HitlerHitler loved Mercedes-Benzes. The parent company Daimler-Benz was decent to the upstart dictator and the F&uuml;hrer never lacked for some very smart cars. He never drove himself, but liked to be driven quickly along his new autobahnen. He favoured eight-cylinder open-topped models based on that automotive Valkyrie, the 770K Grosser Mercedes (K for Kompressor, or supercharger). He arrived in Vienna on March 14, 1938, in a military chic six-wheeled Mercedes G-4, the sort of car someone in post-production (whatever that is) might choose to negotiate the streets of Soho 60 years on. Hitler knew a lot about cars, and was the driving force behind the development of Professor Porsche's KdF-wagen (Strength through joy car, or Volkswagen as it came to be known). He showed good and remarkably modest taste in his early Nazi years, campaigning elections in a lightweight and sophisticated Tatra T-11 (1921). To show his appreciation, he stopped Tatra from producing its T-97 model shortly before the German invasion of Poland; Hans Ledwinka's ingenious car was too like Ferdinand Porsche's and Hitler's own Volkswagen.Margaret ThatcherWent on and on in Jags made by her favourite businessman, Sir John Egan, who rescued the Coventry car company from oblivion in 1984. Oh, well, just proves she wasn't all bad.Charles de GaulleThe French leader purred around in later years in converted Citro&euml;n DSs, cars with noses as long as his. An extra bay in the passenger cabin made for a futuristic car very different to those of fey contemporary British leaders. De Gaulle was obsessed with making the Fifth Republic a "technocracie" and the Citro&euml;n DS (as in d&eacute;esse, or goddess) was an internationally recognised symbol of the New France.East European dictatorsThe more creepy, dismal and violently anti-capitalist the Communist dictator, the bigger the cars and the car collection. Brezhnev's was biggest, but Ceaucescu ran a close second with his swank Yank tanks. Best of all was the ghastly Erich Honecker, who recreated the Third Reich by other means in the DDR; his favourite was a Mercedes G-wagen converted for hunting. All Merc insignia were removed in case anyone thought he held truck with the despised capitalist west.
Who would you most like as your personal chauffeur? Longford Insurance gave 540 women a few choices and this is what they came up with...* George Clooney: 41%* Prince William: 21%* Jeremy Clarkson: 10%* Austin Powers: 9%* John Prescott: 7%They then asked 497 men, also giving them a limited choice . . .* Catherine Zeta Jones: 46%* Sue Barker: 15%* Anne Robinson: 10%* Scary Spice: 9%* Kate Hoey: 5%Yes they are. No they're notLast week in Wheels, we suggested that Ford might be about to drop its prices. While they're still denying there are any moves in this direction, they have also offered a "price promise", whereby if they do reduce the price of any car this year, they'll refund the difference to anyone who bought a car at the higher price. Does this sound like the behaviour of a company which isn't about to do something?Safety burstTom Moyerson, a Texan, has invented a gadget for people worried about injuries from inflating airbags. It is a simple spike, worn round the neck, which will burst the airbag when it inflates. It costs $22.99, has already sold 300,000, and should be removed before love-making.Quote of the week"Earlier this month, I wrote a column for The Sunday Times in which I might perhaps have said motor cyclists were a tiny bit gay. Certainly I claimed that they liked to look at photographs of other men's bottoms. Well, there's been an awful lot of fuss and bother with emails flying hither and thither, flicked V-signs in traffic jams and a piece in Motorcycle News which said I was being deliberately controversial. As opposed to what, I wondered? Accidentally controversial?"Jeremy Clarkson, Top Gear Magazine
The ninth day of the ninth month of 1999 was another of those landmarks along the way to Y2K. If the old soothsayer Nostradamus had known about microcircuitry, he would almost certainly have labelled it an end of the world day. It was not quite like that on the financial markets yesterday but there were enough strange happening to put down some markers for the end of the year.London traders checking prices on the Simex, the Singapore futures exchange immortalised by Nick Leeson, arrived at their screens to find there was no prices feed as a result of the 9/9/99 problem. Unimportant, one might think, except in global markets where dealers trade in real time, being blindsided on a prices range could mean lost arbitrage options or even potential open positions with unknown counterparties. When one considers it was Singapore trades which brought down Barings Bank in 1995, one starts to realise how no systems glitch can be ignored.There was some satisfaction in the City that Eurex, the Frankfurt-based futures market which has been giving the UK's Liffe a run for its money, was also having trading difficulties. The claim in Germany was that systems problems were nothing to do with the date, which brought a sceptical response in London.The cost/opportunity cost of such systems glitches is almost impossible to quantify. But these problems, together with those seen in the euro switchover, do post a warning. We now know that the far simpler changeover to the euro resulted in large bank payments going astray and a serious liquidity problem in the Euroland money markets, which required large injections of cash. The tendency is to believe that Y2K is a great deal of hype, but one only has to look at UK computer glitches - from the Passport Office to the social security payments system - to realise the potential for difficulties in a global financial system driven by computer software. At a meeting this year of the White House economic committee set up by President Clinton to help smooth the transition to Y2K, each of the members was polled on where they would prefer to be as the clocks ticked towards 2000. Most opted to be in their survivalist cottages in the hills, as far away from computer-driven civilisation as possible.Life expectationsEquitable Life took a rare gamble for a cautiously-run enterprise when it asked the high court to judge whether it had the right to cut final bonuses on a chunk of its pension plans. Lord Justice Scott's ruling, that he agreed with Equitable that by cutting the bonuses rates on guaranteed pension annuities written between 1957 and 1984 it was not depriving policyholders, gives a whole new meaning to the word guarantee. Had the ruling gone the other way the assumption was that Equitable, the dowager of UK life companies, would have had a short independent existence. Unlike other life groups it has never worried too much about profits and the size of its free capital base, so it may have had difficulty raising the &#163;1.5bn needed to meet its liability.Equitable, with its highly trained sales force of financial advisers, largely operating within the professions, has a target population much of the financial services industry would die for. That would be fine were it not for the fact that the life sector is changing so fast. Since Equitable Life began its case, two of the larger players, Scottish Widows (partly for guaranteed annuity reasons) and Legal &amp; General, have effectively exited the industry in search of the broader franchise offered by bancassurance. Moreover, the court case has put a sharper focus on Equitable Life as a company than its managing director Alan Nash might have wanted.What has emerged is that although Equitable Life was once one of the star per formers among life and pensions groups, it has lost its way over the last decade. While other companies have strengthened their investment management skills Equitable, in its inimitable style, has avoided the star system and suffered. As Cazalet financial consulting has noted "it looks distinctly out of step with other major insurers in not developing its investment management capability".Consequently its results on endowments have been mixed and on pensions it has performed below average. In an increasingly competitive industry, in which Equitable has not attracted the best of publicity, this is an unprepossessing starting point for rebuilding.Even though it has has escaped legally it is seen in the business as the next life company/mutual likely to go. There has been speculation that it sought a merger with the largest and most successful of the insurance mutuals, Standard Life, but that did not work. With banks falling over each other to own insurance companies, finding the right partner should not be difficult. However, Equitable remains the industry standard for efficiency, manufacturing   and delivering policies at the best price. This means buyers would be gaining brand and customer base, rather than the chance to take the axe to costs.Money talksOnce again the IMF finds itself in the thick of political controversy as a big lender to two troubled states, Indonesia and Russia. Though the world may have avoided the financial meltdown of last year the case for really radical reform is becoming stronger.A new report from the Swiss-based International Center for Monetary &amp; Banking Studies (www.cepr.org)advocates an overhaul under which the IMF would be made truly independent and accountable "insulating the executive board from the politically driven agendas of national governments".This sounds like a fine idea except it is difficult enough for the IMF to raise money when it is following the agenda of its shareholders, without disembowelling it by breaking the link between power and cash.
Sun Microsystems' plans to offer a free alternative to Microsoft's all-conquering Office suite (it includes the Word word processor and Excel spreadsheet) on the web has done two things.  It has opened up a new phase in the war between the two companies but it has also created a new avenue in the "something-for-nothing" culture of the internet.More and more services - from email to shares in web start-ups - are being given away free in the hope of building up a big user base which can then generate money from other sources (in Sun's case its servers and workstations).    The idea of being able to tap into your word processor irrespective of location or what computer you are using, and without having to download files, is an attractive one. Sun's move was made possible by its purchase of Star Division which makes StarOffice, a multi-platform near clone of Office.Even Sun admits that Microsoft won't be easily dislodged - Office, which has 95% of the office productivity market, is reckoned to generate up to 40% of Microsoft's revenues. Sun is aiming first at smaller businesses and schools.  Meanwhile, Sun's armlock on the internet computer market is being attacked by Hewlett-Packard which is giving computers away free to application service providers in exchange for a share of future revenues.  In the end there will be no free lunch at the commercial end of the web. Everyone is trying to find the best way to establish a big user base, and those that survive could make a lot of money. But there will be blood spilt on the way.
When talk show queen Oprah Winfrey helps launch a new US cable network for women next February, viewers can expect to see the usual mix of human drama and high emotion. What makes this project unique is the fact that all the network's programmes will be based on ideas and stories generated by women on the internet.This year women are expected to account for 50% of the online community. It's a far cry from early predictions that men would dominate cyberspace, and a warning signal to advertisers, broadcasters and the like that women on the web cannot be ignored.So what are women doing online? According to a study by the University of Hertfordshire, women tend to use the internet to email friends, visit chat rooms and buy books or CDs online. Men are more likely to spend their online time playing games, downloading software or reading newsgroup messages.In the US, popular women-oriented sites like iVillage atwww.ivillage.comandwww.women.comare driving the growth in online shopping, with women expected to account for around 47%of online sales by 2000. These supersites can attract four to five million visitors a month - a growing presence made even more attractive by the fact that women tend to control household spending. Compare that to the average circulation of women's magazines in the US - around one million - and the marketing opportunities become obvious.Women's online networks usually consist of several individual sites or "channels", covering everything from   careers to health, to shopping. Interactive features like bulletin boards provide opportunities for women to network. Many sites also operate membership schemes offering shopping discounts, special events or access to additional editorial content. Some sites cater for women of all ages, others for more specific groups like teenagers or mothers.The growth of women-oriented sites in the US has provoked fierce competition to capture this lucrative online audience. Oprah's latest TV venture is a spin-off of Oxygen.com, which began life last November when parent company Oxygen Media acquired AOL's three women-related sites - Moms Online, Thrive (health) and Electra (general interest). Since then, the online network has been strengthened by the addition of Oprah Online and financial site ka-Ching ("the sound of money making sense"). Content is aimed at women of all age groups; site advertisers range from banks to beauty product manufacturers.Although a relative newcomer to the US market for women's online networks, Oxygen.com has already attracted attention, perhaps because of the powerhouse team behind the brand. Oprah's partners in Oxygen Media are ex-Disney cable TV chief Geraldine Laybourne and Carsey-Werner, the production team behind Roseanne and The Cosby   Show. Programming for the new TV network will be based on women's real-life experiences gleaned from chat rooms and bulletin boards on the Oxygen.com network."Companies are looking to reach women in different ways," explains Oxygen Media spokesman Stuart Fischer. "It's not just about advertising to them, but also about giving them information. The internet is this great new medium that can do that."Launched in 1995 as a site for baby boomers,www.iVillage.comis one of the biggest and most popular women's networks in the US. Now aimed at women aged 25-54, its 16 sites comprise a mix of information channels covering topics like relationships and finance, and commercial channels like the iBaby and iMaternity shopping sites. The site also lists women-owned web stores and eco-friendly stores, further incentives for women to shop online instead of on the high street. iVillage.com says nearly 30% of its revenue in the first quarter of 1999 came from direct products sales, which are dominated by mother and baby products.According to Media Metrix, the network attracted some five million visitors in July, representing 8% of internet users in the US. iVillage.com claims its site differs from others in the market because it deals with "real issues" and has fostered loyal online communities over the past four years. The network has 2.1m members and is hoping to increase that to 3.7m by the end of this year.Stephen Lake, senior vice president of corporate development at iVillage.com, believes the site's approach to women is completely different from that of traditional media: "We take an everyday problems approach. We're   not aspirational. Magazines are excellent for aspirational content, but the site is heavily focused around community and interaction, around solving problems and getting things done."The majority of iVillage.com's media revenue comes from advertising and sponsorship (companies include Ford and Hertz), with around 25% generated from e-commerce partners such as amazon.com. iVillage.com tries to avoid taking straightforward banner advertising. Instead, it works with advertisers and sponsors to provide related editorial,   research and message boards in an attempt to integrate advertising into the sites. "It is an interactive approach where we encourage our audience to tell advertisers what they want," says Lake.Like Oxygen.com, iVillage.com is beginning to extend its online brand to traditional media forms. The network's recent acquisition of magazine publisher Lamaze will establish a presence for iVillage.com in print, and on the Newborn cable channel. But Lake says the focus of the network remains on the web: "For us the heart and soul of the brand is online, but we can use it to reach out to an offline audience and provide a comprehensive set of services to our customers."In a similar move, Women.com's merger with Hearst Corporation's HomeArts site in January created a network of sites offering online shopping, astrology and editorial content from Hearst-owned magazines including Cosmopolitan and Redbook. Offering a mix of "content, community and commerce", the 20-channel network was launched in 1992 and now claims to attract more than 4m visitors a month, representing a 7% share of the US internet audience. Women.com describes its typical user as educated, professional and internet savvy. Aimed at women of all ages, the network includes channels on careers, personal finance, health, style   and parenting. Advertisers currently include Levis, Volvo and Kellogg's.US marketers looking at younger women have been working withwww.ChickClick.com, a collection of around 30 homegrown sites with titles ranging from Hissyfit to Disgruntled Housewife. Aimed at the 13-29 year old market, the network claims to produce 'intelligent, sassy, progressive content' for its 1.4m visitors a month, of whom a third make online purchases on a regular basis. Sites cover snowboarding to sex, politics to pop music.The majority of users are aged between 18-24, with just over a third aged 10-17 and a quarter aged 25-35. To harness the network's advertising potential, ChickClick offers several targeting options depending on age group. Email blasts via the network's weekly email newsletter can be used to   promote services or to link to a client's site. Sponsorship deals offer advertisers a high-profile presence on the network's front page or other sections. ChickClick's eclectic mix of advertisers includes Sony, Pringles and Esprit."We encourage our readers to speak out and they do," says a spokeswoman. "And if advertisers speak to them and educate them about their brands and products, they will listen and respond to them too. It's a market they can't afford to miss."New research by Harris Interactive confirms this, predicting that the number of US women planning to shop online during the Christmas holiday season is almost six times the number who shopped last year. "Shopping   is strongly related to how long you've been online. Women had reached the point where they've had time to experiment and are ready to shop... the key factor for women is convenience and the web can make their life easier," says Ben Black, director of business development at Harris Interactive.The existence of UK-based online networks for women is a fairly new phenomenon. Apart from a handful of sites aimed mainly at businesswomen, the only sites that seem to be exploiting this medium are the magazine-related networks by publishers like Conde Nast and Emap. Yet the latest research by Mintel predicts the online shopping market will be worth some &#163;1.5bn by the end of this year, fuelled by the arrival of free access providers such as Dixons' Freeserve.Last year a mere &#163;15m was spent on internet advertising in the UK, compared with   &#163;2.7bn on television alone. Media buyers suggest that the internet is still very much an unknown quantity as far as advertisers are concerned, and that more research is needed into usage.However, the US experience highlights the potential for reaching women if the right vehicles exist.One site leading the way is PlanetGrrl atwww.planetgrrl.com, set up last year in response to the lack of UK sites for or by women and girls. Its philosophy is to promote individuality and freedom of expression through new media. User feedback shows it attracts a slightly older audience than similar US sites. Content ranges from a beginner's guide to the internet to animal welfare, clubbing and employment.PlanetGrrl has yet to explore commercial opportunities, but site editor Jules believes the potential for women's sites is huge: "The number of women online in the UK has increased greatly within the last couple of years especially. Many women are trying the internet for the first time as a leisure tool, and are fast becoming addicted."
Dream or nightmare?Sega decided not to join Sony and Nintendo, its main rivals in the games console business, in exhibiting at Europe's leading games trade exhibition, ECTS, in Olympia, London this week.However, it held a press conference and party at the nearby Commonwealth Institute on the show's opening night, to introduce its next-generation Dreamcast games machine.  The corporate heavyweights were out in force. Sega president Shoichiro Irimajiri flew in from Japan to join Jean-Fran&ccedil;ois Cecillon, chief executive of Sega Europe, and Kazutosho Miyake, chief operating officer of Sega Europe, in presenting the company's plans.  Sega is investing 90m euros in the European market, and Cecillon's target is to sell a million units by next summer. Games will be released at a rate of at least one per week.Cecillon stressed the Dreamcast's built-in modem and free internet access - both firsts for the games industry. "We will make the wonders of the net available to a younger, broader audience," he said.  All this would have made for a good launch if UK gamers were able to buy the machine today - but today it's being launched only in the US. As mentioned here previously, European buyers have to wait until October 14.  Will Dreamcast will take off here or die like Sega's earlier Saturn?No one doubts that it will be the most powerful console on the market when it appears, but there's a nightmare scenario where most people wait to see what Sony's forthcoming PlayStation II will be like. Sony is due to    make further announcements about that on September 14.  For further information, seewww.sega-europe.comandwww.dreamcast-europe.comPocket battleNintendo is working on a next generation Game Boy handheld games console, which is temporarily being called Game Boy Advance. The processor is being upgraded to a British 32-bit ARM    chip, as used in the Acorn Archimedes and Apple Newton, so it should be fast. The Advance will also be able to connect to the internet via a mobile phone, and Nintendo and Japanese games giant Konami have formed a joint   venture, Mobile 21, to develop multiplayer games, email and chat software for the new device.The Advance will have a 40.8 by 61.2mm colour screen with a resolution of 240 by 160 dots, and will run for about 20 hours on two AA batteries. Nintendo expects it to be released in Japan next August, so it just might make the UK by Christmas.However, 2001 looks a better bet if you want a hand-held games odyssey. The 10 year old original Game Boy and its Color brother are selling better than ever, thanks to Pok&eacute;mon fever.  Nintendo says it has now sold 80m of the things worldwide, including 5m in the UK.The Game Boy version of Tetris is not only the best version of this venerable falling-block puzzle game, Nintendo reckons it's also the best selling game ever: 35m copies have been sold. However, Nintendo's Game Boy Color will get some competition on October 1 when SNK Europe's NeoGeo Pocket Color handheld games system goes on sale at a less-than-expected &#163;59.99 (Gameswatch, April 15). The NeoGeo is sturdy and somewhat chunky but the screen - not exactly high-res at 160 by 150 dots - is a decent size.SNK also claims that the machine will run for 40 hours on two AA batteries, a great improvement on earlier colour handhelds like the Sega GameGear and the Atari Lynx. Lynx owners may remember games you couldn't finish before the batteries ran out...Pok&eacute;mon crazyIt's like being trapped in a tunnel, staring into the headlights of an oncoming train. No, it's not the Pok&eacute;mon range of "pocket monsters", which surfaced in volume during ECTS, it's the Nintendo marketing machine. The first two Pok&eacute;mon games for the Game Boy, Pok&eacute;mon Red and Pok&eacute;mon Blue, will be launched on October 1.They will be closely followed by the Hasbro range of Pok&eacute;mon toys, the Pok&eacute;mon comic, and the Pok&eacute;mon trading cards. November will see Pok&eacute;mon sweets, snacks and tee-shirts hit the shelves. In December, Sky One will start broadcasting the Pok&eacute;mon cartoon series, and Pok&eacute;mon videos will go on   sale. Then there's the movie, more Pok&eacute;mon games, the music CDs, more games, Pok&eacute;mon bed linen, tents, kites...The current schedule runs to Easter 2001, when the Pok&eacute;mon Silver and Pok&eacute;mon Gold cartridges will be released for the Game Boy Color.  Hey, it worked in Japan, where the first Pok&eacute;mon titles - developed by Satoshi Tajiri of Gamefreak - were launched on February 26, 1996. Pok&eacute;mon fever is currently devastating the United States.  Don't think of Pok&eacute;mon as a few Game Boy games. Think of it as being bigger than the games industry. Think of it as the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles combined with Beanie Babies and a souped-up Tamagotchi craze. Probably nothing can stop it, short of world war three.Good clean funLittle boys play with tools, little girls play at cooking, and both play shop. Hasbro Interactive has combined these age-old role-playing games with some novel plastic peripherals that fit over the top of standard PC keyboards. Run the software and, for example, pretend sawing with a plastic saw produces cartoon sawing images on the screen. The games have been produced by Hasbro's games arm, in conjunction with one of its toy companies, Tonka.It is, perhaps, just the kind of thing you'd expect from the company responsible for Monopoly, Cluedo, Action Man and other toys/computer titles, not to mention Furbies and Star Wars figures. But the software division also produces more serious fare, which is usually published by its Microprose subsidiary. Examples include the smash hit Roller Coaster Tycoon, and Grand Prix 3, which was shown for the first time at ECTS. GP3 is the latest update from Geoff Crammond, the doyen of F1 simulation programming (oldies may remember Revs for the Acorn BBC B).Tim Christian (right), managing director of Hasbro Interactive, says software sales have gone from zero to $400m in four years and the aim is to reach $1bn in the next two years.Expansion will inevitably involve many more acquisitions, but it will not come at the expense of the company's family values. "We'd certainly avoid anything to do with gratuitous violence," he says. "Our aim as the Hasbro group is to be the world's best provider of family leisure products."ECTS winnersThe Game of the Show Awards were decided by the votes of a panel of 25 European journalists, and were presented on Monday.Overall best game of the show:International Superstar Soccer Pro Evolution, KonamiBest PC game:Grand Prix 3, Hasbro InteractiveBest PlayStation game:ISS Pro Evolution, KonamiBest Nintendo game:Donkey Kong 64, NintendoBest Dreamcast game:Ready 2 Rumble, MidwayBest multiplayer game:Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear, Red Storm
Back in the days when my dad was a kid, he would get a free baseball card in every pack of bubble gum. It was a marketing gimmick on the order of a free toy whistle inside a box of Cap'n Crunch. But it eventually served to turn the bubble gum industry on its head.By the 1970s, when I was growing up, Topps was no longer known as a gum company but a baseball card empire. We'd buy 10 cards per pack, along with a stale stick of gum that we would usually throw away. The gum had lost its role as a product, and been reduced to the giveaway.Today, you don't even get a stick of gum in a pack of baseball cards. The pink chewing product that made the cards possible in the   first place was reduced to a piggyback and then eliminated altogether. Such are the dangers of creating promotions that upstage your product. In the baseball card vs bubble gum wars, the baseball cards won.A similar series of battles is now being waged in the computer industry. While computer manufacturers are figuring out ways to give away internet services to people who buy their computers, internet service providers (ISPs) are beginning to give away computers to people who sign on to their service. Each industry is attempting to turn the other side into bubblegum.While Nasdaq investors chew through the pages of financial publications in an attempt to determine who to "short sell" for a coming fall, they'd be better off   doing a simple analysis of the baseball card scenario for an indication which industry will be commoditised by the other.The reason baseball cards won out over gum is that the cards change over time. Last season's simply will not do. The need for new cards is built in to the product itself. This is what the technology industry would call "novelty".If there's nothing new, upgradeable, or changing about the thing you're selling, then there is no way to make older models obsolete. This is why the computer chip industry is so desperate to create (and, ultimately, justify) new designs. They bank on our desire to use new, complicated graphics or music programs that will require more powerful chips. (It is also why Intel funds so much music and video software development.)Although gum needs to be bought fresh, there is hardly a pressing need for new kinds of gum. A new flavour every few years might be interesting, but gum is gum. Baseball cards must be changed every year because the players on each team change. Bubble gum would only be required to change if   our taste buds evolved dramatically over time, which they don't.In addition, cards have brand value. When I was a kid, it was Topps cards or no cards at all. Gum, well, it was just gum. And the kinds that didn't get packed with baseball cards were usually better, anyway. (Bazooka, for example, was never overrun by its little comics.)Likewise, because they make an item that almost anybody can copy, computer manufacturers are caught in a competition for price, speeds, and feeds. Except for the iMac and its imitators, there is no brand value to PC boxes. And unless the PC business gets some better industrial designers, those seeking a branded box will simply pay the extra to buy a Mac. Computers, like gum, are commodities.But the ISP industry is no better off. All ISPs are pretty much the same. As long as you can get in at 56K with a reasonably low incidence of busy signals, who cares what it's called? And brand loyalty? Who ever thought of their ISP as a brand?Back in the days of bulletin board services, the place you received your mail was same place you'd "hang   out" online. Now, an email address doesn't say anything more about you than a credit card number.So who will end up as the bubblegum? My guess is both. Neither PCs nor ISPs offer any consistent novelty or sustainable brand values. And soon both will be as free - or at least as relatively free - as web browsers.Who will be giving them away? Why the internet portal companies, of course. They don't care which computer or ISP you buy, as long as you choose one portal as your "start" page. And, unlike PCs and ISPs, portals need to change daily - sometimes every minute. Portals need to be as current as your browser's "refresh" button demands.The portal companies recognise their advantage, which is why they're celebrating, even contributing towards the commodification of their peers. Check outhttp://Shop.Yahoo.Comor any of   the other e-commerce aggregators online. You type in anything you want to buy and the portal does a quick price comparison of that item at every online store it can find. If you click the "buy" button, you can order the product at the best price "without ever leaving the Yahoo site"! If your credit card is already on file with your Yahoo membership, the whole transaction is taken care of invisibly. And since you're entrusting them with your credit information, your portal had better be a brand you recognise and value.So while the PCs and ISPs battle to turn one another into promotional giveaways, it's the online portals whose business plans are most likely to convert the rest of the known universe into bubblegum.And, amazingly, it's the very companies they are turning pink who pay for precious space on portal pages.
How did you first get into computers?Like most children back then, I convinced my parents to buy me a computer I could use for my homework and research when all I wanted it for was to play video games. The good old days for me were the days of the ZX80/Spectrum - that's my era of machine - I'm 33 so I guess I was the target audience of those machines.What kind of machines do you use now?At Core Design we work closely with Intel so they give us development machines - I guess you would call them. They're technology that will become commonly available in about six to nine months time. We also have the benefit of working closely with a lot of the graphics card manufacturers so we've managed to get a few good development cards out of them. We're working towards AGP4X.What kind of things do you find yourself using it for?A broad spectrum from email and the internet, a lot of visual stuff - seeing what's happening with the team and looking at imagery and sequences.In the games industry is the idea still hampered by the technology?The imagination is still more powerful than anything that exists. If our guys could produce what they can imagine ahead, God help us. I think technology has come a long way and I think the next jump is going to bring a whole new genre to the games environment - they'll look so much more real and you'll have to spend a lot more time looking at the characters and how the whole game is. We used to get away with murder in the old days... a sort of stick man running around or a couple of bats and a white square moving across the screen. No one even questioned why it wasn't a round ball.Are there any games that you wish you'd come up with?Tons. I think it would be naive for us to say not. There's lots of games I like for lots of different reasons - like Command &amp; Conquer, a great strategy-based game. That brought a whole new element to strategy games and along with Red Alert, really define that market. I know people keep pushing the technology but you've got to look back to the original forces to come up with something new and you have to pay homage really.Even when you look at a game like Tomb Raider we were heavily influenced by certain other games - Prince of Persia and the Ultima Underworld.Do you think all games should have an online option?I don't think all games need to be online - Tomb Raider is a single character game. Having Lara running around doing things with other people would be ridiculous.Do you think the net should/could ever be regulated?I hope that it might almost regulate itself. With Tomb Raider for instance, if there are people writing horrible things or putting disgusting images of Lara up then it's up to the community itself to drive that out.Is Lara a geek?She'd probably shoot me if I said that! She's almost technophobic.
For parents, the internet can hold special fears. Not just because your seven-year-old can use online search engines and knows how to download the trailer for Toy Story 2, while you're still trying to figure out what to do after you turn the computer on. More likely, you're worried about what else the seven-year-old might be looking at when you're not there to supervise.A major American study last year by the Annenberg Public Policy Center showed that even in the most net-eager country in the world,   the web makes parents nervous. While 70% of parents surveyed said they believed the internet was a place for kids to discover "fascinating, useful things" and nearly 60% thought children without net access were disadvantaged, 75% were anxious about what kids might see online or feared their children might give personal information out over the net.How much of this fear is justified? Certainly, the media has played a role in fanning concern - according to the study, two-thirds of newspaper articles about the internet highlighted its   negative aspects and one in four mentioned child pornography. On the other hand, a third of British children who use the internet say they have found content that upset or embarrassed them, according to a July survey by NOP Research.So what is a parent to do? Perhaps the most confusing aspect for many adults is that they oppose the idea of censorship yet feel they need to take some active, intermediary role when their children are online. As an educational resource, the net raises philosophical questions for parents that giving kids access to the Encyclopedia Britannica never did.If you are trying to weigh the positives against the potential negatives of internet use by your children, the best starting point is to think about the internet in the context of your family's general values and the rules you've already established for other activities. Most parents have a clear sense of what they consider acceptable viewing or reading for a child of a particular age.   The age of a child, of course, will help determine family policy regarding the web - which may constitute a set of policies if there are kids of varying ages.Wary parents can get plenty of help from the web itself. Start by reading through some of the online guidelines for parents, which will run through the issues and possible approaches to overseeing, and in some cases, controlling, net use by children. While some parents may opt for the simple constraint of supervising children when they are online, and talking through issues that arise, others may feel more comfortable installing software that can filter site content, restrict access to some sites, limit time online or monitor the child's usage of the net.Some programs will also control or block access to chat sites, discussion lists, and other less predictable locations to which a child might wander, or will block children from revealing personal information in online forums, for example. Parents can also download child-friendly web browsers   and set up links to child-oriented search engine sites, which will also place a protective fence around kids on the net.Two sensible sites to begin with are GetNetWise atwww.getnetwise.org, and the Parent Soup online guide,www.parentsoup.com/onlineguide. The first site is the collaborative product of several organisations with an interest in children's online safety and is supported by a wide range of public interest groups and internet industry corporations. GetNetWise provides resources for both parents and children, including detailed information on how to report online trouble. It also has a search facility to help parents   find online software tools.Parent Soup is one of the oldest online communities for parents - it began as a simple discussion list on the internet, back before the web even existed. Its online guide is excellent, full of straight talk about the issues and packed with links, including advice from the parents that use the site. You can join in the chat or discussion lists as well.Another resource site is internet 101 from Yahoo atwww2.famvid.com/i101/safe. html. It has some basic guidelines and links to sites that offer filtering software. For a compendium of useful links, few sites come close to the Netparents resource collection atwww.netparents.org/parentstips/resources.html. A scroll through their listings will keep parents busy for hours.Finally, two UK sites with helpful material are NCH Action for Children, which has a guide for parents with children on the internet atwww.nchafc.org.uk/internet/index.html, and Schoolzone's resources for child safety on the internet,www.schoolzone.co.uk/resources/safety_frame.htm
Debate.govYour criticisms of government websites are well-directed, but ministers do recognise the deficiencies and are doing something about them. I wrote to Lord Falconer at the cabinet office on April 30 expressing concern on a number of points. He replied: "There is too great a range of practice and a lack of coherence and linkage between sites. That is why, in the Modernising Government white paper, we have made a commitment to publishing guidelines on government websites by November."We are establishing a group of departmental champions of information age government from all departments. The group will have a key role in securing departmental adherence to the guidelines. We will also be considering what central resources we will need to promote and update the guidelines following publication. "There is no reference to the Penal Lexicon site atwww.penlex.org.ukon the home office's site, in spite of - or perhaps because of - the fact    that it has a far greater spread of information on prisons and penal affairs, and much better links, than the home office's own site. Perhaps this will change in November."Eric Aveburyericavebury@compuserve.comI was concerned that in your article Shut.gov (September 2) you made no mention of the biggest UK government website - the department of the environment, transport and the regions atwww.detr.gov.uk. The site was recently awarded the New Statesman New Media Public Policy Award 1999 for using new technology to inform citizens and to create an inclusive process of policy formation.Adam TurnerEdinburgh EH6 6QVSimon Rogers is right to despair of the government's apparent lack of commitment to sharing information via the web. Consider the UK's 1.7m people with serious sight problems or blindness. Open, online government could bring a world of information and access to civil rights to people with sight loss who are wired up to our brave, new information age.However, many government sites are poorly designed, and serve only to exacerbate the "social exclusion" that disabled people experience. The Web Accessibility Initiative has published guidelines for the design of web sites which can be used by everyone. If the   government is truly committed to modernisation and social inclusion, it is time departments considered both the content and the structure of its websites.Julie HowellCampaigns Officer (Access  to Digital) Royal National  Institute for the Blindwww.rnib.org.uk/digitalScots missedYou say theUpMyStreetsite is apparently good if one needs "information about Britain in a hurry". This remark should be changed to "if you need information about England in a hurry".Following your recommendation, I logged on and keyed in all manner of Scottish cities and towns only to find most of the information the site gave out as "Not Applicable".This mainly concerned property prices, exam tables, best schools and council tax rates for the areas - in fact, nearly all the information.  It's piss-poor practice to peddle wares that you can't supply. Och aye.Pauline FyfeLondon SE12 0DUUpMyStreet claims to give figures for GCSE and A-level results for any area, but the figures it actually uses are those for the best performing nearby (and not always very nearby) school, not those for all schools in the area.Try UpMyStreet.com for many areas notorious for their poor performing schools, and it misleadingly suggests GCSE   results well above the national average. This is because it has used figures solely from an exclusive private school some miles away.There is no excuse for this, as the government statistics for exam performance for all schools are readily available from the web pages of the Department for Education and Employment onwww.dfee.gov.uk/performance.Matthew HuntbachLondon SE12Your article on open government failed to mention that there is no easy way to contact these departments.When I tried to contact the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to complain about invitation given to the Indonesian Army for an arms fair there appeared to be no email address and not even a fax or phone number.   If this is, according to your article, the best site, I would hate to see the worst!Dave ShepherdsonNewcastle upon TyneApple smackSo..."Jobs unveils the G4 SuperMac - It's not just the fastest Mac - it's the fastest PC ever, says Apple. But there are doubters, writes Neil McIntosh." (Online, September 2). Once again The Guardian Online contributors reveal themselves as apologists of the Wintel machine.  Neil McIntosh, says of the Apple G4 specs: "However, within hours of the announce- ment industry analysts were disputing his &#91;Jobs's&#93; figures".McIntosh then quotes "analyst" David Wu of ABN AMRO stating that "There are lies, damned lies and demos." McIntosh fails to mention    anything substantial of the ground breaking technologies found in the AIM G4 processor. It is a really sad piece of technical journalism (and I use the term journalism very loosely). The G4 processor introduces advantage, AltiVec (128-Bit Vector engine) SIMD, upon advantage, copper technology, upon advantage, RISC, upon advantage, low power consumption, to desktop microprocessors and all this chimp can say is that there are "doubters".To add insult to all the G4 (MPC 7400) engineers who have worked so hard to bring this technology to fruition, McIntosh, in a footnote to the G4 Seybold article, also mentions that Intel is to shortly launch a new 700Mhz Pentium III processor which "will run faster than analysts expected" No doubt there, eh, McIntosh? So, which is it to be? How about changing your name to Neil McIntel. I, for one, will peruse the Online supplement more knowingly if I can see that your brand of journalism carries the correct marque.Neal Jackson&lt;a href="mailto:nealjackson@nealjackson.screaming.net"nealjackson@nealjackson.screaming.net
Still civilisedCivilisation II: Test of TimePC CD-rom &#163;19.99  MicroproseThe release of yet another add-on for Sid Meier's strategy classic might seem to some to be flogging a dead horse. But this old warhorse has a few moves in it yet.Test of Time offers multiplayer capability, a simpler interface, new technologies and military units, and some welcome control features such as automated settlers.The real added value, though, lies in the alternative worlds. Now, as well as rewriting human history, you can build up empires in science fiction and fantasy universes, where spells, fabulous creatures and futuristic weapons replace the traditional armies and scientific discoveries.You don't particularly get the feeling that anyone sweated blood over this, but it's different enough to keep you up till you hallucinate all over again.
One of the reasons some of us use computers is that they are supposed to save us time. Reality can often be different: we end up spending immeasurable amounts of time crashing and rebooting, for no obvious reason. Some of these time-wasting frustrations are not down to our hardware, but are a result of the operating system being used.Apart from a few exceptions, we haven't had much choice. Microsoft has had a huge influence on how PCs have developed, and holds increasing influence over the internet. But now, the times they are a'changing.  The alternative is Linux, an operating system whose kernel was created in 1991 by student Linus Torvalds. Linux has grown and matured to such an extent that it now occupies third place behind Windows NT and Novell's Netware in the server soft  ware league. And it is the most popular single operating system for web servers, with a third of that market. Consider the computer graphics in the film Titanic.These scenes required the most concentrated use of computers ever used in movies - and the machines were running Linux. But Linux has not been available in a form that the average PC user can easily install on his or her computer. Indeed, installation has been so difficult that many feel Linux would never give Windows any competition in the desktop market - particularly as most computers come with Windows pre-installed (although now, of course, you can have Linux pre-installed with IBM, Compaq, Dell and a lot of PC manufacturers).One of the advantages of GNU/Linux is that it is available free, as long as you install    and maintain it yourself. Last year, the Mexican government embarked on an ambitious project to equip 140,000 schools with computers. The licence costs of Microsoft Windows were so high, even with volume discounts, that the Mexicans opted for Linux, saving an estimated $124m. Over a large installed base, the cost advantage of Linux becomes compelling.There are possibilities in smaller markets too. There was a report last year that Microsoft decided against developing an Icelandic version of Windows 95 because the limited size of the market couldn't justify the cost. Today there is an Icelandic version of Linux's K Desktop Environment. With Linux, minority users with special needs are not at the mercy of any vendor. Linux, also, is becoming easier to use. SuSE, a German distributor of Linux, has just released its SuSE 6.2 version    of GNU/Linux. I've installed it, and was staggered by its degree of user-friendliness.The SuSE 6.2 installation program has not only leapfrogged other versions of Linux in usability, but now surpasses the Windows installation in user friendliness. SuSE 6.2 accepts that you'll probably have to install the product on a Windows machine, and assumes you won't necessarily want to get rid of Windows. So it partitions your hard drive to dual-boot Windows and Linux - a good idea when many good programs are available only on Windows.SuSE 6.2 comes with two excellent offerings: Corel WordPerfect 8 and the Star Office productivity suite. Both automatically convert your Windows files into their formats.  Netscape Communicator 4.51 and the K Desktop Environment (KDE), which    comes complete with integrated browser, are also included. SuSE 6.2 brings Linux to the desktop. It has success written all over it. In my experience it makes Linux as smooth as silk, which is exactly what corporate IT and home users need.  And I found the results addictive, particularly the feel of dealing with raw computing power.One look convinced me that Linux is getting ready to storm the consumer market.  So how can you get Linux? It's free if you download from the internet, although I do not recommend this for the original installation. It is better to purchase the six CDs and the instruction manual for around &#163;30 - and you should always back up your hard drive before installing.  When SuSE Linux was installed, I was impressed by the speed of the system - it's so fast at doing so many    things at once.Try surfing the web with Netscape running on Linux and you will be amazed.  And the machine doesn't lock up while files are deleted or a floppy disk is being formatted, even on an inexpensive basic computer.  Because SuSE Linux can efficiently do many things at once, the user can get more done. And getting more done in less time is what using a computer is all about.  But Linux is more than a piece of software: it is also a part of a movement.My view is that, if you study SuSE Linux, you'll see a revolution in the making that will devastate current hi-tech business models, causing a fundamental shift in the computing world. I found that Linux was the Aladdin's Cave of computing.&#149; For more information visit these websites:www.suse.com www.linux.org www.linuxapps.com
Green shootsGreenpeace has relaunched its site atwww.greenpeace.orgmaking this site even more of a must for anyone interested in environmentalism. The updated links pages are especially good (there are 68 links to alternative e-commerce sites alone), and there are daily news updates, details of how to get involved in cyber-activism and 14 different mailing lists. Also worth a look is theSustainable Development Primerwhich charts different green technological solutions across the globe.Home officeA site for clubbers, Home, opens today atwww.homecorp.comwith the boast that it will "take clubbing to another level". With another branch opening in New York and one in Sydney, the promoters clearly hope to become a world wide brand. Home's main rival atwww.fabric-london.com, hopes that showing off its fairly impressive architectural drawings of its new club in Clerkenwell will be enough to pry the club crowd away from the west end.What a shockIt's refreshing to find a site likewww.shift.comattempting to use Shockwave animation to produce a truly interactive magazine. Shift is an American lifestyle magazine with a strong digital bias, and it does look really good. Navigation is a real treat and a non-Shockwave version is available too. Another site worth a look is the interactive magazine atwww.carbonmag.com.Down underFollowing the success of TMark's (pronounced art mark) parody of New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani's web site atwww.yesrudy.com, Australian "cybersquatters" the CounterProductivityCommission have unleashedwww.realjeff.com, a send-up of Victoria's Liberal Party candidate, Jeff Kennett's own website atwww.jeff.com.au.Brand aidSavlon's Family First Aid might seem like a dumb idea at first. Who wants to look something up on the web when their sister's in dire need of a quick tourniquet? But Savlon has managed to attach its name (and therefore its products) with first aid. With web access not really restricted to PCs anymore, utility sites like this are going to become a lot more common. Bookmarked on the computer that's come with the fridge or taken into the desert (or just to the beach) on a hand-held; vital first aid info is now available atwww.familyfirstaid.co.uk.Sign of timesSymbols.com contains more than 2,500 Western signs, arranged into 54 groups according to their graphic characteristics. The search interface atwww.symbols.comis a little tricky and some knowledge of semiotics is probably necessary. That said, this site is truly astonishing in scope and detail.QuoteableAnother useful research tool is the quotation search engine atwww.quoteland.com. Easy to browse by different categories and also searchable by  individual name, Quoteland offers many useable and often witty quotes. But this source is by no means comprehensive.New old movieBulbo (pictured right) atwww.bulbo.comis a 1920s style cartoon character that has set up home on the web. By reducing some notable shockwave animation to the level of an early movie, Bulbo shows how much fun web-based narrative can be. By contrast the site of the sumea turtle atwww.sumea.com/turtle.htmldeserves even less explanation. It is a beautiful 3D animation of a turtle in water that doesn't take ages to load.Six of the best:  LyricsRap &amp; R'n'B Lyricswww.nycity.demon.co.ukThe Original Hip Hop lyrics sitewww.ohhla.comAlternative and indywww.jngo.demon.co.uk/alyricsGeraldine Fibbers Lyric Generatorwww.li.net/~ackibort/refresh.htmCountry and Western Song Machinewww.outofservice.com/countryInternational Lyric Serverwww.songfile.com
It is not often that you find "literate smut" profiled in glowing terms in places such as Time or The Wall Street Journal but 18 month old Nervewww.nerve.com, a webzine marrying soft-core sex and literati, has struck a chord with surfing intellectuals and Wall Street investors alike.Juxtaposing articles from heavyweights such as Norman Mailer, Spalding Gray, Naomi Wolf and Quentin Crisp, investigative pieces (such as the ongoing campaign over the use of vibrators in Alabama) and   erotic photographs from the likes of Richard Kern, New York-based Nervemag regularly attracts 750,000 readers a month. Most are aged between 18 and 35. A quarter are female.More than a quarter live outside America, which has spawned German and Spanish-language versions. And nearly all of them are high earners.  Indeed, Nervemag has become such a success story, its two thirtysomething Ivy League-educated founders - Rufus Griscom and Genevieve Field - have raised $12m to launch   "a web community", a television and film division to make documentaries and, perhaps most incredibly, a print magazine."It might sound strange to launching a print mag on the back of a webzine," admits Griscom, "but we conducted an in-depth survey earlier this year and 65% of our readers said that they would be prepared to pay for a print magazine. If only a small percentage of them actually do buy a copy, it would still be a profitable venture."Griscom has another reason to be optimistic: Last year Nerve published Nerve: Literate Smut -an anthology of "fiction, essays and photographs from some of today's most provocative writers and artists" - which became a runaway best seller. Since then, Nerve has attracted David Chasen, of Chasen Capital Partners, Louis Rossetto, co-founder of Wired and software tycoon Mitch Kapor, founder of Lotus, as major investors. Even a public flotation at some point is not being ruled out."In the US it has traditionally been difficult to launch a print magazine because of the high costs involved in promotion, particularly direct mail," says Griscom."We can build on our already-loyal readership and we can sell subscriptions online which will be our primary form of distribution. Phase two will be putting the publication on newsstands."The first printed issue of Nerve is planned for next   January and initially it will be bi-monthly. "We'll take it from there."  Griscom does not envisage problems wooing advertisers for the new venture. "Advertisers have always been more cautious of webzines than of printed magazines and Nerve.com has still done very well."Indeed, the German version of Nerve.com attracts ads from Mitsubishi and IBM. But Griscom is quick to point out that Nerve.com also earns a   large percentage of its revenues from licensing deals and merchandising.Unsurprisingly, the US media is already describing Nerve.com as a Playboy for the next millennium, a comparison Griscom is half pleased with.  "Playboy did brand a sexual era in the Sixties and Seventies but it didn't progress beyond that. Obviously sex is a controversial topic - but it is a subject that everybody wants to read about."There is nowhere else that it is written about in an intelligent and provocative way."He is also one of the few cyber-pioneers to stress that his company is not an internet company but a media company.
"They told me not to do it," confessed Intel's burly president and chief executive Craig Barrett during his keynote speech at a conference in Palm Springs, California, last week. But he did it anyway. He plonked his behind on top of one of his company's "concept computers", saying: "It's an Ottoman PC: you gotta be able to sit on the damn thing!" And while it may not be the first computer with built-in seating - Seymour Cray's Cray 1 supercomputer pioneered that idea - Sozo Design's Ottoman PC is certainly the first with additional coffee-table and footstool functionality.Intel showed more than a dozen concept PCs at its twice-yearly professional developers' conference, where more than 2,000 engineers gathered to learn how to build tomorrow's PCs. There were designs for almost every room in the e-home (sic), including Anderson Design's easy-to-clean Vesta Kitchen PC running BeOS. This can be operated via a touch-sensitive LCD screen or voice commands. (It avoids messing up a keyboard while making pastry.) Not many concept PC designs will reach the market.The Barbie PC (for girls) and Hot Wheels PC (for boys), produced by Patriot Computers and toy giant Mattel, will, but these are conventional systems, apart from the decorative designs. However, South Korea's Daewoo is putting three colourful concept PCs into production - the orange Argo, the yellow NeTeen and the purple Luxor - in November. Whether anyone will buy them is another matter, but there are grounds for optimism. First, there is a growing market for multiple purchases, particularly in America. Families buying    their third or fourth PCs for their kids might just buy the kid-oriented PCs like Yeong Yang Technology's Magic Bean.Second, the success of Apple's iMac is encouraging PC manufacturers to (in Apple's advertising slogan) think different. Of course, some suppliers tried producing coloured or oddly-shaped PCs    before, but before the iMac, everyone laughed at them.  Third, the whole basis of PC design may be changing dramatically.  At least, Intel hopes so. The traditional "boring beige box" is based on two fundamental ideas.One is compatibility: your standard PC is designed to accept hardware add-ons and to run software that dates back to the dawn of the PC era: the launch of the IBM PC in 1981. The other is expandability: it's possible to whip the lid off a PC, add more memory, upgrade the processor, plug in a new graphics card, and perhaps even swap a CD-rom drive for a DVD-rom.   Compatibility and expandability provide interchangeability. You can install any beige or cream CD-rom or floppy disk drive into any standard PC: it will work, and it will not look out of place. Interchangeability also provides large markets and drives down prices.As many unfortunate buyers have learned too late, non-standard    parts can be very expensive indeed. Or unobtainable. The "concept PC" is an attempt to change the rules. Instead of absolute compatibility, Intel is promoting "legacy reduction". In other words, most new style PCs won't accept most old style add-ons. The 1983-vintage ISA (industry standard architecture) expansion slots    have to go, as do the standard modem and printer ports, the mouse port and the keyboard socket.Even the old VGA (video graphics array) standard for monitors will be dumped, to be replaced by    Intel's new digital visual interface (DVI). In the concept PC, almost everything has to be connected via new-style USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports. These USB ports also provide most of the expandability. Instead of opening up the computer's case and plugging things in, users must usually attach peripherals via USB cables or by other means, such as Bluetooth wireless connections. (Bluetooth is an industry-standard system    heavily promoted by Intel. The first Bluetooth products are expected late this year.)The iMac has already made similar changes, sacrificing expandability and compatibility for style and (except for the horrible mouse and, perhaps, the keyboard) ease of use. But it is easier for Apple to do this, since it has monopoly control of the Macintosh market. In the free-wheeling PC world, standards are set by what sells.  In the long term, users will   benefit from legacy reduction because it has proved difficult or impossible to make vintage PC features work with Plug &amp; Play features such as automatic installation. The result should be PCs that are much easier to use.  In the short term, however, it creates problems for people who have already bought mice, keyboards, scanners, printers, monitors and other peripherals that may not plug in to their easy-to-use PCs without expensive adaptors.
The most common operating system on PCs isMicrosoft Windows. All of the latest Windows 98 packages are able to cope with the bug, as are most existing versions of Windows 95. However, there are some minor issues which may cause problems with Windows 95. These include incorrect details for regional settings within the Control Panel and, more worryingly, Windows File Manager not sorting documents correctly if they have been created after 1999. Microsoft claims that Windows NT can cope with the bug but that you may need to download additional service packs as they are released.Microsoft has released a set of Year 2000 patches forOffice 95, includingindividual programs included in the suite (Excel 95, Word 95, Access 95,PowerPoint 95, or Schedule+ 7.0). Clickhere.You can check the Y2K readiness of all Microsoft products by using itsproduct tester database. If you want to evaluate your desktop or network for Microsoft products, then you can download theMicrosoft Year 2000 Product Analyzerwhich scans a computer's hard drive, looking for core Microsoft software and generates a report with Year 2000 information.If you're anAppleuser then you're in luck. Apple claims that 'since their introduction in 1984, Macintosh computers have had the ability to make the transition to the year 2000.' All well and good, but if you want to check out your Mac software and you can use its product tester and download software updateshere.As for Unix, since most versions of this operating system are programmed to recognise dates until 2038, you should be safe. However, there are many versions of Unix available, so check with the manufacturer.Some PCs reset the system date to 1980 or other invalid dates when the computer reaches the year 2000. This is usually due to the BIOS settings provided by your computer manufacturer. In these cases contact the PC vendor and/or check their web site for bug fixes.All of IBM's hardware and software products have a seven digit product number. ItsYear 2000 Product Readiness databaselets you key your product number and provides details of how to update your products. This site also contains free downloads which can be used to upgrade your IBM products.TheCSSA Millennium Directorycontains details on most popular software suppliers and their products' readiness for the new millennium, so you can use this database to evaluate the readiness of most other software products.For details of the evaluation process and how to get help if you are in business, take a look at theAction 2000 pages.UpgradeOnce you have used the links above to evaluate your Y2K needs, you need a plan of action to upgrade your hardware and software. A simple to follow guidance plan is available from theCSSA.This should be done in conjunction with the manufacturers of your hardware and software, using the various downloadable bug fixes available at their sites. If you want to an external company to handle this for you, theAction 2000 sitehas a list of accredited companies.
Despite the odd, phenomenally expensive hiccup such as the Barings Bank fiasco or BCCI affair, UK financial regulators are quietly proud that, under their management, the UK has never witnessed a prolonged 'run' on the banks. But for all their confidence, our two foremost financial regulators, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and the Bank of England, have been unsettled by the impending Millennium bug.The FSA is the single regulator for most UK financial institutions (excluding mortgage lenders and securities). In early 1998 it placed UK financial organisations under its jurisdiction into four groups, giving priority to those likely to be most affected by the bug. So, small consultancies and advisers with minimal computerised records were branded 'no impact' or 'low impact'. The FSA recognised 350 'medium-impact' organisations and 150 'high-impact' organisations, with major high-street banks and lenders making up the latter group.In late March 1999 the FSA revealed that twelve high-impact organisations and 50 medium-impact organisations "pose a serious risk" of not reaching year 2000 compliance and "could have a big effect on retail customers or the &#91;financial&#93; markets". Although the FSA would not name the offending companies, it has the power to restrict an organisation from trading should it threaten the overall financial system's ability to deal with the bug."In the last resort and where it is apparent there is no better way to protect depositors, investors, policy holders or the integrity of markets, we will take action to restrict a firm's business or in extreme cases to remove its authorisation altogether," said Michael Foot, the FSA's managing director of financial supervision. Organisations which are still not up to scratch later in the year can expect to be named and shamed, so keep an eye on theFSA pagesfor more information.The Bank of England has explicit responsibility for the stability of the financial system as whole within the UK. Its year 2000 preparations are virtually complete, and it estimates that the financial sector in the UK has spent more than £15 billion tackling the bug. The bank is confident that payment systems (such as cheque clearing) and credit and debit card systems will work through the millennium. Visa and Mastercard payment systems are also thought to be Y2K ready.However the largest UK network of cash (ATM) machines, LINK, is yet to be fully tested. All banks which are members of the network will be required to take part in a two-week trial before the millennium, so if you're planning to spend, spend, spend on New Year's Eve, you would be wise to visit a cash machine well in advance of the expected rush for banknotes in December 1999.As the millennium approaches, it may well be worth making a late check with your bank or building society, but in the main, financial transactions are expected to be relatively problem-free in the year 2000.
What is the Millennium bug?Also known as the Y2K bug, it is a software problem stemming from computers' inability to switch to dates in the next century. Most software uses simple six-digit dates, such as, say, 01/04/99 to indicate April Fools Day this year. On New Year's Day, 2000, many programmes will fail because they will try to recognise the date as January 1, 1900. So most programmes, be they on your desktop computer or running air traffic control systems, will need updating.Why did it happen?Because few people guessed how important computers and computer software would become. When software developers designed programmes from the 1950s onwards it was commonplace to use just two digits to represent the year. This was because computers at that time had a limited amount of memory and disk space, and also because many computer programmers did not realise that their systems would still be in use, let alone so important, as we approach the new millennium.Is it just desktop computers that will be affected?Unfortunately not. The problem affects many machines and networks, from cars to satellite systems. The bug is present in hardware, software and the data they use. For instance, desktop PCs contain several internal clocks running on a variety of chips. Many of these will not recognise the year 2000 and will attempt to reset the PC, probably to the year 1980. Newer computers with Intel chips and operating systems such as Microsoft's Windows NT were designed as 'Year 2000 capable' but many older systems still in use will need checking. Intel processors, for instance, are not covered under the company's Year 2000 warranty if they were shipped before 1998. (See support section for how to check your computer.)As well as computer hardware and software there is the problem of the data itself. Data stored in old computer programs such as COBOL will need re-purposing so that it can work with modern computer applications. Many government agencies, particularly the NHS, store records using arcane electronic formats.Then there are embedded systems. These are the small microprocessors and computer components that contain simple clocks and dating systems. These components are commonplace in a huge number of systems, from coffee vending machines to advanced medical equipment. The failure of one or more embedded components can disable even those machines using year 2000-compliant software. It is the fear of this type of systemic failure that lies behind many of the apocalyptic predictions involving air transport, financial systems and government agencies.
What a turn offThere's a new junction on the M1, which celebrates its 40th birthday in November. Situated between junction 24 and 25 in Leicestershire, the new turn-off has been christened "Junction 24A". It has cost &#163;8.9m and will be officially opened by transport minister Lord Whitty on Wednesday. And that's the end of the matter.Quote of the week"You may recall last week I raved about the new Nissan Skyline. I said I would sleep with Robin Cook if it meant I could have one. Well since then I've done another 500 miles in this road-going rocketship and it just got better and better. So now I'm up to a threesome with Robin and Ann Widdecombe"-  Jeremy Clarkson, the Sun
What are you driving?A blue Range Rover, about a year old.What does that say about you?I need space and coolness.What do you like about it?I like its power and its comfortable leather seats. It also has a very good sound system. What I don't like is that it's so heavy - when I drive fast, it's difficult to stop.Why did you buy it?I liked the design. English cars are very much admired by the French.What sort of state is it in?Very clean all over. I don't like dirt in my car.What kind of driver are you?If I'm late I drive too fast but generally I'm quite careful.Any bad habits?I use the bus lane.Any driving test tales?My examiner was very impressed that I was a well known artist in France. I'm sure she gave me the licence for this reason and not my driving ability.What was your first car?A small Renault.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?Once while waiting at the traffic lights a drunk driver crashed into the back of me. I've only ever had one ticket for speeding. I was only going 20km above the speed limit.What do you use your car for?For work mainly, and travelling to and from the airport if I have a lot   of luggage. I take taxis in Paris because there's nowhere to park.Have you ever experienced road rage?I used to occasionally in Paris where the traffic is heavy which is why I moved to the French Riviera.Have you ever had any romantic encounters in a car?No - never.What do you listen to on the road?Guitar and piano music. Jazz rock.What would be your dream car?One of the luxury Chevrolets but they're too heavy to drive.Who would be your dream passenger?Pat Metheny - my favourite musician. I think his music is wonderful. I would love to do a duet with him.&#149; Richard Clayderman's 21st anniverary album With Love is released today
Ever tried to stare through the darkened windows of a stretch limo in the expectation of seeing a star, pretending as you crane your neck that you're not actually that interested? Well, don't peek too close because your illusions may be about to be shattered - it is more likely to be a bunch of Essex girls out on a hen night.Leo Rossi of Capital Limos in London says, "Hen nights are definitely the naughtiest - stags are much better behaved. The women tend to take their tops off, stick their bums out of the   windows and even throw their bras out of the car." Capital chauffeur Michael Charalambous agrees: "One woman turned to me and said, 'If I take my clothes off, would you like to come up the back?'"Charalambous related that tale while driving me to meet up with seven friends. Capital had sent him with a 12 person car - it felt like we were two aristocrats at either end of an enormous dining table, without the benefit of a butler. As the car began to fill up with each stop I started to feel more at home.A lot of the time in the limo was spent arguing about whether or not something should be changed - with a limo there's that dreadful combination of too many people (getting more drunk by the minute) with way too many options - air conditioning, sun roof, drinks, lights, music etc. It was like taking a large group of people to a video shop and expecting a swift decision on which film to rent. Fortunately for us, a lot of these options were already limited: the sun roof didn't work and there was no bar. So we   fumbled about trying to get the air conditioning level right and mixing drinks that we'd brought with us.Then there was the tricky decision about what exactly to do in the car. We could have driven about all evening, but it was more exciting to stop and get out, then get back in again not too much later and repeat until our allotted time was over.Our first stop was the newly opened Soho drinking club Abigail's Party. The thrill of pulling up outside a bar and piling out of   the back of an obscenely large motor car cannot be underestimated - if you find this hard to believe, try it one day. Once inside, we practised another piece of limo lore: if your car isn't full, try and fill it with unsuspecting others. We found three guys in Abigail's Party and the girls invited them along for the ride. They were thrilled to join us, we were thrilled to show off our car and driver; everyone was happy.Although only a few minutes walk from Abigail's Party, we opted for the limo to take us to another    current cool bar, Chinawhite, which involved a half hour drive round a one-way block to get back. There was only one problem: we had the car now for only another half an hour. We got to Chinawhite and everybody loved it. One of the gang, Jason, and I said we'd go back to the car, tell Michael we'd done with his services for the night and collect our bits and pieces that we'd left in it. We walked around the streets of Soho, but couldn't find the car, eventually tracking it down on Regent Street. As we climbed in, Jason and I looked at each other, then at out watches and nodded in agreement to each other. I turned to Michael and said "One more go round the block if you would".&#149; Limos cost from £50 per hour in London, and from £40 per hour in Manchester, rising to £100 per hour in parts of the country with less competition. There may be a minimum hire of three hours for the hire. James Pretlove and party travelled courtesy of Capital Limos (0171 729 8110)
