This week's New Scientist has a special report on India - which it dubs "the next knowledge superpower. It includes a few articles on India'sburgeoning technology industry, and the growth of Bangalore as a rival to - and Asian partner of - Silicon Valley.Companies are choosing Bangalore for one main reason: the availability of good computer-science professionals. "We weren't able to hire enough good-quality engineers in Silicon Valley," [co-founder of Google Labs India and inventor of Google News Krishna] Bharat says. The concentration of high-tech companies in the city is unparalleled almost anywhere in the world. At last count, Bangalore had more than 150,000 software engineers - approaching the kind of numbers only Silicon Valley can boast.Thewhole reportis worth a read if you get the time.
It's frightening. I turn on the computer, type in my postcode, and there it is: 82b Camberwell Road, &#163;128,000. Now anyone with a computer and the strange desire to know can see how much my girlfriend and I paid for our two-bedroom flat in south London. I feel violated. Although, like all homeowners, of course, I still think I got a bargain.The difference is that now, thanks tonethouseprices.com, a clever website that enables you to search Land Registry records for free, I can find out for sure. For example: how much did that shoebox we used to rent at number 191 go for? An outrageous &#163;170,000! And how much did Paul pay for this place two years before we bought it from him? Oh, just &#163;82,000. Didn't he do well? This is the site's respectable purpose: helping prospective buyers and sellers get a feel for the market in a particular area. But one can't help wondering how many of its 500,000 visitors a day are using it for the sneaky purpose of spying on their friends' finances.Take our lovely downstairs neighbour, Cat, for instance. I could make unscrupulous use of the internet to discover how much she paid for her flat - &#163;123,000! And she's only got one bedroom! I call her up immediately to see if she is as scandalised as I am that it was so easy for me to invade her privacy."Um, it depends what you're thinking of using the information for." How about bragging that we only paid five grand more for our flat even though we've got an extra bedroom? "Well you bought it at a different time, when the market was different." True enough, and ours was barely habitable. So she won't be starting any small revenge fires? "No. I suppose I'd prefer it if that information wasn't widely available, but since it is, it's not going to make a huge impact on my life." And will she now be looking up her friends to see how much their houses cost? "No. There's a line I wouldn't cross. I'm not particularly nosey, unlike my dad."Conversations such as this one are going to become increasingly common now that nethouseprices.com is up and running. The site has only been going for a couple of months and has already had to upgrade its hardware to cope with the vast interest. I set out to find out how the rest of Camberwell Road feels about its house prices being published on the internet.Martin Hoscik, a 31-year-old IT professional at No 108, certainly has nothing to be ashamed of. "We only paid &#163;75,000 for this a couple of years ago," he says with pride of the comfortable three-room flat he shares with his partner Karl. "But then we did rob the vendor." He did indeed; it is the cheapest flat in the postcode.Perhaps unfortunately, considering what an impressive deal he got, Martin's property has somehow escaped the Land Registry's attention, as it is not listed on nethouseprices.com. "I think I heard about the site on the BBC," he says. "I went straight there, tapped in the address, and wondered, where are we? I was initially a bit disappointed."Once he'd had time to think through the implications, however, Martin was pleased to have been overlooked. "I think there's a privacy issue there, because it gives an indication of people's credit rating and how much their assets are worth - which is information we tend to keep private. Some of us earn more than we want to tell, and some of us earn far less than we'd want to admit to working for."And, so, by any chance, while he was looking, did he see how much his neighbour paid for her place? "Yes. It was &#163;94,000. I was surprised, actually. It wasn't something we'd ever discussed, and it was a bit more than I'd imagined. She's got a separate kitchen, but I hadn't imagined it would be as much as that. It's not the sort of information people offer - people who wander around talking about their house's value tend to be rather boorish."Then, on the other hand, there are people like Amelia Higgins, 41, who lives with her husband and children at No 17. She can't even remember what they paid for their beautiful Georgian house 18 months ago. "&#163;385,000," she says at first. "No wait, is that true? No, it's not. There was a big wrangle about it ... &#163;435,000!"And how does she feel about the fact that all her friends and neighbours can look this up on the internet? "I don't mind. I would have thought that the more transparent it all is, the less likely people are to get stuffed, so it's for the better, really." And she has no interest in looking up what they paid for theirs? "No." I see. I was hoping for something a little sneakier. "Well, when you're looking for a house, it is briefly all-consuming, and then when the whole ugly business is done, you just live in your house and don't give it another thought until you have to do it all again - hopefully never."Victoria Silva at No 23 has stuck to this very sensible policy since 1976, when she paid just &#163;5,000 for her place - eight rooms and an attic - a few doors down from the Higginses. Victoria, 52, a musician, evinces a little more interest in spying on her neighbours than Amelia did, but I think she's just being nice. "I suppose if a friend of mine who I didn't think had very much money managed to buy some fabulous place in Muswell Hill then I might find myself wondering, how much did they pay for that?" she offers helpfully.How about the possibility of people finding out how much you paid for your house? "I'm not sure I'd like people to know exactly, but I bought this so long ago that it doesn't really matter. My partner always says to people, 'You'll never guess what she paid for this place in 1976.' But people aren't at all surprised."So, after a day on patrol, I have reached a conclusion: the lifestyle epidemic has not yet infected Camberwell Road, a slice of inner-city London where yellow police boards still outnumber For Sale signs on slow days. Even when I force people to take an interest in them, house prices seem to occupy that special status alongside one's age or salary - it's just nothing like as big a secret as people like to pretend. One rather simple explanation suggests itself here: it could just be that house prices are not very interesting. Medicalrecords.com on the other hand, I might actually pay for that.&#183;Address details have been changed.
The New York Times Company last night announced a $410m (&#163;216m) deal to buy the online information business About.com from publishing group Primedia.The deal reflects the recent growth in online advertising and the company's need to find new revenues.Like other newspaper firms The New York Times Company is struggling to wring higher revenues out of its print business as it faces stagnant or falling circulations and a patchy advertising climate.About.com provides consumers who search its database with information on topics such as health, finances, food and travel.In its most recent quarterly results, The New York Times Company said online advertising revenues were 30% higher than the same time period a year earlier.
Dea Birkett claims the threat posed to children from paedophiles on the internet has been wildly exaggerated and questions the need for a proactive law enforcement presence online (Bogeymen: the next generation, G2, February 16). Ms Birkett is mistaken. As the senior police officer responsible for the national Paedophile Online Investigation Team (Polit), and chair of the Virtual Global Taskforce, I see at first hand the suffering and devastation caused to children by all forms of online child abuse.The taskforce brings together law enforcement agencies from the UK, US, Canada and Australia to fight online child abuse and make the internet a safer place for children. Our website (www.virtualglobaltaskforce.combrings together educational and law enforcement resources from around the world in a way that I believe is unparalleled.We are not encouraging children to see the internet as "a very dangerous place". We believe it is a fantastic new environment which people should be able to use safely. Like any other public place, the internet attracts a criminal element. Our aim, through our website, is to deliver a reassuring law-enforcement presence; nothing covert or intrusive - simply a place where adults and children can go to for information, advice and support. This includes information on how to report crime.According to research by ICM, 91% of UK residents said they would welcome a greater police presence online to reduce crime and protect   children. A survey by the US Department of Justice found that one in five children aged 10 to 17 had received unwanted sexual approaches online. Recent research from the LSE found that nearly half of nine- to 19-year-olds who use the internet had given out personal information to strangers they've met online.So while thousands of offenders have been arrested over the past few years, there can be no room for complacency. The creation of the Virtual Global Taskforce is a significant step forward in reassuring the public, in protecting children and in creating a more hostile environment for those who go online to commit crime.Jim GambleDeputy director general, National Crime Squad; Chair, Virtual Global Taskforce
The software group Microsoft yesterday recalled the power leads for more than 14m of its Xbox games consoles amid concerns over safety.A "rare electrical component failure" has caused the company to replace the leads for nearly three-quarters of the units in circulation worldwide. Owners of the console, which is hugely popular among video game players, have also been advised to turn their machines off when not in use.Microsoft said seven people have received minor burns as a result of the problem and there were a further 23 reported cases of smoke or heat damage to the unit itself or the surrounding area. "This is a preventative step we're choosing to take despite the rarity of these incidents," said Robbie Bach, senior vice-president of Microsoft's home and entertainment division."We regret the inconvenience, but believe offering consumers a free replacement cord is the responsible thing to do."The fault affects units built before January 13 2004, but there are already millions of Xbox consoles in circulation.A spokesman would not disclose the cost of the recall, but said thousands of man hours had been put into solving the problem.Xbox owners can visitwww.xbox.comor call the freephone helpline on 0800 028 9276.
At a Traditional Media-Meets-Gaming seminar series I attended the other week, where I did one of the worst presentations I've ever done, the keynote speaker argued that he knew multi-channel cable TV had hit the big time when he heard a stand-up comic making jokes about it in his act. Gaming, he said, will be acknowledged as mainstream entertainment when jokesters start taking the mick out of it in public.So, heard any good gaming jokes lately? The only one I can think of is inSpaced. During one classic episode, main guy Tim has been playing Resident Evil all night and starts seeing zombies...everywhere.Hey, I never said I could tell 'em.
Just got a release from Microsoft, which I assumed was an April Fool until I checked the date. As a "precautionary measure" Microsoft will replace the power cords on 14.1 million Xbox consoles worldwide! Apparently the current cords can, on rare occasions, pose a fire hazard due to electrical failures. 30 consoles worldwide have suffered this failure, causing minor injury or property damage. If your console was manufactured before the 13th January 2004 (in Europe - 23rd October elsewhere) then you'll need a replacement cord. So that's most of us then I'm guessing - but is it really worth the effort? If you think so thensign up here.
Yes, it's Thursday - and that can mean only one thing.No, not that the weekend is only two days away (which it is, of course) but that a new edition of the Guardian's print supplementOnlinehas hit the streets.This week we've a veritable cornucopia of features.Clint Witchalls leads the charge with a fascinating piece on aninitiative to build a sub $100 laptopaimed at the developing world (spearheaded by MIT's Nicholas Negroponte) and Sanjita O'Connell looks at a new database which hopes to keeptrack of the natural world. And since one world's not enough, we've also been talking toJill Tarter, director of the Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence Institute.Richard Wray and Keith Stuart have been out at the 3GSM telecoms show in Cannes, bringing us the news onmobilephonesandmobile gamingrespectively.In comment,Victor Keeganlooks at digital TV,Jack Schofieldwrites on Carly Fiorina's departure from HP andMichael Crossquestions the government's complaints over bad press coverage.Meanwhile,Inside ITlooks atcredit card fraudandpolice force information sharingamong other things.Of course, it doesn't stop there.Click hereto browse the full contents of this week's supplement.
This one has been picked up by a few news organisations today, but the Daily Telegraph puts it on the front page.A burglar has been jailed after being filmed by the computer he was stealing.Benjamin Park, 19, broke into the home of Duncan Grisby, a software developer who had installed a motion-activated security camera in his computer. Park smashed a ground floor window of Mr Grisby's house in Cambridge and stole the computer and other equipment worth £3,719. The hidden webcam caught him in the act and a back-up system transferred the images to Mr Grisby's private website. When 30-year-old Mr Grisby returned from holiday this month, the pictures were handed over to police, leading to the arrest of Park, who was already on bail for an attempted burglary in Ely.See, that old webcam you've got stuffed away in a box really can be useful after all.UPDATE:Thanks to commenter Grom, who pointed out Duncan's website atgrisby.organd his page dedicated tothe pictures in question.
With the battle, ahem, raging over whether it's acceptable to like Guns N' Roses, we have a little more news on music downloads, courtesy of mobile network 3...Yesterday they said that more than 10 million music videos had been watched by its customers in the past six months.Top oftheirpops?Britney Spears, Natasha Bedingfield and Eric Prydz. I'm not sure people are tuning in for the music, you know.
Under a new anti-fraud scheme from MasterCard, you could soon receive a text message asking you to confirm a recent transaction on your credit card. The new system is an add-on to MasterCard's Aristion fraud detection technology used by many banks to spot fraudulent card use. It will allow them to automatically send a text message to card holders whenever unusual spending activity is detected.MasterCard claims the system will significantly reduce fraud and reduce the need for call-centre staff. It says that in a medium-sized bank, each call-centre staffer typically makes 100 calls a day chasing customers. This compares with an estimated 1,000 automated text messages per day using its new service.The system has been created in association with mobile payment firm mBlox, which is providing the infrastructure and global connectivity to mobile operators to deliver the messages. For banks that already use the Aristion fraud detection system, MasterCard says the SMS module - called Communicator - can be added in an hour at a cost of between &#163;2,000 and &#163;8,000, though there may be integration costs. Citibank is expected to be the first bank to pilot the service in the UK.But critics suggest there is more in the announcement for the banks than for their users. "You have to ask 'what's in it for the customer?'" says John Delaney, a principal analyst with the Ovum consultancy. "The problem is, unless they are lowering the bar on fraud alerts, it will be very rare that a customer gets one of these messages, so they may have forgotten they agreed to receive them and think the message is spam. If customers think the banks are shifting the responsibility to stop fraud on to them, they won't like it."Johan Gerber, associate vice president of MasterCard's risk products division, disagrees. "They are under no obligation to phone back, but we believe customers will want to help banks reduce fraud and will want to alert them if something looks wrong," he says. "They can opt not to phone back if they are satisfied with the transaction. There will be no liability on customers."Gerber confirmed that, under the SMS system, banks are able to lower their thresholds for issuing alerts so that more possible fraud can be detected. "At the moment, the response to fraud is limited by the staff they   have to make enquiries, so with SMS, you can increase the alerts you respond to and therefore reduce fraud by up to 90% compared to the average of about 60% today," he says.MasterCard is also planning to offer a text-back facility by the end of the year so that customers can simply   reply with a return text. Also, card holders will have the option of seeing all transactions by text.Gerber says that banks are most likely to offer a freephone number for customers concerned about a transaction, although he admits that some banks may   wish to levy a charge for the call.Malcolm Skinner, from security specialists CyberTrust, says that any initiative is welcomed but new ideas can take a while to be adopted. "Most banks will sit and wait to see another bank go through any pain involved in rolling this out," he says. "Text messaging isn't the most reliable form of communication. If it reduces fraud and increases customer confidence then it's a good thing."The technology will also be closely watched by the SMS content aggregators and mobile operators. Most are keen to get a firmer foothold in financial services and reduce their reliance on ringtones, games and adult content for profitability. Attempts by mobile operators and SMS aggregators to turn mobile phones into payment devices have been lacklustre due to regulations that insist on them behaving like banks.The MasterCard announcement was followed by news that Cofinoga, the card issuer of France's largest retail group, Galeries Lafayette, is to allow a sample of subscribers to authorise payment on credit cards by text message. Mobile payment specialist Upaid, working in association with IBM, is offering a service called Text Cheque. This allows the retailer to send SMS reminders of its own store card bills direct to mobiles, in addition to the bill sent in the post.When the bill is received by SMS, the cardholder can opt to send a message back confirming payment of any amount up to the maximum owed. "A lot of customers don't like paying by direct debit so this gives card issuers a way of increasing the chance of early payment," said Mary Carol Harris, Upaid's marketing vice president.SMS fraud detection systems are used in parts of Eastern Europe and South Africa, but MasterCard is the first credit card company to offer such a service worldwide. Forty-seven banks already use the Aristion fraud detection system and there are 650m cardholders worldwide.UK credit and debit card fraud amounted to &#163;400m last year. This was a slight fall on 2003, but SMS alerts could further reduce the total.
If next door's net curtains have ceased twitching and a strange hush has fallen over your area, don't assume that the neighbours have given up nosiness for Lent.They are probably casting an online eye over your property instead.A new website which tells surfers how much people paid for their homes claims to have had 50m requests in just six weeks.Nethouseprices.com gives information from the Land Registry of England and Wales and Registers of Scotland about the selling price of residential properties bought since April 2000.The search facility is free, does not require users to register, and only requires a UK postcode and street name.Steve Dunnett, the man behind the site, attributes its success to our fascination with the property market and our desire to keep up with the Joneses."As a nation, we're obsessed by house prices, so we're inevitably going to be inquisitive as to what the neighbours bought or sold their house for," he said."On the more practical side, house buyers and sellers need good information to make the decision to buy an informed one. They have a right to this information, which is why we offer it for free."He added: "If you take Brits' fascination with house prices, coupled with the active property market, it's no wonder we're seeing such huge interest in the site."It's great to see that so many people are finding the site so useful and keep coming back."Searches provide information on the type of property, selling price, date of completion and whether the property is freehold or leasehold.The website, which makes its money by selling advertising space, plans to expand by offering extra information to estate agents and other companies through a paid-for subscription service.
The only way for some good to come from a tragedy is to try to stop it from happening again. The public inquiry into the murders of Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in 2002 included a damning indictment of police IT systems to which government and local forces have been trying to respond.The inquiry, led by former Whitehall permanent secretary Sir Michael Bichard, investigated how Ian Huntley came to be employed in a school despite a string of sexual allegations.The Police National Computer (PNC) holds only conviction data, so more nebulous intelligence records, such as the earlier allegations against Huntley, are only available upon specific request to the force concerned.Bichard's report called for a central police intelligence system as "a national priority", and the government's response is the Impact programme - a searchable information sharing platform expected to cost &#163;140m and be fully functioning by 2007.Though the main contracts will not be signed before the autumn, the programme took its first steps last week with the launch of three National Nominal Index (NNI) trials in Hertfordshire, Staffordshire and the West Midlands.Officers vetting potential employees can use the NNI to check a name and date of birth against the 13m records held in custody, intelligence, domestic violence, crime and firearms databases across the country. Initially, the information will be limited to a contact number at the relevant local force, but in time it will provide the data electronically.The Impact programme will build on NNI as more local systems are added to its search facility, and the service is made more widely available within forces - starting with child protection units from April.The PNC modernisation programme is also being incorporated into Impact so conviction records are searchable through the same system, and there are links to the Police Local Cross-Reference (PLX) project developed to underpin Criminal Records Bureau vetting procedures.Both Impact and the systems it must build on are very complex. But the biggest hurdle will be getting local information organised so it can be accessed through a national infrastructure, and developing standard working practices so data can easily be added to the centralised system.This is the hard part - getting the 43 independent police forces in England and Wales to agree on a common way of doing things. It is not the first time the Police IT Organisation (Pito) has considered a national intelligence system. As Bichard observed, similar plans first mooted in 1994 were abandoned in 2000 because forces could not agree among themselves.The question is how Impact is different. Jan Berry, chairman of the Police Federation for England and Wales, is not convinced it is."Sadly, Soham was not a huge shock because we knew exchange of information and access to intelligence around the country was not good," she said. "A national intelligence system has been promised for years but we don't seem any further forward today - a lot of parts of the jigsaw are there, but I'm not convinced we can put them together to form a picture."Berry says heads still need "knocking together" but Pito claims the influence of Bichard has been huge."As a result, the police service recognises the need for substantial root and branch business change," said Pito head of intelligence business processes Stephen Dines.As Bichard noted, there is a national intelligence system already up and running north of the border. Not only is the &#163;8m Scottish Intelligence Database (SID) used in all eight local forces and the Scottish Drug Enforce ment Agency, in the next six months it will be linked to other groups including the Transport Police and Immigration and Prison Services. It is also being integrated with Scotland's automatic numberplate recognition system and the UK-wide violent and sex offender database.The key to SID's success lies in such standardised working practices. "The most important thing was setting a common data standard so the value of the intelligence is the same irrespective of what force it emanates   from," said Ian McCandlish, Strathclyde detective superintendent and SID project manager.Unfortunately, what works for eight Scottish forces cannot simply be extended to cover the 43 forces to the south. There is no doubt that Bichard's recommendations are being taken seriously, but whether uniform working practices can be achieved remains to be seen.&#183;Sarah Arnott writes for Computing magazine.
The struggle to modernise government with massive IT programmes abounds in WIHAQ cliches. WIHAQ, of course, stands for "wish I had a quid (every time I heard that)". Examples are: "the technology is not the problem", usually uttered just before the network goes down, or "this is a true public private partnership", just as the writs start flying.This year's hot WIHAQ, however, is likely to be some variation on "the media never report our successes, only when things go wrong".It is an article of faith in much of government that there is a conspiracy among journalists to talk up failure and ignore success.As with the other WIHAQs, there are occasions when this is true.   The nature of news is to report history as a sequence of discrete crises. In this agenda, the story of a failure will get more coverage than a success: it is usually a neater tale.When reality doesn't oblige by coming in these packages, journalists tend to shoehorn events into them. A famine that's been happening for years becomes an urgent drama for a day. Of course, good newspapers will use the event as a peg on which to hang analysis and explanation of the bigger picture.Likewise with public policy. Failures have an urgency and a human element - benefits unpaid, lines of people queueing for passports - that make them more of an event than successes. If, as often happens, the failure is a long-term, complex phenomenon, it can be nudged into the "drama" slot with the help of an MP's questions, or an audit office report.All this is a fact of life and, if ministers think they can change it, they are wrong. In fact, their attempts to do so, by hiring expensive spin doctors and gagging public servants, only make matters worse.Instead, the government should take comfort from two things. First, the very fact that failure is "news" implicitly recognises that, most of the time, IT-enabled public administration works.Second, success can make just as much an event as failure. At the end of last month, during all the embarrassment surrounding the overload of the Inland Revenue's website, the government IT story that received most play in the mass media was the successful launch of Land Register Online (www.landregisteronline.gov.uk).Broadcasters and popular papers gave it a big splash because the service is a step forward in electronic government, of genuine interest to ordinary people. The Land Registry contributed to the positive coverage through its openness to questions - in noticeable contrast with the paranoia-infested launch in December of another public web service, Transport Direct.But all the public interest and media openness in the world would not have made a PR success of Land Registry Direct if it had crashed on day one. It didn't, because it was a well thought-out incremental step in a long-term IT strategy, and exhaustively tested before launch.That's what I call a WICWMO - something I wish I could write more often.
Second to noneStar Wars: Knights of the Old Republic IIXbox/PC, &#163;39.99Obsidan/LucasArts, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The original Knights of the Old Republic was a revelation. Here was a role-playing game set in the Star Wars universe that managed to transcend the limitations of both to create an intoxicating experience.Essentially you could decide how you wanted to play - nice or nasty. Do you help out a grieving widow or smite her down and grab the loot? Not only did your looks and powers change depending on your decisions but, crucially, so did the way party members reacted to you. Even though this was only a single-player game, this quality of interaction gave a real feeling of involvement. In the sequel, this element is further emphasised - you can now influence members of your team. Gain their trust and they'll spill the beans on their backgrounds. This opens up new quests.Ah yes, the story. As before, the plot is integral, and once again it does not disappoint. Far deeper than the videogame norm, the story here is a genuine incentive to progression and proves decent narrative and a great game can be friends. The new Jedi powers are suitably showy, while the combat offers more scope for tactics than before. Sadly, the short development time means the odd bug has crept through, while some settings from the original game are revisited. Nevertheless, the Force is definitely strong with this one and it is an excellent sequel.Greg HowsonCity of dreamsImmortal Cities: Children of the NilePC, &#163;34.99Tilted Mill/Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Children of the Nile feels like an old-skool real-time strategy, where the act of creating wealth and running the city was more important than the   wars that followed. Nothing happens quickly, and for a while you appreciate the leisurely pace and impressively animated detail - perhaps to the detriment of the perfect balance between supply and demand you need to maintain at all times.Let's give you an example of the complexity. To build a pyramid, you need brickmakers, bricklayers, a supply of stone and basalt, an overseer to supervise the labourers, who must quarry it and cart it by hand or barge to its location, and the entire social structure of shops, homes, temples, schools, mortuaries and tombs necessary to keep the social groups happy. All this would be hard enough    if you had direct control over your workforce, but you do not. Short of providing them with shops or dwellings, they will make their own wealth or spiral into poverty and social unrest without help from you.   Lose control over your workforce, and you lose prestige - without which no one will trust or obey you.On top of this, some levels expect you to maintain an army and navy - although, again, short of dictating their size and armoury, you have little control over how they fight. All of this makes it enormously satisfying when you finally win just one level of the first five-level campaign, with a further two campaigns and numerous one-off scenarios to play through.If you liked Sim City, this is a dream come true.Mike AnderieszWorthy challengeMercenariesPlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;39.99Pandemic/LucasArts, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Amid a glut of military action games, developer Pandemic has managed to find an original approach, initially with the excellent Full Spectrum Warrior, which looked like a third-person shoot-'em-up but played like a strategy game, and now with Mercenaries, which provides a Grand Theft Auto-like, open-ended gameplay experience set in a convincing war environment.The evil General Song has seized power in North Korea (just before it was due to reunify with South Korea), and various forces have moved in. As well as the Allied Nations (an American-led international force), the South Koreans, Chinese and Russian mafia pursue their own agendas.Since you play a mercenary, you get to perform missions against the North Koreans for all those factions, picking up intelligence that leads to the richest returns: bounty for the so-called Deck Of 52, the most-wanted North Korean leaders (General Song has a $100m price on his head).ExOps, the mercenary company you work for, offers hi-tech support, such as a technical officer who will download satellite feeds to your PDA, and during missions you can call on air strikes and supply drops should things get sticky. You can also buy black market equipment, air strikes and the like from the shadowy Merchant Of Menace website.Missions are many and varied, and there are plenty of sub-missions, which are constantly vibrant with skirmishes and, at times, are startlingly convincing.Graphics and controls are beyond reproach, and even the vehicles handle well. You can leap into tanks, helicopters and all sorts of military vehicles, including the terrorist's runabout of choice: a pick-up truck with machine-gun installed in the back.Just like San Andreas, Mercenaries sucks you in to its scary, violent but convincing world, and as the missions increase in difficulty, it becomes even harder to tear yourself away. It is a well thought-out and well-executed game that may well launch a generation of imitators.Steve Boxer
Sendo used the 3GSM Congress to launch its X2 handset as Britain's handset pioneer looks to cash in on the digital music boom. Aimed at people fed up with having to pocket both a phone and a digital music player, the X2 - which is lighter and smaller than Sendo's X smartphone - supports AAC, AAC+ and MP3 files, making it ideal for over-the-air downloading and importing music from a laptop.The GPRS-enabled phone is equipped with play and skip buttons, making it as easy to use as an MP3 player, but it also includes a 1.3 megapixel camera - Sendo's largest - with 8x digital zoom.The phone will only hold 30 songs but that can be expanded to thousands with a memory card. However, it has not been decided whether it will be sold with an SD card. It is likely to cost under &euro;300 (&#163;206) without a Sim card. The Birmingham-based mobile phone maker is talking to a number of European operators and hopes to start shipping in the spring.www.sendo.com
Coinciding as it did with the Grammy music awards in the US, it was fitting that the 3GSM World Congress, the phone industry's big annual shindig, was dominated by music.The mobile phone operators have seized upon downloading, uploading and playing of full-length tracks as the next big thing. Meanwhile, the handset manufacturers, always looking for a way to make their phones stand out, are integrating as many music-related features as possible into their latest kit.Top of the pops was the news that Nokia and Microsoft have buried the hatchet and the Finnish company will look to use the latest version of the Windows Media Player on some of its new handsets.Nokia was quick to point out, however, that the deal in no way weakens its links with Symbian. The day when a Nokia branded phone comes with a Windows-based operating system is still a long way off.Details of when Nokia will produce a Windows Media-compatible phone are sketchy and there are some technical hurdles. Both partners want it to be easy for consumers to move music back and forth from PC to phone, play their CD collection as well as buy tracks either over the air or on the web. The problem is that there will have to be some complex "transcoding" of Windows sound files into the AAC format. Companies that have tried this have complained the music quality suffers, although Nokia reckons it has cracked this issue.For Microsoft, the deal marks an acceptance of its applications - if not its operating system - by the world's largest handset manufacturer. For Nokia, it ensures that while some of its operator customers, such as Vodafone, continue to develop players, it has an answer to the Motorola/Apple partnership should operator-independent services become a hit with listeners.In a similar vein, Sony Ericsson used the Cannes festival to announce a tie-up with parent Sony to develop handsets bearing the famous Walkman brand. The first phones - which will be unveiled next month - will allow music lovers to transfer their CD collection on to the phone using a computer. Future phones will be able to play music files purchased and downloaded either over the air or the internet, and SonyEricsson is looking to cooperate with Sony's Connect download service.On show were plenty of phones designed for the music market including the X2 from Sendo. On the 3G side, Samsung launched the SGH-Z300 and Motorola the E1120, both of which come with built-in stereo speakers.There was a lot of noise at the conference about music: now it is a question of whether consumers are prepared to listen.
Amid the usual onslaught of big brands, sequels and movie tie-ins, mobile game developers brought a few interesting concepts to this year's show. There is, for example, a growing recognition that girls own phones and might be interested in downloading games. US company Mforma revealed Little Miss Naughty, a cute, highly stylised platform game based around the Mr Men characters,   which looked quaintly out of place next to the company's generous line-up of Marvel titles - Blade Trinity, Elektra, Fantastic Four and Ultimate Spider-Man are all out this year.Finnish developer Sumea has been more obvious in its intentions with Atkins To Go, a Java application where users input what they have eaten to find out how many evil carbohydrates it contained. The "game" also includes recipes and exercises. Sumea's parent company, Digital Chocolate, also revealed Metro Girl, a mobile phone version of a teen magazine. Among other features it can send you a fake text message to summon you from a disastrous date. These are rather cliched attempts to court the elusive young female demographic, but it is a start.Despite a general move toward more simple mass-market titles, a   few companies are still gambling on multiplayer. In Sweden, Daydream has just launched Botfighters 2, a location-based multiplayer shooter for Java phones. It is talking to networks about bringing it to the UK. In the game, set in a near-future cyberpunk dystopia, you track down and battle other users in your vicinity.Ydreams, a Portuguese studio, was showing off Undercover 2, a massively multiplayer action adventure for Java handsets, again with a cyberpunk theme. It also has a location-based element: through a partnership with navigation software company Navteq, the game contains maps for 44 countries, so it can be set in your home town. As you visit more places in real life, you can add these to your in-game locations.There were also plenty of more formal but still compelling titles.French giant In-Fusio has excellent adaptations of recent Game Boy Advance titles - SabreWulf, Banjo Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge and It's Mr Pants, a Tetris-style "tidy up the blocks" puzzler, designed to resemble a child's drawing. This also includes an online two-player option.Britain's Kuju Wireless introduced FIM Motocross World Championship, a promising isometric dirt bike racer that will allow you to unlock and download extra content when you win the tournament mode.Finally, French developer Kaolink showed Gallic flare with Ancestoral Bird, a platformer where you play a character that transforms from a walking egg to a winged creature as you go along. This, too, has an eye on the young female phone owner with time on her hands.
Although the Lord of the Rings films introduced many people to orcs for the first time, gamers have been fighting orcish armies for more than 10 years in the form of Blizzard Entertainment's famous franchise, Warcraft. The battle between the evil Horde and the goodly Alliance has morphed into World of Warcraft, which became the fastest selling PC online role-playing game when it launched in Europe last week, shifting a record-breaking 280,000 copies during its first 24 hours and 380,000 over its first weekend.World of Warcraft has been created to capture regular and casual players. "We've always had a cultural commitment to reach as many players as we could," says Mike Morhaime, president and co-founder of Blizzard Entertainment, which also pioneered the popular Starcraft strategy games and the famous Diablo. "Adapting the user interface to make it easy to grasp right off the bat was one of our most fundamental considerations ... We like to create learning curves which are easy to pick up but difficult to master."One of the game's most enduring features is that it has more than a decade of material to draw on, as it is the first big role-playing franchise to go online since Ultima in 1997.Fans of the series will recognise many places and characters from the original strategy games. Likewise, newcomers can delight in a beautiful world, where they can create characters from eight races, including the lithe Night Elves or the brutish half-human, half-bull Taureans.Morhaime's view is that an accessible world is important to the future of massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG). "&#91;They&#93; can be quite intimidating for new players, with all the statistics, skills and powers you have to juggle, so we wanted to make sure new players could hit the ground running and hook them into the game within the first five minutes," he says.But Blizzard has not embraced the casual market at the expense of its hardcore fans, who will find plenty to keep them occupied - especially on the Player Versus Player servers, where the battle between the Horde and the Alliance is a constant part of the gameplay."The great thing about World Of Warcraft is that you can sit down in your lunch hour and do a couple of quests and still feel like you've had a meaningful experience, rather than it feeling like you've got a second career," says Morhaime.It is proof that gaming territories such as MMORPGs, which have been seen as the preserve of those with too much time on their hands, can be geared towards a wider audience, yet still provide an enjoyable gaming experience for long-term fans.www.wow-europe.com/en
Mobile PhonesTwo for oneThe first tangible proof of Nokia's focus this year on 3G handsets emerged at Cannes, with the unveiling of the 6680. Nokia has pledged that a quarter of the 40 new phones it has lined up for this year will be 3G. The 6680, likely to retail at &euro;500 (&#163;343), has two cameras - one on the front and one hidden behind a sliding panel on the back - and comes with always-on email. As well as enabling video calling, the 6680 supports "video sharing", a new service that allows users to interrupt a call with a "see what I see" video clip.www.nokia.comFresh lookLG has put a fresh tilt on mobile gaming with its SV360. The handset looks like a mobile with a chunky colour screen, with the usual trimmings such as a 1.3 megapixel camera, but it flips open to reveal a second screen, numeric keypad and two game toggles. However, the first games for the device - a 3D snowboarding epic that would not look out of place on a PlayStation 2 and a racing game - dispense with the toggles and use the movement of the handset to control the game. Tilt it forward for speed, side to side for direction. Crashing out makes the   device vibrate. LG is looking for a European partner for the SV360 but at the moment, it is only available in South Korea.www.lge.comSwivel actionSamsung continues to make wacky looking mobile phones with the SGH-Z130, which should hit Europe next month priced at under &euro;300 (&#163;206). The dual 3G and GPRS phone, unveiled at 3GSM, has a unique swivelling screen, which is ideal for watching video clips. It automatically switches between portrait and full widescreen when moved, and with a rotating 1 megapixel camera - plus flash - is ideal for any lover of the idiosyncratic. The only downside is its lack of a memory card. Samsung also unveiled two 3G clamshells. The SGH-Z300 comes with built-in stereo speakers and, with a Flash memory card installed, can store hours of music. The SGH-Z500 looks almost exactly like Samsung's successful 2.5G clamshell, the E700. Both are likely to hit Europe in the spring.www.samsung.comHardwareStay in touchFor people who cannot bear to be out of touch while mountain biking, rock climbing or posing on the beach, Motorola has joined forces with designer eyewear maker Oakley to produce Bluetooth-enabled sunglasses. The sunglasses - called RAZRWire - come in three colours and allow the wearer to answer or make calls with the touch of a button.www.motorola.comStat of the week: Site visitorsAlmost half of all 12 to 17 year olds visited a music website in December, according to new research. Yahoo!'s Launch service came top with AOL, but the gender split was almost down the middle - unlike for older users, who are far more likely to be men.Number of visits to the top five music sites for 12-17 year oldsLAUNCH 358,000AOL Music 358,000Universal Music 239,000iTunes 213,000MTV Networks 182,000&#183;Source: Nielson/Netratings
Any which wayGoing over recent Guardian articles on Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), can calls only be made to other VoIP connected phones or can they be made to people with normal household telephones and/or mobiles?Michael BoothJack Schofield replies:There are basically three types of calls using VoIP: PC-to-PC, PC-to-phone, and phone-to-phone. PC-to-PC is the simplest, and is free to use. You may need to add a microphone, headset or USB handset to your computer, but you can probably make calls using your usual instant messaging system, or download Skype (www.skype.com).For PC-to-phone connections, however, your call has to be routed from the internet to a traditional phone network, such as BT, or to a cellular service. This is an extra service and you usually have to pay for it - such calls are usually charged by the minute. With phone-to-phone services, you connect a VoIP phone to your broadband router, via an adapter. This lets you make VoIP calls if your PC is switched off, or if you don't have a PC at all.Skype now offers a PC-to-phone service called SkypeOut. IP Speak (www.ipspeak.net) offers a PC-to-phone service that works via a USB handset, but people with phones can't call you. Gossiptel (www.gossiptel.com) lets you call any PC with VoIP software that uses the SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) standard - SIP is built into Windows XP - and any phone. Gossiptel also supplies what amounts to a second phone line   with a portable 0870 phone number, and if you want a phone-to-phone service, will sell you a Sipura Internet telephone adapter to connect to your ADSL router.BT's VoBB (Voice over Broadband) service and Vonage (www.vonageco.uk.) both come with adapters to connect your ordinary phone to your broadband service. BT includes what amounts to a second phone line with an 05 number, and Vonage will supply a virtual number in North America for &#163;2.99 a month - handy if you want to open a virtual office in Albuquerque. Finally, Pipemedia (www.pipemedia.net) offers a service called PipeCall that uses the Zyxel Prestige 2000w Wireless Broadband Phone. This connects via a Wi-Fi access point and costs about &#163;175.Yahoo.co.uk has a long list of alternatives in its directory of Internet Telephony Service Providers athttp://masl.to/?C57012C7A.Spot a fakeI have just opened the message from abuse@gov.us, which says: "I noticed that you have visited illegal websites. See the name in the list!" Have you come across this type of message previously?Doug SimpsonJS:Sad to say, yes I have. Run a Google search for the words "abuse@gov.us w32 netsky.P" (without the quotes) and you will find you have been emailed by a virus, not the US government.eBay alertI have received a message from eBay's Safeharbor Department regarding a Fraud Alert. Apparently, someone has used my identity to make false purchases. I'm asked to press a button within the body of the email, in order to fill out an online form. This link does not work, presumably because I use a Mac. It states that my account will be cancelled within 72 hours if I do not follow instructions.Christophe CauvyJS:This is a standard phishing scam. The link undoubtedly leads to a fake but convincing eBay site that will log your ID and password for fraudulent misuse. If you read the email in plain text format, the website's real address should be visible. At the moment, another phishing scam is using the offer of a Harry Potter novel to obtain credit card details.Backchat&#183;Dr Ivan Klimes had installed wireless broadband but the signal didn't go far enough, and I suggested several options. Mark Beed says: "The one thing you have forgotten, and the first thing that the good people at D-Link told me when I called in with the same problem, was to change the channel number of wireless access point. It worked eventually for me." Grant Lee has been using a Belkin Pre-N wireless router and says the range is fantastic: "I know that N hasn't been ratified yet but we used it with three different computers and it worked with all of them."&#183;Also last week, Danny Edmunds' ADSL broadband worked well but created interference on his radio. Mike Whittaker adds: "The problem is that the broadband signal goes through all your phone lines, even though you only need it on the one to your router. An alternative might be to do away with microfilters except for the master socket where your phone line enters the house. You could install just one filter there, then run all the remaining telephone extensions from the phone side of the filter. This should minimise the interference by ensuring that the broadband signal is not sent throughout the house."&#183;Ted Bloxham and others have pointed out that you can still get a "free" version of MailWasher anti-spam software from PCWorld.com (http://masl.to/?A1A024C7A). However, this is shareware rather than freeware.
Strapless blockedSuperbowl XXXIX passed without any of the wardrobe malfunctions with which Janet Jackson lit up the web last year. This year, the closely related question on fans' lips was: "Who is the GoDaddy Girl, and have you got her phone number?" In fulfilment of this column's public service remit, I can tell you her name is Candice Michelle, and she's a professional actress and a World Wrestling Entertainment RAW Diva. The humorous advertisement, called Strapless, only appeared once: the NFL blocked the second showing. This created lots of extra publicity, which GoDaddy boss Bob Parsons was able to exploit in his blog. It also brought Candice extra media attention - eg from The Howard Stern Show - plus an unofficial fan site with more revealing pictures atMissGoDaddy.com. ("Apparently we are going to be in need of a lawyer, so please be kind to our sponsors," says the site.) Otherwise, iFilm has a nice collection of recent Superbowl ads. Oh yes, GoDaddy sells internet domain names. Who knew?http://masl.to/?U54616B7Ahttp://masl.to/?B46614B7Awww.bobparsons.comhttp://dyn.ifilm.com/superbowlads/missgodaddy.comRandom sketchesFor 36 weeks, a sketchbook was sent in random order between four artists, two in Brooklyn and two in Belfast. Each time, each artist filled a spread, and the much-battered book travelled more than 60,000 miles by the end of the project on February 2. The results are available on the web, where you can bring up each spread and read or listen to the artist's comments. You can also pay a virtual visit to the exhibition of the pages at the Laganside Weir in Belfast, or follow links to the individual artist's websites, or buy reproduction prints or copies of the book. Wonderful stuff.www.lookatbook.comSpread the wordWe are also coming up to World Book Day, which is being held on Thursday March 3. You can send your friends an e-card recommending a book to Spread the Word, or dip into the World Book Day Online Reading Festival archive. Schoolchildren can pick up a World Book Day &#163;1 book token (sponsored by National Book Tokens Ltd) and exchange it for one   of the six specially published World Book Day &#163;1 Books (while stocks last), or other titles. The site also has a long list of Book Week events at schools and libraries round the country.www.worldbookday.comwww.worldbookdayfestival.comFotologgedFlickr has recently had tons of well-deserved publicity. Fotolog - founded in 2002 by Scott Heiferman, the chief executive of the hugely successfulMeetup.com- has not been quite so lucky. However, it has already attracted its first million photo-bloggers, and yesterday it completed a community project lasting a million minutes (11 days). The site challenged members to upload photographs that depict the number 1,000,000, either literally or figuratively, and some of the results were outstanding. The site has about 180,000 new photos uploaded per day and 750m page views per month. Also on the picture-sharing and printing front, Ofoto.com is changing its name to Kodakgallery.com at the end of next month.www.fotolog.net/onemillionwww.flickr.comwww.ofoto.comGoogle mapsGoogle has launched a test version of its new mapping service, Google Maps. The most obvious drawback for Europeans is that so far it only covers the US and Canada. It has some nice features, but this is one area where Google is playing catch-up with things like Multimap, MapQuest, Map24 and Microsoft's powerful Mappoint.http://maps.google.comwww.multimap.comwww.mapquest.comwww.uk.map24.comhttp://maps.msn.co.ukRising slowlyAn alien who listened to chit-chat in the UK might expect Rising Slowly to become the country's most popular blog: it's about the weather. However, it is not just local stories, such as Snow cuts power supplies in Scotland, or John Kettley: avoid East Anglia. It also covers things like snow on Prince Edward Island and record rainfall in Dunedin. As for the blog's name, publisher Mink Media says it also considered alternatives such as Dogger Fisher and German Bight.www.risingslowly.comSix of the best - Anonymous surfingID Zaphttp://idzap.comMegaproxywww.megaproxy.comProxifyhttp://proxify.comGuardsterwww.guardster.com@nonymousehttp://nonymouse.com/anonwww.htmThe cloakwww.the-cloak.com/anonymous-surfing-home.html
Don't cry for Carly Fiorina. She may have lost her job running Hewlett-Packard, but she's leaving with a severance package worth at least $21m. She'll probably make lots more money in the future, having become famous as the world's most powerful businesswoman.Also, having worked with Arnold Schwarzenegger's transition team in California, she has an outside chance of becoming America's first female president, if Hillary Clinton screws up.Whether we should cry for Hewlett-Packard is another matter. Fiorina may be leaving the wreckage of not just one but two great companies behind.In her six years at the top, Fiorina made an impact on the computer business. First, she changed the culture of HP, the company that was the foundation stone of Silicon Valley. Second, she bought Compaq, the former PC industry giant. But it is not yet clear whether either was a good thing.HP's culture came from its founders, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, who believed people wanted to do their best, and it was management's job to help them. This required a manager "to have a genuine and thorough understanding of the work", as Packard wrote in his book, The HP Way.Fiorina didn't seem to have it. In fact, she didn't seem to have much of a clue about the way the computer business works. She was a supersmart saleswoman brought in from AT&amp;T/Lucent to run a company of engineers, and some of them did not like it.As for the $19bn Compaq takeover, Fiorina wanted to "bulk up" HP to compete with IBM in servers and services, and with Dell in PCs. This doesn't sound a bad idea in the abstract, but the nitty gritty looks terrible. HP was already struggling with too many of its own operating systems and chip families. Buying Compaq more than doubled the size of that problem, because Compaq had already taken over Digital Equipment Corporation, a leading minicomputer manufacturer, and Tandem.The takeover was opposed by many HP staff and the founding families, led by Walter Hewlett, HP's largest shareholder and son of its co-founder. Fiorina won - the shareholders voted in favour by 51% to 49%, and Hewlett was booted off the board - but the battle left a lot of bitterness behind.HP's board now says that Fiorina's removal does not herald a change in structure or strategy, like splitting the company in three. Apparently, it's all about operations. "Looking forward, the CEO job is very reliant on a hands-on execution and a new set of capabilities is called for," said the chairman, Patricia Dunn, in a conference call.Someone like Lou Gerstner, perhaps? He was the outsider who turned loss-making IBM around, without becoming a celebrity or jetting around the world giving speeches. And while Fiorina talked about almost nothing but vision, Gerstner said vision was the last thing IBM needed. His main idea was to focus hard on delivering what customers wanted. If you really want to succeed in business, that is probably a good way to go.LinksThe HP Wayhttp://masl.to/?C5222197ABackfire: Carly Fiorina's High-stakes Battle for the Soul of Hewlett-Packard by Peter Burrowshttp://masl.to/?W2322697AThe rise and fall of the HP wayhttp://masl.to/?K1422697AWho Says Elephants Can't Dance?: How I Turned Around IBM by Louis Gerstnerhttp://masl.to/?I2626597A
Alastair Campbell may be having trouble with his BlackBerry, but IT professionals are going one step further. Could they be facing bigger dangers?Campbell suffered the humiliation of sending a rude retort to the BBC by mistake, but tech-savvy companies are using mobile devices for more than just email. They see real benefits - but the consequences of a slip could be more serious.Email takes up hours of our working day, but the real business of any company is done within a horde of programs for tasks such as inventory and stock control and handling sales leads. Almost every company has "back-end" programs, with titles such as customer relationship management and supply chain management. They are often built from databases such as Oracle, or specialist applications such as PeopleSoft, Siebel orSalesforce.com. They hold the skinny on customers, possible customers and the stock they might buy.Staff who can access these programs through a mobile device such as PDAs and smartphones could get more done. Salespeople on the road would be able to respond to queries immediately, checking stock and booking orders at headquarters without having to pass on requests by phone or return to base."In 2005, we are shifting from personal productivity towards business productivity," says Sue Forbes, vice president of marketing at mobile software company Good Technology. "These devices are not just for senior executives and messaging."Access to back-end systems could get these devices into the hands of far less exalted workers.The main drawback is that security has to be built in to guard against slip-ups, and the possibility that a lost or stolen device could open up the workings of the company.It also takes nifty work to put something usable on a PDA screen. Staff access corporate back-end systems through carefully designed forms, which use a big PC screen to give users the information they need. On a PDA screen, this must be whittled down to a minimum.Companies also have to watch costs. BlackBerrys and smartphones use the cellular network to access data, and incur heavy costs per megabyte downloaded.Good's GoodAccess product has ready-made links to Oracle, Siebel and Salesforce.com via "web services" standards that use the ubiquitous XML language. IT departments build screens using a   design package from Above All Software, which Forbes says "is the closest thing to a purely visual development environment".Good seems to have made more efforts than other mobile email companies, such as Visto and Seven, to build links to corporate software. It also promises answers to the obvious problem of keeping data secure and keeping control of devices. Good's system can push out data or security updates to all handhelds in the field, and shut them down if they are compromised.Some companies may choose their system according to the handheld devices it supports. Good works on the hybrid smartphones that are replacing PDAs in executive pockets. The Palm OS-based Treo is the market leader; others are based on Microsoft's Windows Mobile software, such as HP's iPaq 6300.The biggest competitor is Research in Motion's BlackBerry. RIM does the hardware and software, so companies that want back-end data on a BlackBerry will find themselves going to RIM or its partners.The BlackBerry has been seen as an email-only tool, even though it includes a phone and the ability to run Java software. Companies have been sceptical of using it in other areas, and analysts have been wary of a solution that ties users to a particular handset. Last year, Gartner analyst Todd Kort said: "RIM is a nightmare to develop for. Gartner recommends that enterprises not develop for that platform."RIM has begun to turn around this perception, by updating the tools it has for Java development and doing deals to put back-end applications such as SAP and Salesforce.com on the BlackBerry. This year, it has come out with a new device: a PDA/smartphone that connects wirelessly to a company's local area network. The   BlackBerry 7270, delivered last week, is designed for people who don't travel the country, but spend a lot of time moving about the office, shop or factory.The 7270 is being sold by Nortel and 3Com, for voice and data access within company offices. The device doesn't have mobile phone capabilities, just a Wi-Fi connection to the company's wireless network. It includes a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phone, which hooks into the company's phone system, and also supports "presence", the ability to let colleagues see whether a person is available or not."First generation Wi-Fi phones haven't been terribly good, because of battery life," said Mike Valiant, market development director for enterprise voice at 3Com. He expects in future to have handsets that will take calls on the cellphone network as well. But for now, the two kinds of device will remain distinct, and it seems that both Nortel and 3Com see these "indoor smartphones" as ways to boost the sales of voice on Wi-Fi.Good's answer to this kind of device is the MC50, a durable PDA from Symbol, which links over Wi-Fi to back-end applications and email. Windows Mobile doesn't have built-in support for VoIP, but third-party applications can add it. "It's for use by people like store managers in large retailers," says Forbes.All this may sound complicated for any IT manager, with security risks and benefits that are hard to measure. But, paradoxically, the security issues may turn out to be an argument in favour of mobile data.There are a number of applications that let users control their desktop PC from their mobile phone. Sproqit (www.sproqit.com), for instance, has a purpose-built email client and can browse files on the desktop. It can also explore other computers connected on the network.Sproqit could be very tempting for users whose employer doesn't provide mobile data: it turns the phone into a gateway to the company's network, setting up a tunnel through the corporate firewall. But this could give any IT manager palpitations. If the phone fell into the wrong hands, it could be days before the data stopped leaking.Providing a mobile data service from the likes of RIM or Good could help protect the company's data, by stopping lone wolf users from adopting their own less secure solutions. It wouldn't stop an Alastair Campbell from making a hash of things, but some things are beyond the power of even the best IT manager.
Vulnerable targetsAlthough it was refreshing to see that your report on mobile phone gambling gave a more balanced view on the possible downside of such technology, it should be noted that children and adolescents are not the only vulnerable groups that need protection (Placing a bet on the mobile, February 10). With all forms of remote gambling (internet, interactive TV, phone) there is the loss of "gatekeeper" protection and safeguards. In an offline gambling environment, many vulnerable groups are prevented from gambling in the first place. How can operators who run mobile phone gambling protect these groups if they are unable to see their potential customers? In most cases they cannot, which is why the new media in which people can gamble needs careful monitoring. The government's proposed gambling bill is taking the issue of remote gambling by youth seriously but it is unlikely other vulnerable groups will get the protection they need.Dr Mark GriffithsNottingham Trent UniversityCable itRob Green (Feedback, February 10) might like to know a relatively inexpensive solution to his problem of physical incompatability between his iPod Shuffle and his eMac - a USB extension cable. As for the response he got from the parts of the Apple company he dealt with, I'm not surprised - it seems to be a standard part of the computer sales business that sales people, support people and tech people don't talk to each other. It doesn't bode well for the mass market that Apple seems to be aiming at with the iPod Shuffle and Mac mini.Paul BinesBasildonChange of tuneI don't know what it said before but this Apple article has changed (http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=300526): "Because of iPod shuffle's width, you may not be able to connect it to certain USB ports ... this issue could occur with any computer, display, or USB hub with recessed or closely spaced USB   ports. This includes the following Apple products: eMac, iMac G3, Apple Studio Display 17 (ADC), Power Mac G4 (Quicksilver), and certain Xserve configurations."Bernard KnightLondonClear answersRegarding Jill McQueen's inquiry (Feedback, February 10), the website iswww.vehiclelicence.gov.uk. I tried it for a car that did not need an MOT but understand the latest form of MOT should also work. Presumably, all these different forms of information are now interlinked and available to government entities. There are links on the website to answer these questions. I got my tax disk by post within a few days.Peter HartlandLondonBag a bargainAdrian Lent (Feedback, February 10) asked for thoughts oneMusic.com. If you think the site is good value now, you should have used it when all you paid was a similar fee for unlimited downloads. It is still a real bargain if you're into the type of music Andy Kershaw plays in his Radio 3 program. I'm surprised the site doesn't get more mentions when music downloads rears its head.Peter RobinsonLowestoftWhat women wantFirebox has seen a significant shift over the past few years with women buying more gadgets than ever before (Toys for boys and girls, February 10). What was once a typical boys toys market has now become gender neutral. And we are not the only ones to have tracked the changes. Sony Ericsson released findings of a study that show women are spending more money on gadgets than shoes.Charlie MorganFirebox.com
So much media coverage of television involves the BBC that it is easy to miss some of the tectonic changes happening underneath. Digital television came from nowhere to become one of the fastest-growing electronic products ever. Half of all households now have it and Freeview, the free channel, which was on its knees a few years ago, is poised to overtake the number of BSkyB subscribers. High definition television (HDTV), which seemed stillborn 15 years ago, is sweeping Japan and America, with hopes of making big inroads here.This year could see a big increase in TV sent down cable channels and 50-year-old copper wires as BT jumps on to a bandwagon already got going by HomeChoice. Mobile phones are starting to include TV.   At the same time, new technologies (such as set-top boxes and TiVo) are changing viewing from a serial to a database experience. Instead of watching Eastenders when the TV guide says, you can store it and view when you like.But the writing may be on the wall for TiVo-like devices because of what David Price, a researcher with Envisional of Cambridge, calls the free global TiVo on the internet. He is referring to the dramatic upsurge in downloading films and TV shows through peer-to-peer sharing facilities on the web. The biggest of these, BitTorrent, is reckoned (by CacheLogic, another Cambridge company), to account for over a third of all data carried on the net (of which 10% is TV piracy).New Envisional figures about to be released show Britain leads the world in piracy. We are responsible   for 38.4% of TV downloads in the EU and 18.5% worldwide. Australia is second with 15.6% and the US a poor third on 7.3%. The reason is simple. The pirated programmes are mainly made in English by US companies and released earlier there than here. Top of the piracy charts is 24 (95,000 downloads an episode) followed by Star Trek: Enterprise (90,000).Envisional's monitoring operation found that copies of Six Feet Under were circulating on the internet less than half an hour after it finished showing on the east coast of the US. TV moguls are not as worried about this sort of piracy as music and film companies because they have already been pre-paid by advertising and, if they want to stop it, all they need do is take a leaf out of Hollywood's book and do simultaneous releasing,   cutting the problem off at source.The interesting thing is whether the likes of BitTorrent will fast-forward the forces making television a database rather than serial experience. Even the fixture of television - the news bulletins - could be replaced by, say, Google TV gathering TV news clips from around the world just as it does printed news today.But before the goggle box turns into a Google box, consumers have to decide what they want. In the long run, HDTV (needing special sets) may win because of brilliant picture quality. But don't rule out those copper wires, which refuse to die. Last week, BT offered a free four-fold upgrade to 2Mbps bandwidth for existing customers. Really cheap bandwidth could bring digital television to places others can't reach.
You could argue that Richard Edwards should have known - after all, he trained as a zoologist. He and his girlfriend were out for a walk when they spotted a deer. Edwards thought it was a roe deer but he was not certain, so he checked there and then by phoning the organisation he works for and downloading its website on to his mobile phone. Edwards is the director of ARKive, a database that will one day contain the best images of the world's animals, and which has just been made accessible by mobile phone.ARKive was the brainchild of the late Chris Parsons, ex-head of the BBC's Natural History Unit and creator of the seminal BBC series Life on Earth. But it was not until the mid-90s that technology was capable of digitising and storing moving images and pictures in an easily accessible way.The idea was to create a database that would, in the future, show what the world was like, using the best images of animals and plants. It was prompted in part by mistakes such as that made by Granada - after colour film was developed, the television company binned all its black and white wildlife footage.As Sir David Attenborough said: "Over the past few decades, a vast treasury of wildlife images has been steadily accumulating, yet no one has known its full extent, or its gaps, and no one has had a comprehensive way of gaining access to it. ARKive will ... become an invaluable tool for all   concerned with the wellbeing of the natural world."Researchers at ARKive scan footage and images, and upload those that best illustrate particular aspects of an animal's behaviour - the clearest example of a roe deer eating, mating or fleeing from a predator, for instance. The footage is donated free by the BBC, National Geographic and other film-makers.So far, there are 1,500 species on the database, including 60 hours of footage split into 2,000 mini moving clips, and 10,000 images, all scanned and stored at high resolution.The site is split into a British chapter and a globally endangered one. The World Conservation Union has listed 15,000 animals and plants that are endangered.Policy makers are already using   ARKive, as are scientists, children (there is a Planet ARKive aimed at 7-11 year olds), and teachers (ARKive Education). It seems like a digital Noah's ark. The only moving footage of the now extinct Tasmanian tiger can be viewed on the website and, even more poignantly, since ARKive was launched two species have become extinct: the golden toad, filmed by Chris Parsons, and the St Helena boxwood.The problem with viewing websites over mobile phones has always been the difficulty of downloading from the internet. But Mobile Life, a Bristol-based company, has developed SlipStream, software that automatically converts websites into content compatible with any modern colour mobile phone and even some that have black and white viewers."In general, there are very few services that are mobile accessible," says Steve Doyle, director of Mobile Life, which launched at Cannes. "People have so many different kinds of mobile that having a website that recognises all of them is impractical."SlipStream automatically resizes pages and images, or splits pages for older phones. "The technology works in the best possible way for users to access it," says Doyle. "It realises that you have, say, a video phone, and will present you with options to watch videos, but if you haven't, you'll still see text and graphics."The software can be added at the source, or Mobile Life can host web pages with SlipStream already embedded. The cost of internet access depends on the network, but should be as low as &#163;1 or &#163;2 per megabyte of data - this is likely to fall as the service becomes more widely used. Users pay for the data they download, rather than time spent online, which works out at roughly a penny a page, and 20p to view a movie.So far, ARKive is the only website with images and text fully accessible on any mobile using SlipStream, although only 250 movies are available. The ARKive team hopes the rest will be accessible by early summer.This kind of technology is useful, as Edwards discovered, to help identify species when out walking without having to carry cumbersome guide books. It is also helpful in places such as the zoo. If a sleepy animal is not responding, you could call up the Iberian lynx website to discover that it should be mating right now, but is unlikely to show any sexual interest until twilight.Linkswww.mobile-life.comwww.arkive.org
What role does the net play in your work at Seti?Seti@home (http://masl.to/?C1EF56A6A) is our distributed computing program screensaver. Our work couldn't happen without the net. It allows us to operate our equipment remotely. We have deployed large signal processors to scientific observatories around the world and have always been able to remotely operate them from our base in Mountain View, California. We're going to be doing more remote operating via the internet as we build the Allen Telescope Array (http://masl.to/?Q1E42597A), which we'll be operating 24/7 over essentially a broadband connection.How can people using the SETI@ home screensaver help?It's a Berkeley-based program and allows them to use a home computer to gather data to send it to us - similar to the data our equipment allows us to gather in real time. SETI@home is a way of permitting a piggy-bank survey of the sky with the Arecibo telescope - it's an efficient way of getting time on a large telescope. You can't follow up immediately on detected signals, which we can when we do the signal processing in real time but, until now, we've been limited to the amount of telescope time we could get. They're trying to increase the bandwidth of the signal path they analyse ... there's a lot more data available at Arecibo than they are able to record and send out for processing. If the bandwidth increases, they'll need more people to process the data.So the more home computers with    the screensaver installed the better?Absolutely. It has also spawned huge interest in using this sort of thing for processes like folding proteins for cancer research (http://masl.to/?R12A22CF7) or counting craters for Nasa (http://clickworkers.arc.nasa.gov/top). There are many ways people can donate their CPU cycles.Have advances in processing power helped speed up your work?The internet is all about speeding things up and within the observatory we essentially have a local intranet (http://masl.to/?Y1D55397A), which allows us to ship information around the network at high speed. We couldn't do what we do without the electronics revolution. We've benefited enormously from Moore's Law (http://masl.to/?I1053297A). There's essentially no limit to the number of operations-per-second we'd like to be able to perform.What scale of computing power are you harnessing?We are doing tens-to-hundreds of billion operations per second. We're not yet at the petaflop (www.petaflop.info) level, the goal for the Blue Gene/IBM supercomputers. We're doing several orders of magnitude less with mainly home built machines. Our systems are Linux-based but we use special purpose digital signal processing boards to accelerate PC processors running Linux.Do you have massive data warehouses for all the information you collect?We don't, as we spend a lot of our time analysing data in real time. We throw away a lot of the "noise" and keep a small amount of information about the signals detected.Visit:www.seti.orgJill Tarter's bookmarkswww.aopa.orgwww.wunderground.comwww.ebay.comwww.amazon.com
Token securityRSA Security is entering the network appliance market with a token-based security system aimed at businesses with up to 1,000 employees. The SecurID Appliance generates new passcodes every minute, and each user is supplied with a token that displays the constantly changing number. When logging on to the secure server, user names and secret Pin codes have to be keyed in along with the current passcode on the token. This system provides much stronger authentication than the standard username and password. The rack-mounted appliance is based on a security-hardened version of Windows 2003 Server and will be available later this year.www.rsasecurity.com/node.asp?id=2826IT literacy lessonsThe British Computer Society has launched a new IT literacy campaign "to champion the needs of a growing sector of society who are being excluded from the digital age" because of age, economic circumstances or just fear. Its e-Citizen short course will be made available in schools, colleges and other training centres.www.ecitizen.co.ukBuilding blocksThe Department for Education and Skills (DfES) is running a website to support its Building Schools for the Future (BSF) programme. BSF is an ambitious project charged with rebuilding or renewing every secondary school in England over the next 10-15 years. Open access pages will provide general progress reports. The system will use software from Autonomy to provide a knowledge portal for up to 2,000 key workers, allowing them to swap ideas, recognise opportunities and pre-empt potential issues in future plans. Autonomy's software will enable the site to process text, voice and video, and identify and rank main concepts.www.bsf.gov.ukWord of warningIn IBM's 2004 Global Business Security Index Report, the company says the   Cabir mobile phone worm may be a precursor of a virus epidemic targeting mobile devices. This could get worse as embedded systems in cars, home phones and communications satellites come under attack. The report makes gloomy reading, warning that spyware is getting more intelligent, no end is in sight for identity theft, and VoIP services will be disrupted through eavesdropping and denial of service attacks.http://www-1.ibm.com/services/us/index.wss/rs/imc/a1008866By choiceHewlett-Packard is using AMD Opteron processors to power the latest HP ProLiant enterprise server, two blade servers and a workstation. HP, a co-developer of the competing Intel Itanium 2 chip, appears to be hedging its bets by allowing customers to choose the 64-bit architecture they prefer. Following the release of a four-way server, the new two-way ProLiant DL385 offers a low-cost 64 bit enterprise server. HP has been very involved in the animated film industry, and the introduction of the HPxw9300 workstation will enhance the costs of manipulating gigabytes of data to create each frame, the company claims.http://masl.to/?N47B22B7AMobile MicrosoftNokia has followed PalmOne in licensing Microsoft's Exchange Server ActiveSync protocol, to enable its Series 60 and Series 80 phones to synchronise wirelessly with calendar information, contacts and email on Microsoft Exchange Server 2003. This will make it easier for Nokia to support corporate installations, and make its products more attractive compared to Windows Mobile devices. Nokia will continue to support the OMA Data Synchronisation protocol and its own Nokia PC Suite, which is generally used by individuals. Nokia also says it will release the third edition of its Series 60 smartphone software, which runs on Symbian OS v9.0, "in mid 2005".www.nokia.com/press/cannes2005Lower your voiceRevenues from voice telephony are now declining in most European countries, and will drop from $108bn in 2003 to $95bn by 2008, according to a new study by industry research company IDC. "This means a loss of $13bn over the next five years - a massive amount of revenue that will disappear over a relatively short period of time," says IDC's Jill Finger Gibson. The decline is due to the growing use of mobile phones and VoIP services, plus increased competition among traditional voice telephony providers offering flat-rate subscriptions and other deals. Gibson says: "Any public switched telephone network (PSTN) providers, particularly incumbents, which have not yet begun to plan a roadmap for transition to the VoIP world will find themselves in serious trouble by 2008, and possibly out of business."
The British charity Citizens Online has an ambitious goal - they would like all schoolchildren in the UK to have their own laptop by 2010. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) boffins Nicholas Negroponte, Seymour Papert and Joseph Jacobson also share the mantra "one laptop per child", but they have a much more ambitious plan: to provide 100m to 200m laptops to schoolchildren in the developing world by the end of 2006. And how do they propose to do this? By making them very cheap - $100 (&#163;53) per laptop, or $90 plus $10 for "contingency or profit".Negroponte, founder and director of the MIT's Media Lab, has long had an interest in providing information and communications technology (ICT) to developing countries. He has worked in Senegal, Costa Rica, India and, most recently, Cambodia, where he and his wife Elaine set up a school - the Elaine &amp; Nicholas Negroponte School - to teach English and IT to schoolchildren. Their son also joined them and installed satellite and Wi-Fi links to connect the 25 Panasonic ToughBooks the children had been given.Having seen the changes that can be wrought with a bit of IT infrastructure, Negroponte wants to do more to bridge the digital divide between rich and poor by providing inexpensive computing to schoolchildren across the developing world. Google and chip maker AMD have committed $2m each to the project, and the MIT team is talking with Samsung, Motorola and News Corporation. They hope to have the first working prototype ready by September 1 and samples by the end of the year.However, some people argue that the digital divide is a symptom of inequality, not the cause of it. What people in the developing world really need are water, food, jobs, decent healthcare and sanitation."Laptops, as we know them, are a luxury," agrees Negroponte. "Education is not. At $100, this is about learning and exploration, not giving kids costly tools and toys. Almost anything, from healthcare to food to birth control, can be addressed well, if not best, through education."The deeper divides are unequivocally proportional to education. Peace will never happen as long as there is poverty. Poverty can only be eliminated through education."Papert, one of the world's leading theorists on child learning and inventor of the educational Logo computer language, says it is important to think about savings as well as costs. "Getting information online saves the cost of printing textbooks, and this is a case where what is cheaper is also better," he says. "A much bigger saving is the cost of the books that every student should have been given but only rich families could afford ... The computer can serve as a library, a laboratory and an art studio, saving the cost of these or making those that exist far more effective."Papert believes $100 laptops will also be invaluable resources for teachers, who constantly need to   relearn. "The days when a future teacher could be trained to do everything that needs to be done in a career of teaching are over," he says. "The world changes too fast."So what will the children get for $100, considering a half-decent laptop can cost 10 times that much? The goal is to provide a laptop that does everything a conventional laptop can. It will have a 12in colour screen and run Linux and other open source software. It will be Wi-Fi and 3G-enabled, with many USB ports. The laptops will not have lots of storage space, and will not be hooked up via a conventional local area networks, but will rely on mesh networks, where one child's laptop will act as the print server, one the DVD player, and another the mass storage device.The most expensive part of any laptop is the screen, so instead of using expensive LCD displays, the MIT team is developing a flat rear-projection screen. The other alternative is based on electronic ink, invented by Joseph Jacobson, also from MIT. Screens are expected to cost less than $30.The price of software also needs to be addressed. Negroponte says PCs are "obese" with software and compares them to a large corporation, where half the people manage the other half. "A svelte Linux can do wonders for cost," he says.But surely a svelte desktop is cheaper than a svelte laptop? Desktops can be bolted down so no one can steal them, and you can repair one in a dusty shed with nothing more than a screwdriver. Laptops, on the other hand, need a clean environment, a lot of IT knowledge and special tools to repair them.While Negroponte agrees that desktops are cheaper, he says mobility is important, especially when it comes to taking the computer home at night. "Recent experiments in Maine schools have shown the huge value of using a laptop across all of one's studies, as well as for play," he says. "Bringing the laptop home engages the family."Similar experiments in the UK had to be abandoned when it was found that children who took laptops home after school became targets for muggers, but perhaps this will be less of a problem in rural China, which is Negroponte's first potential customer.This is not the first attempt to bring cheap computing to the developing world - many others have tried and failed. A $199 PC called iToaster was launched in June 1999, and flopped soon after. Netpliance's iOpener did the same, although these were aimed at US users.More recently, we have had the Simputer, a battery-powered handheld computer developed by the Indian not-for-profit Simputer Trust, and the Personal Internet Communicator (PIC), launched in October 2004 by AMD, which sells for $185. How many either of these will sell remains to be seen.More successful are those who give reconditioned PCs to the developing world. British charity Digital Links International has provided 15,000 computers to Africa, a continent where less than 2% of children leave school having touched a computer. The charity collects second-hand computers from corporations, refurbishes them, and sells them to schools for about $45. This is done through local distribution partners who provide training and support."Obviously the ability to pay for ICT equipment is the   largest barrier to access in developing countries, but there are other hurdles too," says Kate Woode, corporate development and donations coordinator for Digital Links. "This includes electricity, as the supply is often erratic or nonexistent, and transport, as often poor road quality results in a significant percentage of machines being damaged en route."There is also a lack of trained technicians, especially in schools. Without sufficient training and support, IT equipment put in schools is often under utilised, and in some cases entirely redundant. Any meaningful roll-out of IT hardware must be accompanied by training to have any impact. This is even more important for open source software, as it is even more unfamiliar."But Negroponte is no ivory tower academic. He has had hands-on experience of providing ICT to schoolchildren in poor rural communities. To get over the power hurdle, the MIT team is looking into what it calls "parasitic power" - powering a laptop just by typing on the keys. The laptop will also be extremely robust - "almost military grade," says Negroponte - and will be simple enough so that a child can repair it.Flash memory will be used instead of a hard drive as it is much more durable. But Negroponte is unrepentant about using Linux and OpenOffice: "Open source is key because it's perfect in keeping with the ethos of a $100 people's computer."Geekcorps, a US not-for-profit organisation, builds Wi-Fi network relay stations in Africa using wire mesh, discarded plastic bottles and bamboo poles. They call them   BottleNets. Wayan Vota, programme manager at Geekcorps, believes Negroponte is on the right track. "Laptops are portable, can be Wi-Fi meshed - each one is a transmitter and receiver of internet - and, with advances in technology, are getting smaller every day."However, Vota does not believe hardware costs are the show-stopper. "It's the actual connection to the internet node or backbone that is expensive. In the developing world, you have entrenched monopolies that are loath to do much past rake in high margins on substandard bandwidth."Negroponte says a great deal of the problem is regulatory and monopolistic, yet he is optimistic that these monopolies are slowly being broken down. He adds: "I would love to see the World Bank make telecom deregulation a condition of loans."The MIT trio is exploring whether some laptops can be independent elements of a phased array antenna, thereby acting as a satellite dish. In other words, is it possible for a group of laptops to have satellite access without a dish? Whether or not there is connection to an internet backbone, each village or town where these laptops are deployed can have their own Lan, using a mesh network. In fact, Taipei is installing a 10,000-point mesh network based on these Media Lab ideas.The $100 laptop is still a concept, with many hurdles to overcome. But with more than nine out of 10 people in the world having no internet access, let's hope the MIT team can succeed where so many others have failed.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Went to a presentation forThe Punisherthis afternoon. Seeing as the film isapparently awfuland based on a comic, it's fair to say my expectations weren't high. And by and large I was right. Think Max Payne without the flair and you'd be on the right track. The one thing that did stand out was the violence, with the option to kill or spare your enemies after interrogation. Take the latter and you get a score, but do the former and you get to indulge in some serious claret spillage. Ways to dispatch the baddies include whacking their head on a fountain edge or feeding them into a mulch machine. A cutaway at the last minute spares gamers most of the gory details, but this is one game that revels in cartoon violence. Hopefully any Daily Mail journalists present realised this has an 18 certificate. Sadly the game itself looked uninspiring, with none ofMax Payne'sstyle.
Bangor University is proposing to sack eight of its 12 librarians because students can find the information they need on the internet.Bangor, which is part of the University of Wales, has become the focus of a national campaign to save the "Bangor eight" as unions fear the cuts could be replicated in university libraries elsewhere.A consultation document issued by the university last month proposed a £300,000 money saving package that  would see he current total of 12 librarians cut to one cataloguer, an acquisitions expert, a chief librarian and a law librarian.It blames the "precarious" financial position of the university for the changes and suggests that new technology will replace "user help desk" provision.The document reads: "The support to the academic and student communities from the qualified subject librarians, whatever its contribution to the teaching and research roles of the institution, is hard to justify in value-for-money terms at a time when the process of literature searches is substantially deskilled by online bibliographical resources."Among those who could face the sack is the librarian for social science, business studies, psychology and lifelong learning, Eileen Tilley, who is also the president of the institution's Association of University Teachers.Today she told EducationGuardian.co.uk that the proposals would undermine the university's ambitions and leave one librarian for every 2,000 students, compared with the one to 400 ratio that national organisations recommend."The structure is more appropriate to a further education college than a university. &#91;The university&#93; say they want to be Russell group research-led institution, they can't do that without us."The university thinks that because we have the internet it no longer needs skills teaching, that people can do literature searches themselves. I would say this has, in fact, complicated the resources. They need librarians to guide you through it. So many students think they can do those searches on Google. That's not true. Users are confused and need guiding through this."David Roberts, the university's registrar, said: "We're engaged in a consultation exercise with staff and students and no decisions have been taken yet."The reasons for the changes are set out in our consultation document and we're genuinely listening to what the staff and students would say about it."The campaign to save the librarians is being backed by the AUT at a national level. A spokesman said today that it was "worried" the model of restructuring could be replicated elsewhere.
There's an interesting interview with multi-national virtual traderIGEpresident Steve Sayler over onOkratas.com. The company, which buys and sells virtual items to players on Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games to save them time acquiring them through the regular processes of playing the game, has been accused of undermining the enjoyment many dedicated participants experience through the virtual hard slog. By arguably importing offline economic disparities into a virtual world, the company, and others like it, are importing power structures beyond the designer's wildest dreams. Perhaps they're also responsible for the "depraved" activity that occurs in some of the games.Check out the interview and read more fromTerra Nova.Update:I forgot to mention thatMemory Cardhas a post on how publishers are getting back at folks who monopolise regions of the game, ostensibly in order to make themselves a pretty penny through organisations such as IGE. Apparently 800 accounts were permanently banned by Square Enix for camping out on lucrative spots in their MMOG, Final Fantasy XI.
Six alleged members of the New York-based Gambino crime family have pleaded guilty to a $650m (&#163;345m) internet and telephone fraud, one of the largest consumer scams in US history.One of the reputed Gambino mobsters, Richard Martino, admitted to conspiring to extort money from the magazine business controlled by Richard Desmond, the owner of Express Newspapers.Mr Desmond's Northern &amp; Shell, then owner of adult titles including Asian Babes and Forum, was threatened after one of its former executives was beaten by Gambino gang members.The six, led by reputed Gambino "captain" Salvatore Locascio, pleaded guilty on Monday before the beginning of their trial to a series of charges including money laundering and conspiracy to commit fraud. The crimes carry sentences of less than two years to 10 years and the men have agreed to hand back $23m in assets that they are alleged to have amassed from the fraud."The defendants bilked thousands of unwitting consumers in the United States, Europe and Asia of more than $200m through bogus free tours of adult entertainment websites, which resulted in fraudulent charges on the credit cards of more than a million consumers," said US attorney Roslynn Mauskopf."Today's guilty pleas not only ensure that the perpetrators of one of the largest consumer frauds in history will serve significant time in prison, but they will also forfeit the spoils of their crimes, including luxury homes and other significant assets, which will be used to compensate the victims of their crimes."Prosecutors said the men, including a reputed Gambino "soldier" and four associates, set up shell companies advertising free phone services such as psychic readings, horoscopes and phone sex. In a fraudulent practice known as "cramming", people calling the 1-800 numbers were hit with unauthorised monthly charges on their phone bills that saw the gang cream off about $420m.Martino, 45, identified as a Gambino soldier by FBI agents and the mastermind of the consumer fraud ring, had also been charged with placing unauthorised charges on the credit cards of customers seeking free tours of pornographic websites.Visitors to the sites were told that their card details were needed for "age verification" and were charged up to $90 on their cards. Prosecutors said the fraudulent charges raised $230m.According to prosecutors, Martino was a favourite of the late John Gotti, the former Godfather of the Gambino clan who sprang to notoriety in the 1990s as a latter-day Al Capone.Martino became a "made" member of the Gambino family around January 1990, where he was described at the ceremony as a "big earner" who generated substantial income from the the telecoms industry. He faces a 10-year jail sentence and a restitution bill of up to $75m. The six have not admitted that their crimes were linked to the Gambino family.
It seems that Britain is a nation of poodle-permed soft rockers. If the eternal popularity of Queen - and their East Anglian mini-mes, The Darkness - wasn't enough, a new mobile phone music download chart fromWebTV Europeshows exactly what we like to listen to.Here's the top 10:1.Guns N'Roses2.Band Aid 203.Bon Jovi4.Scissor Sisters5.Black Eyed Peas6.Rachel Stevens7.Rolling Stones8.U29.Meat Loaf10.50 CentOK, so the cool kids score with Scissor Sisters. And the pop tarts get a showing with Rachel Stevens and the Black Eyed Peas. Charidee scores highly too, with Band Aid 20 in at number two.But Guns n'Roses? Meatloaf? BON JOVI?You have disappointed me, Britain.
"Microsoft is readying a new, more secure version of Internet Explorer, the world's most widely used — and hacked — Web browser, company Chairman Bill Gates said in a speech to security experts Tuesday," according toUSA Today."The software giant will start testing the upgrade, called IE 7, this summer and make it available to users of the latest version of Windows at some point after that. The move underscores how an onslaught of spyware — tiny programs implanted on the browser — have come to plague computer users and tarnish Microsoft's reputation."Comment:This represents a change of plan. Microsoft had decided to ship new versions of IE only with new versions of Windows. However, it has already shipped a new IE with XP SP2 and will now ship a new standalone version -- impelled, no doubt, not just by concern over spyware etc but by competition from Firefox.The graph is fromGoogle's Zeitgeistand shows the browsers used to access Google, March 2001 -- June 2004.
It may be more of a marriage of convenience than a romantic bonding but the partnership forged this week by arguably the biggest players in the technology world, Microsoft and Nokia, looks set to dramatically alter the mobile phone industry.The revelation that the two companies are cooperating in mobile music and corporate email has been the talk of this week's 3GSM congress in Cannes, the mobile phone industry's most important annual get-together.In mobile music especially it presents a worrying change of direction for the mobile phone operators, which had hoped that downloading tracks would be a real money-spinner.It also marks a d&#233;tente between two businesses that until very recently were at each other's throats. Just last December Nokia resigned from the Computer and Communications Industry Association in protest over a settlement the American trade body struck with the   software behemoth. "The fact that a piece of Nokia-headed paper came out with Microsoft on it as the first word in the title is very significant," according to Ben Wood, an analyst at the industry experts Garter."There must have been a shift in the almost religious positions that Nokia has held at the highest level to make this happen. It would have been almost unthinkable a year ago."Nokia maintains that the two sides have enjoyed an "open dialogue" for some time and, crucially, the firm has made it very clear that it will not adopt Microsoft's Windows operating system for its devices.The link with Nokia could pose a very significant threat to Microsoft's own handset business, which has not enjoyed much success in its attempt to get customers to buy Microsoft phones. In fact, Microsoft's mobile devices team - which has been working with a range of far eastern handset makers to produce phones based on Windows - is understood to have had no knowledge whatsoever that either deal was in the pipeline.But there are very basic business reasons why these two goliaths of the European and American markets have come together.Microsoft has for years been desperate to get into the fast-growing mobile phone market, while Nokia, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, has been fiercely defending its patch.The Finnish giant has flatly refused to produce phones using Microsoft's operating system, instead sticking with Symbian, the London-based   software developer in which it is the largest shareholder.But for its part Nokia has become desperate to gain a larger position in the business market, in which Microsoft's Windows is dominant. The success of the rival Blackberry handheld email device - which companies can integrate into existing corporate email systems - has certainly played a part in persuading Nokia that in order to get into bed with business it must seduce Microsoft.Some delegates in Cannes believe that allowing Nokia phones to synch seamlessly with Microsoft's email products is a quid pro quo for allowing Microsoft's music technology to work with the   latest Nokia handsets. Under the deal Nokia has licensed Microsoft technology that allows direct synchronisation between Microsoft's top-selling corporate server operating system and future Nokia devices.But it is the music deal that has people talking in Cannes."It is great for the industry," said Duncan Ledwith, the European general manager for the mobile music firm Melodeo. "We have the two most significant technology players in the mobile space coming to the market and saying what we have always thought: that music on a mobile is the way forward."Nokia has agreed to work with Microsoft's Windows Media Player technology so   digital music can be easily played on both PCs and Nokia phones - moving tracks between devices."We are enabling Windows Media Audio files to be played on the Nokia music player," explained a Nokia spokesman. That means a big stack of CDs can be easily downloaded on to a PC and into a phone. Meanwhile, Microsoft will support open standards digital rights management technology. "So if you purchase a song from one of the operators' music stores, you can listen to the music on your PC," he said."With this collaboration we can really offer ease of use to the consumer so they do not need to worry about different standards," he added. The   first phones to play Windows media files will appear this year and some will be able to store hundreds of songs.For mobile phone firms, which had hoped that digital music would be a major money-spinner, it is a further sign that the device people want is a digital music player they can put their existing CD collection or tracks bought over the web on to that just happens to be able to make phone calls, rather than a handset that can download music from a mobile phone network.In this context, the Nokia and Microsoft tie-up may kill off the mobile operators' current approach to music.It is also part of a growing trend. In Cannes this week, SonyEricsson announced it is to work with its parent Sony to develop phones based on the famous Walkman brand, which people will be able to fill with their music library. Last year Motorola joined Apple to develop phones that can work with its iTunes digital music service.By contrast, mobile phone operators, such as Vodafone, have developed their own music services with the aim of persuading customers to buy music and download it over their networks. But many of these tracks cannot be downloaded to a computer.The indication from Microsoft, Nokia, Apple, Sony, SonyEricsson and Motorola is that this is just not good enough.
On forumblog.org, the World Economic Forum web log, there is a link to a site called Ohmynews, "where every citizen is a reporter". Rony Abovitz is one of those citizens. The 34-year-old co-founder of Z-KAT, a medical technology company from Holywood, Florida had never written a story in the mainstream press when Forumblog asked him to write his first ever blog - an online diary - from Davos, Switzerland.Yet a story he posted online two weeks ago has claimed one of the most senior scalps in US journalism, prompting praise from rightwing bloggers and sparking a debate about the power of the blogosphere over the mainstream media.Abovitz attended an off-the-record panel in Davos on January 28, addressed by, among others, CNN's chief news executive Eason Jordan that was filmed. During the discussion, Jordan   reportedly claimed that he knew of 12 journalists in Iraq whom the US military had deliberately targeted and killed. The Massachusetts Democrat Barney Frank, who was also on the panel, asked him if CNN had reported this. Jordan said no. Abovitz asked him if he had any objective and clear evidence to back up these claims, because "if what he said was true, it would make Abu Ghraib look like a walk in the park". Jordan appeared to backtrack. The debate continued and then moved on.Left to the mainstream media, also in attendance, the story would have ended there. Abovitz told the New York Times that he asked some of the journalists if they planned to write about it and they said no, the discussion was off the record. But Abovitz surmised that the journalists were also eager to "protect their own", so he took matters into his own hands, posting a write-up of the conference at 2:21am local time with the headline: "Do US Troops target journalists in Iraq?"The story accelerated around the blogosphere, where rightwing commentators seized on Jordan's comments as evidence of a self-hating American head of what is regarded in the US as a liberal network playing to the gallery. "This ordinary American citizen raised his voice at an international forum of media and political heavyweights - also attended by Europe's most influential America-haters - and demanded that Eason Jordan back up his poisonous assertion about the American military targeting journalists," writes Michelle Malkin in a recent blog.But Jordan's demise may be much more significant than it first appears. In particular, it has been hailed as a victory of new technology over the old. "The moral of the story," writes Captain's Quarters on his blog, &#91;is that&#93; "the media can't just cover up the truth and expect to get away with it - and journalists can't just toss around allegations without substantiation and expect people to believe them any more."Jordan's claims cannot be proven and appear, in their details, to be incorrect. According to Ann Cooper, executive director for the Committee to Protect Journalists, 54 journalists and their translators have been killed in Iraq since 2003 - at least nine slain by the US military."From our standpoint, journalists are not being targeted by the US military, but there certainly are cases where an atmosphere of what, at best, you can call indifference has led to deaths and other problems for journalists."But his remarks are far from unsubstantiated. In April 2003, American troops bombed the Palestine hotel in Baghdad, where journalists were known to be staying. Al-Jazeera's offices in Baghdad, the location of which was known to the US military, was also hit by a laser-guided missile, killing one journalist, as was its offices in Kabul, which the US claimed was a "legitimate target" of "military significance".In a chapter of a book, Dying to Tell the Story, about journalists killed in Iraq, the BBC's Nik Gowing writes: "There is evidence that media activity in the midst of real-time fighting is now regarded by commanders as having 'military significance', which justifies a firm military response to remove or at least neutralise it."But the issues concerning the veracity of Jordan's message have been almost entirely dwarfed by the voraciousness of the medium by which he was targeted. "We &#91;the mainstream media&#93; used to be the gatekeepers," Jeff Jarvis, a veteran magazine journalist who now blogs for buzzmachine.com, told the Washington Post. "&#91;We used to react to criticism&#93; in our own sweet time. You'd think we would understand the speed of news better than anybody, and we don't. We used to control the speed."On Monday evening, Abovitz appeared on the rightwing Bill O'Reilly show on Fox News. Writing of his experience on his blog, Fixtheworld, he said: "The machinery of Fox, CNN, NBC - much of mainstream media, is the same. Going on O'Reilly is like going to visit an iron factory, or a paper mill. They produce news. It's a product. Tonight, I was a product. A one-time-use, disposable product, like tissue paper."Some believe that Jordan's resignation simply shows that the internet has given a few dedicated individuals a licence to hound and destroy the careers of the prominent. "The salivating morons who make up the lynch mob prevail," Steve Lovelady, the editor of the CJR Daily, the Columbia Journalism Review's website, told the New York Times.But when it comes to bloggers forcing high- profile resignations, liberals have proved at least as effective as conservatives. In 2002, the Republican Senate leader, Trent Lott, was forced to resign after claiming the country would have been better off if a segregationist had won the presidency in 1948. When his comments failed to make news in the mainstream it was left to the bloggers to raise the issue. Last week, a conservative online reporter credited to the White House had to resign when liberal bloggers exposed that he was writing under a false name."This is not a left- or rightwing phenomenon," wrote Abovitz yesterday. "The story is much, much bigger than Eason Jordan. This is John Lennon's Power to the People, but turbo-charged and amplified. The people want a voice, and now they really have it. Their own voice, unedited, and unfiltered. It is not pretty. The people are quite irritated, mad, and upset."Where the internet was once regarded as providing a potential check on the mainstream media it has now in some cases, usurped it - being free from the restraints of editorial meetings, ethical codes, deadlines, schedules and production costs.In the words of one blogger:"Mr Jordan; I'd like you to meet my friend the internet."Mr Internet this is Mr Jordan. I'll leave you to chat for a while. Have fun, and be careful. Internet remembers everything and he's a real blabbermouth."
Rupert Murdoch is looking to revamp the internet strategy of News Corporation, reports this morning'sFinancial Times.About 50 senior News Corporation executives, including Rupert Murdoch, chairman, will meet in New York today to map out an internet strategy for the global media company.Today's meeting marks the group's most intensive look at web plans since James Murdoch, the chairman's second son, oversaw its new media strategy in the late 1990s. Those efforts, including a plan for an entertainment website, proved abortive.But why now? The sharp increase in internet advertising - which suffered from the double whammy of dotcom crash and advertising slump - has convinced NewsCorp bosses that there's money in this internet thing.And where the money is, so there is Rupert. Son James, of course, now runs BSkyB, and the web presence of Murdoch's papers (the Sun and the Times) has been scaled back in recent years.With his media empire spanning the Fox cable channels, Fox movie studios, satellite TV in Europe, Asia and the US as well as newspapers across the globe, he has massive influence on the industry - and any move is likely to be watched closely.
Commuters stuck on the 8.02 from Brighton to London will soon be able to fire off an email to the boss of Southern Trains complaining about the service or surf the web while trundling through Sussex.Mobile phone company T-Mobile has put broadband internet access points along the line and has wired up a fleet of trains to allow laptops to use wi-fi broadband over the air service while on board.In specially designated carriages anyone with a device that can use wi-fi, which is standard on most new laptops, will be able to connect to the web as if they were sitting at their desk. The company claims the service should even work in tunnels.Wi-fi internet access is standard in many stationary locations such as coffee shops, bars, hotels and airports but the London-to-Brighton line will be Britain's first high-speed broadband route.At the 3GSM world congress mobile phone trade show in Cannes yesterday, T-Mobile said it would start a free trial of the service next month with a full launch in the summer. If it is a success the company plans to introduce it on other routes.For T-Mobile, wi-fi is part of its plans to persuade consumers and business people to stay connected and spend money while on the move.The group outlined its strategy for the future and the chief executive, Ren&#233; Obermann, said the days of free or very cheap handsets for customers using pay-as-you-go are very limited. The company believes it should reward customers who stay loyal rather than encouraging churn by subsidising handsets to make them cheaper for new customers."The focus of mobile has to shift firmly to encouraging new uses and new usage, and to building customer loyalty and customer lifetime value," he said. "To do this, mobile should become simpler. Tariffs should be fairer. Pre-pay subsidy should go. Roaming rates should be simpler and more attractive."
"Poles have been logging on to the internet in record numbers this week after a journalist accidentally posted the names of tens of thousands of Communist-era police informers on a website," reports theIndependent:It is all the work of Bronislaw Wildstein, a journalist who legally made a copy of a secret police file in Poland's National Remembrance Institute containing the names of thousands of secret police collaborators, informers and the citizens they were monitoring.But to the shock and fascination of the nation - and the embarrassment of Mr Wildstein - his list of about 240,000 names made its way from his computer, via a chain of colleagues and friends, on to an anonymous website with a dedicated search engine.Computer-shy Poles have scrambled online in their hundreds of thousands, all with one goal: to enter their name on to the site, click "search" and find out whether, they have been fingered as a spy.Now that's what I call freedom of information.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation has filed a protective order to stifle Apple's subpoenas against websites, reportsMacCentral.The subpoenas are part of Apple's attempt to discover who has been leaking its trade secrets to online publications - in December, Apple filed subpoenas aimed at discovering the identities of twenty 'John Does' that Apple alleges revealed information about upcoming products.Not everyone's cup of tea, but I find this ongoing battle over the anonymity of sources fascinating - and it has much wider implications, especially for breakout web publishers.
Not working enough? Fancy squeezing a couple of more hours office time out every day? Commuters across the country could soon be able to work a little more thanks to T-Mobile's launch of on-train wireless internet access."T-Mobile today announces the world's first genuine broadband Wi-Fi service on trains and will be available to passengers on the London to Brighton rail route expected by early summer.Passengers on Southern's express rail service between London and Brighton - one of the busiest railway routes for business people travelling to and from London - will be able to send and receive emails or surf the internet securely all while travelling on the train.The Wi-Fi service for commuters from T-Mobile, called T-Mobile HotSpot, will give passengers the opportunity to enjoy broadband speeds from their Wi-Fi enabled laptops or PDAs for the whole journey between Brighton to London.T-Mobile will be offering passengers a free trial of the service between early March and end of April. During this trial period the service will initially be available on a limited number of trains on this route.Joking aside, services like this are a godsend to many of us. I spent a significant portion of the past few days on trains in the Scottish highlands, and being able to use Wi-Fi to get work done while I was travelling would have suited me down to the ground.Still, I don't know if I'm in the minority here, but generally when I'm making my way back home from work I like to just sit and zone out. Like many others (especiallyin the wake of Alistair Campbell's little BlackBerry mishap) my concern about being able to work anywhere is that you become expected to work everywhere.But at least it means you can read Onlineblog while you travel to and from the office (cough).
Despite thelaunch-day hassleon Friday,World of Warcrafthas shattered sales figures and become the fastest-growing online game in European history. Blizzard Entertainment have announced that the game sold 280,000 copies in Europe on day one. This is bigger than what was previously thought to be the size of the European MMORPG market. I put in a good few hours over the weekend and am thoroughly enjoying it. The ability to dive in and play for an hour is a much-needed element, and the whole game feels polished and accessible. It's also incredibly addictive. I was also playing Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 2 for this Thursday'sOnlinereview, so wasn't totally surprised this morning when I had to re-introduce myself to my wife who hadn't seen me all weekend.
I went into a high street store yesterday to see what I could find out aboutThe Sims Online. I knew it hadn't been released in Europe, and was probably never going to be, but I was shocked an horrified when the nice young man behind the counter said that EA was pulling the plug on the virtual world. It left me aghast, and desperately in need of information.None of the websites I could find suggested what he said was true, but there is a veritable lack of availability for the product on any website that sells games.Straticsalso indicated yesterday that two of the "cities" are closed, but they seem to be up and running again today.I tried contacting the European branch of EA for any clue, but to no avail. Not a sausage. Can anyone shed some light on the Sim-Events for an eager UK-type who wants to play around on the notorious server ofAlphaville?
Verizon, America's largest telecommunications firm, yesterday agreed a $6.7bn (&#163;3.5bn) takeover of rival MCI, the latest in a flurry of deals in the industry.The acquisition closes the book on the remarkable recent history of MCI, the firm that emerged from the wreckage of WorldCom.At its peak WorldCom was valued at $180bn, but in 2002 filed for the biggest ever bankruptcy after an $11bn accounting fraud was uncovered.The firm's former chief executive, Bernard Ebbers, is now on trial in Manhattan accused of playing an active role in orchestrating the fraud.Verizon snatched MCI from the hands of another American telecoms firm, Qwest Communications, which had been pursuing its own deal with the company.The agreement is the third large telecoms merger in the United States in two months. In December, the mobile phone network Sprint announced a $35bn takeover of rival Nextel. Two weeks ago SBC Communications agreed to buy AT&amp;T for $16bn.The board of MCI agreed to   the Verizon offer after an intensive round of meetings over the weekend.Verizon is understood to have bid less than Qwest, but MCI directors were concerned about the long-term prospects. Qwest, which serves local phone markets in 14 states, has a market value of $7.5bn and was hurt by its own accounting scandal. Verizon has a market value of more than $100bn.The combined Verizon-MCI will cut 7,000 jobs from a total workforce of 250,000.Verizon is the dominant local phone company in north-eastern United States and is a leading mobile phone firm through a joint venture with Britain's Vodafone.MCI, which has its roots in long-distance services, is regarded as valuable for its business customers as well as being a huge network that   carries much of the world's internet traffic. It has 14m residential and more than 1m corporate customers."This is the right deal at the right time," said Verizon chairman and chief executive Ivan Seidenberg."It is a natural and logical extension of Verizon's strategy to transform our company to serve growth markets and offer broadband technologies."
Nokia, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, made its most bullish ever predictions yesterday for the global growth of mobile phone use.The Finnish firm expects the total number of people using mobiles to reach 2 billion by the end of this year, having passed a billion less than two years ago. By the end of 2010 it estimates there will be 3 billion mobile-phone users across the world - or almost half of the planet's projected population.Nokia was also very upbeat about the prospects for 3G, predicting that by the end of the year more than 70 million people across the world would be using the technology, which enables callers to see each other while talking or quickly download video clips and music. Nokia, which also unveiled its fourth handset that can use 3G, is hoping to grab 40% of the market.Nokia's 3G forecast is well ahead of the 45-50 million users being predicted by industry analysts and rival manufacturers such as Samsung, and marks a dramatic rise on the 16 million customers recorded in 2004, the majority of whom were in Japan.Nokia's rosy outlook for 3G will come as welcome relief for mobile phone companies such as Vodafone, which five years ago spent billions of pounds buying the licences to use 3G, but have so far seen little return on their investment.Apart from the new entrant 3, which launched two years ago, and the Japanese   operators, the rest of the mobile phone world has not properly rolled out the technology until recently because of a lack of suitable handsets. The first 3G phones were bulky, had poor battery life and often became uncomfortably hot if used for long periods. Some phones even exploded.Recently, much slimmer 3G handsets have appeared and at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes yesterday Nokia took the wraps off its latest 3G phone. The 6680, which has two cameras installed, will appear in stores next month.Several handset manufacturers, including Samsung, SonyEricsson and Motorola also launched new 3G handsets at the trade show yesterday.But even if more customers sign-up for 3G, it still remains unclear how the mobile phone companies will make more cash out of them to recoup their investment. The industry is increasingly betting on offering customers the ability to download and play music as a way to persuade them to do more than just talk or text.Nokia announced yesterday a tie-up with Microsoft to install the American software company's music player on its handsets, with the first product likely to appear in the shops later this year.The deal is a success for Microsoft, which has struggled to gain acceptance for its software within the mobile phone arena. Nokia, however, has no intention of making a phone based on the Windows operating system.
China shut 12,575 internet cafes for operating illegally between October and December last year, most of them near schools, the government has said.The crackdown was aimed at creating a "safer environment for young people in China", the official Xinhua news agency reported. It gave no details of the violations, but said the businesses closed "were mainly located near primary schools and middle schools".China promotes the use of the internet for business and education, but the Communist authorities complain that internet cafes are harming morality by giving children access to violent games and sexually explicit material.But the government controls what the Chinese public can see online and blocks access to websites deemed pornographic or subversive.
An Oregon man arrested last week for trying to arrange a mass Valentine's Day suicide had been preying on vulnerable women online for five years, police said yesterday.Gerald Krein, 26, was charged with solicitation to commit murder after a Canadian woman who joined a chat room called "suicide ideology" tipped off police.The woman, who had been planning to kill herself as part of the pact, said she decided to go to police when she learned that another participant was planning to kill her two children before taking her own life.Investigators have tracked down four of the women Mr Krein was in contact with and are searching for others.Klamath County sheriff Tim Evinger said Mr Krein had been trying to lure women into committing suicide since at least 2000."As our computer specialists have been going through mail groups and old chat rooms and old postings and looking at some things that are in the public domain out there, it became clear that he has a history of doing this," Mr Evinger said.Mr Krein told investigators that he had been in touch with at least 31 women."The common theme is that these were women who were vulnerable, who were depressed. He invited them to engage in certain sexual acts with him - and then they were to hang themselves   naked from a beam in his house," the sheriff said.The sheriff said the fact that Mr Krein was living in a mobile home with no beams indicated that he was indulging in a fantasy or planning the mass suicide at another location. He said no deaths had yet been linked to Mr Krein."My concern is, if he's been doing this for some time, it's my hope that he hasn't been successful - but it could turn out that he has been," he said.Of the four women tracked down, Mr Krein had invited at least two to bring their children.One of the participants, a woman from Oregon, shared with police a transcript of her online conversation.Woman: "How did you come up with the idea of a party?" Answer: "Just did. So do you want to join?"Woman: "Maybe." Question: "Do you want to hang?" Woman: "No, gas."Mr Krein had begun the most recent chat room in December, about the time he had moved from Sacramento, California, to Klamath Falls in Oregon to care for his ailing father.Police have had difficulty tracking down the women who took part in the chat room because of privacy laws.The local Herald and News newspaper said neighbours had described Mr Krein as a burly man who wore tie-dyed T-shirts and looked "like a mountain man". His mobile home had an image of a hand making an obscene gesture in the window, it said.
