The problem with much mobile technology is that it's not really designed to be used while you're actually mobile – or at least, not if being mobile demands that you concentrate on something other than your mobile technology.Like driving, for example. There's a reason why the use of handheld devices behind the wheel is banned in the UK:researchshows the response time of a driver using a smartphone to access social media, emails or texts slows by around 37.5% (far more than after marijuana or moderate alcohol use).But we're not very good at using mobile technology while walking, either.YouTubehas armies of unsuspecting texters slamming into doors, colliding with lampposts, tumbling down stairs or tripping into fountains.In America, towns have startedfining pedestrians who use smartphones while they're walking. Here, London streets have hosted experiments that have involvedattaching pads to lampposts and bollardsin an effort to reduce injuries from "inattention blindness".There is even an app,CrashAlert, being developed at the University of Manitoba in Canada that uses a distance-sensing camera to scan the path ahead and alert smartphone users to hazards by flashing a red square on to their screen.The issue is that the human brain can only pay attention to about three things at a time – and concentrate effectively on just one of them. Even though the consequences of smartphone distraction are sometimes amusing, they can also be serious.The number of children admitted to hospital after accidents in public playgrounds has climbed by about a third in five years, according to NHS data. Expertsin both Britainand the US– where a similar rise has occurred – suggest some of the increase may be a result of parents being too distracted by their phones to supervise their offspring properly.When already distraction-prone children get their own phones, the consequences can be catastrophic. Katherine Littlewood, 15,was hit by a train and killed on a level crossing last year; her iPod, headphones and the the BlackBerry on which she had been texting friends were found next to her body.And now comesevidencethat shows that 11-year-old pedestrians are three times more likely to be hurt or seriously injured on the way to and from school than 10-year-olds – and also, since 11 is the average age at which children receive their first mobile phone, six times more likely to be sending a text when it happens.A quarter of children surveyed admitted that they had been distracted by personal technology while crossing the road. "There is," the report concluded, "a clear correlation between the use of technology and the time of serious accidents with children". We, or mobile technology, need to evolve.
Good news for Windows Phone owners in the US: you can now shave 0.5 seconds off the time it takes to find a decent pizza in Seattle by speaking to your smartphone.Okay, this isn't earth-shattering news, even for pizzaphiles. But Microsoft is excited about the technology behind this development: improvements to the speed and accuracy of Windows Phone's voice-to-text and voice search features."Now when you compose a text message or search using your voice, Bing will return results twice as fast as before and increase accuracy by 15 percent,"announces Bing's speech teamin a (possibly dictated) blog post.The team has been working with Microsoft's research division for a year to improve the technology. Here's the science bit:"To achieve the speed and accuracy improvements, we focused on an advanced approach called Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). DNN is a technology that is inspired by the functioning of neurons in the brain. In a similar way, DNN technology can detect patterns akin to the way biological systems recognize patterns.By coupling MSR's major research breakthroughs in the use of DNNs with the large datasets provided by Bing's massive index, the DNNs were able to learn more quickly and help Bing voice capabilities get noticeably closer to the way humans recognize speech."Actually, there's an even deeper science bitin a separate post on the Inside Microsoft Research blog, where senior researcher Dong Yu contributes this anecdote on a crucial point in the project:"I first realized the effect of the DNN when we successfully achieved significant error-rate reduction on the voice-search data set after implementing the context-dependent deep-neural-network hidden Markov model. It was an exciting moment. I was so excited that I did not sleep that night."Don't laugh: this is a genuinely charming insight into the work going on behind the scenes of the technologies we increasingly take for granted. Not least because Yu's sleepless night may contribute to a much wider range of benefits than just slightly-quicker ordering of a deep-pan Hawaiian with extra pineapple.It's the smartphone battle between Apple, Google, Microsoft, BlackBerry and other platforms that's pumping investment into speech recognition, voice search and related technologies with wide applications.Or, as Yu puts it: "I believe this is just the first step in advancing the state of the art. Many difficult problems may be attacked under this framework, which might lead to even greater advances."Microsoft's challenge is to make the fruits of this research a big selling point for Windows Phone, as it tries to secure a bigger foothold in the market against iPhone and Android, which both feature their own prominent voice recognition features.Many people's purchase decisions will come down to more basic questions: whether the phone looks nice, how good its camera is and whether their favourite apps are available for it, rather than its speech recognition speed and accuracy.Nokia is working hard on the design and camera questions, while Microsoft seems well aware of the challenge faces on the apps side of things. Just this week, Business Insider claimedit is paying some developers up to $100kto bring popular apps to its platform.In some areas, like games – N.O.V.A. 3, Temple Run: Brave, MapQuest, Jetpack Joyride, Rayman Jungle Run and Angry Birds Rio in the last month alone – its efforts are paying off. Elsewhere, even long-term holdoutInstagram is rumoured to be on its way to Windows Phone, possibly as soon as the end of this month.Microsoft's efforts, whether in the research labs with DNN technology or out in developers' offices with a cheque book, are important.Apple and Google's fierce rivalry with iOS and Android means neither can afford to rest on their laurels, but stronger competition from a third player in Microsoft / Windows Phone (with BlackBerry, Firefox OS and Tizen all hoping for a say as well) is good news for smartphone owners. Whatever their pizza preferences.
Internet service providers have signed up to a fundamental change in their approach, which will involve working more closely with the police to seek out and block images of child abuse, the culture secretary, Maria Miller, has said.Leading companies have pledged £1m to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which will intensify its work with the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) to identify illegal images of child abuse before they are widely distributed online.Miller was speaking after a summit with some of the world's largest internet service providers (ISPs), which were summoned by the culture secretary because of concerns in government that they are failing to take adequate steps to crack down on images of child abuse.The government estimates that there are 1 million unique users of images of child abuse online, but only 40,000 reports of illegal images are made each year to the IWF, the Cambridge-based charity that collates warnings about illegal sites.Britain's main ISPs – Virgin Media, BSkyB, BT and TalkTalk – have agreed to provide £1m to help the IWF in its work with Ceop, which has been incorporated into the national crime agency.The culture secretary hailed the agreement, which will see the IWF working directly with the police to seek out illegal images rather than waiting for a complaint before acting. She told The World at One on Radio 4: "What has been agreed today is a fundamental change in the way that the industry will approach child abuse images and removing them from public view. It is important that we have made this change, that the IWF will be proactive not reactive for the first time, so it can actively seek out the sorts of images that people find absolutely abhorrent."It does mean that more of those images can be removed."Miller added in a statement: "Until now, action has only been taken by the IWF when a child sexual abuse image is reported. Now, for the first time, the IWF has been asked to work alongside Ceop to search for illegal and abusive images and block them. This will mean more images of child sexual abuse will be tracked down and acted against."The abuse of children is absolutely abhorrent – and that child is further violated every single time an image is circulated and viewed. The IWF and Ceop already do important and valuable work. This agreement will mean these organisations will no longer be limited to reacting to reports received. They will now have the remit and the resources to take the fight to the criminals perpetrating these vile acts."The summit also addressed the problem of "peer-to-peer" communication, in which child abusers distribute material by email to avoid detection. Miller said that work would continue to try to crack down on such distribution.In one of the first steps after the summit, the industry has agreed to introduce "splash" pages by the end of the month. This will mean that if someone seeks to access a page of illegal images that has been blocked, a warning message will appear telling the user they have tried to access indecent or illegal content. At the moment an error message appears when users try to access such images.Miller denied that the government was not taking the issue seriously after Jim Gamble resigned as chief executive of Ceop in 2010, following its incorporation into the national crime agency.The culture secretary said: "We take it very seriously indeed. That is why Ceop is now part of the national crime agency and that is why we have 50% more staff working within Ceop. It is absolutely vital that their work continues and can reflect the scale of the problem."In a statement, BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media said of the extra £1m they have pledged over the next four years: "The companies will work together with government, IWF and Ceop to establish how best these funds can be spent to tackle the availability of online child abuse content. ISPs have a zero-tolerance approach to this material. This funding will help to target those individuals that create and distribute the content."Miller will arrange another meeting after the industry reports back to her within a month. She praised the industry for taking steps already to offer greater choice of parental controls for new customers.The companies that attended the summit were Yahoo, Google, Microsoft, Twitter, Facebook, BT, BSkyB, Virgin Media, TalkTalk, Vodafone, O2, EE and Three. Officers from Ceop and officials from the IWF also attended.
Apps startupFiftyThree, which makes iPad notebook appPaper, has raised $15m (£9.6m) in a Series A funding round.The app, pitched as "the easiest and most beautiful way to create on iPad", has been downloaded 8m times from the App Store, and wasfeted by Applein its 2012 Apple Design Awards.It enables people to scribble, draw and take notes on virtual pages, then share them via email, Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Paper makes its money from in-app purchases of specific features like Sketch, Write and Mixer for £1.49 apiece.The funding round was led by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, with participation from Highline Ventures, Thrive Capital, SV Angels and Jack Dorsey, Twitter co-founder and chairman as well as chief executive of payments startup Square.FiftyThree has grand ambitions with the investment. In a blog post, the companyoutlined expansion plans in two specific areas: collaboration and hardware.On the former: "Social media has changed the way we communicate, but real collaboration has been left behind. Still nothing has surpassed the simple act of sitting down in a room with a group of motivated people," claims the blog post."We believe a breakthrough around collaboration will revolutionize the creative process. How we work together. How we discover new collaborators to work with."On the hardware side, FiftyThree says it has designs on "moving beyond touch and into the physical world of accessories". Andreessen Horowitz's  Chris Dixon haspublished his own blog postoutlining the potential he sees for FiftyThree in this area."The FiftyThree team spent their careers working on breakthrough computing projects, including lead roles on Office, Kinect, Sonos, and the Xbox," he writes. "Particularly relevant was a project they led at Microsoft called Courier that has been widely praised as a visionary take on tablet computing."TheCourierwas canned by Microsoft in 2010 before it became a commercial product, but it seems the ideas behind the dual-touchscreen device may be revived in Paper's future products. Dixon is certainly bullish:"In the past, they reimagined how we play games, view images, listen to music, create documents, and more. With FiftyThree, they are rethinking the very way we create and collaborate on ideas."In his post, Dixon also claims Paper didn't need to raise money, but chose to take funding "to accelerate their efforts". If the company is planning something as ambitious as the Courier, it may well need more than $15m.That said, with devices like the Pebble smart-watch and Ouya Android console having raised $10.3m and $8.6m respectively on Kickstarter, it's tempting to wonder whether crowdfunding may have a role to play in Paper's future strategy, alongside its more-traditional investors.
Disney is hoping Mickey Mouse can find a new lease of life with a mobile game and cartoon shorts series that will go head-to-head with brands like Angry Birds and Talking Friends for the affections of children.The mobile game is Where's My Mickey?, which is the latest in Disney's series of Where's My games. The franchise first launched in September 2011, and notched upmore than 100m downloadsin its first year.Where's My Mickey is being released for iOS, Android and Windows Phone simultaneously, with more than 100 physics-puzzle levels spread across five chapters, and the promise of cameo appearances from Pluto, Goofy and other Disney characters.It's setting the scene for the new cartoon-shorts series, titled Mickey Mouse, which will make its debut on the Disney Channel network on 12 July.The series is aimed at 6-14 year-old children, as well as their families, with its global ambitions shown by Disney's decision to set episodes in cities including New York, Paris, Beijing, Tokyo and Venice.Disney says the style harks back to the original 1930s Mickey Mouse cartoons, while the scenery will be inspired by cartoons from the 1950s and 1960s.There is plenty of modern talent involved in creating the new series, though, with creatives drawn from shows including Star Wars: Clone Wars, SpomgeBob SquarePants, Dexter's Laboratory and The Powerpuff Girls.Disney is hoping to reach children through multiple screens with the new shorts, which will be made available on the Disney.com website and Watch Disney video-on-demand site.The new cartoons and game come as Disney tries to ensure its most famous characters remain relevant for children who are growing up with apps like Angry Birds, Talking Tom Cat and Cut the Rope, as well as virtual worlds like Moshi Monsters and Bin Weevils.All these brands have expanded beyond their digital origins to sell merchandise and other physical products, representing a challenge to companies like Disney.Just this week, Angry Birds maker Rovio announced anexpansion of its licensing deal with Hasbroto make toys and physical games based on its games, including the Angry Birds Star Wars game that – in a neat twist – is based on a film franchise now owned by Disney.That said, Disney has been learning fast. The companypartnered with Talking Tom Cat's creator Outfit7 on a series of webisodesthat generated more than 100m views on YouTube, for example.Meanwhile,the first Where's My Water? mobile gamewas an attempt to make a mobile star of a brand new Disney character, Swampy the alligator, before taking him into the world of webisodes and consumer merchandise.Now the lessons learned from Swampy are being deployed by Disney in support of its most famous character, Mickey Mouse.
Some are calling it the best E3 in five years – others insist it's the best of all time. But whatever hyperbole gets attached to last week's gaming conference, we can all agree on the focus: Xbox One v PS4.Amid the chaos of the LA convention centre, Microsoft and Sony pitched their stands barely feet from each other, separated only by a sliver of carpet, a no-man's land of technological rivalry. The two companies then spent three days hurling PR at each other, deafening attendees with their arsenals of mega hype. It was confusing, it was enraging, it was console war – and the first casualty of console war is sense.So, what did it all mean? Who won, who lost? What do these machines actually do? Here is a quick guide to the next-generation as it currently stands, complete with hardware, services and game announcements. Next stop: release dates and a shift of the skirmish to a hundred thousand shop shelves. This fight has only just begun.UPDATES – 20 JUNE: The Second Screens section has been updated to clarify Remote Play; the Hardware section has been updated with a developer comment on system memory; the DRM section has been altered to reflect Microsoft's u-turn on game restrictionsOfficial sitesBefore you start, why not check out what the console makers want you to know about their machines? Xbox one ishere; PS4 is right overthere.HardwareWell, black is certainly back, as AC/DC once sort of nearly put it (or Public Enemy, for that matter, but we're getting off the point now). For this generation we have two rather large slabs of dark plastic, one shaped like an early eighties video recorder, the other slightly slanted to give a hint of dynamism. They are monolithic, almost architectural, and they are designed to slide in under your living room TV and then command attention from everyone in the room.Technically, they are hugely similar: eight-core processors (both reported to be running at a frequency of 1.6GHz), custom AMD graphics processors, Blu-ray drives. But there are some fundamental differences. The two GPUs employ AMD's latestGraphics Core Nextarchitecture, which is divided into working blocks known as Compute Units. The PS4 version has 18 CUs generating 1.84 teraflops of processing power, while the Xbox one has only 12 CUs; which, intheory, gives Sony's machine a 50% advantage in terms of raw shader performance (for example, lighting and other graphics effects). It's never quite this simple because other design and technical elements of theSoCcan affect performance, but it's certainly anindicationthat there is more graphics grunt there for PS4.Sony's machine also uses 8GB of GDDR5 memory with a bandwidth of 176GB/sec as opposed to the Xbox One with its 8GB of DDR3 RAM. GDDR5 memory is optimised for high bandwidth, which is perfect for use in graphics calculations, but also has higher latency than DDR3 RAM, which would be a problem for a general purpose CPU. However, because the PS4 architecture places the GPU and CPU on the same die, the latency between the two may be minimalised. In short, the adoption of a graphics-friendly form of memory may work to PS4's advantage as a games-targeted machine – even though GDDR5 is more expensive to implement. There's a thorough summing up of the system designhere.It's also worth reading the detailed overview of the technologiesat AnandTech, though. The exhaustive article points out that the Xbox One architecture is designed with a variety of considerations beyond gaming – especially implementation with other MS platforms – and this shows in the tech specs.A developer's viewWe asked an experienced games coder about the differences between Xbox One and PS4's approach to system memory. He has asked to remain anonymous, but this is what he wrote..."Memory-wise there arereally deep areasyou can get into on how Sony has optimised certain paths to access the RAM. Microsoft will hopefully be doing similar stuff to that, I imagine – we're only disclosed on PS4 so I don't know for sure, they're not dumb though."Regarding the RAM type, however, GDDR5 equals 176gb/sec, DDR3 equals 68gb/sec – I don't know the exact numbers for the Xbox One RAM but it'll be around that. GDDR5 is slightly higher latency, which means the time between requesting a piece of data and getting it to the CPU/GPU to work with can be slightly longer than with DDR3. This latency can be hidden by well-written code on CPU and normally is hidden well by GPUs due to how their pipelines work (which is why GDDR is normally found on GPU's)."Ultimately though, that 2.5x faster bandwidth number means that a larger amount of data can be taken from RAM, processed by the CPU (or more importantly on these new architectures, the Compute Units on the GPU) and spat back out to RAM to either process again or render. At the end of the day, everything in games comes down to: 'grab information'; 'transform that data somehow'; 'spit it back out' – so being faster at this is a very good thing."Microsoft is winning bandwidth back for the GPU through the 32MB ESRAM (102gb/sec I believe, and assuming you're using this RAM a lot, it means that the total Microsoft bandwidth is 168gb/sec); this will even things back out a bit but require a bit of extra management by developers and it is only 32MB which limits the amount of uses."This kind of architecture with faster RAM for the GPU to use for framebuffers (the block of data storing the image being rendererd out or nowadays temporary graphic buffers storing lighting/material information) is something developers are used to working with, but it's more complex than the approach needed on the PS4."Motion peripheralsThe Xbox One ships with the updated Kinect device, which now tracks six people at once and copes much better with smaller, darker rooms. Its 3D scanner can identify much subtler movements, and it can recognise voices and faces. Microsoft is also telling journalists that the device's IR camera will detect changes in blood flow beneath the skin, thereby working out your heart rate – if you're out of breath, scared or stressed, Xbox One will know. Oh and there's a 1,080p colour camera for video chatting. Meanwhile, the PlayStation Eye will come as a separate purchase, and works with the DualShock 4 controller to track the player's movement in 3D space. Sony isn't saying much else, apart from showing off a range of compatible mini-games at E3. Clearly, while Kinect is at the very epicentre of the Xbone experience, Eye is currently barely squinting.ControllersWith its new touchpad, the DualShock 4 is the most obviously changed of the two joypads, and Sony has also added a speaker for up-close, player-specific audio. Also important is the new Share button which will let PlayStation gamers record footage of their virtual feats with which to impress/spam their friends.The Xbox One controller, which apparently went through over 200 prototype stages and features 40 improvements, is more subtle – it has improved triggers that boast greater analogue sensitivity as well as their own dedicated rumble packs. Meanwhile, the D-pad is now a cross shape (good for fighting games) and the sticks are more comfortable to grip. Oh and there's a headphone socket, too. Both controllers look and feel really nice, and while the DualShock has more gimmicks, the Xbox equivalent features smart ergonomics and great gaming comfort.PlayStation 4 Dual Shock 4 controllerThe cloudAs we move into an era of distributed computing power, it's no wonder that the next-gen consoles want to capitalise on the power of the cloud. Microsoft has claimed that developers will be able to harness three times the power of a single Xbox One, thereby bringing extra oomph to physics and AI processing (although some developers wonder whether latency will ever allow such time-sensitive game elements to be offloaded in this way). We're also promised vast persistent online worlds that evolve as play continues.Forza Motorsports is even offering aDrivatar, an AI bot that learns your skills and tactics then goes off and represents you in online bouts. There aredoubts about the veracity of Microsoft's claims, though, with latency and bandwidth issues likely to make things difficult.PlayStation 4 promises cloud computing too, but the technology provided by Gaikai will also allow immediate playable access to digital titles – so as soon as you select a demo or full game on the PlayStation Store, the first chunk will be accessible. In theory. It will also be possible for players to remotely gain control of a pal's game, perhaps to help them out of a difficult puzzle or boss fight. Microsoftpromisesa similar remote playing feature via Xbox One utilising its Skype service.All the claims are intriguing, but we've yet to see any of it in practice. Furthermore, some worry about the longevity of cloud-supported titles: i.e. what happens to a game that relies on the cloud for computational support when that online infrastructure is withdrawn? Publishers can't support every game forever. Alongside restrictive DRM, the cloud is another indication that the game disc as self-contained functioning product is history.Second screensBoth the Xbox One and PS4 will offer 'second screen' interaction: the former though tablets and smartphones runningSmartGlass, the latter through the Vita handheld console as well as smartphones and tablets. With both machines you'll be able to use your phone or tablet as a companion display in supporting games, perhaps showing map or inventory information, for example. But through Sony's Remote Play technology, PS4 owners will be able to access and play their games via their Vita and a local Wi-Fi connection – so if you're unable to use your main TV, you can grab your handheld and play DriveClub on its lovely little 5-inch display. And unlike with PS3, Remote Play is built into the PS4 infrastructure so all games (except those requiring extra peripherals like the PS Eye) will support it. Although Vita has not sold astonishingly well so far, this is an interesting USP, and maybe a PS4/Vita bundle pack would highlight the possibilities of these intertwined systems.Launch gamesBoth Xbox One and PS4 will have the following titles at launch: Assassin's Creed IV, Call of Duty Ghosts, Watch Dogs, Fifa 14, Madden 14 and Lego Marvel Super Heroes. PS4 will add DriveClub, Knack and Killzone: Shadow Fall as exclusives, as well as the free-to-play MMOFPS, PlanetSide 2.Xbox One meanwhile, will have Forza Motorsports 5, Ryse: Son of Rome, Dead Rising 3, Killer Instinct and Kinect Sports Rivals. Arguably, Microsoft just shades it there, with some heavyweight third-party support, courtesy of Crytek and Capcom. But in general terms, this is a relatively strong opening for a new generation.Coming titlesSo after the fanfare and bluster of the launches, what can gamers expect next from their chosen machine? Well, Xbox One is promising Respawn's Titanfall in 2014 as well as Crimson Dragon, Below, and Sunset Overdrive, not to mention new outings for Minecraft and Halo.PS4 is lining up Infamous: second Son, The Order: 1866 and Deep Down, with a new Gran Turismo on the slate as well. Plus, Sony has all those indie developers that it's been courting, adding Mercenary Kings, Daylight, Don't Starve and Transistor to the line-up. And both schedules will be enlivened by multi-platform blockbusters like Star Wars Battlefront, Destiny, Final Fantasy XV, The Crew, Tom Clancy's The Division and EA's Mirror's Edge reboot. Much of the battle will be down to any timed exclusives or unique features the manufacturers can prise into the third-party offerings.The Evil Within – scaring you senseless on the Xbox One and PS4 soon.Multimedia and social featuresBoth consoles will have varied video-on-demand support, involving multiple content partners. Xbox One looks to have the most advanced and ambitious offering, allowing owners to feed in their cable/satellite channels and then control them via the Xbone voice and gesture controls. Microsoft's machine will also allow seamless movement between TV, video content and games, while premium TV content such as live sports will be augmented with exclusive social and gaming features – which haven't yet been properly explained (or clearly rolled out beyond US-centric deals). And of course, both machines allow you to watch Blu-ray and DVD movie discs, and both support 4K output when that becomes an issue. Will that ever become an issue?Backwards compatibility, pre-owned sales and DRMUh-oh, here we go. Neither machine allows straightforward backwards compatibility with previous consoles – however, it's likely that both will eventually offer retro titles via emulation and digital download.Microsoft has abandoned plans to control the sale of pre-owned titles and limit how many people you can lend your Xbox One games too. As with PlayStation 4, games can be sold and exchanged freely.According toa statement on the Xbox site, there will be no requirement for regular online authentication – just a single sign-in on purchase. There will also be no regional lock on disc-based games.According to Polygon, this will affect some of the more positive elements of Microsoft's original infrastructure - for example, the ability to share your library of games with up to ten friends or family members has now apparently been removed.For now, Microsoft's attempts to make console game sales more like iTunes or Steam have been thwarted.The PR warIn short, Microsoft lost. The internet reacted with savage fury to the pre-owned sales limitations and authentication requirements, while analysts havecriticisedMicrosoft's TV-focused strategy. Sony twisted the knife with a confrontational E3 press conference and a viral video lampooning the Xbox one sharing system. A recent poll by Amazon, asking readers to suggest which machine they would be buying, wentoverwhelmingly in PS4's direction– although there could be an element of protest voting here.And Microsoft factionsarefighting back. Apost on Pastebin, reported to be from an anonymous Microsoft engineer, tries to explain the DRM and pre-owned systems, telling gamers they will benefit in the long run, by cutting profit hungry retailers like Gamestop out of the loop. Game designer Cliff Bleszinski has alsowaded into defend the Xbox One setup. For their own part, Microsoft execs have gone rather quiet and are no doubt planning a new public relations offensive in the run up to launch.Xbox One at Microsoft s booth at E3 2013. Photograph: Casey Rodgers/Invision for MicrosoftLaunch details and pricesMicrosoft has committed itself to a November launch date, Sony has said nothing else except for 2013; though the smart money has to be on November too. Retailers probably won't allow a simultaneous roll-out (imagine the chaos) so expect one to go early in the month, and the other toward the end. Xbox will retail at £429 ($499), PS4 at £350 ($399). However, as noted above, the PlayStation Eye won't be bundled with the console, unlike the Kinect with Xbox One. Both systems will charge an annual subscription for multiplayer gaming access, with PS4 requiring a paid 'PS Plus' membership.VerdictA winner?! Before the consoles are evenlaunched? I don't think so. The history of the games industry is littered with consoles that should have won but didn't; where all the signs pointed in their direction, but turned out to be wildly misleading. And similarly, machines that were expected to dive, turned out to be successes. No one expected the Mega Drive to take off like it did in the States and Europe; and before anyone saw it, almost everyone wrote off the Wii after the under-performing GameCube. Then the Wii Remote was revealed and suddenly the story changed.Right now, the signs point toward early success for PlayStation 4: on paper, the hardware is more powerful, it has popular support, Sony has said what gamers want to hear. But Xbox One has some great games and there is time for Microsoft to explain and re-spin its business models. The company wants to change the way the games industry works; that's a tough sell to gamers, who are, ironically, an extremely conservative customer base.What's fascinating is that the whole consumer world is watching. For years, mirthless middle-aged pundits in their global financial research companies have been predicting the death of consoles. These hulking machines are no longer relevant, the kids want to play on tablets; everything is going free-to-play. But it isn't, not yet. Play The Last of Us for 20 minutes and you know why Angry Birds won't somehow replace narrative gaming – as some bean counters have tried to assert.The first casualty of any console war is sense – everyone seems to lose theirs. No one wins until the launch titles are in the disc trays, or on the hard drives; no one is finished until the last major developer abandons the platform. But it is fun, isn't it, to watch it unfold? Let's not forget the fun part.
Facebook may be preparing to add video-sharing features to its Instagram app, in a direct response to the popularity of Twitter's Vine app.The new features could be announced this week, with Facebook having invited US journalists to an event on 20 June with the words "A small team has been working on a big idea".TechCrunch claimsthat big idea is the ability to shoot and share short videos, citinga previous report by independent journalist Matthew Keyssuggesting that the new feature would cover videos of 5-10 seconds in length.A direct strike at Vine, then. Twitter's standalone video-sharing app was downloaded 13m times for iPhone between its launch in late January 2013, and early June whenthe Android version was released.The latter has since been installed between 1m and 5m times globally, according to theGoogle Play app store's stats.Evidence against Instagram getting video this week? The second sentence in Facebook's press-event invitation: "Join us for coffee and learn about a new product." That hints at more than simply new capabilities for an existing app.TechCrunch has that covered too with a separate post predicting thatFacebook may unveil its own news reader service, just in time to capitalise on the closure of Google Reader.Both rumours could be right, even if only one of them becomes hard fact on Thursday. But it would be entirely unsurprising if Facebook isn't thinking hard about how to do more with video on its service.The social network has been the world's largest photo-sharing service for years now: as far back as October 2008its users were uploading 2-3 terabytes of photos a day, with Facebook serving more than 15bn images a day.Video? It's pretty popular on Facebook too.comScore pegged it as the second biggest US online video sitein May 2013 with 60.4m unique viewers watching 727.4m videos in the US alone, behind only YouTube.Yet video remains something of an afterthought for Facebook, particularly in its smartphone apps: on iPhone, you still upload a video by tapping a button marked "Photo" for example.Facebook could go the Vine route and launch a standalone shortform video-sharing app, much like it releasedFacebook Camerain May 2012 as a way to test photography features before rolling them into its main app.Adding video to Instagram instead may be a way to hit the ground running: the app hasmore than 100m monthly active users, split nearly half-and-half between iPhone and Android.Instagram's signature "filter" visual effects could work for videos too. Indeed, video-sharing apps like Socialcam, Viddy and VideofyMe have provided exactly that.The risks? If Facebook simply shoehorns video into Instagram as a hastily-conceived blocking manoeuvre against Vine, it risks alienating existing users.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRelease the Google Internet Balloons! &gt;&gt; Stuck in CustomsTrey Ratcliff (hat tip @HotSoup for the link):So, what's the reason for all this? Well, there are billions of people on Earth without Internet. Billions! What's a crazy (loon-y) idea to get them Internet? Step in Project Loon from Google X and Rich DeVaul. What's the net result of it all? You can see the little white dot-balloon in the photo bellow on the left floating over New Zealand.Stunning photos of Google's latest moonshot project (or, to be specific, the scenery around the balloons).Leaning in with Feminist Taylor Swift &gt;&gt; The Daily DotCaroline Moss, interviewing Clara Beyer:Why Feminist Taylor Swift? Why not Feminist Kim Kardashian? Feminist Adele? Feminist Ashley Olsen? "I think it's because a lot of Taylor Swift lyrics can easily be interpreted in an antifeminist way. A few years ago I started listening to Swift a lot--it was the same summer I interned at NARAL, an organization that advocates a woman's right to choose. I've had to deal with a lot of cognitive dissonance being a Taylor Swift fan and a feminist at the same time. Like, "Oh, you're a feminist but you love listening to this girl talk about how much better life would be if a guy loved her?" and the answer is "Yes.""TheFeminist Taylor SwiftTwitter account now has more than 82,000 followers with its sharp rewritings of Swift lyrics. "Get me with those green eyes baby as the lights go down / Because as a woman I am always subject to the male gaze..." File alongsideKimKierkegaardashian.Puzzle &amp; Dragons Reaches 15 Million Users &gt;&gt; Dr. Serkan TotoOn the latest mobile gaming craze:It is not ending: Japan's top smartphone game Puzzle &amp; Dragons has topped 15 million users across iOS, Android and Kindle devices on June 8, maker GungHo (3765) said today. What's interesting is that the company is still able to rack up 1 million users in three weeks or less - for the 13th time in a row (the 14 million user mark was passed on May 18). These are all Japanese users: Puzzle &amp; Dragons is still only available over here, in the US, and in South Korea.The game isn't just popular: it's hugely lucrative, having made $113m for GungHo in April 2013 alone, helping the developer overtake Nintendo for market cap. And now GungHo is palling up with Supercell, its nearest Western equivalent in terms of mobile gaming success, for cross-promotions and gameplay features in that company's Clash of Clans.Let's Recover The Lost Half Decade Of Music Recorded After Napster &gt;&gt; HypebotAndrew Dubber:There is a five year period of popular music culture that represents an incredibly rich seam of fantastic independent music, much of which never had the opportunity to find its audience. It's an incredible gulf. A deep trench between the old music business and the new music business. A Grand Canyon of digital music.Bands that suffered from piracy but didn't have access to tools like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Bandcamp and so on. The lost long tail of music between 1999-2004. Except thanks to iTunes, Spotify and other digital services, it's out there waiting to be rediscovered.Ford Touch-Screen Will Add Knobs &gt;&gt; WSJ.comMike Ramsey:Punished by third-party quality reports because of the difficulty of using its touch-screen multimedia system, called MyFord Touch, the auto maker will reprise tuning and volume knobs for the radio as it redesigns existing models, a top Ford executive said. It is a reversal for Ford, which has been a first-mover with installing mobile-phone-based technologies, voice recognition and touch screens in its vehicles. The systems have been a big selling point for Ford with its vehicles, but also have dragged down its reputation for quality.Insert own U-turn gag here. But it's a reminder that the touchscreens that work so well for smartphone and tablet apps have their drawbacks when deployed in cars. It's early days still, though. Ford and others are exploring voice controls too. Siri, play Born To Be Wild...We're Not On The Web, We Are The Web &gt;&gt; MediumAlfie Dennen, on Federico Zannier's Kickstarter selling his personal data to all-comers:At the moment the value exchange we enter into when using online properties is straightforward: someone gives you a free online tool and in return they get to advertise to you. However this model is very fragile, especially if, consumers are able to simply and legally say no to advertising unless they explicitly allow it. Zannier's project points the way to the emergence of a whole new sector of personal data driven businesses aggregating consumer data: brokerage firms, given agency to license your digital 'biometric'; Insurance advisors, getting you the best possible car insurance, and even an oversight consortium policing these relationships.With or without meerkat mascots.Smart iOS calendar Sunrise now logs your Foursquare checkins and offers CrunchBase info for contacts &gt;&gt; The Next WebMartin Bryant:Hot on the heels of its recent $2.2 million funding round, New York-based calendar startup Sunrise has added a couple of new features to its much-praised iOS app. The addition of Foursquare means that you can now use Sunrise as a diary as well as a calendar, letting it log the places you've been in the past. Tapping any entry will bring up that locations address and a map to help you find it again. As bonus that will please many users, Google Maps, rather than Apple Maps, are now used within the app. Meanwhile, there's now support for tech company database CrunchBase. This is something that won't be useful to everyone...But will it be more or less useful to people than integrating Foursquare check-ins? These changes are sure to drum up an enthusiastic cheer from investors and fellow startups, but doesn't Sunrise want to make a difference to people's time management beyond that tech bubble?Will iTunes Radio Pay Off? &gt;&gt; BillboardEd Christman:On the recorded-music side, sources say Apple has agreed to carve out two buckets of revenue and whichever is higher will be where payments come from. In one bucket, Apple will store 10%-20% of ad revenue to cover its costs in lining up advertising and then split the remainder evenly with the labels. In the other bucket, Apple will pay slightly more than the pure-play rate that Pandora pays, which is $0.0012 per song stream. Some sources peg that number at $0.00125-$0.0013 per stream, but that bucket will also have a sliver of an undisclosed amount of ad revenue added to it.In the US, paying out more than Pandora is a big deal within the music industry, especially as that company is trying to lower its royalty commitments. The great unknown: is iTunes Radio the missing ingredient that will make Apple's iAds a winner with more big brands?Intel CTO hints at watch-like smart device for texting &gt;&gt; VentureBeatMeghan Kelly:Intel is testing a number of "experimental devices in the lab," one of which is a smartwatch-like device, according to chief technology officer Justin Rattner. "Actually, we're looking at novel display devices. The watch is kind of -- if you want to put the time on it, that's fine ," said Rattner at Bloomberg's Next Big Thing conference. "But if you're talking about texting today, wouldn't it be nice if you could just look at your wrist?"And speak into it to reply, possibly? But the more interesting question here is whether Apple is involved in any of Intel's experiments.Privacy, Search Engines, and Government Monitoring &gt;&gt; blekkoGreg Lindahl, CEO of the search engine Blekko:"Big Data" is really popular with businesses these days, with the hope that it can provide great value, either to users, or to advertisers. Recording nearly everything that users do, which is what major search engines do, is bad for many reasons: The right thing to do is to keep just enough information to provide most of the benefit for the user, not all the information for a tiny additional benefit. The user really doesn't benefit from helping advertisers. I like seeing more relevant ads, but not at the cost of having my search engine remember every embarrassing query I've ever made. Just for fun, bad guys might break in and publish search histories. You can read about these kinds of incidents every week; it's never happened to Google, but it's still a bad idea to keep all that data. Just like public libraries, it is not the mission of a search engine to collect information for the government. OK, maybe in non-free countries that's the mission of both search engines and the public library, but that's not exactly the ideal that most of us hope for on the Internet.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Pink Floyd's back catalogue is being made available on Spotify after fans played their Wish You Were Here track more than 1m times in four days.The song was released on Spotify last Friday, withPink Floyd's official Twitter accountpromising that the rest of the catalogue would be unlocked once it passed 1m streams.Pink Floyd is the latest major artist to join Spotify, as it tries to convince more music fans to pay up to £9.99 a month for its streaming service, rather than buy songs and albums as individual downloads from digital stores such as Apple's iTunes."It's a great day for fans of prog rock, but it's also a great day for younger fans who have yet to be really turned on to the magic of Pink Floyd," said Ken Parks, Spotify's chief content officer. "That's a lot of what this is about: bringing a new generation of fans to one of the biggest and most iconic bands in the world."Spotify has more than 24 million active users, with 6 million of them paying for its service and the rest using its advertising-supported free option.The companysigned an exclusive deal for Metallica's back cataloguein December 2012, and persuaded Paul McCartney to return his archives to Spotify in November 2012, after they had been removed from all streaming services in 2010.Spotify does not have exclusive streaming rights for Pink Floyd. The band's catalogue has been available on rival streaming services such as Rhapsody, Rdio and Deezer for years – albeit only for paying subscribers.The sticking point with Spotify was its refusal to block its free users from streaming the albums too, asPink Floyd's manager Paul Loasby explainedat a music industry conference in February 2012. "When it came to renewing our deal with EMI, we decided we did not want to go with ad-funded, but agreed to go on subscription ones. But when we went to Spotify's office in 2010, we were declined – it was all or nothing."In 2013, it's now all. "They decided, quite wisely I think, that this is the future of music consumption, that it helps them reach deep into a demographic that is not their core demographic, and that it's a place they need to be to secure their legacy," said Parks.Pink Floyd's change of tune reflects a wider debate within the industry about the merits of streaming services like Spotify, and whether they can help reverse the decade-long decline in recorded music sales.Spotify's per-stream payouts for songs played by its users are low. At the accepted industry average of just under 0.4p per stream, 1m Spotify downloads pays out around £3,800 – small beer for a band like Pink Floyd, whose career album sales are counted in the hundreds of millions.The difference with Spotify and its rivals is that they pay out for every play, meaning the royalties mount up.Since December 2012, Metallica's 10 most popular tracks alone have been played more than 24.4m times. The Rolling Stones have several tracks whose Spotify play-counts have passed 10m over a longer period.Spotify says it will pay more than £318m to music rights holders in 2013, but has faced criticism from some artists over the size of its payouts.Pink Floyd's digital music strategy has sparked controversy in the past. In 2010 the bandwon a high court battle against their label EMIover whether their albums could be sold as individual song downloads on Apple's iTunes Store.Three years on, the Pink Floyd catalogue can still be cherry-picked on iTunes, and now albums including The Dark Side of the Moon, Wish You Were Here and The Wall are available on Spotify to be sliced and diced into playlists however fans like.Spotify will now turn its attention to other streaming refuseniks, such as the Beatles, AC/DC and Led Zeppelin."It took the Beatles a long time to come onto iTunes. That was a very mature business by the time they joined," said Parks, referring to that band'slong-awaited digital distribution deal with Applein November 2010."With some of these bands, it does take a long time. But we spend a lot of time talking to bands and their management about how we can be good partners for them. They can take some convincing, but for us the effort to work with a band like Pink Floyd is certainly worth it."
The Google Reader RSS aggregator serviceshuts down on 1 July, leaving many of its users scrambling to choose and migrate to a suitable replacement. One of the candidates, Digg Reader, is now confirmed to launch next week.It's the work of a five-person team within Digg, which is enjoying its second lease of life as part of startup incubator Betaworks, which acquired the social news website in July 2012.Digg announcedplans to build a Google Reader replacementin March 2013, promising to rebuild that service's best features "but also advance them to fit the Internet of 2013". It proceeded to survey more than 18,000 people on their wishlists for the new product.Three months later, version one of the Digg Reader has a launch date – 26 June – and the promise that it will be fast, simple and focused on the keenest users of Google Reader as they look for a new home."We asked ourselves who had most to lose from the shutdown of Google Reader, and the answer was fairly obvious: the power user, the people who depend on the availability, stability, and speed of Reader every day," explainsDigg's blog post announcing the launch date, and these core features:"Easy migration and onboarding from Google Reader. A clean reading experience that gets out of the way and puts the focus squarely on the articles, posts, images, and videos themselves. Useful mobile apps that sync with the web experience. Support for key actions like subscribing, sharing, saving and organizing."It seems the mobile element may be iOS-only at launch, because Digg says an Android app is on its to-do list for the 60 days after its reader goes live. The company is also promising better integration with services like Buffer, Evernote and IFTTT, as well as more tools to sort, filter and rank reading lists and feeds."We mentioned in a prior post that Digg Reader will ultimately be a 'freemium' product. But we're not going to bait-and-switch. All of the features introduced next week, as well as many others yet to come, will be part of the free experience," explains Digg.Digg is far from the only company hoping to scoop up people migrating from Google Reader. Existing service Feedly has already benefitted,adding more than 500k new usersin the 48 hours after Google's announcement in March.The company has since been adding a swathe of features to help people transition from Google Reader to Feedly, and like Digg, it hasturned to its own communityto gauge what features they want to see added to its roadmap.The death of Google Reader was greeted in some quarters as the potential death – or at least a continued slide into irrelevancy – of RSS.In fact, as Digg, Feedly and other services swell their roadmaps, not to mention mobile-first startups like Flipboard, News360, CNN-owned Zite and LinkedIn-owned Pulse – and withFacebook possibly poised to enter the fray– Google's decision may turn out to have reinvigorated RSS and news aggregation.
2013 is a scary time for children's entertainment companies as they watch their audience fragment across channels and devices, with games, apps, websites and online video jostling with books, TV shows and toys for their attention.One of the companies trying to help brands figure out how to reconnect with kids is UK-basedSuperAwesome, which calls itself a "discovery platform" for 6-16 year-olds.It's the result of a merger betweenBox of Awesome, a startup that sends boxes of free toys, books and offers out to 15k children in the UK, and online trading communitySwapit, where 6-18 year-olds swap items and earn rewards. The company also runs display and mobile advertising networks."A few years ago, brands were thinking about retail and about TV," says chief executive Dylan Collins. "Now, kids interact and engage on so many different platforms: mobile, browser, TV, online video... And it's harder for brands to communicate through all that noise. We're trying to solve that problem for them."The newly-merged company claims a network of 8m kids and teenagers, which Collins says makes it the "biggest kids discovery platform in the UK", with the mission of "building a next-generation marketing infrastructure for kids that's safe, compliant and that is effective for brands as well."Talk of brands marketing to children sets many parents' teeth on edge, even if they are happy to let their children watch advertising-funded TV channels, visit websites or read magazines featuring famous brands.Box of Awesome and its companion service Box of OMG, which is aimed more at girls, may sound controversial. Parents sign up to receive a free box every few months, and big brands pay SuperAwesome to include their products.Collins says that the company takes care to ensure everything is appropriate. "We have a panel of parents who approves everything that goes in the boxes. It's completely opt-in, because kids – and their parents if they're under 13 – sign up to request it," he says."We make it very clear that the reason people are getting the box is so they can give feedback to these brands so they can make better products. We're 100% transparent, and we have rejected products when we've felt they're not appropriate."Something that the company does think is appropriate: books. Every box sent out includes a book, and Collins says publishers were among the earliest supporters of the idea, keen for a chance to encourage kids to read as well as play, surf and watch."Kids are usually much smarter than people give them credit for. They want to engage with interesting stuff," he says."The bigger problem in the market is there is so much low-quality content noise out there, it's too easy for them to engage with rubbish content. That's something we're trying to help with, in a safe way. And if we can do that in a way that does something genuinely good like boost literacy, so much the better."Box of Awesome has just launched in its second country, Ireland, with Collins mulling whether to raise a first round of financing to fuel SuperAwesome's ambitions to expand more widely.The company also has ambitions beyond physical discovery in its boxes: it wants to help children and parents find entertaining, educational and/or creative digital content.At a time when many children's app developers are struggling to sell paid apps, while others are courting controversy with in-app purchases of up to £69.99 at a time, SuperAwesome may be onto something."We're doing a lot of mobile stuff at the moment, working on a lot of things behind the scenes which will start to come out over the summer," says Collins."It's such an interesting time: you're seeing the great transition as kids move from laptops and fixed devices to mobile. It's one of the biggest transitions you are going to see probably over the next 20 years, and it's very difficult for a lot of brands."Dylan Collins, CEO of SuperAwesomeAnd parents. There has always been a risk that parents will fall behind their children's knowledge of new technologies. Parents getting their kids to set the video recorder being the traditional example, dating from the 1980s."The gap between the current generation of parents and their children is bigger than it has ever been. At least with the VCR they understood the basics: it records stuff," says Collins."With mobile, everyone is going 'what should we be doing? What should my child be using? Are the games and sites they're going to good or bad?' It's a real challenge out there, and that's why we see the need for a whole new set of discovery platforms."As a company running its own advertising network for children's brands and entertainment, it's no surprise to find Collins banging the drum for ad-supported apps. Given the debate around the acceptability of in-app purchases in children's apps, he may be knocking at an open door within the industry."Advertising is the only safe way to create sustainable content companies in a way that doesn't exploit children. But that's where you need a kids specialist media company that can do appropriate ads, which is what we do," says Collins."It's important for the ecosystem: content companies have to be given an opportunity to create sustainable business models, and for me, advertising is the safest acceptable method. But only if the advertising is safe and appropriate."Collins thinks the current generation of children will be "massively disruptive", although he adds that one short-term brake on this is the fact that many are still using hand-me-down devices from their parents."They're not technical early adopters in that sense, but this generation of kids is going to be immensely disruptive to consumer internet services as they grow older," he says."They're growing up with devices and internet connectivity that we never had, but the notion that they are going to fold into the same old patterns is a mistake. They are going to create their own new patterns, and the old content, information and media companies are completely unprepared for this."Hence Box of Awesome and Box of OMG: in theory a way for brands to understand what children like and want, rather than a way to market the same old products at them. Collins says that the reviews children post on YouTube of the box contents can be blistering critiques as well as excitable praise.These children aren't just consumers, though: they're creators. Including YouTube videos, but also apps and software of their own."Kids coding is an amazing thing. There are 10, 11 and 12 year-old developers out there building their own apps, their own games. They are creating their own content, because the software frameworks they have didn't exist 5-10 years ago," says Collins."If you think about the big content giants in our world of kids entertainment: Moshi Monsters, Roblox, Minecraft... They're fuelled by kids, which is huge for a start. But the next generation of that, I'm pretty convinced, is games and apps created by kids themselves."SuperAwesome is trying to work with more startups run by young adults to get their services and products represented in the company's boxes, as well as on its digital network, to do its bit to help create an "ecosystem of kids creating stuff for themselves", while helping brands to understand it.Should they fear it too? "The really smart brands are scared," grins Collins. "The slightly less-smart brands? Well, they need to be more scared!"
YouTube-focused online video firmFullscreenhas raised a Series A funding round led by former News Corporation president Peter Chernin's investment group.Comcast Ventures and WPP participated in the round. Fullscreen hasn't said how much it raised, but earlier this year All Things Digital suggestedthe round would be $30m, valuing the company at $110m.The company is one of a group of multi-channel networks (MCNs) building their businesses on YouTube, with rivals including Maker Studios, Machinima and ZEFR.Fullscreen runs more than 10,000 channels on Google's video site, with more than 150m total subscribers and 2.5bn monthly views. It works with new talent on YouTube as well as established TV industry companies such as NBCUniversal and Ryan Seacrest Productions."We've built scalable technology and an incredible roster of talent and brand partners since we were founded just over two years ago," said chief executive George Strompolos in a statement."This influx of capital will help us accelerate our goal of building a global media company, funding new content initiatives, continuing to invest into new technologies and furthering our rapid expansion into international markets."Investing in "owned-and-operated" content is a key plank in that strategy: Fullscreen has YouTube stars and big media partners, but it wants to also own more of its own programming, with YouTube eager to present itself as a viable alternative to traditional broadcasters for breaking new shows and formats – not to mention advertising."There has been explosive growth in online video, particularly on YouTube, and a growing demand from our clients to reach consumers on its platform as it revolutionises youth media consumption," said Mark Read, chief executive of WPP Digital."Our partnership with Fullscreen will give our agencies and clients new expertise, insights, technology and access to help connect with consumers on the world's largest video platform."Fullscreen's funding comes shortly afterYouTube launched a new feature enabling channel owners to charge subscriptions, which could provide a valuable new revenue stream for MCNs.It may be necessary. Earlier this year, areport on All Things Digitalsuggested that MCNs were finding YouTube advertising to be considerably less lucrative than they had hoped.More recently, US entrepreneur Jason Calacanis made waves withstrong criticism of YouTube's Original Channels initiative, which funds creators making original content for its platform.He attacked the average 45% cut of advertising revenues that YouTube keeps, and suggested that many of the MCNs do not have sustainable businesses."Sure, it can *feel* like you're making money, but when you look across the landscape of YouTube businesses – and I won't call anyone out here – it's very, very clear they are losing millions and millions of dollars a year," he wrote.With its new funding round, Fullscreen at least has a little more runway to figure out how to make its YouTube business take flight.
You can tell a great deal about an American city from its homeless people. They express the extremities of the metropolis's temperament; show you where its inhabitants end up if you push the misfortune slider all the way up. San Francisco's endless throng dresses light and mutters and swats with graceful madness. New York's homeless are a hardier sort, having to deal with snow one month and fire the next. They're wrapped in newspaper, string-bound at the knees and elbows, and keep cardboard nests to retreat into when the time comes.Los Angeles' one-legged beach bums, by contrast, crouch in a heroin glaze. They never walk far – but then why would they with a city spread so thin you need a car to get anywhere. "In Los Angeles all the loose objects were collected, as if America had been tilted and everything that wasn't tightly screwed down slid into California," wrote Saul Bellow. So it is with homeless people and, during E3, the world's largest electronic entertainment exhibition, held annually in the city, so it is with the video games. During this week of hysterical lights, yawning screens and constant sub-bass rumble, the world is tilted and all of its video games slide into the Los Angeles' twin convention centres. And during this week you can tell a lot about this city, its parishes of shooters, racers and platformers, its temperament and ambition.That ambition, as with all creative endeavours that are tied in some way to technology, is largely one of technical ascent, each new product attempting to surpass the previous one. As such this was, as with many E3's of recent times, the year of the sequel: Skylanders 3, Battlefield 4, Assassin's Creed 4, Gran Turismo 6, Mario Kart 8, Call of Duty 10, Fifa 14, Final Fantasy XV and so on. Some of these titles aim to distract from the iterative nature by dropping the number and adding a subtitle but any invention at E3 2013 was, by and large, limited to new features and tweaks rather than entirely new types of play.E3 2013 was, if the word on the street was to be believed, the one to be at. It's here that Sony and Microsoft fully revealed their forthcoming consoles, the hardware on which the so-called "next generation" of video games will be played. And, for the first time in years, there appear to be some notable differences between the two systems, both of which are due for launch this winter. Microsoft's Xbox One had a tough week, core consumers angered by the confirmation that they will need to connect the system to the internet once every 24 hours else be unable to play video games, and that they will be unable to lend or sell their games on when they're finished with them in the same way as they have in the past.Sony capitalised on this ill-felling during its conference, company president and CEO Jack Tretton grinning through what will surely be the summit of his career as he talked through a bullet point list of the ways in which the company's forthcoming PlayStation 4 will allow consumers to buy, sell and loan games without penalty, just as they've always been able to. The whooping and clapping that greeted Tretton's announcement lasted for a full 60 seconds. The sense was that Microsoft is eroding consumer rights with such force and efficiency that mere inaction from its rival is cause enough for celebration. It may be the illusion of progress but, in the tribal world of video game hardware, it was enough. One man behind me screamed till his voice went hoarse: "We've won! We've won!"Who are these people anyway, they who whoop and applaud every last trailer and cameo, these anti-critics, this "enthusiast press"? It's an ever-present question on the E3 show floor the next day, packed with thousands who queue for hours to play the forthcoming sequels, who pose with the booth girls (so heavy with make-up and affected smiles), who jostle to catch the hurled promotional T-shirts and tuck the shiny promotional posters in last year's promotional rucksacks. They roam with their belming guts and Super Mario T-shirts, blurring the lines of professionalism and distance. Who belongs at E3? Who is it all for? Where is its spiritual heart? For that matter, where is this city's moral centre?In the taxi following the Sony conference, one senior journalist from the Sunday Times, a non-game player sent to E3 by the newspaper to offer an outsider's perspective, remarks that it was like watching the same Hollywood trailer 10 times in a row. "They all look the same," he says, "these expensive video games. They all have the same two themes: army or orcs." Viewed through an outsider's eyes, it's difficult to refute. The vast majority of games at the show centre around shooting, and even more revolve around combat. The weirdness of PlayStation indie game Octodad: Deadliest Catch, which features a besuited octopus pretending to be a businessman, offered the only aroma of the unexpected during the Sony and Microsoft showings.Octodad: Deadliest Catch: one of the few offbeat titlesFor the Times journalist there appears to be a thinness to contemporary video games that undermines their astonishing technical achievements. Indeed, where are our fresh expressions? Where is our thematic diversity? So much effort and invention in contemporary mainstream development is focused on such a tiny proportion of a game's makeup: the terrain, the physics, the fidelity and the realism. In one gun game presentation the spokesperson drew our attention to the fact that the gun's scope was dented, as if this inclusion of an imperfection from our reality added meaning to the game. In another, for a popular soccer franchise, the spokesperson boasted that the players can now turn their necks to head the ball at greater than 90 degrees – something that's "never before been possible". But this is the illusion of progress or, at very least, progress on a solitary front.There are, arguably, computational reasons for this. Computers are proficient at calculating vectors in a 3D space and, as a result, attaching a bullet to a pixel and turning it into a game is relatively straightforward. When the rest of making video games is so challenging it's no wonder developers try to make things easier on themselves by focusing on projectile guns, arrows or footballs. Then there's a question of diversity. When the vast majority of game makers are white, middle class, male computer science nerds who grew up reading Tolkien, small wonder this ends up becoming the medium's go-to theme. There are too few voices in game development and, as a result, all of the effort and progress goes into making the old games look and sound better – Gran Turismo 6, Call of Duty 10, Fifa 14 and so on.E3 itself offers a damning indictment on diversity in the industry. While women are now welcome (the show was forced to clean up its female-objectifying act a few years ago by the Californian state), there are still the odd indiscretions (last year one journalist was reportedly removed from an EA demo room for masturbating, while this year women attendants on the Ubisoft stand wore wristbands that read "booth babe"). And in general the show's aromatic audience looks and sounds alike, offering a sober reminder of the wider video game demographic.I put the diversity question to Mark Rubin, producer of the largest of all video game blockbusters, Call of Duty. "I would love more diversity," he said. "You know, I saw this stat somewhere that showed that while Call of Duty is the biggest video game franchise, the others are Grand Theft Auto and Assassin's Creed. So I think there is diversity there. I'm actually excited about the next gen consoles because I think industry-wide it will help small, indie-ish developers who couldn't develop well on Xbox and PS3 to do more."Shinji Mikami, creator of Resident Evil 4, one of the most influential shooting games of the last decade, agreed. "I am disappointed that genres are so limited right now," he said. "I want to see a wider variety of games. One of the things I'm looking forward to is indie games offering new ideas." For both Rubin and Mikami, independent games are where the hope for new diversity lies. Certainly indie titles were visible at E3, Sony showing its support for small developers both during its press conference and on the show floor, where dozens of smaller titles were playable. But aren't blockbuster studios absolving themselves with this attitude, passing responsibility to the indie space where the commercial risks are smaller, but also perhaps where the talent is unrefined?"Big budget games have to sell a lot," says Mikami. "That can prevent new ideas. Or sometimes a creator's ego can block the new, as they don't want to fail. So small games are often the answer; they're someone's personal creation. Maybe one of those ideas will become a big genre?"The palette of game types is limited by many factors: spiralling budgets, risk-averse publishers, the simple fact that shooting and driving games lend themselves well to computational recreation. Is this it? Is the medium destined to evolve on a small number of fronts? Before the show Adam Saltsman, creator of Canabalt, the Flash game that heralded the arrival of the most recent game genre, the endless runner, told me: "This is optimistic and naïve, but I think most of the meaningful genres are yet to be discovered. I think we have maybe five years to discover them before people are going to get really bored with what we are making right now."The E3 2013 showfloor shows no signs of boredom. The high contrast, high fructose environment heaves and bustles with movement and excitement. Journalists hammer updates into their laptops, hoping to be the first to write up the bullet list of features that define a new title, while developer and publisher employees flip their name badges and queue for a play on the competition's latest. There's industry and activity. But is there progress?The most frightening and legitimate criticism that one can make against the video game medium is not to do with the disproportionate number of games that focus on shooting, or their moral ambiguity. It is, rather, that video games lead humans away from true progress through the illusion of accomplishment. It's telling that Microsoft's meta-reward points scheme is dubbed "achievements" as if our virtual activity had some meaning beyond mere entertainment or distraction. Unlike the novel or cinema, video games are fundamentally task-based and, in completing their missions, we feel an honest sense of accomplishment. But it's the illusion of progress for players. In Los Angeles last week, it seemed as though the entire industry may also have been tricked.
It's hard not to feel a twinge of sympathy for Dean Johnson. Like other applicants to Google's #ifihadglass scheme providing early access to its Glass eyewear, he was eager to test out the new gadget, and delighted when he was selected to take part.He even flew to New York from his home country, the UK, to collect his Glass when prompted by Google, and complete the two-hour training session before returning home to get to grips with the device, and figure out what kind of apps his company Brandwidth could make for it.At least, that was his plan before this exchange at Google's office,published on his personal blog:"Oh, but you're English""Yep""I'm sorry but we can't let you leave as this is only open to US residents""But that doesn't make any sense for a beta programme looking to obtain as much feedback as possible from a varied global audience""I'm sorry but we can't let you leave as this is only open to US residents""Can I not try to run out with them? I've paid for them and still own them?""I'm sorry but we can't let you leave as this is only open to US residents."The crestfallen Johnson returned home, and his Glass remained in New York. In fairness, he should have seen it coming. Apost on the Google+ page for Glassin February made the US-only nature of its early-access programmes clear:"To all of our fans living outside the US: thanks for talking to us, and we hear you. We know some of you are frustrated that you can't apply for the Glass Explorer Program, and we're sorry. We have some logistical and regulatory limitations right now, but we hope to make Glass more widely available in the future."By registering using Brandwidth's New York's office as his address and paying with a US colleague's credit card, Johnson clearly knew his nationality may count against him, and his blog post is philosophical rather than angry.Even so, he makes a good point with his point on obtaining "as much feedback as possible from a varied global audience" for Glass. It's something I've been thinking about for a few months now, and whichI asked early adopter Robert Scoble aboutduring his Glass panel at the recent LeWeb conference.My question then was whether Google should worry that so many of the earliest adopters of Glass were from a relatively narrow demographic: affluent, tech-savvy Americans, if not just thewhite men of Tumblr fame.Scoble didn't seem to think it was a problem, pointing out that he'd been showing his Glass to hundreds of people ("bus drivers, school teachers...") which he thought counted as valuable feedback for Google.It wasn't a hugely convincing argument. In fairness, one of his co-speakers on that panel, Ben Metcalfe, made a different point, noting that Glass isn't expected to go on sale properly for at least 18 months."We're definitely going to see more and more people from a wider background trying this out and providing feedback before it becomes available commercially," he said.You can say that again. Glass is oftendescribed as a "moonshot" for Google– a big, revolutionary idea that will change the world. Yet as things stand, it's only well-to-do citizens in one country of the world who are shaping its development in its critical early stages.Forget about dented British national pride. What might Glass mean in India, Africa and Latin America? What apps might Russian or Chinese developers come up with for it? How, for that matter, might Glass be used by Americans without $1,500 to spare and a working knowledge of hashtags?Google's affinity for "dogfooding" – testing new devices and services among its own employees before rolling them out more widely – is well known. The early-adopters programmes for Glass feel like a slight extension of that: people like us rather than just staff.The concern is whether Glass – not just its technology, but its nature, and the philosophy guiding its evolution – will be fixed before the rest of us get our hands on it.As a global company with an executive chairman who travels the world figuring out new ways to bring the internet to more people, Google surely understands all this. Hopefully, the company will move as quickly as possible to make this particular moonshot something the whole world can shape and contribute to.
Messaging appWhatsAppis the latest social networking service to face the wrath of the Saudi Arabian government, and could be blocked in the country within weeks.Negotiations between WhatsApp and Saudi Arabia's Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC) have broken down, according to the body's governor Abdullah Al-Darrab."We have been communicating with WhatsApp and other similar communication platforms to get them to co-operate and comply with the Saudi telecom providers, however nothing has come of this communication yet," he toldArab News."We will take punitive action against these applications and services if they do not comply with the regulations," added Al-Darrab, suggesting that a WhatsApp block is "highly likely before Ramadan" – which starts on 9 July.The telecoms regulator is cracking down on social apps, havingbarred Voice-over-IP and messaging app Viber from being used in Saudi Arabiaearlier in June.The CITC is alsotraining its sights on Skype and Tangofor failing to "comply with existing regulations" in the country.These VoIP and messaging apps are popular globally: WhatsApp has an estimated 250m users worldwide, Viber has 200m, Tango 120m and Skype more than 280m when itlast announced figures in October 2012.In the west, debate about the disruptive potential of these apps focuses on their effect on the businesses of traditional mobile operators, as customers make fewer voice calls and send less text messages.In April 2013, analyst Informa Telecoms &amp; Media claimed that daily messaging traffic from such apps hasalready overtaken SMS, and will double it by the end of 2013: 41bn and 19.5bn daily messages respectively.In Saudi Arabia, the CITC's concern is more about the challenges of monitoring the traffic on this new wave of apps. In 2010, the body threatened to block BlackBerry Messenger for similar reasons, beforereprieving the service after Research In Motion reached a compromise deal.
It has been a dozen years since the first Animal Crossing, and there's still nothing quite like it. These are perhaps Nintendo's warmest and most human games; part town-builder, part life simulator, each an evolving paradise for its players. New Leaf casts you as the mayor of a town populated by anthropomorphic animals, which over time grows and adapts to your decisions and style. But not in-game time; New Leaf works in real time.This is not a game you sit down with for a few hours on the weekend; it's something you check in on, even for 10 minutes, every day. If you get a house extension, for example, it will be ready tomorrow – literally. This principle certainly has its quirks, and closed shops can be frustrating, but is essential to how New Leaf's ecosystem works; the bugs, fish, and many other surprises tie into the day and time.Very few games pace themselves like this, but Animal Crossing goes even further – its unit of composition is weeks rather than days, as your town slowly grows from bare grass and a few scattered houses into a bustling and character-packed world. The seasons are tracked, as are public holidays, and special events commemorate big days with a party. Many features don't come to the fore until you've been playing for a while, such as the Island – a remote vacation spot with rare tropical species and challenges. Even later you can join Club Tortimer and begin visiting the Island alongside players worldwide, waving and showing off costumes across the language barrier.This is a special kind of online game, a communal happiness devoid of cynicism, and one only possible within Animal Crossing's disarming style. The game is so named because of its residents; in my town I've a few vain sheep, a weightlifting sparrow, a self-doubting crocodile, a trendy fox, and that's not even the half of it. This surreal proposition is realised with character design that resembles papercraft, set against a rolling horizon of 3D popups. It makes the world feel like a small globe, and the springy weight of New Leaf's landmarks against this is just gorgeous.You can donate bugs, fish and fossils to the museum for display, and build up an outstanding collection – as well as hear great truths spokenThere's plenty to do: bug-hunting, fishing, fossil-hunting, fruit-collecting, swimming, popping balloons with a slingshot. All of Animal Crossing's interactions are one-button affairs, with depth in particular items like the bug net or fishing rod – which are still easy to use, but depend on subtle wielding for the rare specimens. Selling stuff you've collected, from bugs to bananas, is generally the aim, because if one thing matters in New Leaf it's money. Bells are the currency of Animal Crossing, and bells you must have in abundance to get things done.Bells can be spent on clothes, items, or furnishings, donated to a city project (like a new bridge), saved in the bank, or used to pay off your home loan. If this sounds depressingly like real life, well it is. But at least Tom Nook, the Tanooki estate agent who will rinse you of bells time and again, remains a fantasy figure – the honest capitalist.And though money is a big part of New Leaf, the overall game doesn't have the traditional structure this suggests. There are set milestones as your town grows, like expanding your house or new businesses, but the game doesn't ever really 'end' with a full stop. It depends on what you want to do. Perhaps it's over when your town's laid out perfectly, or when your home's full of Nintendo icons, or when the museum collection is complete. It's a question of personal satisfaction;the important thing is, it never feels unfinished along the way.Games are all about systems and, in the case of Animal Crossing, part of its genius is in how well this is hidden. The surface is surreal but, as you have more conversations, exchange letters and get to know these characters, they push such odd buttons. One will produce a letter you sent them weeks ago, saying they look at it when they're down. One might visit the town of a friend, and return with a cheeky report. Another will put up a painting you gave them, and talk about it all the time. With such little tricks the inhabitants of New Leaf gain rounded edges, become convincing personalities, almost seem real. It is the product of not just great writing, but meticulous attention to detail.At times it leaves you open-mouthed. To go to the island you hire a Kappa – a mythical Japanese beast – called Kapp'n to sail you over, and every time he sings a different sea shanty. A real-life friend visited my town and we went to the island together. On the way over Kapp'n sang about how it was great to spend time with your buddies, however you could. The singsong rhyming is like a children's poem, and tugs at that part of you while the sentiment speaks to the adult, one of the most bewitching and beautiful virtual creations I've seen.There is nothing like Animal Crossing. A vivid ecosystem built around exploration and surprise, its characters convince some credulous part of you that they are more than algorithms. Its creatures and their habits become second knowledge. The town grows to accommodate the way you play. There's soon a routine, online buddies, special visits to catch something unusual, and a slight unease about the next mortgage payment. New Leaf is a world on a cartridge slightly bigger than a stamp, one full of beautiful, wise and hopelessly optimistic observation of humans as social animals. It is a magical creation.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished on Friday.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Classic Winnie-the-Pooh (Free)A.A. Milne's original Winnie-the-Pooh stories have been faithfully digitised for this new iOS app from Egmont, complete with their familiar illustrations. The app eschews interactive bells and whistles in favour of voice narration, light animation and those famous stories. One is included for free, with others buyable via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadPet Rescue Saga (Free)People are playing Candy Crush Saga in their tens of millions, but will this follow-up be as popular? Synchronising with the existing Facebook version of the game, this offers 72 levels of block-puzzling action – with cutesy animals, social leaderboards and plenty of in-app purchases thrown in.iPhone / iPadBBC Weather (Free)The official BBC Weather app provides forecasts for the UK, automatically for your current location or via search for other places. Besides temperature and sun/rain details, it provides pressure, visibility, humidity, UV and pollen dataiPhoneOffice Mobile for Office 365 (Free)Lots of buzz around Microsoft's first official Office app for iOS, although for now it's iPhone and US-only – although a global release isn't far off. The app is also restricted to Office 365 subscribers, so an annual subscription is required to use the app to view and edit Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents in the cloud.iPhoneGangstar Vegas (£4.99)Gameloft's Gangstar games are unashamedly influenced by the Grand Theft Auto series, although GTA's appearance on iOS provides keen competition nowadays. This latest game is set in Las Vegas, with 80 missions, and lots of weapons and cars to use. It has all the murderous hallmarks of GTA, but the jury's out on whether it has that franchise's sharp humour too.iPhone / iPadPause (Free)Pause feels refreshing: an iPhone app that wants you to switch off your iPhone apps and go out and do something less boring instead (apologies if I've just given your internal jukebox an 80s children's TV theme-song moment). Pause aims to get people switching on Airplane mode on their device while they re-engage with the real world, throwing in social league tables to see which of your friends is best (and worst) at it.iPhoneLaunch Ticker (Free)Tech entrepreneur and investor Jason Calacanis has signed up plenty of subscribers for his Launch Ticker service, which aggregates facts about big technology news stories each day. This is its official app, which wraps all those stories up with additional sharing features.iPhoneDiamond Street (Free)A really inventive location-based tour-guide app, based on London's Hatton Garden jewellery quarter. The idea: you walk around the district using the in-app map, with audio stories, sounds and images triggered by your current location. More than one hour of audio is included, as well as four short films viewable when in range of a Wi-Fi network.iPhoneCaspar Babypants Music Time! (£1.49)Remember The Presidents of the United States of America? The band behind songs like "Lump" and "Peaches" (sorry, another internal jukebox moment). Co-founder Chris Ballew makes rather-marvellous music for children nowadays, and this is an official app for it. Children can play along with songs on virtual instruments, with parents able to buy more from the iTunes Store.iPhone / iPadWay of the Dogg (£1.99)The double-g gives you a clue about the star of this mobile game: it's Snoop Dogg's latest spin-off. Described as a "rhythm-action combat adventure", it blends beatings and beats as you battle through 14 levels to the strains of Snoop's hits. And if you doubt his chances on the App Store, ponder this: his last app, Snoopify, is currentlymaking him $30k a weekfrom virtual sticker sales alone.iPhone / iPadDictonic (Free)Dictonic is a simple but potentially-useful voice-recording app: "Snap a picture, record audio, pick one of amazing voice changing effects and post it to Facebook and Twitter". And while its App Store listing makes much of its pranking potential, its ability to save recordings to Google Drive or Dropbox could make it as much a productivity tool.iPhoneA Cautionary Tail for iPad (£2.99)Australian animated film A Cautionary Tail has been charming film festivals around the world. Now it's been turned into a storybook-app, with voice narration from actor David Wenham, added interactivity, and some very lush graphics that wouldn't look out of place on the cinema screen. Unsurprising, really, given that's exactly where they come from.iPadRhapsody Concerts (Free)Another US-only app, this is a spin-off from digital music subscription service Rhapsody. It's a rival for apps like Songkick and Bandsintown, alerting you to upcoming concerts in your area, and enabling you to buy tickets from the iPhone. There are streaming playlists built in, and a 14-day trial for non-Rhapsody subscribers.iPhoneDespicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)This is Gameloft's official game for the Despicable Me movies, putting you in the shoes of a scampering minion for this Temple Rush-style endless runner. You'll be leaping, sliding and dodging obstacles and enemies, while earning (or buying) power-ups and costumes to boost your chances.iPhone / iPadAnki Drive (Free)One of the surprises atApple's WWDC 2013 keynotewas the appearance on-stage of robotics startup Anki to show its self-driving toy cars zooming round a mini-track. The cars and track won't go on sale until the Autumn, but in the meantime this app explains what Anki is up to and how the technology works. Come Autumn, the app will become the controller for the cars. It's US-only for now though, a slap in the face for the UK. We're the nation that brought Scalextric to the world, dammit!iPhoneAvengers Alliance (Free)Avengers Alliance started off as an official Facebook game from Marvel. Now it's crossed to iOS, although it's a standalone game rather than synchronising with its parent. It stars 28 Marvel heroes doing battle across more than 60 missions, with player-versus-player features coming soon, once people have practised their skills.iPhone / iPadMan of Steel (£1.99)Another big movie gets an official game: new Superman flick Man of Steel in this case. Warner Bros' game is an all-action beat 'em up that sees Superman grappling, punching and kicking his foes on the ground and in mid-air, with very impressive graphics and a cast of bosses to scatter.iPhone / iPadPinball Rocks HD (Free)Pinball Rocks HD's publisher is a major record label, Sony Music, rather than a games firm. It's a showcase for RAWK artists including Slayer, AC/DC, Alice in Chains and Bullet for My Valentine, as well as emerging acts, with the big guns getting their own branded pinball tables for you to thunk balls (big balls, in AC/DC's case, etc etc) around. The branded tables cost £1.99 apiece.iPhone / iPadAction Bowling 2 (Free)More than 40m people downloaded the first Action Bowling game on iOS, apparently. Its sequel should raise plenty of interest then: it's a ten-pin bowling game that promises better physics than its predecessor, as well as online multiplayer via Apple's Game Center.iPhone / iPadCoolson's Artisanal Chocolate Alphabet (£1.49)Finally, something tasty for a Monday morning: a "game of words, whimsy, and self-fulfilment" based on working in a chocolate factory. Adventure mode sees you stacking boxes with your linguistic skills, but there are local and online battle modes if you fancy testing your wits against other players too.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Apple has joined rivals including Facebook, Google and Twitter in calling on the US government to allow it to publish more details of the secret court orders its receives to disclose customers' information.The company gave more details of its dealings with US authorities Monday as it sought to reassure customers in the wake of the scandal surrounding the National Security Agency's Prism surveillance program.In a blogpost, Apple said it received between 4,000 and 5,000 requests from federal, state and local authorities for customer data between 1 December 2012 and 31 May 2013. The requests affected between 9,000 and 10,000 accounts or devices.  Apple stressed that each request was evaluated on its merits and was not automatically granted.The company is barred from revealing how many of the requests have been made under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (Fisa), the legal basis for the Prism surveillance program. The company said the figures dealt specifically with "requests we receive related to national security"."Like several other companies, we have asked the US government for permission to report how many requests we receive related to national security and how we handle them. We have been authorized to share some of that data, and we are providing it here in the interest of transparency," said Apple.Last weekGoogle, Microsoft, Facebook and Twitterall called on the government to allow them to publish more details about the nature and number of requests for information they receive.Google publishes a transparency report documenting numbers of government requests for information. However, like its rivals, Google is barred from detailing the number of Fisa requests its receives.In a letter to US attorney general Eric Holder last week, David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, wrote: "Assertions in the press that our compliance with these requests gives the US government unfettered access to our users' data are simply untrue. However, government nondisclosure obligations regarding the number of Fisa national security requests that Google receives, as well as the number of accounts covered by those requests, fuel that speculation."Apple said the most common form of request comes from "police investigating robberies and other crimes, searching for missing children, trying to locate a patient with Alzheimer's disease, or hoping to prevent a suicide".The company pointedly moved to distance itself from Google and Facebook, which collect masses of information on customers in order to fuel their advertising-driven businesses."Apple has always placed a priority on protecting our customers' personal data, and we don't collect or maintain a mountain of personal details about our customers in the first place," said the company.The company said conversations which take place over iMessage and FaceTime "are protected by end-to-end encryption, so no one but the sender and receiver can see or read them. Apple cannot decrypt that data. Similarly, we do not store data related to customers' location, map searches or Siri requests in any identifiable form."It added: "We will continue to work hard to strike the right balance between fulfilling our legal responsibilities and protecting our customers' privacy as they expect and deserve."On Friday,Facebook became the first company to release similar aggregate numbers of surveillance requests, claiming it received between 9,000 and 10,000 US requests for user data in the second half of 2012, covering 18,000 to 19,000 of its users' accounts.Microsoft followed suit with its own disclosure of requestsfor the second half of 2012, during which it received between 6,000 and 7,000 criminal and national security requests affecting between 31,000 and 32,000 consumer accounts.Apple's announcement reiterated the company's previous claim that it had never heard of the National Security Agency's Prism programme before being asked about it by journalists on 6 June."We do not provide any government agency with direct access to our servers, and any government agency requesting customer content must get a court order," the statement said.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 15 June 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)The Last of Us(18+)PS3 (100)12 (–)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (101)13 (1)Grid 2(7+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)PC (2)34 (7)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (46)PC (2)155 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (25)VITA (10)Wii (9)386 (11)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)Wii U (4)97 (5)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (51)PC (6)298 (4)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)PC (19)29 (8)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1210 (10)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)3311 (6)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)PC (1)812 (–)Rugby Challenge 2: Lions Tour Edition (3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)113 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (19)Wii (16)3DS (13)4914 (15)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)PC (3)Wii U (2)3015 (9)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)3DS (99)Wii (1)816 (14)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (33)PC (10)1217 (–)The Walking Dead(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (46)PC (3)418 (20)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)5219 (18)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (24)Wii (20)DS (10)2020 (3)Remember Me(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (45)PC (2)2UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It's the Monday after EToo. It's taken me three days to recover! How are you lot?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamParaShoot - Smart HD Videography Everyone Can Wear &gt;&gt; KickstarterSeeking $260k on Kickstarter:Patent pending ParaShoot is a smart HD camera supercomputer packaged into a small size that is wearable, customizable and easy to use.  Put it on and continue with your day, and it does the rest capturing HD video with audio for you.  Or detach it from the wearable neck strap to use it separately and more actively.  It works with all smartphone platforms.  You can also customize its look with changeable front plates to match your clothes and wear it like a fashionable pendant.A similar device called Memoto is causing quite a stir, but that's photos only. ParaShoot wants to go one better with video, but how useful (or interesting) is five minutes of footage every half an hour? The social cost could be interesting too: how will people respond to you once they twig you're wearing an HD video camera? ParaShoot may be more discreet than Google's Glass eyewear, but that in itself may seem more worrying to some people.Facebook Will Launch A News Reader At June 20th Press Event &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJosh Constine:The upcoming death of Google Reader  and the addition of hashtags signal Facebook will likely launch a new way to discover and read news at the June 20th press event it's just sent out mysterious invites to. It could be a sort of "trending articles on Facebook" feature, or a more full-blown RSS reader-style product. Either could take advantage of Facebook's massive treasure trove of aggregate data on what people share to surface popular and personally recommended news articles.It's certainly good news for BuzzFeed, which has been honing its science of sharing. Possibly bad news for the clutch of social news-aggregation apps - especially if Facebook's is mobile from launch (or even mobile-only).Top 50 Most Viewed YouTube Channels This Week &gt;&gt; TubefilterJoshua Cohen:It's only our third week into publishing the Tubefilter Charts, and already we've had seen three different channels at the top of our lists. First there was the South Korean international pop star Psy. Then came the Turkish online video powerhouse that is MÜ-YAP. And now the 23-year-old gamer with a penchant for engaging commentary and brofists, Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg from Sweden (better known by his YouTube handle PewDiePie) reigns supreme in the world of weekly YouTube views.How many views? Just over 54.4m for the week, from a YouTube channel with nearly 240k subscribers. Perhaps Psy should incorporate a brofist dance move into his next video.What's an Apple user worth? &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dediu:This can be read as: "Each of the current 575 million accounts generates about half the revenue of the 100 million accounts of 2009." One would expect such a decline as an user base expands and this approximate 50% decline in revenues per account seems reasonable for a six-fold base increase. In absolute terms the graph shows that an iTunes account generates about $3.2/month in transactions. Put another way, during the last year, an average of $40/yr of economic value is generated by every iTunes account.Can't monetise more, my ass! As Phil Schiller might put it.File-Sharers Are Well Educated and Earn More Money &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakErnesto:New research commissioned by the Australasian Performing Right Association reveals that Australian file-sharers are more affluent and better educated than their non-downloading counterparts. One in three Aussie Internet pirates earn more than $100,000 and one in four enjoyed a university education. The results further confirm that pirates tend to be relatively young, with 44% of file-sharers under 30 years of age.Those pesky students! Although just as interesting is the reminder that TV shows are the most-pirated content in Australia, given previous reports that the country leads the world in torrented Game of Thrones downloads.You gotta know when to fold 'em &gt;&gt; SongbirdThe original "open" music player Songbird has sung its last:Since 2007, POTI Inc (aka Songbird) has been delivering innovative media playback experiences to millions of consumers across Desktop computers, browsers and mobile devices. It's been a great pleasure to serve our fans, developers who have built add-ons upon our open source Desktop platform, and our partners.We've also enjoyed seeing over a million people every month enjoy our social music experience, Songbird.me, where they were able to connect with artists they're most interested in and discover new artists in a more personalized way.Unfortunately, the company has found ourselves unable to fund further business operations and as of June 28, 2013 all of Songbird's operations and associated services will be discontinued.There were high hopes for Songbird back in 2006, when it was described as an "open source iTunes killer" - a music-focused web browser trying to open up the walled gardens of the digital music world. In 2013, the most likely successor isTomahawk, which is trying to bridge the similarly-siloed world of streaming music services.Facebook Made Me Do It &gt;&gt; New York TimesJenna Wortham:That feedback loop of positive reinforcement is the most addictive element of social media. All those retweets, likes and favorites give us a little jolt, a little boost that pushes us to keep coming back for more. It works whether or not we post the typical social media fodder of lush vacation pictures and engagement announcements or venture into realms that showcase our most daredevilish antics and risqué behavior.It is one way to understand why people upload things that make us gasp, from my friend's playful bare-all portrait to more sinister, illegal activities, like the defacing of parks and monuments with graffiti and other acts of outright vandalism.Our growing collective compulsion to document our lives and share them online, combined with the instant gratification that comes from seeing something you are doing or experiencing get near-immediate approval from your online peers, could be giving us more reason to act out online, for better or for worse.We are, in other words, one another's virtual enablers.An intriguing counterpoint to the notion that all those privacy stories will make us more cautious in what we post online. Wortham wonders whether the opposite is the case, bringing "the realization that one raunchy photo is just a single data point among hundreds".Minecraft creator Markus 'Notch' Persson on email etiquette &gt;&gt; EngadgetFrom a Q&amp;A interview:When are you least likely to reply to an email? Any email that contains the words "important" or "urgent" never are, and annoy me to the point of not replying out of principle.He's talking sense. Perhaps Gmail should add a new tab to its redesigned inbox for this...New ebook DRM will change the text of a story to prevent piracy &gt;&gt; PaidContentJanko Roettgers:Well, this is one way to do it: Germany's Fraunhofer Institute is working on a new ebook DRM dubbed SiDiM that would prevent piracy by changing the actual text of a story, swapping out words to make individualized copies that could be tracked by the original owner of the ebook.Examples apparently include changing wordings like "unhealthy" to "not healthy", or adding hyphens to words. Book publishers are reportedly interested, but one wonders what authors will make of the idea.Samsung reportedly reducing parts and components orders for Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; DigitimesSamsung Electronics reportedly has revised downward its purchases of parts and components for its latest flagship model, the Galaxy S4, for the second and third quarters of 2013 due to a slowdown in demand in the end market, according to industry sources.The parts and components orders will be enough for production of 20-25m units of Galaxy S4 in the second quarter and 20m units in the third quarter, the sources indicated.But this does not mean that Samsung is losing its competitiveness in the smartphone segment, but rather indicates an underlying structural change in the industry, where demand for entry-level to midrange smartphones is rising sharply in China and other emerging markets, and the market for high-end models is becoming saturated, said the sources.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
As cars become ever more homogenous, cyclists have taken it upon themselves to fill our streets with colour. Stop at any junction and you'll see a two-wheeled cavalcade, from moustached tweedy types on butcher bikes and Lycra loons on carbon racers to dreadlocked urban warriors on skip-find frames covered in stickers. Here are seven very different bikes for the budding hipster. They're all high-quality with an emphasis on design, because that's the way we roll…Avenue Madison, £995. Photograph: ObserverAVENUE MADISON, £995Fans of Nordic Noir might think all things Scandi are gloomy and murderous, but there's nothing morbid about Denmark's life-affirming Avenue bikes. Designed by Flemming Rasmussen and built by the world's oldest family-owned bike company, the Avenue is the Bang &amp; Olufsen of the bicycle world (avenuebicycles.co.uk)State Bicycle Co Samurai 2.0, £399. Photograph: ObserverSTATE SAMURAI, £339Eye-catching, urban and idiosyncratic, these smooth-riding fixies and single speeds come in six colour-clashing shades with a choice of three handlebar styles (bullhorns, risers or drops). They're almost unique as each model is "retired" after three months – and when they're gone, they're gone (statebicycle.co.uk)Fairdale Coaster, £398. Photograph: ObserverFAIRDALE, £398The Swansea-based Urban Cyclery is a&nbsp;rider-owned-and-run bike shop. It stocks enough "indie" bicycle brands to have you stroking your "ironic" facial hair. One bestseller is the old-school Fairdale Coaster: sturdy, durable and comfortable with confidence-inspiring fat tyres to eat those potholes (urbancyclery.co.uk)Gazelle Toer Basic. £475, Photograph: ObserverGAZELLE TOER, £475No one knows urban bikes like the Dutch. This one is a classic: upright and graceful in a suitably off-key colour. The Gazelle is a wonderfully reliable town companion. Complete with mudguards, gears, lights, locks, and enclosed chain, the Gazelle is sensible and yet somehow sexy at the same time (there-cyclingshop.co.uk)Tokyo CS Mustard, £580. Photograph: ObserverTOKYO CS, £580The Tokyo does for city bikes what mountain bikes did for off-roaders: it puts function over form. The bikes are light, agile, comfortable and uncluttered, with an emphasis on comfort rather than speed. Sit on the moulded saddle and a Zen-like calm washes over you – perfect for frantic urban living (tokyobike.co.uk)Roberts Audax Standard, £1,295. Photograph: ObserverROBERTS, £1,295Take your design as seriously as your cycling and you'll be thinking "bespoke". Britain's blessed with dozens of outfits who will handbuild you the bike of your dreams. A&nbsp;good place to start is Roberts of Croydon where Chas Roberts, the proprietor, will create you a timeless beauty. Expensive, but it'll last a lifetime (robertscycles.com)Secondhand special, as cheap as you like. Photograph: Getty ImagesSECONDHAND, £25Recycled, vintage and a bargain… the true hipster would never buy a new bike. From a rusty number dragged from the shed and lovingly revived to aneBaysteal, look out for shoppers from the 60s, steel-framed racers from the 70s and born-again Raleighs from the 80s. It's the quickest way to a cycling heritage.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
A simple plan to offer children protection from harmful and inappropriate internet footage by clearly rating it with traffic light symbols is to be tested this summer. The project, developed by the British Board of Film Classification in collaboration with partners in Italy and the Netherlands, could also allow powerful internet service providers and search engines a new path through the current controversy about their unregulated content.Amateur film-makers will be able to rate the films they put online according to national ratings categories, and the whole process could then be further policed by users of the site.Participating websites would have the option of letting viewers comment on the way that each film has been rated, alerting both users and the relevant national authorities to any serious transgressions.The idea of offering a do-it-yourself rating service for user-generated content came out of international discussions with the parallel bodies in charge of film censorship and classification."This is a service we want to offer," said David Austin, assistant director of policy and public affairs at the BBFC. "We already classify some 10,000 videos and films that are submitted to us for release every year and we will be using much the same classification model in the pilot for user-generated content."The sheer amount of private video footage uploaded on popular sites such as YouTube means there is no way any board could tackle it. "The volume is so great that it became clear the answer was to get those who are making and posting the films to rate them for users," said Austin.Consultation with the Dutch film regulator led to the idea that an online questionnaire comprising simple questions about the nature of the content could be made to apply across international boundaries."What the questions will do is provide a way of giving content an age rating. This is something that could be done in other countries in the world because, while the questionnaire can remain the same, the results will mean different things in different countries, since they all have different standards and film categories. Results in the Netherlands, for example, will reflect Dutch standards."Austin explained that each country has varying levels of sensitivity to key issues such as swearing or nudity. "In Britain people don't generally like bad language, whereas in the Netherlands they don't care as much."We will not be asking people to make value judgments about their films. They just have to answer simple questions about the content, such as 'Does this video contain X, Y or Z, and if so, how long is the scene?'"In Britain the usual six ratings categories for films will be reduced to three for ease of use. "We felt that six would be too complicated," said Austin, "so we have conflated U, which means suitable for all, with PG, parental guidance, and then the age category 12 with 15, and finally 18, suitable only for adults, with R18, which covers those adult works intended for licensed premises only."We will represent these three categories with the traffic light symbols green, amber and red."The scheme will be voluntary and service providers and search engines will be able to decide how their users want to see the ratings displayed."At this stage a lot of it depends on how much the search engines buy into the scheme. We want to help them look after their sites, and if some of the big ones get involved, then they can make the age-rating option available for everything."The crowdsource monitoring option would then allow users to judge the chosen rating and to spot abuses of the system. If there is a serious problem, such as an example of hate speech or of child abuse, it can be reported. In Britain the default reporting link will take users through to the Internet Watch Foundation hotline. The traffic light innovation online reflects parallel concerns about what has become the most complex and perhaps most important area of the BBFC's work on films destined for general release. While public interest frequently focuses on the reclassification struggles surrounding controversial titles such asThe ExorcistorA Clockwork Orange, the more delicate job is deciding whether to rate a film U or PG, 12 or 15.BBFC president Patrick Swaffer said recently that in Britain certain key elements mark a film out for concern in respect of children. Aside from explicit or obscene material, the board is careful not to allow sequences showing children climbing into fridges or washing machines. The potential for these "imitative techniques" sets off alarm bells that would be reflected in the questionnaire for online user-generated content.Last month the government allowed the BBFC to classify a whole new range of commercial DVDs that had been exempt. The decision will close a legal loophole that allowed young people to buy sexually explicit and ultra-violent material without restriction. Some pop videos, sports titles and religious and educational DVDs and Blu-Ray discs were classed as exempt. As a result, erotic scenes in videos by performers such as Robbie Williams and Beyoncé and topless scenes in supposed exercise DVDS were being sold without age restrictions. Violent footage of cage fighting was also exempt because it was classed as sport.
Technology's emerging role as a driver for social good has received fresh impetus with a scheme to support British entrepreneurs committed to tackling issues ranging from mental health to youth unemployment, social inequality and climate change.In a move designed to add momentum to a fast-growing market, a £1m fund has been made available to support start-up businesses that believe technology can provide a solution to persistent social problems.Nominet Trust, a charity set up to find ways of using the internet to improve lives and communities, has confirmed the launch of the "Social Tech, Social Change" fund, where projects designed to stimulate the growth of emerging UK businesses receive funding. The trust hopes that the expertise and funding could use the benefits of technology to improve areas such as healthcare, education and crime prevention, and edge Britain towards a more socially inclusive "e-topia".Annika Small, chief executive of Nominet Trust, said: "The talented individuals behind this industry have fundamentally changed the way we communicate, work, learn and shop. Imagine what's possible if these same individuals, who have done so much for our economy, turned their attention to the tougher social challenges."For instance, rather than necessarily building hospitals, getting young people into more care professions is one way of rethinking some of these challenges," added Small, former leader of Tony Blair's global education programme and former chief executive of Futurelab, the leading educational research organisation chaired by Lord Puttnam.Mandeep Hothi, fromthe Young Foundation, technological entrepreneurs dedicated to tackling some of the UK's major social issues including unemployment, education, social isolation and health, said: "We are just scratching the surface of what the web can do to improve social issues." He said that many enterprises examining social issues began life on the web.Benjamin Southworth, deputy chief executive of theTech CityInvestment Organisation, David Cameron's initiative to champion the "silicon roundabout" in east London, said: "It's a massive market, the idea of creating a little bit of good is very British in a way. Creating businesses to solve real problems like the homeless and clean water quality in Africa."Twenty companies will be awarded £50,000 grants to develop their prototype projects and will also be available to tap into advice from mentors including Wikipedia's Jimmy Wales and Autonomy founderMike Lynch. Small said the type of project they were looking at included Big White Wall, which uses technology to link people to counsellors online and is anonymous and secure. The venture, says Small, partly addressed the stigma attached to mental health issues and allowed people not confident enough to approach their GP to go online and get feedback.The reach of such projects is evident by the fact that the online counselling service covers an estimated 22% of the UK adult population."It's had particular traction with army personnel returning from war and who are struggling with mental health strains," said Small. There are 68,000 social enterprises in the UK contributing more than £24bn to the economy and employing more than a million people.
Edinburgh-bornPeter Gregsonis a cellist, composer and founder of the Electric Creative Colab, a body that aims to foster collaborations between the arts and technology. Last year, working with composer and "sonic artist" Daniel Jones and the Britten Sinfonia, Gregson producedthe Listening Machine, a piece of software that absorbed the tweets of 500 people around the country and turned it into a continuous stream of music. A debut album of acoustic and electric cello music,Terminal, was released in 2010. Later this year Gregson will start work on a new album and a film score.You can compose music and you can code. Are the skills similar?There is a similarity. You start with something you want to see exist, to enable. And there are many ways to achieve that, all sorts of nuances to consider, lots of aesthetic choices to make in order to keep the process going. It's not simple problem-solving. There are all sorts of rabbit holes down which you can get lost for days and days...You've worked to tighten the links between technology and the arts. What are the difficulties you've encountered?Coding is an amazing, elaborate art form in itself. Funding mechanisms don't reflect that. They don't value the coder as an integral part of the creative output. It's assumed that coding is a pre-production, first-stage hurdle that's got to be dealt with –thenthe art can happen. I don't see that as the case. We value our artists' time and pretentiousness – let them disappear into the woods to create – but don't do the same for coders.Why is that?With drag-and-drop website creation, or adverts saying "Turn any website into a mobile app – ta da!", people assume everything is that simple and easy and quick and then get surprised when it takes three months. When we were making the Listening Machine last year it took us six full weeks of writing algorithms before we could start writing the music. There was no instant jazz-hands moment. You can't shoehorn the arts into the technology world, and you can't shoehorn the technology world into the arts sector. They need to be acknowledged as equal partners.What were you trying to demonstrate with the Listening Machine?I wanted to hear what a day sounded like. Dan and I took it from there. Twitter is dynamic, it's evolutionary, conversations evolve, they've got a pulse to them. You can visualise that – but what if you couldlistento that dynamism evolve? We thought music had the capacity to do that.Is technology making music easier to learn?There's so much nuance and physicality to music – it's a humanthing.I'm fortunate to work with some of the top people in these fields [of music-teaching technology] and I'm yet to see anything thatdoesanything. Cello bows with accelerometers and gyrometers attached... The idea being that you make a piece of kit that for a couple of thousand dollars will teach someone how to hold a bow, play a bow, learn how to do good bow changing. I'm sitting there, and nobody else seemed to have seen the elephant in the room – that this cello bow, with all this stuff fitted on it, bore no relation to a real cello bow. As a professional cellist I was able to accommodate it. But the point that tool would be useful would be when you're four or five. And this thing washeavy. There's software that listens to what you play [and judges it] by looking for pitch tracking, but you can trick these things very easily. You can play with horrifically bad technique and make it think that you're doing it really well because it can only look out for a certain number of things. It's nowhere near as sophisticated as a person sitting looking at a pupil playing the violin. It's entirely possible – I've tried it – to make this technology think you're playing a beautiful scale but by using a piece of fruit to play your cello instead of a finger. I used an orange.Isn't it democratising?I see the geographic benefits, if you happen to live in remote Saskatchewan. You shouldn't be disadvantaged. But I'm yet to see something that makes me think technology is a replacement. I don't think [an equivalent to] a computer game has the ability to inspire a child in the same way an enthusiastic, patient teacher can. If a computer game gets too difficult, you put it down. But in music that's the point when the real learning starts. The notion of software democratising musical education leaves me cold. I get cold feelings when I see: "Log on to our website and learn to play the violin."There's a rush to teach kids to code. Do we risk musical training being ignored as technology education comes to the fore?It will be interesting in 10 or 15 years when a digitally native generation is devising the curriculum. I'd be fascinated to see if something is taken out of the curriculum to replace it with coding skills. But if you ask me the hypothetical: if you were to teach coding or music, which would it be, I would absolutely say music.Why?It's a holistic thing. It's team-building. It's about sharing. The best thing about music education is simply that it teaches you to think and listen in a sensitive way, and not jump to conclusions in exchange for instant gratification. Real life doesn't give you 10 points when you cross a bridge. Andthatis a super-important thing. If we game-ify an art form, we risk losing its most valuable facets.Peter Gregson will talk about the future of musicianship at the Saturday morning session ofFutureFest
Nowhere swaggers quite like Los Angeles: threatening, provocative, "show me what you got", the city leers lasciviously over a backdrop of Morrison's motels, of money, of murder, of madness. A challenge the video games industry, which adores the spotlight, cannot resist, adding the pixellated glare of the newest titles and hardware to the city of light at its annual showcase, E3.Last week, with two major manufacturers displaying new next-generation consoles, the bombast and the clamour were back in force. Microsoft presented theirXbox Oneconsole (out November, £429) with the focus firmly on the games. They did not disappoint. That the newHalowill be a forthcoming release was unsurprising but it was nonetheless greeted with raucous approval, as was the announcement of a new open-worldMetal Gear Solidtitle –The Phantom Pain.Driving favouriteForza's new iteration will launch with the console, and looks and plays beautifully, the detailing a real step forward allied to an intriguing AI "Drivatar" concept that learns from your play.Ryse: Son of Rome, also a launch title, played as an extremely high-intensityGod of War, the demo level portraying legions landing from the sea, an impressive variation on a theme – Omaha beach, with ballistas.Fighting fans can look forward to the newKiller Instinct, with shooters also strongly represented byBattlefield&nbsp;4playing brilliantly in the 64-person multiplayer mode it supports, whileTitanfall, an Xbox exclusive, offered a frenetic but also innovative take on the genre, with players switching between roles as foot soldiers and mech pilots. But for guns on the go, it was Bungie's combat-thriller,Destiny, that captured the imagination.There was innovation, too, in the form ofProject Spark, a genuinely intriguing build-your-own-world RPG controlled by the vastly improved Kinect sensor that is included with the console; the noisy and imaginative shooter ofSunset Overdriveand in the standout game/TV crossover concept ofQuantum Break.Also likely to be popular was the announcement that the console has the ability to broadcast games live on streaming video platform Twitch  – functionality that many gamers will love. An impressive broadside then, but tempered by much disgruntlement because Microsoft have adopted a system that could allow publishers to block or charge for resale of games; how, if or in what form remains to be seen. The console will also require daily internet connectivity for verification purposes, again a contentious decision but one that at least has some basis in where they believe the future lies.Cevat Yerli of Crytek at E3 2013. Photograph: Casey Rodgers/Invision for XboxThe Xbox One's hardware architecture has been designed to utilise processing power within the cloud and to that end 300,000 servers will be live at launch. It will be down to developers to best use this resource but the potential is huge. Bigger, more detailed worlds, more characters and more interaction beyond the processing abilities of the console itself are all possible and in that sense Xbox One may represent not only next generation but an entirely new generation.Rivals Sony were also in bullish mood to showcase theirPlayStation&nbsp;4(£349, out pre-Christmas in UK). Announcing that their console would not require internet authentication and that there would there be no restrictions imposed on the pre-owned games market proved a popular bookend to an impressive array of titles and a competitive price .PS3 fans should look forward to what is a magnificent swansong on the console forGran Turismo 6, before it is reimagined for the PS4, itself boasting a fine array of games. Standouts on show included the glorious-looking steampunk shooter ofThe Order: 1886, and new launch titleKillzone: Shadow&nbsp;Fall, whose looks and play befit its place on a next-gen platform as superior to all its predecessors.The new console will share theBattlefieldandDestinytitles, and a stunning-lookingAssassin's Creed 4: Black Flag, the latest pirate-themed romp of the series, with Xbox, but also boasts real standout exclusivity as well.Young-gamer-friendlyThe Knackis a simple but imaginative action-adventure, whileInFamous: Second Son, a third-person superpowers-themed title, really looked a step ahead of the current platforms, presenting a glorious and inventive spectacle.There is, too, to be a host of  indie titles for the PS4 and the opportunity for developers to self-publish on the platform is certain to be popular. But not everyone was happy with the news that gamers will now have to subscribe to the PS+ service (£39.99 per year) to access multiplayer on PS4. However, all subsidiary entertainment is still free online, while the console price also reflects that it does not ship with the camera.Nintendo, with no new device, perhaps wisely chose discretion over valour, but did show a ream of new software for theWii&nbsp;U. The beautiful, stylistic fighterBayonetta 2, a console exclusive, was particularly eye-catching, as wasZelda: The Wind Wakerbut perhaps most intriguing wasThe Wonderful 101, a lovely kid-friendly title in which a troupe of miniature superheroes fight evil by combining to form themselves into tools and weapons. It made a colourful and pleasing coda to the sound and fury of new hardware doing battle.
Ideas and technologies are changing the world. As they develop we experience new emotions, perform new tasks and relate to the world, our friends and colleagues in unfamilar ways. Here are some of worlds and terms that may helps us navigate through the ever-changing newness.SupercapturingImagine the office of the future, where cameras constantly scan your desk for anything you place upon it. Put a magazine down, or open a newspaper, and it will be scanned, indexed, and processed for you. In our CCTV-lined future, everything will be a scanner.Cyber-hygieneThe most important life&nbsp;skill we'll be teaching our children over the coming decades will be cyber-hygiene. Fighting infections in the 21st century is less about washing your hands and more about not clicking on untrusted email attachments. Those of us who don't understand this will be shunned as digitally unclean.Intimacy hapticsTechnology can enable us to stay in contact, and in a literal way, in touch, with our loved ones. TheCouple appfor the iPhone allows private messaging between only two people, and also offers a "thumb-kiss" feature, where both phones will vibrate if the couple are touching the same place on their screens at the same time. The next generation will find this sort of "ambient intimacy" just as natural as holding hands.Personal environment engineeringComputers have a weird effect on our brains. For example, the blue-white light of most screens acts like the sun and causes us to stay awake after dark. So new devices will be designed to combat this. Apps such as f.lux for the Mac change the colour of your screen during the evening to match the natural light outside, so that it's easier to sleep when you're done. There are sound apps too: Coffitivity.com streams an endless loop of coffee shop background noise to your headphones, to help you stay focused while you work.Attention focusingThere are times that we're better off disconnected. Apps such as Self Control are being released which block internet access so that you can actually get things done. The next big trend is the emergence of devices without any internet access at all. Our kids may  prize disconnection in the same way we seek out Wi-Fi.Personal remote presence dronesNot really up for the commute in the morning? Want to attend a lecture, but find yourself on another continent? Not to worry. The first examples of the remote presence drone – a humanoid robot controlled via the internet with a videoconferencing screen in its head – are just entering the shops now, and in a decade or two could easily be commonplace. Your kids could stay in bed while they guide their drones to school, their faces looking out of its head as they gaze at their laptops.Device etiquetteThe next generation will be completely relaxed in the manners that surround technology, such as one new Silicon Valley habit: when you go to a bar with friends, everyone takes out their smartphone and places it in the centre of the table. The first one to touch their handset has to pay for all the drinks.Engineered serendipityGoogle is a great company for a  catchphrase. Its latest is "engineered  serendipity". The company's new service, Google Now, aims to learn all about you, so as to improve its suggestions. As our online behaviour, and the contents of our emails and documents, goes to feed these artificial intelligences, the more useful they will become. With their entire lives online, our children may soon be aided, guided and minded over by artificial intelligences, nudging them in useful directions.Ben Hammersley, the author of Now for Then: How to Face the Digital Future Without Fear, will be talking about the coming security structures of a radically open century at the Saturday afternoon session ofFutureFest
Eating insectsTwo billion people around the world, primarily in south-east Asia and Africa,eat insects – locusts, grasshoppers, spiders, wasps, ants – on a regular basis. Now, with food scarcity a growing threat, efforts are being made to normalise the concept of entomophagy, or the consumption of insects, for the other 5&nbsp;billion. Last year, the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)published a listof more than 1,900 edible species of insects; the EU, meanwhile, offered its member states $3m to research the use of insects in cooking.Why? Because insects, compared to livestock and fish, are a much more sustainable food source. They are available in abundance: for every human on Earth, there are 40 tonnes of insects. They have a higher food conversion rate than even our fastest-growing livestock (meaning they need to consume less to produce the same amount of meat) and they emit fewer greenhouse gases. As a fast-food option,which is how people treat them in countries such as Thailand, insects are greatly preferable to the water-guzzling, rainforest-destroying, methane-spewing beefburger. They are nutritious too: rich in protein, low in fat and cholesterol, high in calcium and iron.That leaves the issue of palatability. Insects are generally viewed with disgust in the west, but attitudes are beginning to change. Thanks to adventurous restaurants – Copenhagen'sNomahas served up ants and fermented grasshoppers – and pioneering organisations such asEntoin London, we are coming to terms with the notion that insects might actually be nice to eat.Edible packagingOur current food system is monumentally wasteful. Last January, a report found that almosthalf of the world's food is thrown awayeach year. In the UK alone, according to the government's waste adviser,Wrap, wegenerate 6.6m tonnes of food, drink and packaging waste per annum, at a cost of £5bn.The fight against waste has thrown up some intriguing solutions.For Harvard bioengineerDavid Edwards, the answer to the packaging problem is simple: just eat it. Last year, Edwards launchedWikiCells, a company that makes edible packaging for fruit juices, coffee, ice cream and other products. Mimicking the design of a piece of fruit, the packaging consists of a soft skin "entirely comprised of natural food particles held together by nutritive ions" encased in a protective outer layer that is edible or at least biodegradable. Not only are the membranes more environmentally friendly than plastic, they are designed to taste good too.Other packaging innovations promise to lengthen the shelf life of perishables, which would mean a reduction in food and drink waste.Pepceuticals, a company based in Leicester, is developing an antimicrobial film that it claims "should significantly prevent the deterioration of … fresh meat and save waste".Food replacement and eco-food innovationOne of the hottest trends attracting investors' in Silicon Valley has a lot to do with our future eating habits. A growing number of young entrepreneurs, driven by ecological as well as profit motives, are seeking to replace resource-hungry foods such as meat with synthetic and plant-based alternatives – and the likes of Twitter founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone aregiving them financial support.Their motives are well-founded. With the global population expected to reach 9 billion by 2050, and as western eating habits spread to countries such as China and India, more efficient and environmentally friendly ways are needed to produce protein-rich foods. Imitation meat is not a new concept, but Bay Area innovators, such asBeyond Meat,are making a chicken substitute good enough, they claim, to compete with the real thing. Meanwhile,Hampton Creek Foods, founded by 32-year-old entrepreneur Josh Tetrick, is working on a plant-based replacement for egg yolks to go in muffins, mayonnaise and other sauces.Augmented-reality kitchensAs the popularity of programmes such asMasterChefandGreat British Menuindicates, we have become a nation of food enthusiasts. For every budding culinary genius among us, however, there will always be a kitchen klutz who bungles the recipe and burns everything to cinders. What we need, in the view of Japanese computer scientist Yu Suzuki at Kyoto Sangyo University, is a helping hand from technology. Going several steps further than the online how-to video, Suzuki and colleagues have kitted out a kitchen with ceiling-mounted cameras and projectors that overlay cooking instructions on the ingredients. Detecting the outline of a fish, for example, Suzuki's system will help you fillet it by highlighting where an incision needs to be made.Meanwhile,Jinna Lei, a computer scientist at the University of Washington, is developing a system that uses depth-sensing cameras to keep track of what the cook is doing. When a mistake is made, the system will prompt the cook to make amends.While this may sound like good news, some critics believe these innovations will also minimise the basic joys of cooking. Technology writer Evgeny Morozov says: "Such standardisation can make our kitchens as exciting as McDonald's franchises."Enhanced riceThirty years ago, scientists announced the creation of theworld's first genetically modified plant. The new technology, it was hoped, would increase crop yields worldwide and ease global malnutrition. Since then, the fortunes of GM food have been decidedly mixed. Its uptake has been limited to just a few countries and many of its promises – including, more recently, the hope that GM crops would help reduce climate change emissions – have yet to be realised.But in spite of continuing resistance to GM food among environmentalists and those wary of the corporations that control it, breakthroughs are expected.Next year, it is hoped thatgolden rice– normal rice modified to produce beta-carotene, which the body converts into vitamin A – will be planted by farmers in the Philippines. If successful, golden rice will help counter blindness and other diseases in children in the developing world.Meanwhile, another series of enhanced rice varieties is being developed using only conventional plant-breeding techniques. Zhikang Li, the Chinese plant breeder behind green super rice, which produces more grain while proving more resistant to droughts, floods and disease, hopes that his innovation will feed an extra 100 million people.Andoni Aduriz, Morgaine Gaye, Charles Spence and Mike Knowlden will demonstrate ideas of food futures and "techno-emotional cuisine" at the Sunday afternoon session of FutureFest on 29 September
BRIDGET McKENZIE Culture consultantThere will be far fewer safe and fertile places, and these will be besieged by refugees. The global population will have collapsed drastically. The equatorial regions will be too hot to grow food, but some cities there may thrive with protective architecture, profiting from solar arrays or by processing industrial waste.IAN GOLDIN EconomistThanks to advances in medicine, including  genetics, stem cells and other developments, people will be living well into their hundreds. Whether mental health will advance at the same rate is doubtful, and with falling fertility compounding this, dependency ratios will rise. The elderly will become increasingly powerful politically.ALICE TAYLOR DeveloperMajor cities will look like Tokyo: whole families will live in tiny, boxlike apartments, with gadgets in every corner (including a multi-material 3D printer, natch) and grandparents living in - without functioning pensions, they will have to. Kids will have animated tattoos. It will rain a lot, except where it's needed.ANAB JAIN DesignerCompanies have been patenting the human genome for a long time now, which could create a whole new trend of globalisation around genetic material.  New advances in biotechnology will have increasing political and economic implications and we may find ourselves asking what it means to be human in a biotech world.MARTIN REES AstronomerLater this century advanced robots may relate to their surroundings (and to people) as adeptly as we do. Moral questions then arise: should we feel guilty about exploiting them? Should we worry about the SF scenario – that a network of computers could develop a mind of its own and threaten us all? All bets are off beyond 2050.PAUL MASON Economics writerBy 2050, information goods will be more prevalent than real goods, eroding the price mechanism as a means of distribution. Politics will have become a battle between tech monopolies and the population over what should be free but isn't. Social justice will be an issue of the distribution of, and reward for, leisure time.
The idea of a "festival of the future" has an interesting history. Go back to the Great Exhibition of 1851, and alongside the giant Koh-i-Noor diamond and mountains of impressive imperial produce, you find some intriguing harbingers of the next century and a half.Add Frederick Bakewell's early fax machine to William Chamberlain's voting machine, and you have the last two Obama campaigns. Touchscreens on powerful computers? Behind the glinting panes of the Crystal Palace, they showcased "tangible ink" for the blind, which produced raised characters on paper – and adding machines that would put bank clerks out of a job.Go back to any of the great expos, or even to the earliest futurologists – such as Francis Bacon'sNew Atlantisof 1627, with its longevity drugs and flying machines, its robots and clones – and it sometimes seems that modernity has always contained the same set of yearnings about the future: stronger, faster, more automation, more communication.The acme of this might be Walt Disney's mid-1960s dream of Epcot (Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow), a theme park in which cosmic exploration leaves behind a happy planet of harmonious cultures and sociable, zip-suited citizens.Well, it's 2013, and of course we're wiser and more civilisation-weary than all that. Those intricate techno-sciences we devise and set running? They end up rattling our economies, fighting our wars, bombarding our attention spans and challenging our bioethics.And some of the more massive trends heading into the future – the inexorables of population growth and global warming, emergent economies and regions with their own claims to truth and justice – would seem largely resistant to the glittering technical fixes that future-types of the past have put their faith in.But it's 2013, and of course we can also imagine – because that's what humans irrepressibly do – how this progress towards the mid-century might be quite different.Radical innovation could well find us a combination of energy sources that mitigate the impact of a heating planet. Our computers and devices could as easily amplify our natural capacities for invention and community as unravel or stymie them.Over only a few decades of bioscience, our "new normal" could be closer to that menagerie of mutants and cyborgs that you see in the averageStar Trekstreet scene than it might be to the muttonchopped visitors to the Crystal Palace.How to capture all of these possibilities, in a particular time and place? And in a city where the weight of the past, and the chaos of a globalised future, can easily be mapped from the top of a giant glass shard? The principle of a festival – with its tolerance for enthusiasm, dissent and experiment – seemed like the only way it could be gathered together and curated.FutureFest takes place in Shoreditch town hall, London – a building which itself brims with Victorian progressive self-confidence (its motto on the stained glass windows is "More light, more power"). In its cavernous rooms we will be deploying three different methods of thinking about the future.First, great minds and practitioners will give short but powerfully focused takes on our options heading towards mid-century, and beyond – everything from the future of religion and altruism, to the future of eating and manufacturing.Next, we'll offer immersive spaces in which participants can literally "meet and experience" the future. Real – or at least, artistic and creative – humans will conduct a variety of performances, installations, social games and even banquets, that will leave visitors in a delightful space between "now" and "next".And finally, we'll allow people to go deeper into the future, with a range of forums, seminars, makeshops and technical expos from organisations like the Oxford Martin School, Arup, the BBC, Berg, Dyson and many others.All being well, we hope that these events will become a familiar zone across the cities of the UK over the next few years. But London first. If you want to predict the future, by learning how to make it happen, FutureFest is the place to be – and become.Pat Kane is lead curator for Nesta's FutureFest
Bertolt Meyer is used to being viewed as not fully human. Born with a stump where his left hand should have been, he spent his childhood wearing a hook connected to an elaborate pulley and harness. "To open the hook and grasp things I had to flex my shoulders like this," he says, striking a he-man pose. "The harness was very uncomfortable. To stop it chafing my skin, I had to wear a shirt underneath it at all times. I was always sweating."Even when, at the age of 19, Meyer exchanged his body-powered hook for a myoelectric prosthesis with a more realistic plastic hand, he kept his disfigured left arm hidden from view. "It wasn't simply a question of aesthetics," he explains, proffering the plastic hand, now grubby and discoloured with use. "You have to understand, this is a stigma. People think it's weird and that is how you come to perceive it. You walk around with a sense of shame."Today, that shame is gone. In 2009 Meyer, a social psychologist at the University of Zurich, was fitted with an i-limb, a state-of-the-art bionic prosthesis developed by a Scottish company, Touch Bionics, that comes with an aluminium chassis and 24 different grip patterns. To select a new suite of gestures, Meyer simply taps an app on his iPhone."This is the first prosthesis where the aesthetics match the engineering," he says, balancing a Biro between his purring electronic fingers. "It's part of me and I'm proud of it."Since appearing in the Channel&nbsp;4 documentaryHow to Build a Bionic Man, in which he allowed engineers to build a robotic replica of the rest of his body complete with artificial heart, lungs and an alarming prosthetic likeness of his face, Meyer has become something of a poster boy for "transhumanism". Encompassing everything from robotic limbs to memory-enhancing neural implants to gene therapies that slow ageing, transhumanism (or posthumanism) concerns the technologies and drugs that are rapidly altering the limits of human performance, as well as notions about what we might look like in future.As Nick Bostrom, the head of theFuture of Humanity Instituteat the University of Oxford and a leading transhumanist thinker puts it, transhumanism "challenges the premise that the human condition is and will remain essentially unalterable". "It seems to me fairly obvious why one might have reason to desire to become a posthuman in the sense of having a greatly enhanced capacity to stay alive and healthy," he writes. "I suspect that the majority of humankind already has such a desire implicitly."But while some medical interventions such as organ transplants to replace malfunctioning livers and kidneys, or vaccines to boost the immune system, command wide social acceptance, others invite moral approbation. This is particularly the case where the enhancement is regarded as a vanity or may be detrimental to health, as was the case with substandard silicon breast implants.Then there is the question of access – an i-limb costs £30,000, while an artificial heart will set you back £70,000 – and whether it is OK to turn a blind eye to the "off-label" use of drugs such as Ritalin, which was developed as a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, but is increasingly being used to enhance cognitive performance.Even more ethically fraught is the line between restorative therapy and elective surgery. Last year, for instance, anAustrianman who damaged his hand in a motorcycle accident opted for an amputation and had a bionic replacement fitted.At the moment, bionic hands are poor substitutes for the real thing – they can grasp and manipulate objects, but cannot feel. But what if in the future we could make bionic hands with a sense of touch that were also capable of enhanced performance? Would we be happy if a struggling concert pianist elected to amputate his hand so that he could perform Rachmaninoff's infamously difficult third concerto?For the moment, the answer is almost certainly no, but that may change as people become more comfortable with posthuman technologies and the opportunities they afford for improved health and function. "What's crucial about these technologies is they don't just repair us, they make us better than well," says Andy Miah, director of the Creative Futures Institute and professor of ethics and emerging technologies at the University of the West of Scotland. "The human enhancement market will reveal the truth about our biological conditions – we are all disabled. This is why human enhancements are here to stay and likely to become more popular."A good example of the way that these technologies are already changing our perception of human identity and notions of disability comes from the world of sport. When Oscar Pistorius donned a pair of carbon-fibre blades to compete alongside able-bodied athletes at the 2012 Olympics, he had ceased to be a disabled athlete; instead, he offered us a glimpse of a "superhuman" future where Paralympians aided by bionics or performance-enhancing drugs might set hitherto unimaginable sporting records. At the moment, such enhancements are considered unfair and athletes who seek to evade anti-doping regulations are pilloried as cheats. But in a posthuman future where everyone has access to these technologies, such objections may become moot. As Bostrom puts it: "If every athlete takes a lot of dangerous performance-enhancing drugs, there will still only be one gold medallist."Future prosthetic limbs will be immersed within our flesh, rather than being outside it or replacing it. Athletes will also be able to use 3D printing to create new limbs perfectly tailored to their bodies, or grow replacement body parts when their old ones wear out.Nor is bionics the only technology transforming norms of health and human performance. For example, in search of enhanced cognitive performance, many people are experimenting with modafinil, a treatment for narcolepsy, while others routinely take selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as Paxil and Zoloft to regulate their moods and sense of wellbeing. These drugs are but the forerunners of a new generation of neuroenhancers and brain stimulation devices that promise shortcuts to even greater intellectual heights – and all without the social awkwardness we usually associate with superior cognitive functioning (think Bradley Cooper inLimitless, rather than Dustin Hoffman inRain Man).In Switzerland, which leads the way in many of these technologies and therapies, concerns about the health and ethical impacts are leading to calls for greater regulation. Currently, there are three proposals before the Swiss legislature, many of them focusing on Ritalin, which is manufactured by the Swiss pharmaceuticals firm Novartis. In June the Swiss public health service reported that adolescent use of methylphenidate, the generic name for Ritalin, had increased by 40% between 2005 and 2008, mirroring trends in the US where off-label use is rife among high-school and college students. There is similar concern about the wide uptake of anti-anxiety drugs as pharmaceutical companies seek to redefine social pathologies as treatable psychiatric conditions and aggressively market the therapies to consumers. Meanwhile, Martial Saugy, the head of Switzerland's anti-doping laboratory, remains under fireover US allegations that he helped Lance Armstrong evade doping testsbefore the 2002 Tour de France – a row that has highlighted the scope for sporting figures to abuse anabolic steroids and other performance-enhancing supplements.The problem is that as technology blurs the distinction between illness and optimal health, it becomes increasingly difficult to distinguish normal from abnormal. "It's not only question of human enhancement," says Anne Eckhardt, the author of a recentreporton the opportunities and risks of the human enhancement market for the Swiss Centre for Technology Assessment. "It's also about medicalisation and changing definitions of disease and disability."Like Siegfried tasting the blood of the dragon, people have long dreamt of acquiring superhuman powers. The difference today is that it is no longer enough to manipulate our external environment by, for instance, donning a pair of Nikes or boarding a plane. Instead, enhancement increasingly focuses on the re-engineering of bodies and minds themselves.For the moment, this posthuman future still lies some way off. We don't need a brain implant to use Google – Google's glasses, iPads and mobile phones are, at the moment,  more than sufficient for most people's needs. "In the long run, technology will surpass our biological nature, but we should not underestimate the technical challenges in getting to that stage," says Bostrom.It is an assessment with which Meyer concurs. Since being fitted with his i-limb, Meyer says that actions that used to be unimaginable – such as wheeling a suitcase through duty free while talking on his mobile phone – he now performs with confidence and ease. However, although the i-limb has enabled him to transcend his feelings of inadequacy and shame, he is a long way from considering himself transhuman, let alone superhuman."It's a question of standards," he says. "Compared to the normal human standard, I wouldn't describe myself as transhuman, but compared to my own standard, then yes."That could soon change however. Meyer is already on his fourth generation i-limb and during the filming of the Channel 4 documentary he saw how US military-funded research is resulting in ever more sophisticated developments, including robotic legs with articulated joints that can negotiate stairs and give the appearance of a natural walking gait. "The question is, as the technology gets better, will it become the norm to have one of these, and what will people go through to get one?" asks Meyer, indicating his i-limb with his "good" hand.The only point in the Channel&nbsp;4 documentary at which Meyer appeared to balk at the brave new transhuman future was when he came face to face with "Bionic Bertolt" – the robot bearing his hand and a prosthetic version of his face. He was clearly appalled by the transformation. "It was a face version of this," he says tapping his old plastic prosthesis. "It really freaked me out."Indeed, Meyer's visceral reaction drove home the extent to which these posthuman technologies provoke visions of dystopian futures or what Miah pithily calls "the yuck factor".Ultimately, however, these are technical issues and Meyer recognises that it is only a matter of time before engineering companies are in a position to offer us products that not only look human but offer functionality way beyond the human. "That is the point where we may need to find a larger set of ethical criteria, because, from what I have seen, we cannot rely on engineers and business people to come up with them," he warns.Bertolt Meyer will talk about cyborgs and the future of biotech,  at the Saturday morning session ofFutureFestThe Observer is media partner for the festival
WatchingWilliam Hague doing his avuncular routine in the Commons on Monday, I was reminded of the way establishment figures in the 1950s used to reassure hoi polloi that they had nothing to worry about. Everything was in order. The Right Chaps were in charge. Citizens who had done nothing wrong, declared Uncle Hague, had nothing to fear from comprehensive surveillance.Oh yeah? AsStephen Fry observed in an exasperated tweet: "William Hague's view seems to be 'we can hide a camera &amp; bug in your room &amp; if you've got nothing to hide, what's the worry?' Hell's teeth!"Hell's teeth indeed. I can think of thousands of people who have nothing to hide, but who would have good reasons to worry about intrusive surveillance. Journalists seeking to protect their sources, for example; NHS whistleblowers; people seeking online help for personal psychological torments; frightened teenagers seeking advice on contraception or abortion; estranged wives of abusive husbands; asylum seekers and dissident refugees; and so on.In a way, Hague's smug, patronising tone was the least troubling aspect ofthe NSA/GCHQ story. More worrying was the unexplained contradiction between claims in thePrism PowerPoint slidesthat the NSA routinely collects data from Microsoft, Google, Yahoo, PalTalk, YouTube, Skype, AOL and Apple, and the companies' frantic denials that this was the case. (Interestingly, Facebook, Amazon and Twitter aren't on the list – yet.) The named companies have all claimed that while they do provide user data in response to government requests, they do so only on a case-by-case basis and using tools such as secure virtual dropboxes or encrypted file transfers.One of the slidesin the presentation is entitled "Prismcollectiondetails" (emphasis added). It describes the companies as "current providers" (implying voluntary or involuntary compliance) and informs its audience about "what will you receive in collection (surveillance and stored comms)?", which "varies by provider".There are various ways of reading this. One is that Prism does indeed have direct access to the internet companies' servers because, as one of the NSA bigwigs famously observed: "If you're looking for a needle in a haystack, then you need the haystack" and it now has the technology to get it. Another reading is that Prism merelyautomates the serving of legally authorised writs on the internet companies. But whatever the explanation, someone is being economic with theactualité, as Alan Clark once said.Let us suppose, for a moment, that it's the companies that are the prime economisers in this context. If it is indeed the case that the NSA has logon-type access to their servers, what does that mean for anyone who is uncomfortable about this? Simple: one shouldn't entrust one's personal communications to any of them. That means: no Microsoft cloud services, no Google or Bing searches, no Google Docs, no Gmail, Yahoo mail or Hotmail; no Skype calls; no YouTube or Vimeo videos; no Flickr or Picasa; no Facebook or Twitter. And, of course, no iPhone or iPad use.Why? Because all these services and/or devices rely on cloud services hosted in the US, which – we must assume – are routinely hoovered by the NSA for indefinite storage inthe colossal server farm the agency has been constructing in Utah.Over the last week, I have had various conversations with friends, colleagues and acquaintances about Prismgate. Many – though not all – confessed to feeling uneasy about what it might mean for privacy and/or liberal democracy. Some were sceptical that the NSA and its overseas franchises such as GCHQ actually possess the technical capability to "collect the haystack". All were adamant, however, that they don't want to live in a National Security state.But when I raisedTim Wu's recommendation that users should therefore boycott Googleand co, the atmosphere changed. The idea of not using Google for search seems unthinkable to most people. My respondents could live without Google Docs, but most thought that webmail was essential. Older people might be able to live without YouTube, but nobody under the age of 25 could. For many, Skype has become a personal lifeline for keeping in touch with distant friends and family members. iPhone and iPad users were appalled at the idea of having to give up their toys. And one person declared that he would sooner shoot himself than go back to using Microsoft Windows.The moral of this? Simple: we're screwed either way. We're so hooked on the services provided by Googleet althat we can't contemplate boycotting them,whether or not they're collaborating with the Feds. We walked cheerfully into the trap, folks. All that remains now is to live with the consequences.
Mobile phone users could receive signals from balloons floating in the stratosphere if a project launched by Google this week succeeds.Google launched 30 test balloons in New Zealand to test the possibility of having a global network of balloons floating 12 miles above Earth provide internet access and mobile phone signals.Mike Cassidy, head of the project dubbedProject Loon, said in ablogpost: "We believe that it might actually be possible to build a ring of balloons, flying around the globe on the stratospheric winds, that provides internet access to the earth below."It's very early days, but we've built a system that uses balloons, carried by the wind at altitudes twice as high as commercial planes, to beam internet access to the ground at speeds similar to today's 3G networks or faster. As a result, we hope balloons could become an option for connecting rural, remote and underserved areas, and for helping with communications after natural disasters."The balloons are 15 metres wide and 12 metres tall and filled with helium gas. People connect to the balloon network using a special internet antenna attached to their building. The signal bounces from balloon to balloon, then to the global internet back on Earth.Cassidy said: "There are many terrestrial challenges to internet connectivity – jungles, archipelagos, mountains. There are also major cost challenges. Right now, for example, in most of the countries in the southern hemisphere, the cost of an internet connection is more than a month's income."
It's been fashionable for a while to give dogs, especially male dogs, human names. Dave is popular. I've met Brians and Steves. Sams, too. It can be confusing in the park. Heel? But I don't even know you… Oh, I see. Him.Now car manufacturers are crashing the party. I'm thinking about the Renault Zoe, and the Alfa&nbsp;Romeo Giulietta (also the only&nbsp;car to be named after a Shakespeare tragedy, until the Hyundai Titus Andronicus comes out in the autumn), and now the Vauxhall Adam.He's named after Adam Opel, the&nbsp;founder of Vauxhall's parent company, which made sewing machines. And he is a bit of a sewing machine, in that he's small and not very powerful and he goes faster when you depress your right foot, though neververyfast.But he's also rather lovely, a chic little city car with endless options for personalisation – like a Mini or Fiat 500. So you can choose your body paint colour (I want Papa Don't Peach Pearlescent), your roof colour (White My Fire?), your colour-coded alloys (18-inch Twister Manoogian with I'll Be Black spoke clips) etc. Trim levels are called Slam (Born To&nbsp;Be Wild), Glam (Turning Heads) and Jam (Attracts Wasps... I mean, Funky And Fashionable). I'm sure they'd do Ham if you asked, or Clam, or Wham Bam Thank You Ma'am. Adam is very consciously trying to be "fun".And he is, for a cheeky urban runabout, surprisingly sophisticated. Certainly in Slam, which is what I've got, there's a lot of kit you normally find only in bigger, posher cars: DAB radio, cruise control, beepy warnings when you drive too close to something. Fun, but not cheap.You might expect a car of this size, certainly one with an eco in his name, to go a bit farther on a gallon, and to be less flatulent. Adam may have to work on his green credentials, but otherwise he's impressive. He's also that rare thing, a likable Vauxhall.It all goes a bit wrong, though, when we park next to a powder-blue Fiat 500. Which one would you rather have, I ask my girlfriend. I'm asking because the Fiat is about the only car she's ever expressed any feeling for. Until now. She's become rather fond of Adam, enjoyed driving him, too. Also, Vauxhall clearly expects a&nbsp;lot of Adam-owners to be women, otherwise it wouldn't have called him Adam.Anyway, she thinks Adam is the better car, a less bouncy ride (steady) and better appointed. Better prospects, then: the sensible choice. And she would choose… the Fiat, all&nbsp;day long. Because, though Adam&nbsp;is cute, the Italian is cuter – charmingly and effortlessly so. And that's what counts. Sorry, Adam.Vauxhall Adam Slam 1.4L 16V VVT (87PS) ecoFLEX Start/StopPrice£13,770Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.5 secondsCombined fuel economy(manufacturer's figure)55.4mpgCO2emissions110g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIn tower defence games, you position and upgrade gun turrets to prevent waves of bad guys (properly known as "creeps") from invading your castle. Kingdom Rush was probably the pinnacle of the genre, artfully mixing conventional tower-buying with weapons and reinforcements deployed in real time. High production values did the rest, cementing its reputation as the world's favourite tower defence game. Its sequel, Frontiers, builds lightly on the success of its forebear, adding new monsters, power-ups and roadside objects from cannons to volcanoes to carnivorous plants. It also has beefy heroes you can move about the battlefield for added firepower where you need it, each with their own expandable roster of skills. Along with a shop for single-use weapons, the additional layers of defensive possibility create even more of a juggling act, which becomes especially compelling as levels get more intense later in the campaign. Although certainly not what you'd call a reinvention, Frontiers' suite of gentle enhancements works very nicely with the game's already honed mechanics.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewA rogue species of fungus triggers the zombie apocalypse, leaving the world a bleak place of makeshift barricades, violent militia groups and incoherently howling former humans. Weapons and medicine are crafted from scavenged junk and there's less ammunition in the entire game than you'd expend in 10 seconds of Gears Of War. What really distances The Last Of Us from similar fare, though, is its characterisation and pacing, bringing a rare sense of emotional as well as physical vulnerability, pitting you against monsters, people and the environment as you traverse America from city to suburbs to mountainous woodland. It has a sparse soundtrack, often leaving the sounds of nature and the raw baying of the infected as your sole auditory companions. The muted intimacy that develops between the game's central characters and the unparalleled atmosphere of desolation amongst the decaying detritus of civilisation make The Last Of Us a memorable experience, its poignancy haunting you long after its denouement.
Following revelations about mass digital surveillance that involved most of the best-known technology companies, the internet has been in uproar about the upcoming Xbox One and the fact that its Kinect camera and microphone will always be watching and listening, even when the console is switched off. Despite Microsoft's angry denials of cooperation with apparently blanket snooping, Kinect's refusal to be unplugged or deactivated might still seem a little menacing.&nbsp;Games out this week includeAnimal Crossing: A New Leaf(3DS), a 3D update of Nintendo's strangely enthralling game set in a village populated by friendly talking animals, where you can't die and there's no scoring system or particular end point; andRugby Challenge 2: The Lions Tour(Xbox, PS3) which lets you play rugby without the mud, concussion and broken bones&nbsp;associated&nbsp;with chasing an&nbsp;egg-shaped ball around a pitch.
Aninteractive databaseallowing users to search more than 100,000 secret companies, trusts and funds created in offshore tax havens including the British Virgin Islands has gone online.The data, part of a cache of 2.5m leaked files that has already led to a series of exposes of the offshore financial sector by the Guardian and other global media organisations, has been launched by the Washington-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ).The ICIJ, a non-profit organisation that has analysed the files with more than 100 journalists in dozens of countries and is continuing to do so, hopes the Offshore Leaks web app will trigger further investigations and revelations by making the information more widely available.The records have already laid bare a diverse collection of people using offshore hideaways, ranging from US dentists and middle-class Greek villagers to families of despots, Wall Street swindlers, Russian executives, international arms dealers and a company alleged to be a front for Iran's nuclear development programme.Fallout from the revelations has led to high-profile political and business resignations, including those of the deputy speaker of the Mongolian parliament and the chief executive of one of Austria's biggest banks, and sparked official investigations in states including the Philippines, India, Greece and South Korea.The disclosures have helped to push the issue of tax avoidance up the political agenda. Placing the issue at the centre of the forthcoming G8 summit in Northern Ireland, David Cameron has spoken of wanting the G8 to "knock down the walls of company secrecy" to reveal who really owns and controls firms.French president François Hollande has also weighed in, calling for the "eradication" of tax havens, days after the ICIJ's release of dozens of stories based on the secret offshore files. Hollande suffered embarrassment when the records revealed that Jean-Jacques Augier, his election campaign co-treasurer and close friend, had invested in offshore businesses in the Cayman Islands.The Offshore Leaks app, developed by La Nación newspaper in Costa Rica for the ICIJ, allows users to explore the relationships between clients, offshore entities and the lawyers, accountants, banks and other intermediaries who help keep these arrangements secret.It displays graphic visualisations of offshore entities and the networks around them including, where possible, the company's true owners."After 17 months of reporting, ICIJ reporters and partners are still digging into this massive trove of financial information," the ICIJ said."The Offshore Leaks database gives ICIJ an opportunity to reach journalists and regular citizens in every corner of the world, particularly in countries most affected by corruption and backroom deals. ICIJ believes many of the best stories may come from crowdsourcing, when readers explore the database."Founded in 1997, the ICIJ is a global network of 160 reporters in more than 60 countries. It was launched as a project of the Center for Public Integrity, a US-based nonprofit investigative journalism organization.
The revelations about Prism and other forms of NSA dragnet surveillance has got some people wondering what all the fuss is. When William Hague tells us that the innocent have nothing to fear from involuntary disclosure, it raises questions about exactly what harms might come about from being spied upon. Here are some reasons you should care about privacy, disclosure and surveillance.We're bad at privacy because the consequences of privacy disclosures are separated by a lot of time and space from the disclosures themselves. It's like trying to get good at cricket by swinging the bat, closing your eyes before you see where the ball is headed, and then being told, months later, somewhere else, where the ball went. So of course we're bad at privacy: almost all our privacy disclosures do no harm, and some of them cause grotesque harm, but when this happens, it happens so far away from the disclosure that we can't learn from it.You should care about privacy because privacy isn't secrecy. I know what you do in the toilet, but that doesn't mean you don't want to close the door when you go in the stall.You should care about privacy because if the data says you've done something wrong, then the person reading the data will interpret everything else you do through that light. Naked Citizens, ashort, free documentary, documents several horrifying cases of police being told by computers that someone might be up to something suspicious, and thereafter interpreting everything they learn about that suspect as evidence of wrongdoing. For example, when a computer programmer namedDavid Meryentered a tube station wearing a jacket in warm weather, an algorithm monitoring the CCTV brought him to the attention of a human operator as someone suspicious. When Mery let a train go by without boarding, the operator decided it was alarming behaviour. The police arrested him, searched him, asked him to explain every scrap of paper in his flat. A doodle consisting of random scribbles was characterised as a map of the tube station. Though he was never convicted of a crime, Mery is still on file as a potential terrorist eight years later, and can't get a visa to travel abroad. Once a computer ascribes suspiciousness to someone, everything else in that person's life becomes sinister and inexplicable.You should care about dragnet surveillance because it gives cops bigger haystacks with proportionately fewer needles. The 9/11 Commission said that America's spooks had everything they needed to predict the attacks – but it was lost amid all the noise of overcollected data. Since then, the overcollection has gone into overdrive – the haystacks areenormous, but they still have the same number of needles in them. I want my skies safe, just like you – so I want my spooks doing their job well, not simply sucking up all the data in the hopes it it will be useful some day.You should care about surveillance because you know people who can be compromised through disclosure: people who are gay and in the closet; people with terminal illnesses; people who are related to someone infamous for some awful crime. Those people are your friends, your neighbours, maybe your kids: they deserve a life that's as free from hassle as you are with your lucky, skeleton-free closet.You should care about surveillance because once the system for surveillance is built into the networks and the phones, bad guys (or dirty cops) can use it to attack you. In Greece, someone used the police back door on the national phone company's switches to listen in on the prime minister during the 2005 Olympic bid. Chinese hackers used Google's lawful interception back door to hack Gmail and figure out who dissidents talked to. Our communications systems are more secure if they're designed to keep everyone out – and adding a single back door to them blows their security models up. You can't be a little bit pregnant, and the computers in your pocket and on your desk and in your walls can't be a little bit insecure. Once they're designed for surveillance, anyone who can bribe or impersonate a cop can access them.As for Hague: if the innocent have nothing to fear from disclosure, then why did his own government demand an unprecedented system of secret courts in which evidence of UK intelligence complicity in illegal kidnapping and torture can be heard? Privacy, it appears, is totally essential for the powerful and completely worthless for the rest of us.
Microsoft has finally launched its Office suite for iOS devices, with the release of iPhone appOffice Mobile for Office 365 subscribers.The attached strings are made clear in its title: an Office 365 subscription is required to use the app. It costs $99.99 a year in the US, which is the first country to get the new app.With no option to subscribe using in-app purchases, it appears Microsoft and Apple are still at odds over the 30% cut Apple takes on IAP on iOS. Reports in late 2012 claimed that this wasthe main stumbling block to the Office software appearing on iOS.That hurdle has been swerved rather than dismantled with the new app, which is a free download on the App Store. Microsoft is following a path well-worn by other software-as-a-service and entertainment companies, from Netflix and Spotify to Salesforce."Microsoft Office Mobile is the official Office companion optimized for your iPhone. You can access, view and edit your Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and Microsoft PowerPoint documents from virtually anywhere," explains the App Store listing."Documents look like the originals, thanks to support for charts, animations, SmartArt graphics and shapes. When you make quick edits or add comments to a document, the formatting and content remain intact."Users can access their documents stored in Microsoft's SkyDrive, SkyDrive Pro and SharePoint services, as well as those attached to emails, and recently-viewed documents from their computers.The new app is iPhone-only. Why no iPad app? The Verge claims that Microsoft thinks owners of Apple's tablet are alreadywell catered for by the Office 365 web-apps. It also suggests that the iPhone app will roll out internationally "in the coming days" rather than remain a US-only release.Microsoft's strategy for launching Office on iOS devices has been the subject of industry speculation for some time, not least because the stakes are high for the company.In February 2013, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Holt claimed thatiPad alone could generate $2.5bn of additional annual revenues for Microsoft, if it released Office for Apple's tablet. That estimate was based on the assumption that around 30% of iPad users would want to use (and pay for) Office on their device.Office has been one of the most reliable revenue-generators for Microsoft in recent years. In the first quarter of 2013 (its fiscal Q3),the Microsoft Business division which includes Office brought in $6.32bn, up 8% year-on-year.Yet Office is also one of the key selling points for Microsoft's own Surface tablets, and its Windows Phone 8 operating system for smartphones. Launching on iOS undermines that, meaning Microsoft has had to weigh up the pros and cons carefully.With Gartner estimating thatMicrosoft took a 2.9% share of global smartphone salesin the first quarter of 2013 behind iPhone's 18.2% – not to mention Android's 74.4% – and with Apple now claiming 575m registered App Store accounts, it seems the rewards of iOS support for Office are seen as outweighing the risks to Microsoft's own competing platforms and devices.In April 2013, the same analystwarned that Microsoft faced a slide into irrelevancein the next four years unless it can make progress in the smartphone and tablet markets, as more and more people use the latter devices instead of a conventional PC.
Despitethe controversies surrounding the Xbox One, there were long queues at Microsoft's stand throughout E3 – and quite a few decent titles on show. Here's a look at some of the key games.Forza Motorsport 5Top among the titles on offer was Microsoft's flagship racer. Turn 10's racing sim proved to be not only a fantastic showcase for the Xbox One's visual capabilities but it offered some insight into the potential of cloud gaming.Forza has always been easy on the eye, but the latest iteration is a cut above anything released in this franchise before it. The reason for this isn't just down to the racing camera that delivers 1080p resolution at 60fps, but that Turn 10 realised that visual perfection is an unreal quality. To that end, they've used what they call 'physically based materials' to better represent the dream machines in their games.What this means is that players will notice that the game's lighting system reacts with each surface to show up not only sleek contours but intricate imperfections such as minimal flaking and wear and tear. Direct sunlight illuminates a car's base coat, subtly playing with its paintwork, causing a volcano orange spray job, for example, to look candy red.ForzaVista is back, but it's been hugely expanded allowing players to poke around every nook and cranny of every car in the game. Turn 10 has mapped the interiors and exteriors of every car available to drive, although they remained quiet on the final vehicle count.On the track, the frame rate is as smooth as butter and the draw distance is mind-blowing. As players hurtle around the game's tracks they'll also notice subtle visual ticks, such as particles hanging in shafts of light or direct sunlight bouncing off their car's bonnet.The big addition here is something called Drivatar. Every time the player competes in Forza 5, their tactics, faults and style of driving is pushed to the cloud. The cloud then generalises how they behave on track, the vehicles they prefer to drive and the tactics they use – and creates their Drivatar. This is virtual representation of the player in Forza 5 and, once created, it will then appear in their friend's games. It drives without you. It earns you points and XP. It essentially grinds for you while you're offline. You could argue that this is simply a game playing itself, but it's worth pointing out that the Drivatar is only as good as the person it's profiling. If players want to get anything out of it, they'll have to sink some serious time into the game.Ryse: Son Of RomeThe last time anyone saw Ryse, it was a sword and sandals fighter that was played using the Kinect controller. It also looked as though someone had poured a truckload of dirt across the screen.In its current format the visuals have received a massive polish and the Kinect interface aspect has been paired down somewhat; it's now only used to register voice commands. In the hands-on available in the Microsoft booth, players control the game's protagonist, Marius Titus, as he storms the beaches of Dover and lays waste to the Celtic barbarians he encounters.Initially, the demo seems to pitch Ryse as some sort of ancient world corollary to the Call Of Duty franchise; as the player begins the beach assault, they're forced to watch as a flaming projectile – which soars into frame in slow motion – slams into Titus's troops and briefly drowns out the soundtrack with the blast from its impact. Titus is knocked to the ground and resumes fighting only after he's shaken off the shellshock in manly-manly-man fashion.Ryse offers high-octane spectacle – the quick-time kill moves are particularly delicious – but in terms of its gameplay, it's a little hit and miss. Players use the face buttons to slice, parry and shield bash, but on the easiest difficulty setting, they're able to spam one attack to progress.There are a couple of interesting stages in the demo – such as when the player lines up Titus's squad to form a Tetsuo – but on the whole one gets the impression that, if it's possible to beat the game using one attack, fatigue and boredom may prompt player to quite Ryse. Still, it looks quite pretty…Killer InstinctLet's be honest: before its announcement at Microsoft's E3 keynote, Killer Instinct's status existed somewhere between that of a much beloved arcade fighter and a punchline for the entire genre. This was a game in which players could toss their opponents into a never-ending beat-down juggle where, provided they time their hits correctly, the poor sod they were hammering wouldn't be able to lay a glove on them. It was unbalanced to the point of hilarity.Killer Instinct on the Xbox One is a slightly tweaked beast. The move sets are simple and easy to get to grips with, but the Combo Breakers are far easier to execute. The flow of each fight, now, doesn't depend on who got the most devastating series of hits in first.Interestingly, Killer Instinct is free to play at the console's launch; players will get Jago for free but need to pay for any other fighters they fancy – with a discount offered if they purchase them all at once.You could argue that this is naked profiteering. Then again, you could frame it as bespoke fighter purchasing. It's your choice.Project SparkIn a nutshell, this is the Xbox One's RPG answer to Little Big Planet. However, rather than being a game level builder, Project Spark is a tool set that players can use to build their own games and share them with other players.You can start from scratch or opt to use a set of pre-loaded options to build landscapes and populated them with characters. In seconds they're able to construct caves, forests, rivers – practically any type of topography they can imagine. They can also populate it with creatures, to which they can assign reactionary behavior and minimal AI. They can then go on to construct quests and missions within the worlds they've created and proceed to share them online.While this sounds very simple in practice – and it is – the potential housed in Project Spark is quite simply mind-boggling as evidenced by the fact that the developers see the launch title as something of a jumping off point. Right now, the overriding genre in Spark's game creation is fantasy, but there's no reason why other genres couldn't be implemented too, according to the developers. It all depends on whether players invest in the IP…Crimson DragonOnce upon a time this game was called Project Draco and, like Ryse, it was a Kinect title. Now, it's called Crimson Dragon and, while the Microsoft personnel at the booth couldn't confirm whether Kinect was still part of the package, I can confirm one can now play it with a control pad.Crimson Dragon imagines a future in which humans have colonized other planets in the cosmos but fallen foul of an alien epidemic. Those who've survived have partnered up with giant, flying dragons (as you do).The game is essentially a rail-shooter in which the player controls a reticule and direct the attacks of their flying mount. It has to be said that the game looks stunning, but one has to wonder whether looks alone are enough to sustain interest here. If it's marketed as a cheap, short download, it may be in with a chance.Kinect demo and controller demoBoth the Xbox One's new controller and its hands-free sensor were being showcased on the stand, which was useful, since most of the games on display didn't really give players a sense of either of them. In most of the game demos, the Xbox One's controller had its rumble pads disabled and there weren't any games that exclusively utilised the new Kinect module.So it was that the only way to gauge the potential of either of them was through tech demos. The Xbox One's control pad feels like a more evolved version of its predecessor. The buttons are more flush against its surface, the twin sticks fit more snugly against the player's thumbs and both the shoulder buttons and the D-pad respond to the slightest pressure. The controller's battery pack is also flush against its undercarriage and overall, it feels lighter and more molded to the player's grip.The biggest additions are the four sets of rumble pads, situated in the triggers and the surfaces that rest against the user's palms. In the demo, we were shown how these motors could be used to simulate a human heart-beat, the sensation of steady machine gun fire and the sensation of starting the engine of a car. It was pretty base stuff, but it delivers a glimpse of potential.Kinect, of its part, has been robustly improved. Instead of mapping a stick-figure skeleton, the Kinect module can now pick up muscle texture, facial expressions and even monitor heart rates. Industry pundits have been quick to point out how these capabilities could help in the development of fitness games, but it's also likely that Kinect could play a deciding factor in building a bespoke entertainment experience for every Xbox One user. If this sounds too intrusive, don't worry; Kinect can be disabled and it isn't required to be on at all times, said the nice man at Microsoft's booth.Dead Rising 3The final marquee next-gen experience available at Microsoft's stand was Dead Rising 3. Unfortunately this was a strictly hands-off experience, but the brief demo imparted more than a few features.Players take on the role of one Nick Ramos, a bloke who finds himself stuck at the centre of the zombie apocalypse. Details about his past weren't forthcoming, but that's hardly a problem, because the central appeal of any Dead Rising game is the prospect of cutting up zombies.To that end, Dead Rising 3 looks like it'll succeed with aplomb; players can use Ramos to unleash almighty hell on the undead, especially once he's given the room to craft a couple of items such as hammer with a table saw strapped to it or flaming sword made by combining a blade and some gas.The tone of the game is quite different to previous installments in that a good deal of the zany humour has been drained completely. While it's hardly po-faced, Dead Rising 3 feels like the narrative stakes are significantly higher than those in previous iterations. Also the size of the environment has been increased quite considerably, lending the game a sense of oblivion.Yet, this is still a game where players can use a table saw to cut a zombie in half – literally. Dead Rising 3 may be a lot darker than its predecessors, but it hasn't lost its sense of humour.
Privacy-conscious fans of Pink Floyd may never use the internet in the same way again.A new Firefox add-on, dubbed Dark Side of the Prism,automatically plays tracks from the seminal 1973 albumwhenever a user visits sites, such as Google or Facebook,embroiled in the scandal over the National Security Agency's (NSA) snooping programme.For example, users visitingGuardiannews.comwould not hear any beguiling psychedelic rock. But those surfing Bing, Google, Facebook or Yahoo would be served up a healthy dose of Floyd noise.The idea – according to its creator,28-year-old developer and artist Justin Blinder– was to "create some sort of ambient notification that you are on a site that is being surveiled by the NSA."About 50 people have downloaded the add-on in the few days since it was released, he says. It only took four hours to build from his makeshift office in New York."I was really interested in the fact that, although the Prism leaks were a shock to many of us, we pretty much already kind of know we're being surveiled a lot of the time and giving away so much data," he says.Why did he choose Pink Floyd for the backing track? "I just Googled 'Prism' and the [Dark Side of the Moon] cover came up," he says, and because the music is unintrusive. "I didnt want it to be too jarring because a lot of us seem to be giving in to being surveiled on a daily basis. I feel like people already know that. I didn't want it to be alarming."Blinder now hopes Floyd fans will help match Dark Side of the Moon songs to appropriate internet firms."On the run", anyone?
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).BBC Weather (Free)The official BBC Weather app provides forecasts for the UK, automatically for your current location or via search for other places. Besides temperature and sun/rain details, it provides pressure, visibility, humidity, UV and pollen data, with a lock-screen widget just for Android.Pet Rescue Saga (Free)People are playing Candy Crush Saga in their tens of millions, but will this follow-up be as popular? Synchronising with the existing Facebook version of the game, this offers 72 levels of block-puzzling action – with cutesy animals, social leaderboards and plenty of in-app purchases thrown in.GO Launcher Prime (£3.88)The original GO Launcher app has been hugely popular on Android as an alternative homescreen. Now there's a premium version, which blocks ads, adds two-finger gestures (not that kind) and additional animations, with more features promised in forthcoming updates.Noom Walk Pedometer (Free)On iPhone, there's been lots of interest in Moves, an app that tracks your steps without needing a Fitbit-style accessory. Noom Walk is its equivalent on Android: "a new kind of pedometer" that counts steps using your smartphone's accelerometer, so you can see how active (or inactive) you are.Despicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)This is Gameloft's official game for the Despicable Me movies, putting you in the shoes of a scampering minion for this Temple Rush-style endless runner. You'll be leaping, sliding and dodging obstacles and enemies, while earning (or buying) power-ups and costumes to boost your chances.Vodio Personal Video Curator (Free)Remember when Bruce Springsteen sang about "57 channels and nothin' on"? Heaven knows what he makes of YouTube, with its 100 hours of new video uploaded every minute. Vodio is one of the apps trying to filter the online-video overload, organising the best stuff into themed categories, and learning your preferences to refine its recommendations.Man of Steel (£3.18)Another big movie gets an official game: new Superman flick Man of Steel in this case. Warner Bros' game is an all-action beat 'em up that sees Superman grappling, punching and kicking his foes on the ground and in mid-air, with very impressive graphics and a cast of bosses to scatter.Battlelog (Free)This isn't a game in its own right. Instead, it's EA's companion app for its Battlefield 3 console game, tying into its Battlelog social network. You can use the app to check your stats, see what friends are unlocking and achieving in the game, and get news on the Battlefield world.Crayon Physics Deluxe (£1.69)Crayon Physics Deluxe was very fun on iOS, and looks just as good on Android. It's a physics-based puzzle game that sees you drawing objects with a digital crayon to solve each stage. You don't need to be a master-scribbler to progress, thankfully: lateral thinking is the main skill required.Diamond Street (Free)This is one of the most inventive location-based tourguide apps I've seen for Android, based on London's Hatton Garden jewellery quarter. The idea: you walk around the district using the in-app map, with audio stories, sounds and images triggered by your current location. More than one hour of audio is included, as well as four short films viewable when in range of a Wi-Fi network.Stargate SG-1: Unleashed Ep 1 (£1.99)Exciting news for fervent fans of Stargate SG-1 – an official game based on the TV show, which aired for 10 seasons in its heyday. Cast members Richard Dean Anderson, Amanda Tapping and Michael Shanks are on board for voice duties in this adventure game, with the "Ep 1" indicating that more instalments may be on the way.Cloud Print (Free)This is Google's own app for helping Android devices print wirelessly to compatible printers, including sharing pictures from the device's Gallery, or documents from other apps. There's not much more to say about it than that, although note: you'll need a printer that supports Google Cloud Print for it to work.Pettson's Jigsaw Puzzle (£1.49)More than 6m books have been sold featuring venerable Scandinavian farmer Pettson and his cat Findus. Now they've made their way onto Android with this digital jigsaw-puzzle game, with six puzzles and a choice of difficulty levels to suit children of different ages.Robot Academy (Free)Animoca made its name with free-to-play games like Pretty Pet Salon. Its latest game is a lot less cute: less animals, and more shooty "cybernetic mech soldiers" trying to defend Earth from an alien invasion. Your job isn't the actual fighting: instead, it's the production and training of the bots, ensuring they're ready for action.Floating Notifications (Free)This is an interesting new spin on Android notifications, inspired (a bit) by Facebook's floating chat heads. "It can take a notification from any app and present it to you as a floating icon," explains its Google Play listing, noting that the notifications work when you're using apps and games in full-screen mode too. This free download gives 30 days of unlimited use, before prompting you for a £1.27 upgrade.Shelter (£1.49)As far as I can tell, this is one of the first entrants in its chosen genre: "zombie card-dueling" games. It sees you fending off an onslaught of the undead by building a deck of cards then battling through a campaign, with elements of tower defence thrown in for good measure. The comic-style artwork also looks great.Steel Commanders (Free)More card-battling, and more cybermechanical warfare here, in the latest game from Korean publisher Gamevil, which knows a thing or two about both areas from its previous releases. Again, you're building a deck and fighting battles, including taking on players elsewhere in the world.McAfee Security Innovations (Free)For one reason or another, personal security issues are front-of-mind for a lot of people at the moment. McAfee's latest app should be interesting for Android users who want to keep tabs on new technologies: it "provides you with an opportunity to try out groundbreaking new features and to give us feedback on how to improve them…or ditch them altogether".Little Nick: The Great Escape (£1.53)This is another endless-runner game, this time based on French animated series Little Nicholas. It sees him racing through a city on his bike trying to get away from "Old Spuds" (a character, rather than a horde of mouldy potatoes, one hopes). Power-ups, unlockable friends and outfits are all included.City of Secrets 2 Episode 1 (Free)The original City of Secrets game won plenty of fans on Android with its touchscreen take on the much-loved point'n'click adventure genre. Marvellous graphics are one draw for this tale of the not-so-heroic Moles the Mole, with bags of humour too.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
In April 2011, app startupOutfit7's range of Talking Friends apppassed 100m downloadson iOS and Android.A year later,the total had swelled to 360m downloads, with 100m monthly active users (MAUs) of the virtual pet apps. Now, in June 2013, Talking Friends has reached 1bn downloads, with 170m MAUs.The figures, announced today, speak for themselves. People aren't just downloading the cutesy talking-animal apps at a rate of 50m a month: they're actually using them. Oh, and watching their stars on YouTube.A series of music videos starring two of the characters, Talking Tom Cat and Talking Angela, have notched up more than 100m YouTube views, while a series of10 Talking Friends "webisodes"produced with Disney has generated another 100m views.In short, Talking Friends is one of the biggest character-based brands to emerge from the apps world, alongside Angry Birds. While Disney knows not to underestimate the appeal of squeaky-voiced animals, Outfit7's apps remain somewhat under-the-radar for many other media and entertainment firms.Chief executive Samo Login says the company is ambitious to change that. "We are working on something new because we are never satisfied with what we have offered to our users so far," he says. "We always know that we can do more and better."That includes a new Talking Tom app this summer with deeper gaming elements, but also educational aspects: "Teaching kids and teenagers how to take care of somebody," according to Login. It follows the recent Ginger's Birthday app, which offered (light) education on healthy eating and hygiene."Lately, all of our products have included some kind of educational value," says Login. "But we want to keep the humour and entertainment in the apps. If kids smell that it's just educational, they don't want it! And theycansmell it…"Outfit7 is also shooting for more licensing deals, targeting television, live events and attractions, following a similar path to franchises like Angry Birds and Cut the Rope, which have been taking their digital success out into the real world.The company is also refining its focus in terms of characters. 14 have appeared in Talking Friends apps, but in recent months three have been particularly prominent – Talking Tom, Talking Angela and Talking Ginger – while others have been sidelined."We are investing in all of our premium characters, which are more or less the ones you have seen in the Disney webisodes," says Login."We will not invest a lot in some of the other characters which are more generic, like the Tyrannosaurus Rex, the hippo and Hedgehog Harry. Those characters will most probably not appear in the new apps."He adds that while one new character is in development, Outfit7 is determined to develop more content with its existing characters, rather than introduce a flood of new ones.The Disney partnership was interesting on that score. That company is trying to build its own characters on mobile before taking them elsewhere: Swampy the alligator in the Where's My Water? game being the first example.Partnering with a mobile startup that had its own characters was thus a surprise. "Disney doesn't work with many partners, and especially not with IP that they don't own. We were a great experiment for them, I think," says Login."Disney wanted to work with us to get distribution, including for their own videos with Swampy. They knew they didn't have the distribution power that we have. The main motivation for them was to find a partner that can bring something valuable into that partnership."Login says Outfit7 has been pleased with the response to the webisodes, which were also distributed within its own apps – a strategy that Rovio has also been trying with its Angry Birds Toons series.He believes that this potential for companies to distribute video to fans directly through their own apps will continue to intrigue the traditional media world."We have many plans for integrating all the different entertainment channels, including apps, TB, webisodes on YouTube and mini-websites for our characters," he says."We also want to integrate all the different ways to access our users through emails or push notifications, to offer them ways not to miss the interesting stuff that they want to see. I think with the mobile companies that will head towards entertainment, a lot of new things can be expected."It's natural for companies like Outfit7, Rovio and Cut the Rope maker ZeptoLab to talk up their disruptive potential while at the same time presenting themselves as potential partners for established entertainment companies. Not least if they're thinking about possible acquisitions further down the line."Companies like Disney always want to learn something from the small players, new kids on the block like us, because they are aware that the app business will become an important part of the entertainment industry," says Login."Maybe in the future, we will see more partnerships and acquisitions. That's not something new or unexpected."Outfit7 is currently financing its expansion plans for Talking Friends from the revenues generated by its apps: the company hasn't taken external investment as yet.Some of those revenue streams have proved controversial, though. In October 2012,ads for payday lender Wonga were spotted in the Talking Ginger app, offering "cash loans up to £400".Then in February 2013, the Talking Friends Cartoons appincluded an ad directing users to a quiz to win an iPad, which also sought to sign them up to a £4-a-week mobile content subscription service.In both cases, Outfit7 moved quickly to remove the ads, but their presence in apps that were extremely popular with children (albeit not exclusively aimed at them) indicated a wider problem. At the time of the second issue, Login told The Guardian that the ad's appearance was "a technical glitch".Now, he says that Outfit7 has learned the lessons, at a time when the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) legislation in the US, and an Office of Fair Trading investigation in the UK, are shining a new spotlight on how children's apps make their money."There are a lot of things changing from the legal perspective, in the US and EU, and our plans are to be the leaders and not the followers in terms of implementing all the changes requested by COPPA and the EU," says Login."We will be one of the first companies that will be prepared for that, because we believe we should be an example. We have a huge user-base among kids, and we can't afford to take that lightly."One problem in the children's apps sector is the way publishers feel squeezed: many parents don't buy paid apps, yet they distrust in-app purchases and ads. How to make money while maintaining an ethical business."Honestly? For the developers making only apps targeting children, I believe most will struggle to survive. If all of your products are niche products, it's hard to get significant distribution," he says."Developing apps for children can still be a good business, but combined with apps also developed for an older audience, so you can reach the size of audience that enables you to also distribute those apps that are for pre-schoolers."
"For a company that was never gone, Apple sure is back."So tweeted technology entrepreneur Aaron Levie. Spoiler alert: on Monday at WWDC, Apple won back the majority of our hearts at The App Business. So this review of the Keynote news will err on the side of optimism. Also, it won't discuss the new (gasps) app icons.1. Say hello to Jony Ive, Editor in Chief of AppleIf you hadn't figured that this is now the Jony Ive show from the pre-Keynote soundtrack (Daft Punk, not Bob Dylan), you sure as heck knew two minutes later after viewing Apple's opening 'motivational video'. In it, Ive elegantly framed what innovation means at Apple, reminded us of Apple's enduring values, and made us all feel a lot better about owning [Apple] products that do a lot less than the competition – all with a few simple words and a beautiful animation. This set up a keynote that was to be about simplification, unification and integration, and – crucially – the collaboration required to execute this.2. Apple wants to enable *its developers* to take the 'moon shots'Apple has been heftily criticised for its failure to take wild moon shots like Google's self-driving cars. But Apple's message was clear – its gift to the world isn't going to be a stream of wild experiments. Apple's gift to the world is a platform that lets you – the developer community – take the moonshotsyourselves, at low cost, and with the chance of incredible reward. That's why the first demo on Monday wasn't by Apple. It was by a relatively small studio which had developedits own self-driving carswhich run on iOS.3. "Can't innovate any more my ass!"Thus declaimed Apple marketing boss "Big" Phil Schiller as he provided a rare sneak peak of a forthcoming Apple product: the new Mac Pro. This is the meanest looking computer I've ever seen and Apple's unveiling was more akin to the E3 gaming conference which was taking place down the road. And while I know I don't need one, I dang sure know I want one. My Twitter stream was filled with people looking for a justification to buy. Take-out: Apple can still innovate and Apple can still generate irrational lust out of thin air.4. iOS 7: hardware and software are finally at peaceForget the icon design hoo-ha. The breakthrough here is how Ive is constructing an experience in which the software and hardware work in perfect harmony. A device on which the customer doesn't separate the hardware and software experience.How's he doing this? Ive and his refreshed user interface (UI) now consider the phone as a singular object, with a universal law of physics governing its hardware and software. The phone now consists of panes of content, stacked vertically, that can come to the top and into view. He's added translucency to the panes not for design flourish, but to give you a sense of location. And he's added parallax effects so that the UI moves as you move the hardware, in perfect harmony. Even the apps now run to the screen edges to erode that division between hardware and software.Ive is clearly working towards a vision of a device that is simply a singular pane of glass that really is just all content. This is an awesome vision for app developers on a mission to create delightful, engaging experiences.5. Apps, apps, appsApple clearly continues to believe that, for now, superior experiences are delivered via native app software rather than via a web browser. And so, Apple introduced new and updated apps for the Mac including Maps, iBooks and Calendar. Each integrates deeply with internet services, much in the same way Google does, but not via a browser. I don't think Apple is trying to keep people away from Google per se. Rather, Apple (like us at The App Business) understands that native experiences are superior experiences.6. The web is a wormhole to Google and PC audiencesThere was one big exception to Apple's native app strategy. Apple introduced a web-based experience to patch Apple's continuing Enterprise weak spot: businesses continue to prefer to do their work via Microsoft Office and Google Docs. And while executives on the move might be armed with iPads, they had no way to effortlessly work on docs between their iPad and PC. Well, until now. Yesterday Apple introduced iWork for iCloud enabling iOS users to continue working on iWork documents in the browser, on their PCs.7. Apple is in the mobile payments game, big time. It's just not playing ball yetMake no mistake, Apple is putting in place all the ingredients necessary to make your iPhone a wallet. On Monday it announced it now have more accounts with credit cards on file than any other internet store, shared data showing that people are more than twice as likely to spend money via iOS devices than Android, and unveiled a new e-commerce service,iCloud keychain. The latter enables iOS devices to securely store and automatically input your credit card details when shopping via your phone.8. Archaic filing systems are going awayA lot of Mac OS X software was introduced, but one significant thing stood out for me: the introduction of a tagging system for folders, like Gmail or Evernote offer. Why is this so important? Well, Apple is trying to crack a new filing system that throws out folders and branches and lets people quickly find files via just search or tags. And that's exactly what Apple needs to crack in order to realise mobile devices as true productivity devices that let people find files fast when they don't have time or the space to browse extensive filing systems. We can expect to see lots of this stuff coming to iOS soon.9. The final piece of the puzzle: integration with youTim Cook talks repeatedly about the integration of hardware, software and services. But there is a fourth unspoken component to this puzzle: you. On Monday, Apple announced a range of enhancements to improve the phone's understanding of you and the value of its help. For example, the phone learns which apps you use most and keeps them updated for you (so no more refreshing Instagram); and the phone now knows where your meeting is and marks 'travel time' in your calendar (so no more being late). With wearable computing just around the corner cracking integration with you, and indeed the organic-body, is critical for Apple and a final piece in the puzzle.10. One more thing: "does it deserve to exist?"I just want to leave you with one final thought. Apple's executives said a lot at the Keynote. They also said something pretty profound about what not to say, or rather what not to do. I think it was Tim Cook who said this as one of his more casual remarks during the event: "Does it deserve to exist?" Wow. That's a pretty brutal question, a brutal filter for what gets signed off at Apple. And it's a pretty sweet question to ensure you focus on the stuff that matters. Ask it the next time you review, curate and cull ideas.An original version of this articlefirst appeared at The App Business website.Daniel Joseph, founder of The App Business, was previously European planning director for Apple's private ad and media company, Media Arts Lab. He was there for three years from 2007-2009, with responsibility for the launch for iPhone, App Store and hundreds of apps, and interacted with Steve Jobs on a weekly basis
Goodwill is a strange and unpredictable phenomenon.With Xbox 360, Microsoft managed to ride out serious technical issues (the infamous "red ring of death" furore) to deliver one of the most acclaimed games consoles ever manufactured. The machine's considerable power, married to excellent online functionality, led to sales of more than 75m units, bringing in over 40 million users to its Xbox Live connected gaming service. Through this console, Microsoft also invented two of the most canny social play features of all time: Achievements and the gamer score. These interconnected systems created a community of super engaged gamers who competed against each other even when playing alone.Oh for that goodwill now. Since the unveiling of Xbox One at the Microsoft campus in Redmond in May, the company's console brand has been battered. During that event, the forthcoming machine was heavily pushed as an all-encompassing set-top box, capable of delivering premium cable television and video chat as well as games. But more importantly, when the specialist press wanted to know about elements such as trading pre-owned games and rumours of a required online connection, executives fudged their responses. Through the following days, they presented a confusing vision of a machine that would only allow players to share their games in certain circumstances (rather like sharing digital app, music or movie files), and that needed to be online at least once every 24-hours to authenticate itself with servers. You can, it seems, make a one time gift of your game to another gamer, but only if they've been on your friends list for more than 30 days – you won't be able to lend out your games to multiple friends. In a sense, the game disc is just a means of downloading the digital data to the console. The sense of you "owning" that physical copy is muddied – a fact that Sony mercilessly parodied with its"How to share a PS4 game" viral video.There has beena predictable backlash in the specialist pressand on games forums, where veteran Xbox fans feel betrayed and sidelined. There were rumours that Microsoft was being pressured by powerful third-party publishers such as Electronic Arts to include restrictive DRM in the XBox One infrastructure, thereby protecting retail revenues – but recently,Peter Moore, EA's chief operating officer has sought to distance the company from Microsoft's apparent machinations. One can only imagine the fraught discussions and negotiations going on behind the scenes.Owning the living roomSo what has been the thinking behind this controversial proposition, and why is Microsoft so keen to highlight the wider entertainment functionality of its system? "Microsoft has a corporate desire to own the living room, first identified in the mid-90s: it is not addressing consumers' needs but Microsoft's desires," says analyst and author Nicholas Lovell. "Unfortunately, leaving aside the PR difficulties here, the fundamental strategy is flawed. When the original Xbox was launched, there were three contenders to control the media experience: set-top-box, PC, console. Now there are two more – smartphone and tablet – and I believe they have already won."Lovell's argument, which matches much of the strategic thinking coming out of this sector, is that screened entertainment is evolving into a "second screen" model. Every one has a primary screen – a tablet or a smartphone – which is personal to them, but each household also has a single shared screen – the TV. "In time, the first screen will control the shared screen with no need for a separate box," says Lovell. He sees a near future in which elements such as access to video-on-demand and live television services are rendered through personal subscriptions on the primary screens, so we won't need fixed set-top boxes sitting beneath our televisions. And there's no space for Xbox One in this scenario.It's a complex area, however, and there are plenty of pundits who assume Google or Apple will come into the market with a desirable new set-top box proposition or integrated connected TV that does everything from linear media to interactive gaming. Whatever, Microsoft's land grab on the sector is ambitious and clearly alienating to the passionate Xbox demographic.Restrictions on sharingMore troublesome though, are the restrictions placed on the process of both gaming and sharing games. Xbox One players will need to connect to the internet every 24 hours if they want to continue playing games. If you disconnect your console from the net, you'll only have a day before it blocks access to your games and asks for re-connection. And if you want to trade in or share games, you may need to abide by rules set down by Microsoft and/or publishers."There are three key elements in play here in relation to Microsoft's Xbox One used game and authentication policies," says analyst Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS ScreenDigest. "First is maintaining the status quo of used games as currency for buying other games. Second is supporting the industry by giving publishers an opportunity to have a share of used game sales. This will have been considered in conjunction with the major publishers. Third, is putting in place a set of policies that can work as the market shifts away from discs to digital purchases: we believe this is the driving factor behind the new licensing and online authentication policies."Developing a set of policies that delivers the above is a significant challenge and is breaking new ground. Unfortunately, to enable the company to future-proof its strategy and give publishers a chance to access a part of the market that was previously closed off to them, the incumbent disc-based used game market is going to have to be managed differently."Communication failureAt the centre of all this is an apparent insecurity over the specialist gaming market. "I think triple-A publishers and console manufacturers generally fear that the number of addressable gamers has contracted a little, so they want to ensure they can make more from less," argues Rob Crossley, associate editor of game site,computerandvideogames.com. "Microsoft wants to draw the most money out from its high-paying core base, and  restricting and controlling used game sales would allow it to tap into the pre-owned market, which has already proven to be lucrative for retail chains. This decision was driven, in part, by the pressures that come with increasing game development costs, the rising costs of competing with Sony, and the internal pressure on turning a profit in the console business quicker than before."In many ways, the biggest problem so far has been communication. Microsoft attempted at its May event to convey the benefits of an integrated entertainment system – great access to live sports, video chat, seamless movement between TV and gaming – but what its core Xbox fanbase heard was less focus on games and more complex access and use of those games. There has been a disconnect between Microsoft's concept of the consumer and the realities of a fragmented entertainment  market. "I don't think the company expected this kind of vitriol," says Crossley. "Microsoft knows its audience will pay extra and give up more if the reward is big enough (expensive Live Gold subscription a good example), but this time the company hasn't expressed any beneficial outcomes of its new policies. The only thing people know and care about, really, is what they will be losing. I don't think Microsoft has thought the whole policy through, in truth."The strange thing is, a fundamental truth of the gaming and wider consumer electronics sectors seems to have been lost: the power and influence of the early adopter. Conventionally, youneedthe "geeks" who buy in early to new technologies and share them with family members – it is difficult to bypass these self-appointed brand advocates to reach the mass market. Certainly, the Nintendo Wii was a successful example of an immediately understandable mainstream proposition, but Nintendo was supported by its legacy brands – Super Mario, Mario Kart, Zelda, Metroid. These helped build excitement among veteran fans who then extolled the virtues of the system to family members who in turn lapped up the more casual Wii Play and Wii Sports titles. Nintendo has always understood the intricate, delicate synergy between casual and hardcore gaming: which is why people play Pokemon, Super Mario, etc, into adulthood. These are really deep games.Sony wins over gamersAnd of course, what has really exposed the difficulty of the Xbox One strategy is the seemingly opposite approach of PlayStation 4. As Lovell explains, "Microsoft is betting on doing things that make large content makers happy – DRM always on, spending money on NFL and Spielberg etc – in the hope that if there is great content, users will come. Sony is not bending over to make large companies happy, focusing instead on making users and retailers happy, betting that if they have the users, the content will come."Right now, Sony's strategy appears to be working. Or you could put it another way. Both companies want to control the living room. MS is behaving as if consumers actually want someone to control the living room; Sony is behaving as if people want a device to play games on, and will offer the other media player elements by stealth."The battle is far from over. Microsoft needs to shift its messaging and really communicate the virtues of a digitally controlled market place. Right now gamers feel as though they are being treated as copyright violators or automatons. It could be that Microsoft isn't concerned about this, and it could also be that the company is readying a much more palatable version of its content-restricting ecosystem. We don't know yet – and we won't find out much more from E3: the corporation was granting very few exec interviews to the specialist press.But let's say there has been a thudding realisation within Microsoft that the Xbox One proposition is wrong. What then? Is there a reverse gear? "This is a very difficult question," says Crossley. "For several years Microsoft has built its new business and console with this ROI plan as a way of justifying the astounding investment. What I'm saying is, the means and ends are intrinsically linked. It's not like turning off a light switch; if Xbox One scraps this policy, then there's a massive hole in its revenue projections. Then again, if it sticks with it, the outcome could be much worse."
